This should not have made so much money . We were robbed . There is no plot and no comedy . Why did people flock to see this crap ? It truly is the worst thing ever created . Adam Sandler is the most untalented comic actor in history . He got paid $20 million for this waste of celluloid . What a travesty . There are people starving in this world and to think of such an uncharismatic actor , who has basically coasted his way into stardom , earning that amount of money for pulling a few faces and doing a stupid voice makes me sick . An utter , utter , utter pile of total , 100 % , bonafide , no doubt about it , absolute crap . Never , ever see for any reason .
A surprisingly poor sequel this time . Offering us nothing new and no excitement . Set in the 1800's , the town of Perfection , then called Rejection , is becoming a ghost town because the Graboids are gobbling up all the mine workers . The mine owner ( Hiram Gummer-Burt's ancestor and complete opposite ) comes to town to sort out the problem but proves to be useless . He hires a notorious gunman ( the ever-evil Billy Drago ) but he proves to be useless too . What is weird about this film is that it provides NO set-pieces for our characters to do anything or prove themselves . Nothing happens and the film seems to drag on for ages with long periods of no Graboid action whatsoever . Weird considering it's directed by SS Wilson who did the Tremors 2 and 3 . It doesn't feel like a Tremors film at all . Where's the fun in watching a bunch of period characters learn what we've long known about the mysterious Graboids ? Michael Gross is great as Hiram in regards to playing the complete opposite of what he is popular for and showing some range as an actor . But he just doesn't do anything . There is no reason to watch this film . Plus it's not shot on 35mm film but with a TV camera . The 1 . 78 : 1 anamorphic picture proves this only further . It really does look like a feature length episode of the Tremors TV show ( which I don't think I'll get if it's anything like this , assuming it ever comes to DVD at all ) and it's very distracting . The sound is in Dolby 5 . 1 and is quite good during the tunnelling and gunfire scenes but it's not reference quality stuff by any means .
It seems like some sort of Lemmings rip-off but I can't for the life of me figure out how to work this game . The instructions do not tell you what you're supposed to do or how to play the game . It just said , ' Krusty's house is filled with rats ' . The gameplay itself is pretty bad . The Krusty character sprite is far too small and the level ( the only one I can reach seeing as how I can't get past it ) has bland graphics and sound . Honestly , save your dough for something else . Something that tells you how to play the game . Of all the Simpsons titles to be released as a video game this is surely the worst .
Why on earth was this film made ? It has NOTHING to do with the last 5 Halloween movies and is NOT scary or frightening or worth any attention . Well , maybe that's a lie . Michelle Williams is worth attention and is the only reason for watching this piece of cp . But it's not like she's in it much . The film is only 84 minutes long and has about 5 scenes . I don't even consider this to be an official Halloween movie . It was only made to cash in on the ' Scream ' craze of teenagers being staked by a masked killer . Seeing as how Halloween was the very first Slasher flick I guess Miramax thought that this would be the Zenith of the craze . How wrong they were . All deaths are pointless and meaningless and Jamie-Lee's attempt at being a Ripley-like chick with balls doesn't work . Plain and simple . File this movie under bad . Really , really bad . Jason Voorhees , come back , all is forgiven .
Ugh ! I remember seeing a review for this game in the old ' Mega ' magazine from Future Publishing back in 1993 . They gave it a bad review but I was still keen to play it as I like most Bond movies and the graphics looked bright and colorful . Well , it took me 12 years to get the game for a decent price ( that would be 99p instead of £39 : 99 ) and I must tell you right now that the game IS rancid and I can't believe that rotten junk like this used to sell for such a high RRP . The story involves Bond running all over an island complex defusing bombs and rescuing generic blonde bimbos ( Bond girls ? ) and shooting at generic villains . It's extremely dull . And what makes it worse is that the music is also downright horrible , the sound effects are laughable ( checkout the sound of ' going downstairs footsteps ) and the controls are stiff , slow and sluggish . Which is pretty much the kiss of death for an action game that relies on quick reflexes . The levels are also poorly designed . Yes , it's a platformer , but you never know which platforms you can stand on and which you'll just fall through . It's so annoying and will cost you many lives . Plus , some things you can walk through , while others are impenetrable . Each level is a maze without meaning to be . And since the game is so very , very slow , making your way through them becomes a long and arduous task . Never buy this game for any reason . Stay well away from it . It sucks so bad . Graphics C Sound F Gameplay F Lasting Appeal
Yet another example of a poor film boasting a good trailer . The Number 23 fails on almost every level . Joel Schumacher ( widely regarded as a hack with a few fluke hits ) just doesn't have the talent to take an already asinine story and make it into an entertaining film . None of this really is the fault of Jim Carrey . But if he wants to be taken seriously as a dramatic actor then he really ought to choose scripts better than this . I can't articulately describe to you just how stupid The Number 23 is . Normally I would say see it for yourself and find out . But , even at 98 minutes , this film felt like it would never end . Carrey is a dog-catcher who is given a raggedy book on his birthday called The Number 23 . A book which claims that this evil number rules the world and all the logic and circumstances within it . The main character of the book goes insane because 23 is everywhere . As you do . But Carrey recognizes his life in this book and is drawn into its stupidness . . . I mean its mystery . This thin , confusing , misjudged and flatly handled premise gives way to further plot developments , all narrated with heavy exposition by Carrey . And it's so , so boring . And once the plot twist finally comes it contradicts what has come before it and totally doesn't add up . You'll never see a film so desperate to be clever yet end up being so moronic . The one thing I liked about # 23 is that there is a nice , lonely atmosphere in the small town setting with weird perpetual sunset in all scenes . But it's still not enough to dig the rest of it out of the grave it's already made for itself and I'm afraid that is a perfectly justifiable rating . Carrey , I am disappointed . As much as I do like seeing you expand your range , this really was a poor choice .
It's no secret that not so many people liked this film as they did the first . Probably because it was one of the most bloated , self-important mistakes to happen in a long time . Too bad it happened to be a sequel to a highly regarded film . It only ended up getting great reviews from people who thot they should like it , but didn't . None of the fight scenes are exciting . They are frequently pointless and feature only blocking instead of actual impact . Who wants to see that ? Plus they only fill the screen with movement rather than something that takes your breath away . That's the problem with the Matrix . It doesn't take place in reality . Therefore the action is unrealistic and unengaging . We can't get close to it if we know it'll never be possible in real life . It ends up being a show of empty effects and an already cliched style . And why exactly should we side with the characters ? They are boring , have no personality , one facial expression and why do they always wear shades ? There is no point in this . It's an overdone cliche that cool characters wear shades all the time for no reason ( Blade , Terminator , MIB ) and it only adds to the films belief that it's the King of Supercool . It's not . But it IS full of the biggest words the Wachowskis could find in the dictionary shoved into endless , endless monologues that reek of pomposity and pretension . They probably hoped that confusing the audience would dupe them into believing they were watching something intelligent and deep but it's actually just ridiculously obvious that this film considers itself to be something much higher than it really is . And all this is just even evident with the fact that EVERY line of dialogue is delivered with such sincerity and such conviction ( no matter how phoney ) that those speaking them believe that it's ALL a ground-breaking revelation that will force the audience to think about it long afterward . Well , most of us ended up laughing and shaking our heads .
You want to know how disgustingly , morbidly PC Disney has become ? They put trousers on a monkey because they are afraid to show naked animals in case parents are offended . Can you believe that ? What is this world coming to ? Walt would be spinning in his grave if he were not cryogenically frozen . Tim Allen plays Dave Douglas , a bad dad who neglects his wife and kids and does way too much overtime . He's a lawyer you see and his current big case involves an animal research company who make poodles into frogs or something like that . Their goal is to make the elixir of everlasting life so naturally one would make a poodle into a frog to achieve such a noble ambition . Dave is bit by one of the dogs and now is infected with dogness . This causes him to periodically turn into a dog and ' hilarity ' ensues as he tries to keep up his case and maintain his family life . Why on earth would you want to see this ? Tim Allen has already played a neglectful dad who learns important lessons after undergoing a weird metamorphosis in 2 Santa Clause movies so he's not broadening his role much . And how many movies are there with bad dads ( always the dad and never the mum , eh ? ) who are usually lawyers who learn the same crap ? About 86 billion ! I can understand why Tim Allen is in this as he is constantly scraping the bottom of the sludge barrel but how the hell did they get Robert Downey Jnr , Danny Glover AND Philip Baker Hall do to this ? They must owe their bookmakers a fair whack . No one in their right mind could read this script and find it worthy of their talents . So not only does the story stink of the worst clichés but it's woefully misjudged and badly directed . The scene where Mrs . Douglas confronts her dog husband and hears him bark ' I wuff woo ' is pretty much the most disturbing scene I've ever come across . And I've watched snuff . When they look into each others eyes I seriously thought she'd start making out with him . And when the film finishes . . . is Dave still going to turn into a dog ? Is he cured ? Who knows ? Do I really care that much ? Why ? Why do I do this myself ? If you really hate life then see this movie . If you are of sound body and mind then save the pennies for guns , drugs and ill hookers . It's money better spent . Trust me !
Not only do I hate the animation style and the fact that it's nothing but a bunch of mini-games put together but when you fail at whatever task and have to start again it takes too long . Yes , the animation looks good from a technical point of view but all people appear in silhouette . I don't feel any connection to the so-called ' story ' because I am basically playing with what appears to be shop window mannequins . And the music is annoying as hell too . The focus of this game seems to concentrate far too much on how to incorporate the features of the Nintendo DS into the gameplay rather than making the gameplay any good , or bearable . Sega and Sonic Team should be ashamed for making a game this bland and bad . They should have spent the time and money on something much better .
Judging by Anna Paquin's performance in this so not scary ' horror ' movie you'd never believe she was an Oscar-winning actress . Thankfully , everyone else ' acting ' along with her is equally terrible and only the most observant will notice her sleepwalking . The story is some total garbage about a family moving into a haunted house . The youngest kid sees ghosts but his parents are typically ignorant and pay no attention to multiple calls for help or obvious signs of ghost activity . For the bulk of the film nothing is happening . And director Jaume Balagueró appears to know only two camera moves : zoom in ? zoom out . The editing and sound design are everything the film relies on to give it power . Unfortunately , they're both clichéd . The assembly of the horror / scare scenes is of the jump - cut - to - sudden - burst - of - noise variety and the sound adds ' spooky ' rumbling to an otherwise lifeless moment . Ooooooohhhhh ! ! ! The plot makes no sense . It makes up its own vague rules then sets about breaking them in order to allow certain plot contrivances . None of it is interesting and you'll be bored to tears by the long , slow and suicidally drawn-out ending . In regards to Anna Paquin's ( gorgeous as she is ) acting , just check out the scene near the beginning when she's arguing with her mother on the porch . The timing , tone of voice and mannerism is completely off . It's rather awkward viewing . I've seen glacier's move faster than this .
Give a five year old a movie camera and tell him to film playing cowboys and Indians with Tonka trucks and you have Bad Boys II , a disgrace that somehow took 8 years to reach fruition . It's probably the most racist , homophobic and degrading experience you'll ever see . I don't even think Michael Bay knew he was making such a movie which only adds to his incompetence . The basic logic of the movie is something like this , if you are a cop then it is okay to kill as many people as you want in the most brutal way possible ( inadvertently causing our ' heroes ' to become fascists , bigots and subliminally eviler than the main villain ) . There is also subtext , something along the lines of ; all ethnic minorities are either murderers , drug dealers or some kind of foul human being and all country-dwellers are inbred , racist Klan members . The movie spews hate in the faces of every audience member who has been misled into believing they are watching an action-comedy . Miami is a place with a very diverse ethnic population and I think it is completely irresponsible for the filmmakers to have behaved in this way . Maybe a five year old with a movie camera would have been too grown up to have allowed this . As you can tell by one of my older reviews , Bad Boys was hardly a unique or original movie but it worked because the style made up for the lack of intelligence and Mark Mancina's musical score was very strong . It gave every scene a beat , tied them together and sounded mighty cool . Well , that is gone ! Mancina's buddy Trevor Rabin took over scoring duties for this movie and the cool Bad Boys theme is completely gone and replaced with an endless and dull drone . In fact I would suggest that the score for this movie doesn't actually exist . And there are far too many unnecessary scenes of absolutely nothing that contribute in no way to the already clichéd plot ( drug dealers , oooohhhh that's not been done before ) . It proves that Bay was given far , far too much time and money to do whatever he wanted . The result ? A 2 . 5 hour mess of unremarkable car chases ( also highly original , you'd never expect an action movie to have a car chase would you ? ) , constant , unironic profanity and sexism . And can someone tell me how the slimy main villain seemed have constant stubble without ever growing a beard ? Several days pass by , he doesn't shave and he never grows a beard . The movie would have you believe that all Cubans are this way . A pretty bad representation methinks . Trust me it's not that way in real life . For all this movies attempts at hardcore action the mix with cartoonish violence comes off as incongruous . This is not a no-brainer . It's a racist pile of trash that can be labelled a no-brainer as a desperate last-minute excuse by Michael Bay . It took FIVE writers to come up with this . The fact that they or Michael Bay have been playing Grand Theft Auto : Vice City far too much is clearly evident . Almost every single part of this movie is stolen from some part of that game . From locations , to car , situations , characters and plots . And still it is no .
This is surely the weakest Bugs Bunny cartoon I've ever seen . Beaky Buzzard simply is not funny and has no appeal at all . As a matter of fact he's down-right annoying . He's not a character I wish to see again in further Looney Tunes cartoons . This short has him preying after Bugs because Mama Buzzard wants him to go out and catch his first dinner . Bugs obviously doesn't take so well to this and doesn't make it easy for the bird . But where is the usual Bugs Bunny intelligence , outsmarting , battle of wits ? Not here I tell ya . Beaky Buzzard is not a formidable opponent for our fave rabbit and this cartoon is completely DOA . Avoid it .
Jailbreak is an embarrassment to the Road Rash franchise . It's so weak and pointless and the gameplay is unbelievably crap . Everything that makes Road Rash great has been whittled down to nothing that I ended up wondering why they bothered . 1 . You cannot fall off your bike and run around . If you smash into your car you just go right through it . Falling off only happens ( rather unspectacularly ) when you're energy hits zero . But you magically reappear on the bike in a second . 2 . There are only 4 rashers per race . In previous games there were 15 . It doesn't really feel like a race anymore and there are 11 less people to beat-up . 3 . Marshall Lee only chases you . He will not go after any other rashers . 4 . There are very few / no opportunities for stunts / jumps . 5 . The sound effects are rotten . 6 . There is no rear-view mirror or indicators telling you who is behind . 7 . There is no counter telling you how far you've come in the racecourse . There is also a new feature here in which you can play Marshall Lee on his police bike . The aim is to knock the rashers off their bikes before they reach the finish line . But where is the fun in this ? If you're going faster you have to slow down to their speed and painstakingly attack them while maintaining slowness . This is not what Road Rash is about ! Mix this in with some horrible graphics and you have a total stinker of a game . A huge disappointment indeed . Graphics Sound Gameplay - Lasting Appeal
Spawn is a dark and humorous comic book that totally rocks . The film contains none of the pathos , imagination or spirit that the comic book had . Its main fault is that it was toned down for a young audience and had to many CGI FX . X-Men suffers from exactly the same problem . There is VERY , VERY little or action and what little there is is very tame and stolen from other movies ( Matrix , T2 ) . Nothing much happens for long periods of time , the dialogue is nothing but mumbo-jumbo and there are plot holes all over the place . Professor X can sense the presence of mutants from far away but cannot notice a bad mutant walking all over his house . Duh ! The ending was ridiculous . It was completely senseless and did not impress me one iota . The word ' contrivance ' echoed around in my head . If the whole scene had been set on the roof of a supermarket instead of the Statue of Liberty ? would it be cool ? Of course the reason it IS on the big statue is because Magneto wants to turn a bunch of people into mutants with what looks like a giant whisk . Uh ? yeah ? that's inspired . Anna Paquin was competent enough , Jackman was pretty cool , Stewart was Picardish , Jansen was underused , McKellen was campy as hell and James Marsden was as woodenly wooden as he was in Gossip and Disturbing Behavior . Thank Mother Nature he only had about 2 lines of dialogue . I cannot think of any reason why this trash is in the IMDb top 250 . It stinks . Perhaps fans of the comic book , who were so disappointed with the film , gave it because they felt they owed it to the X-Men . Me ? I just wasted my money .
This is definitely better than HOHH but it was panned severely by critics because of the extreme overdose of CGI and the camp-Gothic sets . Like HOHH , it is a remake of the original of the same name . The original Haunting was quite good for it's day . But let's be honest ? it's not it's day anymore . But what annoyed ME most about this movie was Lillie Taylor's character . I just didn't like how she whispered every word and was a bit of a weirdo . The ending's a little corny but some decent frights throughout make up for that . The sound design in the cinema was incredible . I was very scary and you really did feel like there were ghosts behind you and from every other direction . It was most impressive . HOHH tried to be quick and frenetic . In doing so it lost character and dialogue . But The Haunting takes a little bit of time to build and in some places is almost a psychological horror . For these ambitions alone , it is better than House on Haunted Hill .
But it's all downhill from there on . For about 20 minutes this movie promises to be cool and funny thru-out but quickly becomes boring and stupid . The characters just do not use simple logic and it is way hard to side with them . I really did want the trucks to run them over . Beware , there may be some spoilers here . Everyone at the truck stop knows that Mr . Hendershot has a truckload of weapons and rocket launchers in the basement . So why don't they just use them against the trucks ? Duh ? The dialogue sucks too . There is not one memorable line in the entire movie . And the acting is sporadically bad . The girl who becomes Emilio Estevez's girlfriend is very beautiful but she cannot act her way out of a linen closet . The pointless AC / DC soundtrack is totally worthless and contributes ZERO to the film . For Spiderman fans ( like me ) there is a bonus tho , as there is a huge face of the Green Goblin on the toy truck . But that's still no reason to watch this farce . The reason these trucks are coming to life is because the earth is caught in the tail of a comet ( which we never see ) and all machines are rebelling against mankind . We don't see many other machines other than the trucks but it turns out that it was all just a plot by aliens to sweep us off the planet . This is unseen also , we are simply told this from words on the screen at the end of the movie . COME ON ! Stephen King should stick to writing as he has handled this film VERY badly and this is very strange as he should know how to transfer his book to film . There is another movie version called TRUCKS . Perhaps you should check that out instead as I cannot imagine anything being worse than this . I do think that if John Carpenter directed this film it could have been cool , but let's just forget about it ? quickly .
Man , I hate that song . And this cartoon fares little better . Honestly , of all the Donald Duck shorts that I've seen and reviewed , this is the worst . Nothing really happens in it . Donald is a farmer who strolls through his yard one morning , greeting all his animals . His cow Clementine is sitting in a tree eating the leaves . Reasons unknown . Donald proceeds to milk her but is bothered by a troublesome fly . And erm . . . that's it . There is no inventive mayhem or moments of brilliant animation . It's all very unimpressive and definitely one of the blandest cartoons starring any character . Donald deserves better than this bore .
I've never seen any Musketeer movies , not even the Kiefer Sutherland one , but I can tell this one ain't the best . It's very rushed and the script is as flat as a blown-out tire . I mean it's written by the guy who created the Police Academy franchise . Surely he should be blacklisted in Hollywood by now . Peter Hyams once again becomes his own cinematographer and does a kinda okay job . None of his trademark flair or wonderful use of widescreen is in this film and nothing really comes across as pretty or atmospheric . And this whole deal with the film apparently having an Eastern influence is total nonsense . There is like 2 fight scenes and neither of them are that spectacular and come across as a bit contrived . Just because an Asian guy did the choreography it doesn't mean that this film has to look like The Matrix . The actors do what they can with the poor story and limp dialogue but still come across as being bored , especially Stepehen Rea . Tim Roth looks and acts like a cross between Chuck Norris and Charles Dance and his character is a bit of a cliché . ' The Man in Black ' . . . puh-lease . And if you're kinda wondering who that is playing Mena Suvari's evil uncle then you might recognise him as Arthur Fowler from long over-running BBC1 misery and despair soap Eastenders . The Musketeer also seems to be badly edited around the PG-rating . Obviously this is what the studio wanted to aim for but it just seem right given the tone of the film and any scene in which someone dies looks like a badly staged pantomime . Even Dogtanian and the Three Muskahounds was more grown-up than this . And boy are those opening credits ugly ! See it only for free on a day you've got nothing better to do .
Having seen two different ghosts on separate occasions in my life , then my answer is , most definitely , yes . And no , I wasn't dreaming . I wasn't allowed to see this show back when it originally aired back in 1992 , my mother and aunt were busy keeping the living room for their own drunken yacking . But I did sneak in a couple of times and saw a couple of definitive bits such as the ghost of Pipes appearing behind the curtains . I never knew it was a sham at the time but was intrigued nonetheless . Afterwards , BBC 2 screened Halloween 2 and I was more freaked out by that . But then came Sunday and the whole of Britain was buzzing about it . That particular Saturday night was probably the most iconic Halloween in a long time . The BBC even kept the show hidden away for many years afterwards because of all the controversy it stirred up . So anyone who has memories of being scared back then have not been able to see the show up until recently since the British Film Institute released a DVD . Fifteen years on , in the middle of a reality TV craze and with inattentive audiences , Ghostwatch would certainly not work in 2007 . People now are just too cynical and no one really watches TV on a Saturday night now . There are many other distractions . It was the fact that so many people at Halloween parties , kids and adults alike , were fooled by this that made it so notorious . And there was hardly any advertising for Ghostwatch either and the only way people would know what was on is by checking the TV guides . Now we have the internet and almost every element of a production is scrutinized before anyone sees it . You could say that it was part of Ghostwatch's power that despite hardly any advertising and being bookended with ' this is not real ' that was taken so seriously . But that would an absurd statement . It's a pretty affair . The acting and direction is often stale and clumsy but the subliminal shots of Pipes going unnoticed by the crew make it so brilliant to watch . Set up like a Crimewatch show we have Parkinson in the studio with a Parapsychologist discussing the Pipes phenomena and other ghost stories while Sarah Greene and Craig ' No Talent Whatsoever ' Charles are on location in a council estate where Pipes the ghost is making life a misery for the Early family . As you can imagine , there's a lot of hand-held camera action and quick glimpses of the ghost . I've spotted about seven but there may be more . It's rather dated and badly acted but it's still got enough in it to be interesting in these cynical times . Just try to blank out Craig Charles , why he was chosen to be in this I'll never know . I just wish that the BBC went further and push Ghostwatch to the max instead of mainly just playing it safe .
Just what were war bonds anyway ? I've never actually found out but from the looks of this Disney wartime propaganda cartoon it looks like some sort of bank . How else would we invest in victory ? The cartoon begins with Donald relaxing in his hammock as the radio advertises war bond savings . Donald says he'll do it tomorrow but a little Donald angel pops up and insists he do it today . Then the Donald Devil shows and says ' why not spend that money on yourself ? ' But if we lose the war there won't even be a Donald ! Shameless scare tactics indeed . I guess if we didn't all go down to the post office and hand over our green then we would have lost the war huh ? The bit at the end saying ' we need more guns , guns , guns ' would have modern-day censors going nuts . The ' good old days ' you say ?
In fact it's a bit of a soap opera . Take away all the sex and you're left with some boring office politics you've seen dozens of times before . The story has 2 girls ( Nathalie and Sandrine ) get fired from their jobs at a tawdry Paris strip club . They move in together and strike up some kind of weird , half-lesbian friendship . Sandrine has never had an honest orgasm and Nathalie teaches her how to . She also teaches her to lose her inhibitions and masturbate in public . Wow , this may have been shocking back in the 80s with Nine and Half Weeks and even lesser drivel like Wild Orchid but now , in the 21st century it's just plain boring . If the film thought it could use this frank portrayal of sexuality in its favor then it is very much mistaken . In fact , the most interesting part of the film is when Nathalie and Sandrine both get jobs in the same office and use their sexiness to climb the ladder . This bit has also been done before in Neil Labute's In The Company of Men , but not as good . It's here that the best characters are featured but towards the end of the second act the film goes off in another tangent with the evil boss of the company turning out to be a crazed sex-maniac with delusions of godhood . Again , sexuality is used as a way of shock or arousing us , but it just fails . There's so many other films out there that try the same thing and if you want to succeed at it then you either have to be really erotic or just plain pornographic ( yup , two different things ) . Choses Secretes is neither . And the women need to seriously think about shaving George W . if you know what I mean . I know European women like to be au naturel but DAMN ! Overall , Choses Secretes is neither good or bad . It's simply middle of the road . For a film that tries to sell itself on loads of sex it's somewhat ironic that the best bits are in the scenes where people are just talking .
In 1979 Sean S . Cunningham was looking to produce a mere potboiler to tide him over until his next serious project . His idea of a Summer Camp Killer movie seemed like a decent , low-budget , one-shot deal and he went with it . There was nothing particularly memorable or unique about it but it was bought by Paramount and released as a mainstream film , rather than a independent struggler . The response was huge and it soon became clear that Friday the 13th was not a mere paycheck but a serious cash-cow . Sequels followed . And the rest is history . Many , many people claim that Friday the 13th rips off Halloween . Which is not a very fair or kind statement . Sure , it's no work of art and has many similarities , but Halloween was NOT the first slasher movie as Black Christmas and The Texas Chain Saw Massacre came before it . I was actually draw more parallels between this and The Last House on the Left , which was also produced by Cunningham . Friday the 13th is a slicker , tamer film in comparison but if TLHOTL never existed then we would have the Friday the 13th franchise that we have today . The characters and deaths are not so imaginative . All we really get is throat slashings and impalings . But at least the fodder are not as obnoxious and annoying as they would later become in the sequels , when they truly deserved more grotesque deaths . At the time , the ending was surprising only because it came out of nowhere . The sudden unveiling of the killer and motives was random and unexpected . It's weird watching it now , knowing that Jason and parts 2-infinity were never planned . Jason was just a dead boy and nothing more . It's hard to review Friday the 13th on it's own merits rather than the movie that launched a major franchise . A low-brow slasher script made into a potboiler movie that ended up making zillions in sequels , spin-offs , TV series ' , toys , games and accessories seems so far-fetched .
Roland Emmerich seems to have learned a few lessons from ID4 . TDAT is not disgustingly patriotic and is far more darker and serious . The comical nature of ID4 ruined it somewhat and I'm glad he chose to mute it for this movie . But still , though the subject matter is serious and definitely needs more consideration in real life , TDAT fails to disturb or scare us into saving the environment . Emmerich seems fascinated with destroying the Big Orange and the Big Apple . In ID4 both were obliterated by fire . In Godzilla New York was smashed by a big lizard and instead of a wall of fire in TDAT , we have a wall of water wiping out New York while twisters tear LA apart . These effects could have been scary and ominous and utterly engaging . But the point of view we see them from showcases them as big budget movie effects rather than believable ( and eventually possible ) disasters . There are also zillions of clichés to deal with . The minor character who sacrifices himself , the character who puts his / her life in grave danger for stupidest of reasons , the ignorant authority figure who dismisses the intelligent warnings and puts dozens / hundreds / millions of lives at risk . All here for your annoyment . There actors did their best with the weak characters . Dennis Quaid ( his brother was the hero in ID4 ) is good in the lead and always watchable . Jake Gyllenhaal is kind of wasted in a role that requires him to do nothing more than stand around looking blank . Though Ian Holme was quite cool and the plot involving Scotland freezing was interesting ( though it already IS freezing ) . It bugs me when people criticize the film for having no story . There IS a story ( there'd be no movie otherwise ) , but it's minimal . Roland Emmerich seems to be serious about saving the environment and uses this film to push a message to ignorant politicians . A shame then as the story is nothing but an excuse to tie together a bunch of SFX set-pieces . You gotta give Emmerich some credit though , the scale of this is huge , as were his previous movies . He certainly knows how to handle these massive projects but there is a distinct lack of ' epic ' feel to TDAT . Even ID4 has this . However , no director in history has ever made frost look so menacing .
The evil scum of the Bydo Empire are at it again . So it's up to you to climb into your R-9 Ragnarok vessel and blast off to defeat the mutant alien slime . This second sequel ( or third if you count the Japanese Arcade-only R-Type Leo ) was originally just as solid as any other game in the series . This GBA version is tepid to the point of redundancy . The cut-scenes have been omitted so the game is just one level after another . While the graphics look good they have a tacky cheapness about them that is distracting . And don't get me started on the music . The R-Type series is famous for having some of the most coolest of the coolest tunes ever , sort of like a futuristic space-rave . Sadly , in this GBA version they have been cut down to the most horrible sounding and basic midi files . It almost feels like there is no music at all . The gameplay just sucks , plain and simple . Nothing is about skill , instead one must memorise their way around the levels . There is no fun to be had in risk-taking as you will always lose coz the odds are so heavily against you . And too often there are long gaps in which nothing happens , just the ship cruising through empty space . And when you inevitably die you get sent miles back and must do it all over again . Since finishing this near-impossible games requires doing levels over and over again it becomes very repetitive and tedious very quickly . Anyone keen to check out R-Type III ought to get the SNES version and leave this disgrace be . Unless you like game that will make you tear the hair from your head in frustration and bore the pants off you with the dull levels . Graphics Sound Gameplay Lasting Appeal
Road Avenger was one of the games Sega used to promote the Sega CD system on its launch . You can see why when looking at clips from the game . The graphics are wonderful and to the naive it would seem looks like a living anime cartoon that you can control . But looks can be deceiving . The story had you play as an ex-cop who is out to avenge the death of his new wife , who was driven off the road by a gang of Mad Max style bandits . The game is a first person driving game but not in the usual style of Out Run or Formula One or such . In fact , all you were required to do was to push the control pad in the right direction . As the car you drove would pass through varied territories like urban down town , the forest , desert canyons etc a direction ( either up , left , right or brake ) would appear on the screen . If you push that direction the car would continue on its rampage , otherwise you would crash with a generic death animation . It was fun if you got the game right and the car would tear through buildings and stuff , while scared pedestrians would look on in amazement . The music was also cool and I wish Sega released a soundtrack CD as some of the level tunes and the main theme song were great . Sadly , Road Avenger was about no more than pushing buttons . It was the most linear game I have ever played . Even if you chose what direction the car took it would have been slightly re-playable . But it wasn't . Graphics A Sound A Gameplay D Lasting Appeal
And only marginally redeemed by Garfield . There's not much to separate this from rubbish like Cats and Dogs and Stuart Little . Everything that happens on screen is there to appeal to the youngest of kids . No one over the age of 8 will get much out of this movie . Unlike movies such as Shrek 2 or Brother Bear , there's absolutely NOTHING in this for adults at all . A shame really as the humor in the Garfield comic strip can sometimes be very clever and observant . It's worse when you go see this with a bunch of screaming kids ( and a baby-honestly why bring a baby to the cinema ? ! ? ) who laugh at every single thing . And that's including the stuff that isn't meant to be funny . It did get very irritating and proves furthermore that this is a movie for infants . The tiny bit of humor the movie does have comes ENTIRELY from Garfield . Bill Murray is great , his delivery is catatonically laid-back and dry . The CGI of Garfield is also very good . He looks to cute that you just want to keep him . But any positive the movie has begins and ends right there . Breckin Meyer may look the part of Jon but he has less than nothing to do in the role . Jeniffer Love Hewitt ( gorgeous as she is ) is totally slumming it in a role that requires her to do even less than Breckin Meyer and the other animal cast members resemble nothing like their comic-strip counterparts . I was a little annoyed at seeing Garfield talk in the trailers but in the movie no humans can hear him or the other animals . There are some other things they have changed . Odie comes straight from the vet , though in the comic-strip he came from Jon's friend Lyman . Nermal does not appear to be Garfield's cousin and Arlene doesn't appear to be his girlfriend either . The story of Garfield rescuing Odie from an ' evil ' TV host is completely uneventful and nothing much happens around it . The ending is an unentertaining , unexciting anti-climax and disgustingly childish . I appreciate kid's stuff . I could watch 100 episodes of Sesame Street back to back . But this film was the most brain dead excuse for low , low-grade kid's entertainment in a long , long time . Jim Davis should be ashamed for allowing his wonderful creation to me made into such a lousy movie . The 3 stars are for Garfield himself ONLY . Otherwise , without him , it's a hardcore 1-star experience . You wouldn't find Calvin and Hobbes behaving this way .
Steven Spielberg used to tackle massive movies that were huge blockbusters and instant classics . Think Jaws , Indiana Jones , Jurassic Park , Schindler's List , Saving Private Ryan . Now he's busy with ' who cares ? ' little movies with little stories and little meaning . Catch Me If You Can and The Terminal are perfect examples of this . What has happened to Spielberg ? Why is he wasting time on easily forgotten stuff like this and not concentrating his efforts on something bigger and better . Tom Hanks is great as Victory Navorsky , the traveler from Eastern Europe who is stranded in JFK airport after war breaks out in his country . He is not allowed to leave the terminal so he settles down in an abandoned departure gate and makes a temporary home for himself . In between mild scenes of mild drama some colorful characters pop up for some mild involvement . The least of which is lecherous Catherine Zeta-Jones as Flight Attendant with no clue who ends up being a complete waste of time . It's not so hard to believe why Dodgeball beat this to the number 1 spot this past summer . Both movies are instantly forgettable but The Terminal doesn't have much of an audience outside of pensioners ( I was the only person under 60 when I went to see , in an almost empty cinema ) . With Catch Me If You Can , Steven Spielberg certainly proved he can do simple , non-epic movies . But he also proved that 12 years earlier with Always . Did we really need another one ? The only thing worthwhile in the Terminal is John Williams ' warm musical score . Which is mild rather than magical .
16 Blocks is the kind of movie you can really only watch once and even at that you'll be correctly guessing what happens next as it goes through loads of familiar developments with a lot of unsubtle foreshadowing . I'm surprised that Richard Donner managed to make a film so tepid . The rapidly ageing Bruce Willis plays a downbeat , alcoholic cop who is talked into transporting a witness ( most definitely Mos Def ) to the courthouse to testify against dirty cops . Only those dirty cops make it very difficult for them to make this seemingly simple , short journey . Since the film runs 102 minutes and they have 118 minutes to get to the courthouse , it's not strictly in real time . But it did very much remind me of Phone Booth in terms of brisk pacing and bustling New York backdrop . A suspension of disbelief is seriously required as a few completely implausible things happen . I mean , how the hell do the dirty cops constantly manage to catch up with them . Do they have secret homing devices and teleport machines ? Why did Willis not shoot any of them in the foot so they couldn't follow ? Why didn't he identify himself properly on that bus full of complete moron passengers ? Richard Donner has proved himself a master of action in the past but this PG-13 rated movie is just packed full of jittery , blurred , badly-lit , incomprehensible shoot-outs . A harder nature and bad guys that DID more evil instead of talking about already doing it would have made a better movie . Rent this . And completely forget about it the minute you switch the DVD player off .
From a graphics point of view this game is very impressive . Sadly from a gameplay angle it's kind of limited and every level is basically the same thing . This could basically be described as a side-scrolling beat-em-up , though the uncontrollable camera POV becomes very annoying . And compared with old-school games of the same genre , it doesn't hold up . Pow , biff , bam , smack ! It just goes on and on for the whole game . There are some levels that could have been cool , like the rooftop or subway stages . How cool would it have been to chuck the bad guys off the roof or onto the subway tracks ? Very , but an invisible wall prevents this from happening . It's so disappointed that a lot of exploration is cut short . In the subway level trains rocket past in the tunnels on either side of you , but in the middle tunnel ( where you battle loads of bad guys ) there's no trains at all . Most levels are this way , there's just no REAL interaction with the environment . The Streets of Rage games on the Genesis were better . It's the same thing . The city is overrun with thugs headed by a big boss . You beat them up and kill the boss . TMNT does not improve on this concept . Cute graphics though . It's also kind of easy . The game is totally aimed at kids . I've seen better , I've seen worse . But I would suggest renting the game as it's long-time appeal is drastically short .
But still falls short in providing a coherent storyline . I have no doubt that this film is more intelligible to those who speak Korean but I was a bit lost at times and couldn't keep up with all the characters . The story is about the angry ghost of a dead student at an all-girl school who periodically turns up in the guise of someone new . . . or something . Like I said , it's hard to follow . But the eerie photography and reliance on practical scares make it worthwhile . Far too many horror films these days are too slick and well-polished for their own good . Whispering Corridors features a certain rawness in it's grainy film stock and editing that gives the film a rather unique atmosphere . The gore isn't terribly excessive , nor is the film extreme in any way . But if you're in need of something different and with a weird edge to it then go for Whispering Corridors . Try hard to keep up though .
If there was ever any doubt that R-Type II was nothing more than a slightly different version of R-Type then R-Type DX should lay them to rest forever . You can play this game in 5 ways . First you have the black and white Gameboy version of R-Type . And let's face it , who wants to play that ? Or you can play it in color . A wiser choice . This option also features on R-Type II ( now missing the cool underwater level seen in the arcades ) . Or you can choose to actually play the game as R-Type DX , which is a combination of both . And you'll never know it . It's a bit dull , the infinite continues don't temp me to play for hours on end and the primitive graphics of the Gameboy Color don't do justice to the usually brilliantly detailed R-Type universe .
It may well have appeared fresh and exciting back in 1987 but Lethal Weapon is soaked in so many 80s clichés it's sometimes hard to take it seriously . First of all we have the maverick cop on the edge who doesn't play by the rules but gets results . Second we have him being teamed up with a by-the-book partner . Third . . . it's all about drugs . There are countless more , from LA setting to the Vietnam vet psycho stuff and even all the way down to the deep voiced trailer guy saying stuff like ' They'll have to work together even if it kills them ' and so-forth . Opening with long travelling shot of LA , complete with an agonizingly 80s credit front , Lethal Weapon begins with the death of a porn actress , high on cocktail of white powders , who thinks she can fly . But what she really gets is a 20-storey descent to the parking lot , the fast way . I first saw Lethal Weapon on TV in about 1990 and this scene had pretty much everything cut from it , the nudity , the drugs , it's amazing people actually made sense of films back then . Anyways , before I go off on a tangent rant , the dead girl is actually the daughter of a crooked banker involved in heroin smuggling . LAPD Sargeant Roger Murtaugh is his old pal and takes the case , but not before being teamed-up with renegade , suicidal cop Martin Riggs . Together ' They don't make the rules , they break them ' and ' They'll have to survive each other first ' and ' blah blah blah ! ' Honestly , the wafer-thin plot of Lethal Weapon has truly perished with time . Bad guys smuggle heroin , cops kill them for it . There are multiple , totally absurd elements such as Riggs being a Vietnam vet despite only being about 30 at the time ( meaning he was 19 when the conflict ended ) , the rolling around with the gun firing a gun blindly but still hitting targets is hard to swallow , the martial arts showdown seems to come out of nowhere and belongs in a different film , kids recognizing tiny special forces tattoos from a significant distance and the contrived death of Murtaugh's daughter's never seen boyfriend . In fact , a LOT of this film is contrived and rather ramshackle . Shane Black IS a great writer but this film is just too underdeveloped . We never get to see the heroin or learn anything about how the villains do business . There's not any decent amount of mystery solving or police procedure and there is absolutely NO reason at all for the film being set at Christmas . There is no festive , yuletide atmosphere or Xmasy themes . Plus , with the film being set in LA , Christmas is all blue skies and sun . It adds nothing at all . What makes Lethal Weapon watchable however are the characters and the silly banter between them . Riggs and Murtaugh really seem to click with each other as pals and I think it's this that kept the sequels coming rather than the need to tell another macho action story set in LA . And I do wish that Michael Kamen never used those damn saxophones ! The score can frequently be quite jarring and annoying whenever those things start screeching . I have the limited edition score CD , but skip those tracks whenever I stick it on . But since Kamen has died in recent years I will spare him my rant over his misjudged score . Unwisely regarded as a classic , Lethal Weapon only exhibits how to weave 40 million clichés into a macho action movie . The humor is what I like best , I can leave the rest to stagnate back in the 80s , where it really belongs .
I hate tabloid press as much as the next person . But I will be honest to you about how I feel about movie stars . It is a dishonest profession . I don't believe in actors getting paid $20 million for a single film and living in multiple mansions when harder working folks get nothing . But then you have to consider what the character of Bo Laramie says in this film . Perhaps every time someone takes your picture you lose a bit of your soul . Maybe the constant hassling of the press is only worth $20 million . Celebrities do rub it in our faces a bit too much about how much money they have . We are the ones that see their movies and buy their CDs . It's because of us that they have what they have right ? And when we want a little bit of them back , when we want a little insight into their lives that ultimately , we , have helped create for them , they often bite back with attitude . There is a line that is not to be crossed though . The odd picture here and there is more than enough . But as there are so many , many tabloid magazines out there , all with the same kind of single-word single-syllable title , the business has become very diluted and all of them are willing to buy the most mundane photos of celebs doing uninteresting things . Not only this , but they take it to rather perverted extremes and it baffles me that anyone could be at all interested in it . I've seen long-shots of celebs hanging around like any person ought to but with massive close-ups of sweaty armpits , circled for the benefit of anyone not enlightened to the point of the picture . Morbid close-ups of some celebrity's blouse revealing some milkshake she spilled a few hours earlier is just plain creepy . Sadly , there are thousands of parasites out there who are willing to fork over their hard-earned cash for such rags . I'll never understand the fascination . Celebs are made out to be Gods of some kind . Something we all want to be but never can . Their teeth are perfect , their wives / husbands beautiful , their children beautiful , their homes are palaces and their lifestyles enviable . Most of us live our whole lives in jealousy of celebs . This is why we just want a little bit more back from them . They can afford it right ? With all that money and ' power ' a few pics here and there won't hurt will they ? Well , I can't imagine myself liking it very much . And , considering the crap I've seen some celebs take , I personally don't think any of it's worth $20 million . Punching a Paparazzo in the face with my fist going through his camera first sounds like the best image of all in my opinion . Since a union of celebs is actually quite powerful , I do believe their wills be much , much tighter laws in the near future to curb Paparazzi . There's always some story of some actor taking a weaselly photographer to court . Or you could do it the way Bo Laramie does . Laramie ( Cole Hauser ) is a former Montana carpenter who has , by pure chance , become a star in Hollywood through various xXx-style action movies . The public loves him and wants more than he is willing to offer . His private life is constantly being invaded by those peeking in . But they are taking pictures too . Rex Harper ( the very cool , but sadly self-destructive , Tom Sizemore ) is one of those pesky photographers . And Laramie doesn't take too kindly to Harper taking pics of his son playing football . He responds by punching out Harper , only a group of his Paparazzi pals ( including Danny-the best Baldwin , the psycho killer from Heat , and some highly annoying English guy you can't wait to see hanging from a tree ) catch the whole thing on film and whore out their footage to the highest bidder . Now with a personal vendetta between them a childish game is promptly brought to an end ( or only just beginning ) when they involve Laramie and his family in a Princess Diana-style car wreck . And instead of calling an ambulance , they take pictures of their bloody bodies . Sadly , it's not sounding far-fetched yet . Having not learned from other's mistake Laramie is still hassled by the photographers and press and they continue to fabricate stories and bend ( read utterly distort ) the truth to line their own pockets . Little do they know Laramie is planning a Punisher-style revenge on the 4 dolts responsible for his tragedy . Click on my reviews to find a coninuation of this criticism in another film of the same name as the IMDb only allows 1000 words .
Problem teens are everywhere and make everyone's life hell , we know this . I would love to send all of these miserable bastards away to some fortified compound where they can never return from . But you have to think about a few things . Why are problem teens the way they are ? Most of the time it can be attributed to bad upbringing , which is really the fault of irresponsible or evil adults . So I guess that some people are just screwed from day one . Either way , they are the kinda folks I like to avoid . Is that the wrong attitude for me to have ? The ubiquitous Joseph Gordon Levitt plays Lyle , a teenager who has been sent to a juvenile mental hospital because he cracked open the skull of a kid who taunted him . While I would usually say the kid deserved it , it becomes clear that Lyle has too much aggression crammed inside him and has no way of controlling it other than the occasional blind rage or makeshift mosh-pit . While in the hospital he makes pals ( and some enemies ) with a fragile Native American kid , a no-confidence girl and another boy with manic depression ( oh , sorry . . . ' Bi-polar disorder ' ) . It's nothing particularly astonishing but it's the commitment to acting and making it all seem as real as possible that makes it so watchable . This is helped by director Jordan Melamed's documentary style and hard close-ups of actors without make up and with their honest faces and zits . There's more honesty and realism in the fighting too , which does occur at regular intervals and somehow seems more engaging than in action movies . I myself have pulverised people ( who I hated and thought really deserved it ) into the dirt only to feel huge guilt as they look up at me all bloodied and broken , their eyes watering . I assume so many of these angry teenagers put on this act of aggression and being hard to hide how sensitive they really are . It's not a big revelation I know , but it's very well done in the film . In the end it doesn't do much else than offer a balanced view of such kids . Not everyone has the power to turn their rage off , not all parents are going to be wonderful . But who says you are any better ? Maybe we could all get along better if everyone admits that they could be a better person .
You can't move for sequels , prequels , spin-offs and remakes ( or re-imaginings ) these days . Hollywood is suffering a real dry spell when it comes to new blood as most stuff we get now is from previously released material . Some remakes can be impressive ( Dawn of the Dead , Texas Chainsaw Massacre ) and others can be downright pointless ( Alfie ! ) . Taxi is an obscure choice . The original French version was written by Luc Besson in 21 days out of pure boredom as he waited for Columbia to green light The Fifth Element . It was an okay , silly action movie that spawned 2 sequels itself . While it's a mildly popular film it's hardly the kind of thing that warrants an American remake . How many Americans ( or anyone outside of France ) cared for the original Taxi ? As ramshackle as it is , Taxi NYC still seems to hold together thanks to the energetic performances of Queen Latifa and Jimmy Fallon . They do what the can with the limp material and are capable of duping you into believing that the movie is better than it really is . What's so bad about it ? Well , the plot is non-existent and is really just a set-up for a couple of brief chase scenes featuring Latifa's suped-up Taxi . Director Tim Story tries to copy the easy-going pastel-colored design and liberated use of widescreen photography of the original as well as keeping the speed of the chases as fast as he can but the stuff in between is so dated and his direction feels like the kind of quality film-making you'd expect of Rush Hour 86 . Plus , the sexuality of the original film has been erased . In France this would have been called harmless but in America they call it pornography . It's hard to give this film a bad review as there is at least one good laugh per scene but the cheap , cruddiness of it prevents it from being anything more than a one-time only rental that won't really hold up upon repeat viewings . Trust me . The DVD is in great looking 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with good enough Dolby 5 . 1 sound . The sound design is hardly anything to write home about so don't expect to . The DVD I watched ( Region 2 ) had an extended version of the film that ran 6 minutes longer . But there was nothing particularly racy in this version that would have denied the film the pleasure of being PG-13 . Let's hope they don't sequel this one .
There's lots of clichés and stereotypes to endure when watching a high school movie . For the most of it , The Perfect Score manages to avoid most of these clichés though the characters are a bit stereotypical . There's the brainy kid , the rebel , the stoner , the loser , the jock and the good guy . Hardly a breathtaking assortment of originals eh ? But their plan to steal the SAT scores and their interaction together are what make this movie worthwhile . The unimaginative marketing for this movie claims it to be Ocean's 11 meets The Breakfast Club . But the actors are carrying the movie , doing the best they can with weak material , rather than the ' wild ' premise . I especially liked Roy , the stoner and narrator as he got the most back story and had more a character arc than the rest of them . And it was pleasant to have the lovely , oh-so-cute Erika Christensen though I'm not too fussed about Scarlett Johansen ( she looks like a teenage version of my mother ! ) . A non-Shaggy , but still manic , Matthew Lillard has a small role as a concerned big brother . You'll not remember it 5 minutes after the credits role but for a non-threatening , easy-going movie The Perfect Score fits nicely . You could do a helluva lot worse . And what else do you expect from an MTV movie ? The DVD is in 1 . 78 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with lackluster Dolby 5 . 1 , though to be fair it mostly a dialogue-driven movie . There are a bunch of fluff features for those who care .
In European countries the annual gift-giving ' character ' of Saint Nicholas is more commonly known as Sinter Klaus , a sort of colloquial term . This Sinter Klaus was changed to Santa Claus for English-speaking countries where he adopted the role of the more generic character of ' Father Christmas ' . Since the dawn of Xmas Commercialism the Santa image has been used by pretty much everyone to sell their crappy products . THIS is how kids in modern society are introduced to a such a ridiculous fantasy figure . Why do any parents feed their kids this nonsensical crap ? Imagination is fine . But lying to them about something that a 5-year-old should be able to see through is stupid . That said , as purely a fantasy movie , The Santa Clause is quite amusing . But maybe a bit too obnoxious to be a Xmas Classic . It was only made to cash-in on Tim Allen's Home Improvement success ( and directed by a Home Improvement director ) on the Disney Channel ( which is even referenced rather unsubtly ) . I suppose it was a lucrative idea , but since I believe Tim Allen is completely talentless it's not really his own success . Santa Claus sells . Not Tim Allen . That's why all his other movies have been complete failures . Allen plays the curiously initialled Scott Calvin , a man who accidentally kills Santa on Xmas Eve . Once he puts on the dead man's jacket he becomes the new Santa and is whisked away to the North Pole . Over the next year he undergoes a transformation from ordinary guy to fat , jolly fellow with a big , white beard . Much to the shock of his ex-wife and baffled boss Peter Boyle ( who would later star in the sequels as Father Time ) . I know that this is strictly a movie for kids but even before I reached double digits I questioned the logic behind ' Santa ' . Even the movie lacks basic sense-making . Why would anyone doubt the existence of the movie character Santa Claus ? Who do they think delivers free gifts to their children every year ? It doesn't add up ! If you show this to your kids and back up the lunatic conspiracy that this junk is real then shame on you . If you tell them that it is a load of crap and that the film is strictly make-belief then bravo !
. . . with Batman as a guest star . This 60-minute ' feature length ' show was put together from 3 separate 20-minute episodes of the Superman Animated show . Bruce Wayne and his alter-ego are in Metropolis on business . Guests they certainly are , in both senses . The bulk of the time sticks with Superman stuff . The Joker has figured out a way to kill Soupey ( that darn Kryptonite ) and asks Lex Luthor for a billion dollars to pull it off . Thus , a plot involving Batman and Superman beating henchmen , escaping death traps and flying through the night sky follows . It is rather amusing and the scenes where Kent and Wayne see through each other's identities is cool . But there's no great plot to get involved in and it ends a bit abruptly . Gotta love that Joker though . Overall , one of the weaker Batman entries , only just rises above Sub-Zero , which I regarded as the worst . See Mystery of the Batwoman or Mask of the Phantasm instead .
Though this film is brutally honest about Aileen ' Lee ' Wuornos ' crimes it does provoke some sympathy for her . Yes , she does kill many people ( all men ) but when you consider how many men battered her and raped her all through her life , even as a child , it's no surprise she became so psychotic . And I don't think it's exactly fair that she got the death penalty . Surely it would have been best to help a woman who lived her entire existence in the dregs of society ( which is surely to blame for sending her mad ) than executing her . Focusing entirely on Lee instead of the police investigations following her ( there is a TV movie from the mid-90s that does exactly this if you're more interested ) , we see her straggle from thinking about suicide , hooking up with lonely , naive Selby ( Christina Ricci ) , killing in self-defense and finally killing for revenge / money . Charlize Theron completely vanishes as she brings her take on Lee ( her full name is never mentioned in the film ) to the screen . She sure deserved her Academy Award and Christina Ricca ( who is very cute here ) is also very good . However , for a lesbian couple I just didn't see any real feeling between them . It annoyed me how fast the film moved and there are not really many quiet moments for these two characters to bond in any way . Yes , they proclaim their love for each other but I just didn't see it . There was too much shouting and screaming . There are no surprises in the film , as we all know how it ends anyway . But some of Lee's killings are harsh , compelling and even ironic . The overall effect of the film isn't so long-lasting on me though . It's shot and lit like a TV movie and Lee's heavy judgment at the end of the film is played down . For a film that is slightly biased to her point of view it's annoying that her unfair trial and life are not exploited just a little bit more for us to gain a little extra insight into the making of a ' monster ' . Keep a lookout for Kane Hodder as an undercover cop near the end . The DVD is in 1 . 85 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with Dolby / DTS 5 . 1 sound and some slight extras .
The Pink Panther is sleeping in the treetops in a secluded part of the forest when a noisy man and his dog set up their camp below him for the night . The camper is happy to hog all the comfort for himself and leave his dog out in the cold but his snoring is keeping Pinky awake . Obviously less than pleased at this intrusion , Pinky takes it upon himself to play tricks on the camper as he sleeps , leaving the dog to rescue him . Each time the camper awakens he thinks it's the dog that has sabotaged his sleep and scolds him for it . Promptly going back to sleep and snoring loudly . Not a particularly imaginative set-up but has a good reasonable amount of laughs to keep it going .
While I understand all of Hayao Miyazaki's work cannot be heavy , 2 hour-plus epics , this is the lamest of all his films . Don't get me wrong , I like it . But there isn't really a lot of story or character to make a feature length film out of . I watched the English dub with Kirsten Dunst doing the voice of Kiki and the late , great Phil Hartman doing her talking cat Jiji . Much like Sabrina The Late-Thirties Teenage Witch , Jiki is black , cynical and funny . He provides most of the film's laughs and is impossibly cute . As I have said , the film is very light . So light it could float in the air without the need for a broomstick . Nothing is really made a big deal of and no real story develops . What gives the film class is Miyazaki's attention to detail and gorgeous production design . Kiki exists in a perfect , transethnical European town with wonderful architecture and scenery . The flying scenes look brilliant and the colors are always bright and cheerful . Still , no-matter how pretty and easy-going , it doesn't have that long-lasting appeal of Nausicaa or Castle of Cagliostro .
I've never seen humans drawn so ugly . Not so much the Polo players like Laurel and Hardy ( I always like them ) but more the spectators in the audience . I don't know who that huge-headed , bulbous-eyed guy was supposed to be but he freaked me out . Anyways , it's Disney stars vs Real Actors in this Polo match ( A rather odd choice of sport . Was it popular in the ' 30s ? ) and nothing really funny happens . Sure there are a couple of clever moments but , like far too many Disney toons , it's all a set-up for everything to come crashing down . Vividly animated as it may be , it's still a bit too boring and doesn't hold up against Looney Tunes when it comes to hijinks .
In a time where space-shooter were a dime a dozen , Blazing Lazers has long faded into obscurity . But if you come across it cheap ( very unlikely it only came out on the Turbo-Grafx and is generally very expensive ) I suggest you give it a go . The game has more in common with shooters like the 1942 series than say , R-Type . There's absolutely nothing special or stand-out about it other than it is simply fun to play . You get the usual power-ups and bosses and stuff and you'll have a good time blasting away at everything . Only problem is that the levels are very long and when you die you'll be sent way back , which is annoying . Graphics Sound B Gameplay Lasting Appeal
I was really looking forward to this movie since the Criterion DVD is rather costly and a rerelease with a flawless screening seemed like the perfect way to be introduced to this so-called Hitchcock classic . It's a real shame the film ends up being so damn twee . The main problem is that the film is just too quaint . None of the bad guys feel like a real threat and are frequently fooled by Hanney's simple tricks , the stakes aren't exactly high and the MacGuffin is surely Hitchcock's lamest . The final scene in which a memory man ( a pre-USB key device ) recites a vital formula to no one of importance before dying is a dumb way to end the film . I was expecting some gripping set-piece like at the end of North By Northwest or Saboteur when the hero and villain went head to head at Mount Rushmore and the Statue of Liberty . But a single shot fired at the London Palladium ? Come on ! And what's the deal with that silly chase sequence over the moors of Scotland . The stupid speeded-up footage makes it look like a Benny Hill skit sans music . Plus there absolutely ain't no atmosphere to speak of . The only thing that really amused me was the chemistry between Hannay and Pamela , but that came too late in the movie . They also changed too much from the book . Pretty much all that's left is the name Richard Hannay and the words ' the 39 steps ' . Take away those and it's something completely different from John Buchan's book . A true adaptation would have been much better .
None of the scenes in this DVD are outstanding and the girls are only above average . The first girl Layla Gates does anal and DP with Marc Davis and Lex Steele , it's an alright scene but it's not hard enough or deep enough and the good bits are blandly shot and brief . Second is Christina , ( she says she is a Devon housewife with two kids ) she takes on Mark , Lex and Omar and does anal and DP . She doesn't like it too much and it's not much of a turn on to watch . Sarah Edwards is next . Plain , boring straight sex with Mark . Kelly-Ann follows and does anal and DP with Mark and Lex , not after Mark offends her slightly with incest jokes . Penetration is not deep enough and looks exceptionally dull . A rogue fly crawling inside Kelly-Ann's vagina is the only interesting thing about the scene . Zoe Rose does the best scene with Mark , Lex and Omar , doing anal and DP , which is better than the other attempts on this DVD . But I could have done without the male rimming . The last girl is a screamer and she does anal and DP with Omar and Lex , nothing too impressive as , once more , it's not deep or hard enough . Rent it .
Spike is stressed out and in need of a good sleep . Which is kind of hard to do when Tom is chasing Jerry , blasting at him with a shotgun and trampling over poor Spike . Threatened with silence or death , Tom backs off , but has to deal with Jerry running around deliberately making noise . This short won an Academy Award back in 1945 , but I wouldn't really say that's THAT funny . For a T & J cartoon it's pretty much in the middle . Yes , there are laughs but not Oscar material laughs and it's not too inventive . There is actually some dialogue too , further proving the awful 1992 movie wrong , but no one is credited for providing the voices .
No one really wanted , or asked for , a sequel to the seriously stupid 1997 creature feature Anaconda . But it was a hit ( somehow ) and you know how studios are when it comes to milking something for all it's worth - yes , Halloween 9 is currently in pre-production ! Surprisingly , Anacondas is actually quite good for what it is . Originally meant to be a direct-to-video production , Sony was so impressed with the dailies that they more than doubled the budget and elevated it to a theatrical release . The budget constraints still cramp its style , compared to A-list studio stuff , but it's the best film it possibly can be . With a touch more plot , involving a search for an ultra-mega-massively rare flower , called the Blood Orchid , that only blooms every seven years and can unlock the secret to everlasting life , there is a sophistication to the script , rather than plain old slither'n'slash . So we have a bunch of scientists on an expedition to the unknown depths of the Borneo jungle and it's not off to a good start . They can only afford a ramshackle boat ; it's the rainy season and the rivers are mighty treacherous . Also , their boat captain ( Johnny Messner ) is a gruff ex-Special Forces American , with the cutest pet monkey ever . Everyone seems to be okay about their perilous quest until they are attacked by big crocs , go over a waterfall and become shipwrecked . Then , when things can't get any worse , one of them is gobbled up by - you've guessed it - an anaconda . Instead of the traditional one-by-one deaths story , like the first film , there is more conflict and interaction . These characters may not be the best , or the most well written , but the actors do what they can with what they've been given . Messner is especially good , keeping a cool head as snakes prey upon them from every shadow . J-Low-IQ , the hammy John Voight and Ice Cube may be gone ( there is a quick reference to them ) , but fellow Boyz N The Hood alumni Morris Chestnut and E . R . star Salli Richardson are offered up as potential reptile food . And it just so happens that it's mating season . And the snakes are all up for a big orgy . And guess where the Blood Orchids are ? Right above their shagging pit . Oh bloody hell ! Luis Llosa made Anaconda in the most simplistic and static way possible . This time Dwight H . Little , the very man who gave us Halloween 4 , the epic Steven Seagal movie Marked For Death and err . . . Free Willy 2 , brings strong direction and integrity . It's a darker , more complex film that seriously promises to deliver the goods , but comes up a bit short . If it had been taken a few steps further , then it would have been great . As it is , it's more atmospheric and professional , but still , a bleaker ending , with more gobbled-up characters , would have suited me better . The snakes themselves look okay , nothing special . Little keeps them hidden for as long as possible , only offering brief glimpses here and there . A snake is an awkward looking villain , so keeping it hidden is probably wiser . There is also , thank heavens , no dodgy animatronics . Incredibly dumb and unnecessary it may be , but Anacondas is easy , inoffensive entertainment that will surely appeal to some part of everybody's taste .
The Looney Tunes have had a spotty history on the Genesis . I hated the Bug Bunny : Double Trouble game and Taz : Escape from Mars was just okay . This one however got it right and delivered nice graphics and decent gameplay . There are 7 levels , each one set up as a different cartoon with it's own title . You'll recognise most of the locations if you are familiar with the Looney Tunes cartoons . Your mission is to catch that awful Tweety and devour him . But loads of painful and dangerous obstructions lie in your way . As a platformer , it's hardly the best but the bright colors and sense of humor will distract you enough . I'd give it a go , even if you are a serious game and regard it as too much of a kiddies game . Graphics A Sound Gameplay B Lasting Appeal
The Pink Panther is ambitious enough to attempt to hitchhike his way to Anaheim , California despite the fact that it's over 1500 . The reason why he wants to go there is never explained and he's not having much luck finding sympathetic drivers willing to take him this massive distance . A nearby horse laughs at him , so Pinky has the brilliant idea of riding the horse all the way . But the horsey is having none of it and the rest of the cartoon is made up of Pinky's various attempts at mounting it . A thin excuse for some slight gags . One of them involves Pinky falling off a cliff and landing in a puff of smoke like Wile E . Coyote ( director Hawley Pratt was involved in several RoadRunner cartoons ) . But the very end in which the horse gets the very last laugh makes up for the rest of the tedium .
The first was very complex . We moaned about it . The second was very simple . We moaned about it . I guess they wanted a mid-level of complexity to this film , it works in a very basic way but nothing other than some fantastic set-pieces really becomes of it . In fact , the only thing that stops this from being a typical action movie is the soppy romance laced through it and Philip Seymour Hoffman's performance as the baddie . This particular baddie sells things to people who should own them wants to steal a Maguffin ( a completely unimaginative plot mechanism ) to sell to the Arabs . Cruise and Co try to stop him but he slips out of their hands and promises to make Cruise cry unless he does his bidding . You don't have to do much to make that happen . Just point a water pistol at him . The Maguffin is none other than the Rabbit's Foot ? What's the Rabbit's Foot you ask ? Who cares ? Like I said already , it's just an excuse for action to happen . We've seen plots like this before in Pulp Fiction and Ronin , but done to much better and much more intriguing effect . The action scenes are superb ! The chopper chase , bridge attack , skyscraper swing and Vatican Heist are bursting at the seems with excitement and are all shot and cut brilliantly . They add a huge sense of death-defying spectacle to a film that's low on ideas but high on espionage thrills . There are some weak links though . I HATED Simon Pegg's cameo and his apparent ad-libbing was the unfunniest thing I have ever heard in my life . The romance talk does reek of that corny ' You complete me ' scene in Jerry Maguire and Ving Rhame's character STILL gets no development whatsoever , spending practically the whole movie sitting at a laptop , again ! As a popcorn movie it works very well , but I had higher expectations so I was kinda let-down . But it never fails to entertain .
The last time we saw the Pink Panther was in Pink Pajamas , in which he was desperate for a safe , warm place to get his head down . Nothing has changed as in this cartoon he stows away in Gamble's department store for a cozy night . But the night janitor is suspicious of their uninvited guest and ends up being the butt of old Pinky's usual jokes and tricks . It's pretty funny stuff as both of them race from department to department trying out avoid and outwit each other . The Pink Panther is very cool and very cute and this is one funny cartoon . But can someone explain the title to me ?
While on vacation in Hawaii Mickey , Minnie , Donald , Goofy and Pluto get up to the usual mischief . This short mainly focuses on surfing Goofy ( in a ridiculous beach outfit ) and his many failed attempts to catch a decent wave break and Pluto who just runs about on the beach getting shells stuck on his head . Donald doesn't do much other than burn his tail feathers in the fire and Mickey just serenades Minnie with his ukulele . Not that funny ( actually a bit boring ) but vividly animated , as usual , which keeps your attention from drifting completely . Not the best Disney cartoon by far .
After the extremely dull Perils of Cupid this next adventure of Young Indiana Jones is a helluva lot more interesting . His first adventure takes place in Russia , where his parents are staying in a castle with a bunch of important people . Indy gets into trouble and his dad gets furious . Tired of his parents ' rules he runs away and meets an old man who just so happens to be Leo Tolstoy , the famous author of War and Peace . As they both try to flee from their families across the Russian countryside both Indy and Tolstoy learn from each other and develop quite a touching relationship . In the end they realize that going home is the best thing to do , but not before an interesting trade . In the second half Indy travels to Athens where his tutor takes ill . His mother whisks her away to a spa leaving Indy all alone with his dad . Not knowing how to deal with the boy on his own , Henry Jones Snr . takes Indy to all the important historical sites Athens has to offer . At first he's strict and hard , as per usual , but as soon as Indy starts to take in all of the lectures he lightens up and they have their own crazy adventure after a flock of sheep eat their clothes while skinny dipping . I've said it before but Lloyd Owen really does do a good impersonation of Sean Connery and , eye color aside , he convinces as a younger version of the Henry Jones Snr . we saw in The Last Crusade . It still doesn't have any definitive imagery , unlike the movies , but makes for entertaining viewing on a wet afternoon nonetheless .
Yes , the original R-Type was brilliant . And of course a sequel was more than welcome . But the sequel we got was just far too similar to the first . It feels more like an expansion pack than anything else . The first level of R-Type II is virtually the exact same as before . Even the music hasn't changed . Level 2 did feature a cool , and very hard , underwater stage and there were a couple of new power ups for that crazy force orb . But it was all just too samey . IREM didn't put much imagination into this game at all . On its own , when not standing next to the first , R-Type II is still a great game but is no-doubt a rip-off when regarded as a sequel . With all of the pale imitations of R-Type that followed the original's release then they should have tried harder to make this something special .
. . . that improves on the original in almost all areas . The franchise is still low profile but worth attention . Wishmaster 2 chucks in some new ideas and mythology but only retains one cast member . And that is Andrew Divoff in the role of The Djinn / Demerest . Once again he is simultaneously witty , evil , cunning and wisecracking . There are a few more recognisable faces in this one . Like Tiny Lister and that guy from Devils Advocate . I'm sorry I can't remember his name . Wishmaster 2 has more humor than the first and it's a welcome relief among the demonic goings on to have some jokes . Especially when they come from the timing-perfect Wishmaster himself . I give this movie
After falling asleep reading Alice Through the Looking Glass , Mickey dreams about walking through the mirror and entering and opposite world where almost everything is alive and has a personality . Sort of in the same way as all those annoying , singing teacups in the awful Beauty and the Beast movie . There are many references to Alice in Wonderland of course , some subtle , some obvious and some intelligent . Though it's all great fun and wildly imaginative . It's these sort of cartoons that made Disney Studios and Mickey Mouse legendary . In a way , it's the success of cartoon like this that are to blame for the existence of stuff like The Haunted Mansion . But that's just the pessimist in me .
In this TV special Jon is the one who needs a life . The highlight of his day is counting the tiles on the ceiling and rearranging his sock drawer . Not content with this forever , Jon takes Garfield to a self help group in order to meet people . How many people will be interested in a loner 20-something who's best friend is a cat ? After several failed attempts at getting a girl , including one cringeworthy dance scene that rivals David Brents ' fusion of Flashdance and MC Hammer in The Office ( Disco's dead ? , says Jon ) , he is more than shocked to find a cute girl who is as much as a jerk as himself . Naturally , they get on but Garfield is worried that John will forget about him and prefer having kids to a cat . Fortunately Jon's new girlfriend is allergic to cats . With slicker animation than past TV specials , this feels like a longer episode of Garfield and Friends .
Donald is another name for disaster . Why do you think Cockney rhyming slang uses Donald Duck for bad luck ? In this cartoon Donald is a Fire Chief and his nephews his staff . Being such an incompetent leader he soon sets fire to the station-house itself and cannot save it for the life of him . Whether tackling raging hoses , falling through the sky or pumping gasoline into fire Donald suffers the worst of everything as Huey , Duey and Louie duck ( pun intended ) for cover . The cartoon features some cuteness not often found in Disney shorts . I never really believed that was something he ever intended . The vivid animation always seems to be first and imaginative mayhem second . This short has all three .
Despite the success of Azumi the makers appear to have cut back on the budget for this sequel and as a result we get much less in the way of innovative action and a LOT more of wandering around in the forest . The story picks up not long after the first with Azumi and Nagara still going after the warlords intent on seizing Japan . She soon meets a rowdy young rebel called Ginkaku who looks a lot like her dead boyfriend Nachi ( a weird plot that goes absolutely nowhere ) and joins forces with them to fight evil . Some nice fight scenes follow but they use waaaay too much CGI blood effects ( a horrible trend that is becoming more and more popular ) and none of them have the eccentric flair of the original movie . The ending doesn't amount to much either but I'd still watch a third if they were to make it .
While the first film was a solid , self-contained horror flick with a touch of humor and a fair amount of sophistication and imagination , Bordello of Blood falls apart under poor direction and a far too free-spirited nature . While it is a failure as a sequel it manages to entertain only as a brainless time waster . Dennis Miller does his best with the weak material and ad-libs a lot of humor . A little too much , taking the film even further from it's already vague ambitions . But worry not , his humor is still free and easy , unlike his cryptic ( no pun intended ) football commentaries . Erika Eleniak is marginally engaging and Corey Feldman is well underused . The weakest performances come from Angie Everhart as the ancient vampire Lillith and Chris Sarandon as the outrageously stereotyped southern TV evangelist . It's these performances that keep the film eternally low brow . It's sad that Tales from the Crypt totally died after this movie but the powers behind it went on to found the Dark Castle production company ( check out those movies they're actually quite scary and effective ) . The new version of Bordello of Blood is by Universal and is presented in it's proper aspect ratio of 1 . 85 : 1 anamorphic and is in Dolby 5 . 1 . The cheapo snapper case has been replaced by a sturdy keepcase and a new cover art . The only new extra is a trailer .
You could criticize Freddy vs Ghostbusters for being amateurish , but that would be missing the point . Hank Braxton did a wonderful job with the material and pays loving tribute to both franchises . To be fair though , it's mainly a Ghostbusters film . The plot has Freddy tormenting the dreams of Denver kids again until the nephew of Egon Spengler turns up in town with his Ghostbuster Jnr . pal . After busting a nasty poltergeist in a bar they make it big in Colorado ( a brilliant montage follows ) and decide to investigate the rumors of Freddy Kruger . Will they be able to bust the dream demon once and for all ? Watch and find out . The only thing that really bugged me was the fact that the cinematography is far too static . Movies are supposed to move and too often the stillness of the scenes frustrated me and my attention wandered . It's really the only thing I can complain about . The actors were great and although they weren't hardcore professionals they still made me laugh .
Much like the Joel Schumacher film of 1993 starring Michael Douglas , this film is about an ordinary man with an ordinary job who is driven to insanity by the injustice and unfairness of his world . While both films teach us that no matter how solid it seems , everything will crumble under enough pressure there is no humor to TAORN . In fact it's the most depressing film like . . . ever . I don't know what made me go see TAORN . I'd heard nothing of it but I like Sean Penn and Naomi Watts ( they were in the brilliant 21 Grams together ) and everything else at the cinema I had either seen or looked crap ( Man of the House , Miss Congenatailiality 2 ) so I chose this , hoping it to be a dark horse . It was well made and acted but it's really , really heavy and I would not recommend it to anyone bored with their jobs or lives in general . Sean Penn plays the true story of Sam Bicke , a furniture salesman who is estranged from his family , his wife , his children , his colleagues . . . basically everything . He sees the fatcats around him growing richer and richer while he rots away in his inescapable reality of nothingness . He blames Dick Nixon for his woes , the fattest of all fatcats , the man at the top of the food chain . He believes that if he kills Nixon he might be able to make the slightest of changes to the racist , lying world . Of course he failed , but watching Sam Bicke crash and burn is a very painful thing to do . What makes it more distressing is that there is never a reason given as to why everyone deserted him . It gave the impression that anyone can be so callous and uncaring and that anyone can be driven to such insanity and desperate measures . Not a film to see with your girlfriend that's for damn sure but certainly an impressive , if tough to watch , piece of work .
While it's loads of fun running around blasting people ( forget stealth ) and even more fun sniping from great distances , I found this game to get a bit boring about halfway through . There's just no variation on the gameplay between levels . Plus the game is basically a first person shooter , something I have grown VERY tired of . And even though there are loads of weapons to choose from , they basically all do the same thing . The Revolvers and Ballers were cool , blasting people halfway across the screen , but there is no breathtaking violence . How about limbs coming off , or decapitations or amputations when you whack someone with a fireaxe ? It's an easy game and always available cheap . Get it for a quick rush but don't expect a classic .
The Walt Disney cartoons have always been the best at creating atmosphere . The Looney Tunes shorts really lacked in this regard , as their backgrounds were usually somewhat more generic . So obviously the Xmas-themed Disney cartoons are perfect to get you in the mood . Pluto's Christmas Tree also has an even more vibrant detailed color pallet than usual . This one has Mickey living in a mountain cabin with hyperactive Pluto . The go out one snowy night to find their Xmas tree . The tree that they just happen to pick is the one that is home to Chip and Dale . Once inside Mickey's cabin the chipmunks play tricks on Pluto and taunt him , all while Mickey thinks it's just his imagination . In the end , Mickey decides to keep them because hey . . . it's Xmas .
Back in 1991 there was still only one way that studios could sell Bruce Willis and that was as various incarnations of his Die Hard hero . Even Eddie ( Hudson ) Hawkins had similarities to John McClane . Joe Hallenback is a sort of mix between McClane and Snake Plissken . Watching him mumble and grunt thru various near-deaths and close shaves makes for much fun . Hallenback is a P . I . and scrounges for work wherever he can find it . So he takes up a job protecting a stripper named Cory and soon finds himself in a lot of trouble . Bad guys are trying to get him left right and centre and his bratty 13-year-old daughter tagging along doesn't help much . The bad guys are truly evil and Hallenback seems more like an anti-hero . This adds to the rough nature of the movie and heightens the sense of adventure . Tony Scott's style of direction is best suited to this type of action flick . The flashy , exotic editing and cinematographic techniques lend a lot to the witty script and compliment the seedy or pretty locations . Shane Black has also written dozens of one-liners and riddled the script with funny dialogue and exciting situations . It's no surprise that this was once the most expensive script ever sold in Hollywood . Some people say that this film is too violent and misogynist but I honestly cannot understand what they are talking about . I guess it was just a little out of the norm back in 1991 . But still the tone of the film is so light and enjoyable you begin to wonder how this never made up for it . Check it out for yourself and I am sure that you will enjoy . Love that opening song , man .
But the only thing scary about the plot is how much has been cut out to create a bare-bone running time of 93 minutes . I think that if I were really in The House on Haunted Hill I would go insane just like the ghosts . The film does create a heavy atmosphere of dread and pure evil . This is where the film succeeds best . Where it fails the most however is that it's very corny with some truly dreadful dialogue here and there . Geoffrey Rush is terrific as Steven Price , an extravagant theme park owner who has set up an elaborate birthday party for his wife . That party is in the titular house and if the 5 guests can survive the night they get $1 , 000 , 000 each . But his wife isn't THE friendliest woman in the world . Even if the house weren't haunted it would be an awkward party . The ending is a BIG letdown and is very lazy on behalf of the director and writer . For a film that scared us with imagery and the unseen , the ending ( in which CGI tries to impress us to death ) is such a disappointment . This film went head-to-head with The Haunting in 1999 . But this loses points right away because The Haunting is in 2 . 35 : 1 and this is in 1 . 85 : 1 . You don't get the same sense of scope . Rent this movie for a night in with your friends .
Those of you thinking that Metal Slug X is a brand new game are mistaken , I am afraid to say . It's actually just a little bit bigger and a little bit better version of Metal Slug 2 . It was a fine game on it's own , but now you have some slightly altered enemies and new graphics here and there . It's not a major improvement and almost doesn't justify it's reason to exist . But since I got it included in my Metal Slug Anthology for the Nintendo Wii it's not like I went out of my way to pay extra for it . It's inclusion in this particular package is a mystery since one cannot possible feel the need to play it immediately after Metal Slug 2 . SNK should have replaced with Metal Slug Advance at the very least . A fun shooter nonetheless .
With newer enemies ( from generic to final bosses ) and more original level designs , Metal Slug 5 is a clear improvement over the previous entry in the series . But it's still a near impossible game to survive through with all of your stats intact . This time the levels include jungles , deserts and factories . It doesn't sound like anything new but at least their isn't the heavy sense of Deja Vu that plagued Metal Slug 4 . Though I still have no idea why your character gets a life bar when the tiniest contact with a bullet kills him / her . And please , give us some new playable characters next time , or at least change their clothing . A fun shooter nonetheless , but it does seem a little shorter than the others .
When I first saw this in the cinema in April 2000 I hated it . But I watched it with the wrong attitude . I was judging American Psycho as a horror film . Which it certainly is NOT . It's about ( as the film constantly says ) a complete [ loser ] . He's no friends . Unable to communicate on any level with anyone of his superficial , yuppie colleagues ( some of which don't even know his name ) , takes far , far too much pride in his appearance and has way , way to much love for his material possessions . He is Patrick Bateman . And fitting in / looking normal / being just like everyone else is the toughest thing in his life . But murder , misogyny , degradation and mutilation is what he secretly longs for . It's really only Huey Lewis and the News that prevents him from doing so . American Psycho is full scenes that are tough to watch . You'll be watching them through the gaps between your fingers . How can you not squirm as Patrick Bateman looks in the mirror smiling , flexing his muscles , while having sex with a call girl ? Or taking the whole business card thing WAY too seriously ? Other times the film is just laugh out loud hilarious . Bateman tells Willem Dafoe's detective he would love to help him with his case but he has a lunch meeting with Cliff Huxtable . Come on ! Cliff Huxtable ? ? ? Or how about the scene in the Men's Room when Patrick attempts to strangle the gay guy ? Don't watch this as a horror film . It's a comic , drama-tragedy . Patrick Bateman is a disaster waiting to happen . And his inability to stay connected to the world around him is a wicked delight . Though his world of slick , cocaine-snorting , superficial , Wall Street yuppies of 80s credibility is not really the thing anyone would want to be connected to . Maybe he's better off as a psycho with no pals . The DVD has a great looking 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic picture and a loud , well produced Dolby 5 . 1 soundtrack . The extras ( apart from the deleted scenes ) , unfortunately , are pathetic . e movie with a scene of Bateman discussing his morning facial cream routine ) that the point of the satire is nearly lost : Without the fickle trends of society , Bateman is an empty shell . Save his greed and bloodlust , he is a robot . Harron tones down the violence to a lesser degree - although it is no less gruesome ; the scene where Bateman , nude and bloody , chases a hooker with a chainsaw is an edge-of-the-seater - and emphasizes the story's taking place in the " Me Decade " with appropriate song and fashion that add to one's enjoyment of the film . Despite a lame " Is Patrick really nutso ? " twist that hurts the movie , the point is not lost here , and Harron has a solid sophomore hit on her hands . Bale shines as Bateman , making us thank God the powers that be did not go with Leonardo DiCaprio as they at one point hoped to . Whether he's stiff , menacing , dryly sarcastic , tortured or over the edge psychotic , Bale is mesmerizing . If there's any justice in the world , Patrick Bateman will be a career maker . Too bad the supporting actors don't fare as well . With the exception of Matt Ross , who steals his scenes as a homosexual co-worker of Bateman's in a memorable bathroom confrontation , all other actors are window dressing . Witherspoon's role is written so blandly anybody could have played it , while Sevigny is incredible annoying as her characer moons over Patrick . Willem Dafoe is amiable enough as a detective investigating one of Bateman's crimes , but . . . this is Bale's movie . It's a wild ride that gets a little hazy in parts , but is certainly enjoyable in most places .
In this short , Mickey is performing magic tricks on stage while Goofy does all the behind the scenes work , even though all of Mickey's tricks seem to be for real . But Donald , as usual , isn't convinced and causes a fuss with his loud sarcasm and shouting . Mickey quickly silences him by using his magic . Donald becomes part of the act and is humiliated in various ways . It's actually quite imaginative and much better than the usual Mickey cartoons . If only Mickey ( who only has one line here ) consistently kept to this high standard . He really needs Donald to make him funnier than he is and it's pretty obvious in this cartoon that the laughs come from angry Duck .
This 40-minute TV special tells the story of Rerun , Linus and Lucy's very cute younger brother ( I loved the scenes with him stuck on the back of his mother's bicycle ) . As the smallest child he feels left out of playing around with the other kids and wishes for a dog for Xmas . He starts a great friendship with Snoopy but Charlie Brown is reluctant to let him go . Snoopy's brothers also visit and cause much calamity . It's all harmless fun , if not completely indisposable . Though the DVD is where the real worth comes in . Included is a decent documentary on the original Charlie Brown Christmas , with interviews with cast members and the filmmakers . Also included is Charlie Brown's Christmas Tales , a series of Xmas sketches featuring different Peanuts characters , lasting about 5 minutes each . Some very kiddie trailers are on there also . The DVD is in 1 . 33 : 1 full frame , as drawn , with Dolby 2 . 0 sound .
For anyone who foolishly believes that canines and felines hate each other then perhaps this cartoon will sway your mind . Never before have a kitty and doggy gotten on so well . It marks the first appearance of Pussyfoot and the curiously named Marc Anthony , a massive bulldog who goes through hell to protect cute little cat who constantly , walks into danger unawares . I find the idea of a dog having a pet of his own utterly charming and funny . The animation and backgrounds echo Tom and Jerry rather than Looney Tunes , but for 2 lesser characters Pussyfoot and Marc Anthony make for a great twosome .
A bit more like Looney Tunes than usual for old Pinky here . But that's to be expected when most of the Pink Panther cartoons are from Freleng and Depatie . This time round a Texan Big Game hunter is rounding up animals for his ' ark ' so he can just go about shooting fish in a barrel . Kind of takes the sport out of it but . . . hey ho . The last on his list is a Pink Panther and he goes after our favorite cat like Wile E . Coyote would go after the Roadrunner . Of course Pinky outsmarts him at every turn , even causes him to go plummeting from cliffs Coyote style . And in the end , of course , he wins and talks for one of those very few times . I love the Pink Panther .
Donald sneaks into a movie studio to get autographs from all his favorite stars in a big book . At first the stereotypical Irish cop chucks him out but Donald outwits him and seeks signatures from the likes of Mickey Rooney ( who is still alive ) , Greta Garbo , Shirely Temple ( who is also still alive ) and others . But as soon as all the big stars in the studio find out Donald is in the midst they all hound him and he drowns in their own autographs books . A simple idea and a weak plot and it's got those freaky-looking caricatures of real people again but I did find this funnier than usual .
This animated short was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Documentary Short Subject . Quite right as I found it very informative . It details the history of corn . Yes , a strange subject indeed , but apparently without the Native American ' invention ' of corn on the cob , we'd have precious little of the products and medicines we'd have today . Produced in co-operation with the Canadian film board I believe this was made to educate the masses on corn ( for some reason ) . Why the Canadian government felt the need to do this back in 1942 is anyone's guess but it's still a neat little documentary . You'll find it in the Disney Treasures : On the Front Lines DVD set .
Die Hard Trilogy was one of the first games I ever got for my PC many years ago . And it's still fun to play thanks to the fast and furious gameplay , well of the first 2 games anyway . The third was awful . Die Hard is a third-shooter set in the Nakatomi Plaza in LA's Century City . The set design is impressively similar to that of the movie and John McClane's mission involves scouring each and every floor for terrorist ( actually just thieves ) scum , hostages and bombs . The graphics are slightly dodgy and can get a bit confusing but it's a bloody thrill ride for sure . This game was developed upon more in the under-rated Die Hard : Nakatomi Plaza from 2001 . Die Harder is a first person shooter much like Operation Wolf in which you go through Washington DC's Dulles Airport blasting at everything you see . The best thing about this game is that everything in it can be shot and destroyed . It was hectic carnage and there are some brilliant blood splatters . Die Hard with a Vengeance ( my fave film of the trilogy ) is a really crappy driving game much like Crazy Taxi only with boring , near impossible mission , terrible graphics and no lasting appeal . I never went back to this game more than twice . The others however , can be played again and again . And furthermore , the musical score on the first two games were brilliant ! The third has pleasant enough tunes but it never came near the action-packed cues that came before it . Nothing like Michael Kamen's work on the movies , but cool anyway . Graphics B Sound Gameplay Lasting Appeal
For the REAL first time . This short was made for the Academy Awards banquet back in 1932 , before politics and TV ratings ruined the prestigious awards AND the ' ceremony ' . Funny thing is , Mickey appears wearing green shorts instead of his usual red and Pluto is grey . The short itself is nothing more than a walking parade of all the particular Oscar Nominees that year , including Wallace Beery and Jackie Cooper , Lynn Fontanne and Alfred Lunt , Helen Hayes , Fredric March and Marie Dressler from Emma . I can see how this would appeal to those at the dinner and no one else but it's cool to be able to watch this for nostalgia purposes . I did review this before but the IMDb deleted my review for no reason , so lets keep our fingers crossed that they don't do it again eh .
This movie has a lot of fans , as expected . But there's a lot of people comparing it to the South Park Movie and I feel it's a fair comparison . Does it match up to Bigger , Longer and Uncut ? No . For the simple reason that the South Park movie had a plot , a story and a point to make . It was a movie that spoke loudly against censorship and promoted free speech . The Family Guy movie just uses the ' uncut ' slogan as a way of dragging in more vulgar humor . Originally conceived as a movie and then broken up into 3 individual episodes for airing on TV , the movie comes in 3 very noticeable parts . As separate episodes there's no real story at all and nothing to make you catch it again the next week because loads of little sub-plots that begin are never finished . There is a slight bias of gearing most of these stories in Stewie's direction but not so much that the movie should be named after him . Every half hour the it goes in a new direction and we never feel like we're getting anywhere with other than into another thing to make fun of . I can't really give a breakdown of the movie or the main characters involved as it just goes everywhere and all over the place . So much more could have become of a feature length Family Guy but Seth McFarlane and Co . do nothing with it and seize no opportunity other than swearing and racier humor . However it is very funny and there are some classic moments that will have you in suffocating fits of laughter , such as the wacky , waving , inflatable , arm-flailing tube man commercial , the Thundercats scene , Britney Spears getting burned alive , the scene that dumps on the shoddy morals and ethics of Blockbuster Video , the restaurant with Tom Tucker's private booth and . . . well pretty much everything is spot on . But this scatter-shot approach to comedy has all the sophistication of sticking a shotgun into a crowd and pulling the trigger . Sure you're going to hit everyone but it's not very clever . But Family Guy was never about subtlety or holding back on the mayhem . If anything it's the modern day equivalent of the Looney Tunes . Anyone who hoped for something big or king-sized from this 88-minute movie will be sorely disappointed at the low-aiming nature of it . It succeeds at exactly what it wants to do ; it makes us laugh hysterically . It could / should have been more . It all depends on what you expect from an animated TV show turned movie . It's still a billion times better than Pokemon : The Movie , though that's hardly a huge compliment .
This movie worked best in the cinema . It's too bad it flopped because the big screen is where it deserved to be seen . Too many folks have seen and criticised this film from TV viewings that do the scope of the action no justice whatsoever . The action scenes are incredible and this movie is very well made . The bouncing , shaking , wobbling camera was an innovative idea and if you like the slow-motion fire-fights of John Woo movies but hate the gun pornography of trash like Bad Boys II then you'll get a kick out of Hard Rain . And the music was just totally awesome too . Chris Young's score is the orchestral sound of violence , mayhem and nature taking over . Seriously , it's great stuff and you really ought to get the score CD . Christian Slater also makes for a better action hero in this than he did in hard rain . Randy Quaid and Morgan Freeman were very good too but I don't think Minnie Driver did a convincing American accent . Don't be to hard on this film . It isn't supposed to be Citizen Kane . It's a pure action film with the minimal of plot to get in the way . It was originally called The Flood and had numerous other characters in it and had many daylight scenes . But because of an abundance of disaster movies at the time it was re-shot as an action movie that was set totally at night . And practically in real time too . Sadly the Region 1 DVD is in Dolby 5 . 1 and is letterboxed at 2 . 30 : 1 . It's not the best DVD of the film . If you have a multi-regional player then I suggest that you get the Korean Region 3 box set with a beautiful anamorphic transfer , DTS 5 . 1 and the script book included .
In a departure from the usual household mayhem , Tom stars as a classical concert pianist . Dressed in a tailcoat and hammering out Hungarian Rhapsody Number 2 ( which you might recognize as the tune played by Daffy and Donald in Who Framed Roger Rabbit ) he is bothered by Jerry , who just happens to live inside the piano . Cue loads of tricks played on poor Tom , who is desperately managing to stay in tune as Jerry runs amok . This cartoon actually won an Academy Award back in the day and it's easy to see why . The editing and timing are dead on , as is the imagination . A lot of laughs to be had here and one of the best Tom and Jerry shorts .
In this Oscar-nominated cartoon , The Pink Panther turns up a the building site of his new house and replaces the boring blueprint of the ordinary house with an exciting pinkprint of a much fancier one . The single teamster working on the house is having none of it and sticks to making the boring house . The typical game of outsmarting and tricky follows but the gags and visual jokes that defy the laws of physics are all very imaginative and well done . For a six minute cartoon there are loads of laughs crammed into such a short running time . And the twist at the end is the funniest of them all !
And very funny . I can honestly say I seriously doubted I would like this film and I only went to see it because it was on and I was there . I'd never seen a movie with The Rock before or even watched any wrestling so I was kind of dubious as to whether or not he would be any good . In fact he was a great actor , full of personality and charisma , willing to make fun of himself and was great with the action . The Rock is definitely the next Arnie . Vin ( Donald Duck ) Diesel is the next Jean Claude Van Damme . Seann William Scott was also pretty funny in a rare NOT Stifler performance . As an actor he does have genuine talent that's usually wasted in low-brow teen sex comedies . The Rundown is a sort of Indiana Jones-lite movie . The Rock plays a bounty hunter / chef who is sent to track down Seann William Scott south of the border . Against his will The Rock ends up on a trek through the depths of the Mexican jungle looking for some ancient artefact . Unoriginal it may be but director Peter Berg keeps it moving with plenty of stunts , action and laughs . Christopher Walken's villain is a bit of a cardboard cut-out but how evil are you allowed to be in a PG-13 ? I look forward to the next movie starring The Rock . With talks of a third Conan movie I can only imagine him being the best choice . And keep a lookout for Arnie in the nightclub at the very beginning . ' Have fun ' is his only line . And fun The Rock will certainly have as the next BIG action hero . Keep a lookout for Scottish actor Ewan Bremner ( a zillion times the ' star ' Ewan MacGregor is ) in a funny role as a slob pilot .
Wow ! What an amazing game . You better make sure you get off to a good start and select the right characters and weapons for your quests because if you mess it up your in for a hard time . The gameplay is wonderful and never gets boring and the graphics are very detailed and atmospheric . The monsters and enemies can sometimes be a bit generic and it's not as gory as I would like it to be but this and the constant difficulty reduce this from a 5-star rating to 4-star . I would recommend that you have a Pentium IV processor and a decent graphics card if you want the best performance out of this game . And decent speakers would be appropriate for when you cast those BOOMING spells . Like most games these days this is designed for the most powerful and advanced machine . If you are fortunate enough to have one then buy this game to make the most of it . Even if you are not a big RPG fan the fun never ends . And neither does the game apparently .
I enjoyed the 80's version of Appleseed when I was a teenager and when I learned of the 2004 reboot I immediately went out and got myself a copy of the DVD . It was pretty damn good and figured that it was a one-off . But now we have this sequel which proves that there is actually loads of potential and imagination in the Appleseed universe and certainly enough to warrant further sequels . Denaun Knute and her mostly robotic , rabbit-eared boyfriend Briareos are still working for ESWAT in the Utopian future city of Olympus when a new personal device , a sort cross between a cell phone and a holographic visor , goes haywire and turns the population into a bunch of techno-zombies . Briareos suffers seizures of his own too and a duplicate of his old human form has been recruited to work with them and save the city from this mysterious evil . Yes , it's nonsense . But entertaining nonsense and a weird cross between Robocop , Star Trek : First Contact and The Matrix ] . But the animation is gorgeous and the story and action absurd enough to keep your attention . Come on , John Woo , give us another ' un .
The peanuts gang are up to their usual mischief in preparation for Easter Sunday , but no one seems to be listening to Linus . He swears that the Easter Beagle will come and make the celebrations complete . Typically no one listens to him , he is little bit ' Ralph Wiggum ' remember . Though Snoopy ends up being that very Beagle , he's far too busy trying to help out Woodstock . The poor little bird is freezing in his cruddy little nest full of cold water . So Snoopy goes off to the mall ( already advertising Xmas goodies ! ) to buy him a bird house . With hilarious results . After much hijinks and endless trips to the mall for eggs ( Marcie keeps smashing them as she doesn't know how to do egg-painting ) Snoopy saves the day and proves Linus right after all . Sigh ! They don't make ' em like this anymore . I'll take Snoopy over Spongebob any day .
Peter Hyams ' remake of Richard Fleisher's 1952 The Narrow Margin focuses more on atmosphere and scenery than it does film noir . It does make for a cool , if a bit too short , movie . Gene Hackman is the loudmouth Deputy DA desperate to get a big daddy mob boss behind bars . And when a shy book editor witnesses a mob assassination he treks out to Middleofnowhere , Canada to drag her into court to testify . Problem's arise when the bad guys show up in the wilderness and blow the crap out of her cabin . A brilliant , rustic car / chopper chase down the sheer slopes of a mountain forest follows . It's a great scene with some cool shots and sharp editing . Once they reach the bottom of the mountain they find a train station and board the train for a private cabin . The bad guys follow , only they still don't know what their witness looks like . Many scenes of hiding and seeking make up the rest of the movie . It doesn't sound like much but Peter Hyams ' widescreen photography is used to the max to promote a sense of claustrophobia and even the quieter scenes are dominated by the sound of the train charging through the dark Canadian wilderness . One particular scene at Monashee Station really does take advantage of the ' middle of nowhere ' feeling . Bruce Broughton's score is kind of okay , but nothing as loud and exciting as the score he originally created . Peter Hyams disagreed ( as he often does with his composers ) and chopped up Broughton's work in post-production . Thus , the music in the movie is more of an underscore with much of the more action-based cues missing . I wish it did last longer and with more scenes on the train ( coz trains are cool ) but , for what it is , Narrow Margin is a tightly wrought thriller with Gene Hackman on top form as always and having fun playing the older guy in the suit who can still get into fights and car chases as if it were his everyday job . Filmed in Panavision the DVD is in 2 . 35 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with a Dolby 2 . 0 soundtrack . Though 5 . 1 would have been better there is still some surround use . The R2 DVD by Universal also has better cover art than the R1 .
Before you watch this film , just be aware that you're not going to walk away from it with a big smile on your face . More like you'll want to slit your wrists . To say that Mr . Vengeance is a powerful , gut-wrenching nightmare is like saying that DaVinci merely dabbled in art . The plot is so simple yet so complex . The direction is so elegant yet so hard-hitting . The simplistic nature of the story makes the descent into hell so shocking and captivating . You don't realize there is no going back until it's far , FAR too late . Ryu is a deaf / mute who works in the loudest factory in the world , doing a really depressing job . His sister needs a kidney transplant , but they don't have the money to pay for it . He cannot give her one of his own because their blood types do not match . Ryu decides to go to black market organ traders to trade one of his own for one that matches his sister . Waking up naked and kidney-less in an abandoned building he now needs to raise money for his own kidney . Ryu is now fired from his job by President Park , who is downsizing the company . His anarchist girlfriend Yeong-mi convinces him to kidnap Park's daughter and hold her to ransom . From then on , things get very , very , VERY heavy and the idea of who exactly Mr . Vengeance is is blurred and sympathy is felt for almost everyone . Revenge comes at a high price and seemingly never ends . Not that I am saying forgiving and forgetting is the way . But this movie will make you think twice about getting your own back . The violence is spontaneous and extremely graphic without ever feeling exploitational . Sometimes it has a darkly comic feel to it , the rest of the time it's goddamn hardcore . You'll wince a great deal during this movie , that's for damn sure . Park Chan-wook directs with such beautifully composed images that are far from the the garish MTV-style action / thriller movies produced in Hollywood these days . I don't want to sound like some sort of snob who proclaims all foreign films to be great and all Hollywood to be crap but it's not very often that Hollywood makes a film like this unless it's a remake . Written in a mere 20 hours in a single massive , creative outburst , this movie seems to have genius laced through every minute of it's running time . Not a date movie , not a whogivesadamn pig-out movie . Sympathy for Mr . Vengeance is a film you will be sucked right into and you'll be far from happy when you emerge at the end . But what a horrific ride !
A lot of you may consider Steven Seagal's non-presence for the past 4 years a blessing ( he last appeared in 1997's Fire Down Below , which was a No . 1 hit but still weak movie ) but I think that audiences are just too dismissive of him and that he needs to be given another chance . They waited for him to slip up and as soon as he delivered a flop We called him names and forgot about him . But now veteran action producer Joel Silver has thrust Steve back in the limelight , put him on the Slimfast diet ( it really , really works ) and given him better material to work with . After all an actor can only do as good as the script . From a novel of the same name by John Westerman ( but bearing about % 40 resemblance to it ) the plot centres on Orin Boyd . A cop busted down to Patrolman after a rough encounter with the Vice-President ( Gore ? Cheney ? ) . Once on the streets Boyd's suspicious nose can't keep him out of trouble with undercover cops who are trying to bust local Drug Boss Latrell Walker ( DMX ) ? or so it seems . Boyd smells foul play and intrudes upon a stakeout , handcuffing TK , one of Walkers men ( Anthony Anderson ) to the front of his car before doing so . When he returns to find the front of his car missing and the thug long gone Boyd takes it upon as his responsibility to get it back and inadvertently expose a ring of corrupt cops in the process . After all his car comes first . There are many attempts at irony throughout the movie and surprisingly enough most of them work . Boyd is forced to attend rage control classes in which he meets eccentric TV host Henry Wayne ( Tom Arnold ) who becomes his wannabe partner . But sadly enough the classes don't work as Boyd continues to uses violence first , ask questions later . And there is a public service announcement too . Seagal survives a car wreck by airbag . A later car crash victim ? doesn't have one and dies ? I think . There are only a couple of ' cop movie ' clichés but not much else . The bad guys aren't too hissable either although they do stink . And it's a pity we know who they are as soon as we see them but this was never intended to be used for suspense in the first place . But they really do stink the place out . You WANT them to die . Bartkowiak's direction is better than in his debut Romeo Must Die and adds a heavy dose of frenetic rush to such a fast-paced film . Action scenes are handled with experience and care . There is no MTV-style editing and no confusion to be had . He should have spent just a tiny little bit more time with the characters . It's not often that action movies have such strong characters and Exit Wounds does give us enough of them . Seagal has learned a little , just a little , more in the acting area but still doesn't know how to express himself much . There's too much frowning and not enough other emotions from Boyd . We do want to feel more from him but he won't allow us . I guess this is just how Seagal is . He just can't get away from himself too much no matter what role he plays . I wish Seagal would try harder . He'll win more fans this way . But it's good to see that he is in better condition than of late and has proved to Hollywood that he is still here and still frowning . Sadly he has chosen to star in loads of rather poor Asian movies since ( the real-life . Mob forced him into this ) and as we all await Under Siege 3 we don't hold our breath .
This DVD starts off with the gorgeous Michelle Banks . She enters a ( totally deserted ) restaurant and awaits her boyfriend . As she does so she imagines what it would be like to get a double-penetration from the 2 waiters . This fantasy lasts for about 25 minutes . Next up is Alicia Rhodes , her house is being decorated by 2 guys so obviously she fantasises about getting a DP . A good scene with a cute girl . Nicola Holt is third . She's working-out in a gym with 2 guys and imagines herself exercising naked . Sex and double penetration follow . She loves what she does and it really makes the scene work . Why can't all porn actresses show the enthusiasm she does ? The next scene is the weakest of the whole DVD . A pool cleaner fantasises about the 2 women ( McKenzie Lee and Angel Long ) sitting in the garden of the house he is attending . The sex is quite dull and the DP only comes in the form of a strap-on wearing girl . Plus he wears a condom with only one of them so it's a bit weird he'd fantasise about THAT . Last is Nikita Devine , who has a gorgeous shaven haven . The plumbers are looking at her sink but she can't help but think about getting a double penetration from them . The sex is good and it caps off a great DVD that you should definitely get if you like easy-going porn . Obviously the acting is terrible and the rehearsal bad ( do you even rehearse porn ? ) . Why the waiters would scan around an empty restaurant for a table is beyond me . It is a shame there is no double vaginal , double anal or gapes though .
I first saw this film when I was 5 and I am ashamed to say that it scared me . It's just a tad too violent and scary for younger children but it's great family entertainment and there are dozens of in-jokes for film-buffs to spot . Not only is Gremlins a very original and inventive film the animatronic effects are ahead of it's time and way cool . Anyone who is not totally overcome by Gizmo's cuteness and his cool little song must have a heart of stone . The gremlins themselves are nothing but big grins with arms and legs . Their idea of having fun is smashing everything . Who can't agree with and identify with that . I have never seen any of the cut scenes and I hope that in a future DVD special edition they will be included along with the sub-plot about Mrs . Deagle building a Nuclear Power plant in Kingston Falls . This was one of Joe Dante's first movies and you can tell that everything he grew up with and movies he studied as a child are on-screen in Gremlins . A perfect movie made by the right director .
Double Dragon is commonly referred to as the first side-scrolling beat-em-up . It's not , there were a couple of minor hits before it , but it sure is the best that has ever dominated our arcades . Back in 1987 me and my uncle spent a fortune on this game and it took us about 40 million credits to get to the end . It was almost as exhausting as actually beating up hundreds of thugs . You'd hammer the buttons so hard that by the time the game had ended , you're arm would be tripled in size and you'd be sweating like crazy . And I was only 7-years-old at the time ! Despite the games that followed which were classics in their own right ( Streets of Rage , Final Fight ) none really ever matched up to Double Dragon . When playing as 2 players , this game is absolutely lethal . By the time I was 12 I managed to finish it with a single credit . That's how sad I am . Or is it because the game is so good ? But it ain't just it's high playability that makes it so good . The cartoonish graphics have just enough color and Manga to make them almost iconic . And the music ? It's amazing ! When I was 7 I'd be humming this at school or while I was walking down the road . Even 19 years later it hasn't dated a bit and still sounds brilliant . So many themes , so many melodies and so bloody cool . Double Dragon was also released on practically every home platform ( don't get me started on the awful C64 version ) but none of them , not even the recent Gameboy Advance version , really ever matched up to the awesomeness of the arcade machine . If you see this game , do not hesitate to spend all of your hard-earned pennies on it . It's well worth it . Graphics A Sound Gameplay Lasting Appeal
This is a way cool fantasy movie . One of my faves , it really is so cool . The director is Bernard Rose who went on to direct Candyman , he made a great start with this film . The film about a girl called Anna who falls ill with glandular fever on her 11th birthday . She draws a house on a shred of paper from her exercise book and falls into a dream in which the house is real . Each subsequent dream that she has is altered by the presence of whatever she adds to the picture . In her third dream she meets a boy she thinks she has created called Mark . She befriends him and their relationship becomes stronger as the dreams become darker and scarier . Charlotte Burke who plays Anna is a terrific actress and it is very strange that , after just one film , she should disappear and never be in anything ever again . She really does give a great performance in this film . Hans Zimmer's score is also ace . Much like Broken Arrow , the music is ghostly and mysterious . It's a real shame that the soundtrack is not available on CD anymore . The DVD is available in R2 only .
Even though we do not celebrate Thanksgiving here in Scotland I watch this film once a year before I get in the Xmas mood and watch loads of Xmas movies like Home Alone , Scrooged and Christmas Vacation . It has become a tradition and perhaps even a necessity . Neal Page ( Steve Martin , back when he was funny ) is a Marketing Exec who has just made a pointless trip to New York 2 days before Thanksgiving . The inconclusive meeting in question ends just half an hour before his flight back home . If he hurries , he'll catch the flight no problem and be home with the family before he knows it . Right ? Well , no . There are no cabs on Wall Street . After being hustled out of $75 for a cab someone else hailed it promptly takes off with passenger unknown . But no matter , the airport has delayed the flight because of snow . In the waiting lounge , Neal meets Del Griffith ( John Candy , man do I miss him ! ) , a shower curtain ring salesman and the very man who went off in his Taxi . Despite Del's insistence on making it up to Neal , he fobs him off and remains in a mood . Once on board the plane the fussy Flight Attendant seats him in coach as there was a mistake with his first class ticket . Guess who he is sat beside ? Del of course . And he blabs on and on , telling unfunny , unamusing anecdotes to an increasingly squashed and uncomfortable Neal . A huge snowstorm in Chicago results in the plane being diverted hundreds of miles , all the way down to Wichita , Kansas . Neal is forced to spend the night with Del in a unbelievably seedy motel . . . in the same bed . That night they are robbed and left with nothing but their credit cards . Since Del is a massive slob who leaves his dirty socks in the sink , crumbs and wrappers everywhere and spills beer on the bed , Neal would like nothing more than to ditch him and get on with his long journey home alone . It's here that the emotional punch of the movie really kicks in . Neal is arrogant and selfish but Del stills sees some good in him and would like nothing more than to be his best buddy . But he is repeatedly kicked aside and ignored as the two of them inch their way home . Fate crosses their paths over and over and Neal is pretty much only temporarily sticking with him to serve himself . Candy's need for a pal and his frustration at Neal only becomes apparent after the first viewing as it's the shocking twist ending that makes you add up his character and emotions . At the time this film was already brilliant , but it's the fact that Del Griffith and John Candy are almost one and the same that makes it that extra bit special . Both were friendly , chatty and tried really hard to be liked . And now that Candy is gone forever you can't help but really , really feel for him and see the trouble he is going through despite his best efforts to hide it . Neal and Del may be opposites but as they both struggle through setback after setback they eventually come to empathise and understand each other . I dare you not be moved to tears when Del is sitting alone in the train station and confesses his secret to Neal . If you are not crying then you truly have no soul . The film ain't just an emotional character drama . It's also a road movie with loads of snow covered middle-America scenery and is extremely funny and packed with classic scenes . Anyone who has seen it already will know what I mean when I say ' THOSE AREN'T PILLOWS ! ' Del driving on the wrong side of the highway will suffocate you as will Neal's confrontation with the rental car receptionist , the character of Owen ( Dylan Baker ) and his nasal problems . Ocassionaly , James Ira Newborn's score can be a bit distracting and even slightly inappropriate , but there are some deeply emotional cues in there that can easily shift the mood of a scene . Inconsistent it may be but overall it's better than most comedic scores . Planes , Trains and Automobiles is an eternal tribute to how great Martin used to be before he sold himself out to family movies and how wonderful John Candy was as an actor and a person . For him alone this film gets . He was brilliant and died far too young , but in his short career he did give us some unforgettable stuff and this movie is certainly one of them .
This is the very first Road Runner cartoon . Fresh and funny it was at the time , but after a while many of these toons began to resemble each other and it was impossible to tell them apart especially when they started recycling footage in the non Looney Tunes Rudy Larriva shorts of the 60s and 70s . It lessens the quality of the real Roadrunner cartoons of the time and it's a real shame considering how intelligent they were . The formula ( before it got tired ) is the same as ever . Wile E . Coyote , is a starving desert dog , there doesn't seem to be much food around other than a cheeky Roadrunner so he uses everything at his disposal ( and endless shoddy products from the Acme corporation ) to catch the bird only for his plans to backfire . Roadrunner is kind of met with a lot of criticism now with many moans of ' They are all the same ' . While this is true now , the characters were only good as long as Chuck Jones and Co were in control . This being the first of many great Roadrunner shorts before it went downhill . And I just love the sticking out tongue thing Roadrunner does .
Jon watches some braindead TV show about folks with pets who can do amazing tricks . Garfield and Odie , desperate for love and attention , prove to Jon that they're even better when they do their own little act for him . So Jon takes them on TV where they win the competition ( by default ) . The success goes to Jon's head and the gang go off to Hollywood to compete in the final round for bigger prizes . Now all the other acts are more sophisticated and better . All Garfield and Odie can do is their best . It's not the best Garfield TV special but it's still quite good and the cozy image of the Hollywood Hills is rather cute .
Most feature-length movies achieve only half of what Here Comes Garfield does . Even though it's only 24 minutes long . Garfield and Odie may have a love / hate relationship but deep down they need each other . The feline and the canine torment an old neighbor , who promptly calls the animal pound , who takes Odie away . Garfield bids good riddance but later at night the guilt and dread of a missing Odie overpowers him and he sets about rescuing him from the pound . Garfield may have come from a simple comic strip but there are some touching moments in this TV Special that prove why he has been so consistently popular for the past 25 years . The animation mimics Jim Davis ' early incarnation of Garfield ( this was made in 1982 ) and although it's not as refined as the modern Garfield he's still the same great , fat cat . The late Lorenzo Music is his voice ( or thoughts ) , though Thom Huge is not the voice of John , he would appear in the further TV Specials and the later TV Series . A genuine classic .
I have laughed so hard or so frequently in so long , too long . Orange County is quite possibly one of the best comedies of the past few years . I absolutely love it . To be honest I had little faith in Jake Kasdan after Zero Effect ( which had Zero Effect on me ) but this movie shows he has a real sense of humor and he balances it perfectly with outrageous characters and an untypically good-natured comedy plot . Shaun Brumner ( Colin Hanks in a wacky performance ) is refused entry to Stanford University because his dunderheaded College Counsellor mailed them the wrong the transcripts . He recruits his slobbish brother ( an even wackier Jack Black ) and his girlfriend to help him in increasingly desperate and far-fetched methods of convincing Stanford to reconsider . It may sound like a dumb story but the characters and situations surrounding it provoke the maximum amount of laughter . The two leads are particularly impressive and show natural comic genius that makes me beg for more from these characters . Keep a look out for loads of cameos from Chevy Chase , Harold Ramis , Ben Stiller and Kevin Kline . And it's loads better than that crappy O . C . TV show . The DVD is in 1 . 78 : 1 anamorphic widescreen with Dolby 5 . 1 sound . The extras are great with a commentary from Kasdan , deleted scenes which actually should have stayed in the movie and loads of TV spots with scenes especially created . You must get this . Everybody needs to laugh and laugh you will .
This movie is very well made and has a decent plot . The editing may be a little ham-fisted in places but the shoot-outs are far from simple and the car chases rival that of even RONIN . It also has a sly sense of humour and self aware of it's stupidity . I like the music , it's highly thematic . I like George Segal's character , adding a little class to the oily villain he plays and Dolph is good . He's always good . Much better than Seagal or Van Damme or Stallone . It's a pity he's not in many high profile movies . But this one is definitely one of his best .
This was a really cool update of the classic Scooby Doo formula . The gang have new clothes , new jobs and new voices . The movie is self-aware but not to the point that it becomes really annoying . The animation is also much better and not so cheap looking . There are shadows , out of focus backgrounds and 3-dimensional shots . Also , the same background does not repeat itself over and over when Shaggy and Scooby are running . The plot is about a haunted mansion in a Louisiana bayou and the Mystery Inc . effort to unravel it . But the gang have split up . Daphne Blake is a talk show host , Fred is her producer , Velma Dinkly is a bookstore owner and Shaggy and Scooby are ? unemployed . They reunite to go on the road for Daphne's birthday . That is when they come across an opportunity to solve a REAL mystery . Much to the disappointment of Fred the zombies are real . There are no fake masks and no scams . I think this is very refreshing . The new , re-vamped Scooby Doo franchise is full of potential and this movie along with , ' Scooby Doo and the Witches Ghost ' and ' Scooby Doo and the Alien Invaders ' uses that potential very well . If only they were longer . Just over 70 minutes ain't enough .
A rather different approach to a ( radio ) quiz show . If you don't answer the impossible questions in a ridiculously short time you get tortured with falling boulders , cascading water , conveyor-belts with those spinning saws and whacks of a mallet to the head . Daffy Duck is wonderful as the demented host dishing out pain and humiliation to Porky Pig . But even Porky has his limits and soon turns the tables on the delightfully devilish Daffy . The entire cartoon is set in a sound studio so there's not much going on with the backgrounds . In this respect it's kinda simplistic . But when that small space is filled with such hyper-madness who can refuse ?
