Twenty-two amateurish minutes of a Vitaphone " Broadway Brevity " short , this is strictly cornball stuff that should have been discarded , just as vaudeville died . Nothing I can say about the musical interludes except that they fall flat , the dancing is clumsy and the intentionally funny clumsiness of Gil Lamb is barely good for a few chuckles . It's a sort of " 42nd Street " sketch with the rooftops of Manhattan supposedly telling the stories of a disparate group of patrons who enter the club , all with weak back stories that are supposed to give some significance to the " rooftops of Manhattan " theme . Evidently , there was no Busby Berkeley around to give this a shot in the arm . It's barely watchable and highly forgettable as entertainment .
The Thornton Wilder OUR TOWN approach to staging a small town cross-section of townspeople using a stylized approach ( few props and bits of scenery ) , has been used again sixty or more years later for DOGVILLE . However , I found the results stagnant and artless , instead of artful . No doubt the pseudo-intellectuals will pounce on this sort of disagreement and proclaim the film as some kind of masterpiece . It all makes as much sense as the seven figurines in Ma Ginger's window . Dialog is supposed to move a plot forward - - but not in this case . It crawls through so much pretentious prattle in examining why NICOLE KIDMAN should stay or leave Dogsville that it is stultifying in its emptiness . To put it kindly , Kidman's performance adds nothing to her stature as an actress . Her work can best be described as tentative . PAUL BETTANY , on the other hand , rises to the occasion with an earnest performance as her best friend in the village . The bareness of the staging is equal to the bareness of the plot . Very disappointing to watch people like LAUREN BACALL ( totally wasted as Ma Ginger ) and BEN GAZZARA ( as the blind man ) in such sketchily written parts . Summing up : Definitely not my cup of tea . Even morality tales should make their point by the time the story is halfway over . The over-the-top ending with the entrance of JAMES CAAN can only be described as deplorable .
Poor Ingrid suffered and suffered once she went off to Italy , tired of the Hollywood glamor treatment . First it was suffering the torments of a volcanic island in STROMBOLI , an arty failure that would have killed the career of a less resilient actress . And now it's EUROPA 51 , another tedious exercise in soggy sentiment . Nor does the story do much for Alexander KNOX , in another thankless role as her long-suffering husband who tries to comfort her after the suicidal death of their young son . At least this one has better production values and a more coherent script than STROMBOLI . Bergman is still attractive here , but moving toward a more matronly appearance as a rich society woman . She's never able to cope over the sudden loss of her son , despite attempts by a kindly male friend . " Sometimes I think I'm going out of my mind , " she tells her husband . A portentous statement in a film that is totally without humor or grace , but it does give us a sense of where the story is going . Bergman is soon motivated to help the poor in post-war Rome , but being a social worker with poor children doesn't improve her emotional health and from thereon the plot takes a turn for the worse . The film's overall effect is that it's not sufficiently interesting to make into a project for a major star like Bergman . The film loses pace midway through the story as Bergman becomes more and more distraught and her husband suspects that she's two-timing him . The story goes downhill from there after she nurses a street-walker through her terminal illness . The final thread of plot has her husband needing to place her for observation in a mental asylum . Ingrid suffers nobly through it all ( over-compensating for the loss of her son ) but it's no use . Not one of her best flicks , to put it mildly . Trivia note : If she wanted neo-realism with mental illness , she might have been better off accepting the lead in THE SNAKE PIT when it was offered to her by director Anatole Litvak ! ! It would have done more for her career than EUROPA 51 . Summing up : Another bleak indiscretion of Rossellini and Bergman .
It's strange that THE FIFTH MUSKETEER leaves me with the impression that it's hardly worth watching despite a stellar cast and some gorgeous Austrian scenery . BEAU BRIDGES ( in a dual role as a commoner and Louis XIV ) does a competent but bland job in the film's major role , while assorted guest stars fill the supporting cast with some name value . One of the guest stars is OLIVIA DE HAVILLAND who might just as well have phoned in her role . She has about three minutes of screen time , at the most . None of the main roles are really fleshed out and the plot is a muddled mess . JOSE FERRER , CORNEL WILDE , ALAN HALE , JR . and LLOYD BRIDGES are competent enough as the four musketeers while REX HARRISON and HELMUT DANTINE merely add some name recognition to the cast , as does de Havilland in her tiny role as Queen Anne ( about whom little is explained ) . It's a retread of familiar material done much better in the past , territory that would be revisited in the future with even more dash and vigor . A sleep inducing film that probably only gets male attention because URSULA ANDRESS and SYLVIA KRISTEL provide some feminine pulchritude in provocative period costumes . The most unforgivable aspect are the fight scenes of the swashbuckling kind but badly choreographed duels , unlike the sort of thing done so splendidly in the Flynn epics . The blades flash without much flourish . Summing up : Totally uninspired piece of work notable only for some lavish costumes and good location photography in Austria .
I'm not even one of JOAN CRAWFORD's biggest fans , but I think what they've done with the novel MOMMIE DEAREST is totally stupid and unworthy of any sort of detailed film comment . Not that I had any hopes that the screen version would be on a quality level with Masterpiece Theatre . Hardly that . But it certainly trashes the movie star with incidents that seem exaggerated to hold the attention . FAYE DUNAWAY's Joan Crawford is the sort of caricature that would be more appropriate on the Carol Burnett Show , where famous screen heroines were often ribbed in their award-winning roles . She indulges in a series of poses guaranteed to draw derisive laughter . There are limits to anyone's patience and even for the sake of a few laughs ( or chuckles , to be more exact ) , this is such a poor imitation of the book that it's no wonder Dunaway had any professional reputation after making it . Not that the novel had any real literary merit , but at least it did provide some insight into Crawford's psyche and the reader was free to decide when creative license was taken . It's all one big clichéd treatment , as glossy and artificial as any Joan Crawford film ever was . Any resemblance between the creature pictured here and reality is purely coincidental . . . at least that's what the foreword to this film should have warned the audience for the sake of warning the gullible not to believe everything depicted here . This is schlock of the worst kind , an insult to plain intelligence and too scmaltzy to convince me that it rings of the truth . There is no balance to the treatment . All of it is painted in broad strokes that verge on caricature , more and more so as the film goes on . Summing up : Worth skipping . Trivial and artificial .
The corn is definitely more than green in this uninspired farce which is broadly played by every member of the cast except GEORGE MONTGOMERY . Based on the same story that CHICAGO was based on , ROXIE HART has GINGER ROGERS , chewing gum and batting her eyes while on the witness stand when she gets caught up in a murder trial in rowdy ' 20s Chicago . Rogers is too cute for words , emerging as a caricature throughout . Hers is not the only overly flamboyant performance . ADOLPHE MENJOU is a bit over-the-top as her lawyer , but GEORGE MONTGOMERY gives one of his most natural , effortless performances as the man who narrates the story and takes part in the screenplay . Someone else has cited him as " that guy George Montgomery that I never heard of " and says he's the reason the film fails to succeed . Not true . Actually , it's the Ginger Rogers role of a tootsie type of hoofer who prevents the film from becoming the comedy it aspires to be . That plus heavy-handed direction from William Wellman , a man usually associated with heroic male action films and not comedy or satire . Definitely belongs among those films from Rogers that failed to reach their potential - - chiefly because of a misguided performance on her part . This came shortly after her Oscar-winning role as KITTY FOYLE , so it's an example of how she vacillated between good and bad roles during this phase of her screen career . She seems to be enjoying herself enormously as the center of attention , but it's all to no avail . As for GEORGE MONTGOMERY , he was far from being a sub-standard leading man as the other commentator suggested . His star was on the rise in the early ' 40s and he was also well-known as the husband of the legendary singing star and TV personality , DINAH SHORE .
If beautiful photography and lovely views of rural France were enough to sustain a slight story , SECRET WORLD ( U . S . title ) would be worth recommending . JACQUELINE BISSET is at her most photogenic as the mistress of a British gentleman ( PIERRE ZIMMER ) who is also attractive to the man's son ( MARC POREL ) and a young boy who has lost his parents in a tragic car accident ( JEAN-FRANCOIS MAURIN ) . The story has the young , highly impressionable young boy mooning after the beautiful young woman and jealous of anyone else who pays her attention , particularly Olivier ( MARC POREL ) who is obviously in love with his father's mistress but finds himself rejected by her on more than one occasion . There's an enigmatic quality to the story and the way certain scenes are played , even an erotic moment - - a love scene in the woman's boudoir where we don't see whether it's father or son acting as lover . Bisset is lovely but poker-faced throughout , as though she feels that giving that face to the camera is all that's required . Most intriguing performance comes from MARC POREL as the reckless , adventuresome young son who admits to his father that he loves the woman . The boy is sensitive enough in a role that requires that quality in spades , but with him too it's largely a matter of looking photogenic for all his huge camera close-ups . The pretty photography is the film's chief asset , but it's all rather forgettable as a story of uneasy relationships under the same roof .
I wish I could rate these James FitzPatrick Travelogs higher than I do , but frankly they're really as dull as can be . These shorts that he produced have all the luster of the sort of documentaries we had to watch in the school auditorium when I was a kid . Dry , humorless , dull . The only redeeming thing here are the Falls themselves . They look splendid , whether shown in a panoramic way or whether just used as background for sights in the park and elsewhere . Indeed they are a great natural wonder and it's understandable that the parks in 1943 were receiving two million visitors per year . We're shown hotel restaurants that give patrons at outdoor tables a view of both sides of the falls . We get a brief look at Ft . George , the Queenstown Heights Memorial to a famous general and the fabled Maid of the Mist that gives tourists a spectacular cruise along the gentler waters of the river . Spectacular falls , dull documentary .
Mawkish , sentimental nonsense about a little orphan girl ( SHARON MacMANUS ) , who for some strange reason doesn't want a married couple to know that she does indeed want to be adopted by them . Sharon is the matchstick thin little girl with the big sad eyes who danced with Gene Kelly in a famous scene from of " Anchors Aweigh . " Here she's given a Margaret O'Brien type of role with a poor script and dull direction . She's conflicted about whether to stay in the orphanage or return to the arms of a young couple who want to adopt her . Despite all their assurances that they love her , she returns to the orphanage only to find that she really does love and miss them . That's about it . Somewhere in there is a little white lie - - but the story is simply an excuse for a tearful reunion with the girl embracing both parents as snow falls around the Christmas holidays . A trifle easily forgotten .
Any movie that gives me a chance to watch VERA-ELLEN dance is worth giving it a view , in my opinion - - so I watched this little musical comedy pairing her with charming David NIVEN . It's the old mistaken identity theme played to the hilt by a cast that includes CESAR ROMERO as a harried musical producer with financial woes . Unfortunately , a clumsily staged opening Scottish number gets the musical off to a bad start with a distinct lack of charm and bad staging . The backers don't seem too enthusiastic about giving Romero a chance to go on with his show - - and it's understandable . " Half of you dance as if you're flat footed , " he tells the dancers . When his star walks out , he has no other choice but to turn to VERA-ELLEN . . . get the picture ? Especially after rumors link her with a millionaire in Scotland ( David NIVEN ) who might provide the right financial backing for Romero's show . The story is obviously a showcase for VERA-ELLEN and on that level it's a bit of a disappointment . She's pert , pretty and knows how to dance . But poor David NIVEN , as the millionaire , has to wait a good half-hour before he even makes an appearance . He ambles through his role with professional ease , but it's a trifle and he knows it . Unfortunately , the concentration on a backstage plot doesn't pay off . It's tiresome stuff and the musical numbers are banal , none of the songs making a lasting impression . Given that it's played as a musical comedy , perhaps that's why the color is a little more garish than usual for a British film . Summing up : At your own risk . Not a bit of inspiration in any of Vera-Ellen's musical numbers .
This short subject from the ' 50s takes a look at our superstitious nature and displays a number of them for our amusement . Among the many : Ouiji boards , crystal ball , hand palm reading , sediment teacup , wizards instead of doctors , spilling salt over left shoulder , walking under a ladder , Friday the 13th , the divining rod , and step on a crack . Interesting to see how Black Magic still has a grip on modern Americans . This is the sort of short that accompanied many a feature film throughout the ' 30s to the ' 50s and , while the subject matter is fascinating enough , it fails to really deliver the goods in illustrating all of these myths . Passes the time but hardly a worthwhile treat .
Once again GEORGE SANDERS is a cad who tries to set up STEWART GRANGER for the murder of Sander's unfaithful wife . DONNA REED is the pretty female lead , Stewart's loving wife , who cannot believe Granger is capable of murder and stands by him , for the most part , during the proceedings . All of it is given stylish B & W photography , posh settings , a fairly interesting jazz score for the background music , and a couple of intriguing twists - - but nothing really puts it over as anything more than a below average thriller . A feeling of deju vu sets in not long after the opening credits with Granger intent on proving himself an innocent man framed for murder . DONNA REED almost sleepwalks through the role of the good wife , never blinking more than an eyelash at whatever revelations are being made about her husband's conduct . STEWART GRANGER handles his role with his usual authority and skill and GEORGE SANDERS is competent enough as the scheming killer . But ultimately , it's a time waster , with nothing new to offer in the realm of suspense .
For the first forty-five minutes one gets the feeling CRUSH is a comedy with some digs at sex and the single woman . Then , when the heroine ( ANDIE MacDOWELL ) falls abruptly in love with the organist at a funeral ( and has mad sex on a gravestone ) , the film starts to veer into more serious territory as her two best friends try to dissuade her from thinking of him as anything more than a fling . She tries , even going so far as to make a trip to Paris , France to enjoy her " freedom " and ends up almost making it with a Frenchman until she decides at a crucial moment to pack her bags and return to the waiting arms of her boy toy organist ( KENNY DOUGHTY ) . It's Doughty who gives the most natural performance as the sad-eyed , sensitive and unpolished guy with the raging hormones . He reminds me of a handsomer but blander version of Johnny Depp . When another more direct plan to convince their friend that she's making a mistake backfires , the plot veers off into tragedy before gradually resuming a lighter tone as the friends stop bickering and decide to resolve their problems by enjoying a gin and tonic and " fags " ( cigarettes in U . S . A . ) . We're left with the notion that the best way for all three to solve their problematic out of control lives is to simply sit back , and , in the words of Fagin , " shut up and drink yer gin " . At the end , there's a cheated feeling that the story can be summed up as much ado about nothing . Perhaps a more delicate handling of the theme of unconventional behavior ( especially from the so reserved British ) , would have been a better way to go . The performances are all better than average , which makes it a shame that the film didn't have more of a statement to make . The bawdy behavior is treated in a casual fashion ( the Brits are way ahead of us in matters of sex ) and it's all very uneven , never sure of itself and veering off into unpredictable areas instead of telling a story in a concise and believable way . Not recommended .
JOHN WAYNE is slim and lithe as a cowboy who anoints himself sheriff after the bad guys rub too many of the town's citizens out . From then on it's like watching a Hopalong Cassidy movie except this one is from Lone Star and is obviously a poverty row project with a few interesting moments for anyone who stays with it for 53 minutes . The tree stump idea puzzled me , as did the wall vault which served as the device behind which The Shadow gave orders - - and the whole plot is so rushed that there's little time to digest any of the backstory that leads up to the main storyline . A pretty girl is the romantic interest for Wayne but has little to do and GEORGE HAYES is beardless for this one before he grew his trademark stubble . Actually , the slender story seems like something borrowed from a Zane Grey western - - the one where the girl is part owner of a ranch , the bad guy is actually someone she knows but never suspects , and a cowboy with strong capabilities comes along and rescues her when she's in danger . The covered wagon going over the cliff into water is a neat sight toward the end and some of the stunt work involving riders and horses is on the mark . YAKIMA CANUTT is fun to watch as Wayne's Indian sidekick , a sort of Tonto to Wayne who rides a white horse . Passes the time quickly , but is clearly John Wayne as an apprentice actor .
It's hard to judge a short that was cut from 37 minutes to 17 minutes for U . S . showings as a two-reel short . A DREAM OF LOVE uses sets that look suspiciously like left-overs from a Jeanette MacDonald / Nelson Eddy musical . IAN COLIN as Franz Liszt lifts his tenor voice in song very effectively ( that is - - whomever dubbed the song for Mr . Colin ) but the story is a trite one about an ill-fated love affair smacking of class snobbery by the young woman's father . At the end , an aged Franz Liszt ( played by Bertram Wallis who looks nothing like Mr . Colin ) , clutches a rose sent to him for a typically sentimental ending . In certain shots , Mr . Colin looks a lot like the Errol Flynn of " Captain Blood " ( similar wig , similar profile ) which probably makes his singing seem even more mythical .
There's a lot of the Lucy Ricardo personality in the wife LUCILLE BALL plays in HER HUSBAND'S AFFAIRS - - only here the husband who gets exasperated with her brainstorms is FRANCHOT TONE . It starts out with an amusing idea about a scientist MIKHAIL RAHSUMNY whose embalming lotion can be used to remove beards without shaving . It does so very efficiently until several hours have passed - - and then it grows abundant amounts of hair . FRANCHOT TONE is an advertising man who thinks he's going to have some successful products to launch with the help of the mad scientist , except that most of the plans go haywire thanks to the manipulations of his scatterbrained wife . The plot fizzles out after the first half-hour or so and after that it just gets sillier until the courtroom ending when things finally get straightened out in time for a happy ending . Summing up : Below average vehicle for Lucy five years before she made her big splash on TV as an even more troublesome wife in America's most beloved situation comedy I LOVE LUCY . Some laughs but the jokes wear thin long before the conclusion . Trivia note : LARRY PARKS has a bit part as himself in a scene where various big shots gather to try the new product .
This is one horror story by Shirley Jackson that had a lot of potential for film . . . and with Robert Wise at the helm , it's a pity it's spoiled by several unpleasant ingredients . One of those ingredients is JULIE HARRIS , who is a woman with demons in her past who can't rid herself of them no matter how hard others try to help her . Another is the lesbian theme that occurs midway . And finally , the whole story is done in a very understated way which leaves a lot up to the imagination of the viewer . This worked for films like THE UNINVITED and THE INNOCENTS , but here it just falls flat as a pancake . The horror is dissolved by an irritating central performance from Miss Harris , usually such a fine actress . CLAIRE BLOOM , RICHARD JOHNSON and RUSS TAMBLYN are part of a team sent to investigate the supernatural happenings at Hill House . The horror inherent in such a tale never quite gets as gripping as it should despite Wise's direction and some fairly good performances . Far more substantial , and equally understated in the horror department , are films like those mentioned above . This one leaves me cold and is much overrated by horror fans .
When ROSALIND RUSSELL wasn't doing heavy emoting in films like MOURNING BECOMES ELECTRA , she was doing wacky comedies like NEVER WAVE AT A WAC and proving that she had comic flair even in sub-standard material . This is a forerunner of the " Private Benjamin " type of service story - - or the " See Here Private Hargrove " type of thing , where a disgruntled serviceman ( or woman ) finds life in the Army rough going when given some deliberately hectic chores to do . MARIE Wilson is another unlikely recruit who's fighting off advances from an overeager sergeant , LEIF ERICKSON . The gags are fast and furious but not too original as Russell is given some challenging assignments by PAUL DOUGLAS , as the man who eventually wins her heart . None of it is very convincing and Russell certainly had better opportunities in other smarter comedies during the ' 30s and ' 40s . Passes the time , but not really worth watching unless you're a Russell fan .
This WIZARD OF OZ is merely a frantic slapstick showcase for LARRY SEMON , apparently a silent comedian who is unknown to today's audiences and who died at a young age ( 39 ) . He had a hand in the production and even designed his own Scarecrow costume , but the film is a curio that starts with a toymaker ( again , LARRY SEMON ) who tells a little girl the story of Dorothy ( DOROTHY DWAN ) from Kansas who , it turns out , is heir to be ruler of The Land of Oz . But the story he tells has nothing whatsoever to do with L . Frank Baum's story as we know it from the ' 39 version starring Judy Garland . And this Dorothy is a grown-up young lady of 18 who bats her eyelashes and puts a finger to her lips in a coy manner as though signifying youthful uncertainty . The only connection to the Oz story Baum gave us is the tornado , the effects for which are very good for 1925 , and the combination of the Tin Man , The Scarecrow and The Cowardly Lion . OLIVER HARDY is the Tin Man ( before his screen partnership with Stan Laurel ) , SPENCER BELL , a black man , is the Cowardly Lion and LARRY SEMON hogs the whole show as The Scarecrow . The best I can say for Lemon is that his costume and make-up for the role is laudable . But the fragments of story used here are all over the map , the key to everything being the chance to have all of the performers involved in slapstick stunts . Only MARY CARR as Aunt Em is spared this indignity . There are a few well staged moments that one can appreciate but all in all it's a bit too much for any adult to watch and I have no idea what children thought of this bizarre exercise in slapstick comedy .
I suppose The Three Stooges were getting a little fatigued by the time they did their work in SNOW WHITE AND THE THREE STOOGES because they're less exuberant than usual , in fact you might even say their slapstick is much more restrained . But this is good because Fox never intended this to be a showcase for them - - rather , it introduces Olympic Skating Champion Carol Heiss and features Edson Stroll doing a nice job as Prince Charming . Walter Lang did the directing and he's given an A budget on which a lot was obviously spent on costumes and settings , so from a strictly pictorial viewpoint the film is pleasant to look at in stunning technicolor . Gorgeous PATRICIA MEDINA has fun with her role as the wicked Queen who disguises herself as an old hag . Just to make sure Miss Heiss ' ice-skating is not totally ignored , they've given her two big production numbers and both of them are skillfully filmed and performed in winter wonderland type of settings . Fans of The Stooges may be disappointed , but actually this is not a bad re-telling of the fantasy using a totally different approach . The four songs are rather unmemorable but this is merely a pleasant enough diversion for young folks .
This is a story of aimless drifters ( SHAWN HATOSY and SCOTT CAAN ) , bar buddies with no particular marketable skills who spend their time boozing it up , fighting , with at least one of them ( Scott Caan ) dreaming of big bucks in an easy heist . The heist ends the film on a downer when things go horribly wrong . It's really aimless stuff , rough around the edges with endless street tough talk and nothing about the script that hasn't been done before in better " heist " stories . JEFF GOLDBLAUM has the thankless role of a doctor SHAWN HATOSY confides in , a man who happens to be his mother's lover . He doesn't seem to have much on his mind either , smoking pot and dispensing whatever common sense he's capable of offering without much conviction . VAL LAUREN does a good , over-the-top job as a man on drugs who is hyper-sensitive as well as hyper-active , a Jew called " Christian . " Summing up : A trifle , easily forgotten and anyone who thinks Scott Caan bears even a slight resemblance to James Caan has got to have his eyes examined . No way whatsoever . The two lookalike father / son screen stars are still Kirk and Michael Douglas .
This is your typical Bugs Bunny cartoon , complete with enemy antagonist ( another bigger and more moronic bunny ) , explosive carrots and enough slapstick to keep Bugs ' fans happy . Daisy is out on a shopping spree while Bugs decides he has to get rid of his arch rival in a hurry . He dresses up like Daisy and has a little success at first , completely fooling the dummy and getting some shots at him that the foolish one thinks are merely a part of Daisy's explosive personality . He catches on - - finally - - and by the time the real Daisy returns , he decides to get even , thinking it's still Bugs in disguise . Fun to watch but definitely not one of the top BB cartoons . Still , kids should love its slapstick moments that are frequent and a bit over the top even for a cartoon .
ROBIN WILLIAMS tones down his usual manic personality to play a suitably aged Peter Pan who has become ( of all things ) a lawyer and the father of children he can barely spare the time to acknowledge . It's an original concept for a film about the legendary Peter Pan who , as an adult , has to save his children by sprinkling himself with fairy dust ( courtesy of an ill-conceived Tinker Bell played by JULIA ROBERTS ) . Despite being an uneven and overlong film , there are some compensations , chiefly in the performances of Maggie Smith ( as the aged Wendy ) , DUSTIN Hoffman as a wigged and mustached Captain Hook , and BOB HOSKINS as Smee , providing some much needed comic relief as Captain Hook's fawning pirate . There's a certain amount of charm in the nursery scenes that open the film - - but , unfortunately , once Peter flees to Neverland , the film sinks beneath a plethora of clumsy looking settings and a peculiarly chosen cast of Lost Boys . Only the clever bantering between Peter and Captain Hook bring some of the Neverland scenes to life - - and the final dueling match is well staged and fun to watch . All in all , it's like a pudding that has too many lumps in it for complete enjoyment . Even John Williams ' score is less satisfying than usual , apparently because the material was not inspiring enough for his genius .
I appreciated the soundtrack more than the abstract art , patterns of balloon-shaped dots that dance across the screen for six minutes while the 2nd Hungarian Rhapsody explodes with musical sounds . After a few minutes , the short becomes too repetitious to be really novel . In fact , it's the sort of thing the Disney studio was already experimenting with and led to several short subjects , as well as the full-length feature " Fantasia " later on , combining classical music with unique animation . But this was 1937 and the comparison to Disney was not made at the time . Nevertheless , I found it monotonous to watch and not unique enough , except for the exhilarating classical music performed .
When a film is more of a chore to sit through than a pleasure , you know something is wrong . " Alexander the Great " is lavishly produced and handsome to look at with impressive sets and costumes , but even the battle scenes are dull , as staged by director Robert Rossen . RICHARD BURTON is physically impressive as Alexander ( with blonde wig ) , but recites his lines without any real passion or conviction . FREDRIC MARCH is better as his father , but when he dies midway through the story , the film suffers and goes downhill until the end . CLAIRE BLOOM is spirited in the leading femme role and has a few scenes that she plays very well . But too many talky speeches between battles are part of the problem . The script never allows any of the characters to be really fleshed out . In the end , one is left with the feeling that whatever history has been told is on the modest side , and instead there's a sand and sandal type of feeling - - a Hollywoodized version of history - - that one is left to ponder . Burton uses his voice effectively at times , but it's not one of his best performances . Summing up : History on the dull side .
A movie chair is a magic carpet , according to this short feature , MOVIES ARE ADVENTURE , produced by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences in ' 48 . Unfortunately , it's a compilation of tired clichés about the average movie-goer and his experience in putting himself in dangerous and exciting situations via the movie screen . Another drawback is that this short hasn't been restored at all , which makes viewing it an uncomfortable experience - - blotchy looking B & W photography that has a very flat effect . The narrator ( Gerald Mohr ) talks about the " romance , mystery , danger and excitement " bought with a movie ticket and we view a family of three watching movies with rapt attention and putting themselves into the scenes shown from KING KONG , THE SHIEK , SAN FRANCISCO , STAGECOACH , THE THREE MUSKETEERS ( Douglas Fairbanks ) , THE GOLD RUSH and CIMARRON , among others . Mercifully , it's only 11 minutes long , but it's still only a bland filler . Considering that it was produced by the Academy , it's a shame to see it being shown in such terrible condition .
BASIL RATHBONE gives dignity to his role as a doctor intent on practicing advanced medical theories on selective patients . In other words , he's a mad doctor in this horror flick from the late ' 50s that starts out interestingly enough , but soon falls into Ed Wood territory with its story of ghouls living within the confines of Rathbone's dungeon , all of whom are ex-patients whose brains have been destroyed by his handiwork . HERBERT RUDLEY is a young doctor that Rathbone releases from prison by use of " the Black Death " , which makes Rudley seem dead so that Rathbone can transport his body to his dark mansion where he restores him to life and asks him to be his assistant in his important experiments . As Rudley realizes what's going on , he rebels against Rathbone with the help of a young woman not yet victimized . The story weakens after the first half-hour and from then on it's strictly a freak show without any real merit . The presence of LON CHANEY , JR . and BELA LUGOSI in mute roles does nothing to raise the film to quality level . Nor do the ravings of JOHN CARRADINE help matters . Sad to see Rathbone's descent in this sort of horror material .
I could tell from the trailer for SINNERS ' HOLIDAY that this is a film I could very well do without viewing - - but I tuned in to see Cagney in his debut performance . This is a museum piece , creaky in plot and development with abysmal stage dialogue and unnatural performances from GRANT WITHERS and EVELYN KNAPP , both of whom get top billing but neither one able to act their way out of a paper bag . JAMES CAGNEY has the thankless role of the son caught up in a murder charge , a n'er-do-well punk with a trampy girlfriend ( JOAN BLONDELL in unflattering make-up and hairstyle ) , and a harridan for a mother ( LUCILLE La VERNE ) , the woman who gave The Witch a voice in Disney's " Snow White " several years later . None of these characters have any depth or engage the viewer for more than a few seconds . La Verne is particularly unpleasant in the central mother role . Summing up : Nothing good to say about this one , except that Cagney alone deserves praise for his crying scene . He really throws himself into the part . This is obviously a quickie churned out by the Warner factory in the early ' 30s as a part of their crime drama series .
The biggest drawback of THE Satan BUG is the slow pace at which director John Sturges has chosen to tell this tale of laboratory espionage and a mad scientist . Fortunately for viewers , the pace quickens in the latter portion of the story and overall the results are pretty satisfying . RICHARD BASEHART is the mad scientist and GEORGE MAHARIS is the man chosen by the government to track him down . The story gets off to a slow start with an extended laboratory sequence with a remote desert setting as security is violated . It takes forty-five minutes before we learn that a vial containing " the satin bug " has been stolen and will be unleashed upon mankind unless an insane plea is granted . Additionally , we learn that Maharis suspects it's an inside job that permitted the virus to be in the hands of a mad millionaire out to destroy Los Angeles . With this sort of plot line , this ought to be a taut exercise in suspense . It's not . Most of the blame goes to a script heavy with exposition for the first hour before the threats become clear . Once the plan to capture the scientist and his cohorts on the run is set into motion , the picture picks up pace and acquires some tension . A tired looking RICHARD BASEHART is less than impressive as a man impersonating Dr . Hoffman who engineers the plan . DANA ANDREWS , although distinguished looking with gray hair as the father of ANNE FRANCIS , is wasted in a minor role . Summing up : The payoff at the finale isn't big enough to atone for a dull first hour . Result is a mixed bag of an espionage thriller .
MULHOLLAND FALLS is a wannabe version of films like CHINATOWN and L . A . CONFIDENTIAL , but neither the script nor the direction has anything approaching either one . NICK NOLTE is a tough police officer leading a squad of men who make their own rules when rounding up the usual suspects . He becomes involved in the mysterious murder of a woman he had an affair with ( JENNIFER CONNOLLY ) and his marriage to MELANIE GRIFFITH reaches a dead end when she discovers the truth about it on a reel of film he never wanted her to see . SPOILER AHEAD The plot is too convoluted to describe here , but it leads to the most interesting highlight , an encounter with military men TREAT WILLIAMS and KYLE CHANDLER aboard an Air Force plane with an open door that Williams explains is " for parachute jumpers " . But NICK NOLTE and CHAZZ PALMINTERI are suddenly aware of the fate in store for them - - the same fate that happened to JENNIFER CONNOLLY when she learned too much about a military plan involving the Atomic Energy Commission and some sick patients in a hospital ward . It's an intriguing scene and is staged for maximum effect . It's the link to the Atomic Energy Commission and JOHN MALKOVICH that really throws the plot into turmoil and seems a weak contrivance of the scriptwriter to give the story importance with this link . Unfortunately , it just scrambles the plot further - - a plot already jumbled to the point where it resembles a jigsaw puzzle . Nolte wears his fedora all the time ( as do most of the men to remind us this is a period piece ) , chain smokes , uses his tough guy persona to intimidate everyone in sight , including co-stars JOHN MALKOVICH , KYLE CHANDLER , TREAT WILLIAMS and DANIEL BALDWIN . BRUCE DERN has a forgettable cameo ( unbilled ) and MELANIE GRIFFITH makes almost no impression as Nolte's disillusioned wife . Director Lee Tambori strives for style and period atmosphere so that the film will bear some resemblance to the much better CHINATOWN and L . A . CONFIDENTIAL , but it doesn't work . Instead , the film is a heavy handed crime melodrama with only one scene that really crackles with tension before the plot is over . Nolte gives a one-note performance in the leading role .
BELLES ON THEIR TOES is another nostalgic look at a past that never was . At least that's the impression you get from watching MYRNA LOY worry about her brood of Gilbreth children after father Clifton Webb has passed on . As usual , Loy is likable enough as the strong-willed mother who has to guide her children through what passes for " hard times " but has the look of the ' 50s rather than the ' 20s . This lack of detail makes the film much less enjoyable than CHEAPER BY THE DOZEN . There's also a lack of freshness about the performances of JEANNE CRAIN as the oldest daughter , BARBARA BATES , JEFFREY HUNTER , MARTIN MILNER and ROBERT ARTHUR . It all seems rather pat , standard stuff that passed for wholesomeness in the ' 50s , before the grim realism of the ' 60s films set in . Mother is seen at the graduation ceremony of her girls , which makes room for a flashback to their turbulent " growing up " years that includes the girls being romanced by whatever Fox star hopefuls the casting agent could find . Of the men , JEFFREY HUNTER stands out as the most likely prospect for stardom and is paired nicely with JEANNE CRAIN . Nostalgia is nice , but the charm wears thin when the film offers nothing new in the way of plot twists and you have to settle for more of the same material offered in the original - - without Webb , who gave that film its chief distinction .
It's sad to think that RISKY BUSINESS is the film that turned TOM CRUISE into a household name almost overnight - - and simply because everyone under 35 who went to see it recognized their own fantasies being played out by a guy who was the antithesis of Andy Hardy . Well , almost everybody . Not everyone fantasizes about having his parents go away for the week-end so he can hire hookers to spice up his rather inexperienced sex life - - and yet , that's the premise that put this film over the top at the box-office . While TOM CRUISE and REBECCA DeMORNAY do respectable enough jobs in their unbelievable roles , it's just a teen sex comedy with one thing on its mind and it gets pretty tiresome after the first thirty minutes have gone by with everyone concentrating on either sex or money . True , it's probably a pretty accurate portrait of how trashy American culture has gotten over the years and how youth is wasted on the very young - - but the storytelling is never judgmental no matter how boorish the behavior is and there's no lesson in this for anyone to absorb . " Get away with it if you can " , seems to be the moral philosophy of the screenplay . In short , it doesn't say a lot about suburban America's middle class cultural values . Not only does it present teen behavior in the worst possible way , but the blissfully ignorant parenting leaves much to be desired . In fact , the most unbelievable aspect of the story is the way the trusting parents react upon their return . Summing up : Pretty dismal comedy no matter how you look at it .
Sorry , but HOUSEBOAT has all the charm of a sugary half-hour sit-com stretched out to feature length . Wholesome and sexy-looking SOPHIA LOREN in real life was a total turn-on for CARY GRANT ( he wanted to marry her ) who probably insisted that she be his co-star in this little romp . But the result is a predictable romantic comedy with an annoying song ( sung by Sophia ) that is just as cliché-ridden as the script . Too bad these two co-starred in another little disaster called THE PRIDE AND THE PASSION - - sounds like a description of their on again / off again stormy love affair in real life . Once the scene shifts to the houseboat , the atmosphere is claustrophobic rather than cheery and you keep wondering how long it's going to take for Grant and Loren to realize they'd be happy together . Grant was maturing nicely by the late ' 50s , but I wish he'd been paired with more mature actresses beyond their twenties , since Audrey Hepburn and Sophia Loren seem much too young for him . It would have been nice to see him make a film with someone like Olivia de Havilland - - who , like Ingrid Bergman and Deborah Kerr , would have made a more suitable romantic partner on screen during the ' 50s . The kids remain non-entities , the humor is forced , the situations are just silly - - and yet , there are some who find this harmless fluff to be highly enjoyable . I didn't . Summing up : Passes the time but only Grant's most loyal fans will want to see it more than once .
QUEEN BEE is a handsome showcase for the JOAN CRAWFORD brand of acting . She's the Southern Gothic matriarch of an uneasy household and the other characters are all foils for Joan's dominating Queen Bee . There's the sweetly naive girl from the North ( LUCY MARLOW ) ; Crawford's bitter husband , a scarred BARRY SULLIVAN ; and BETSY PALMER as the most normal of the group , clearly disliking Eva ( Crawford ) and her controlling ways ; and JOHN IRELAND as the all knowing ex-husband . Crawford is at her royal best , giving lines like " I'd rather you didn't talk to me in that manner , " the haughty air of a woman who just ascended from her throne . She looks well , except for the eyebrows that are thicker than Boris Karloff's . " I like people around me to laugh and be gay , " she tells the naive Northerner guest . We all know something dire will happen sooner or later . Joan has some terrible dialog to spout . " It makes me terribly cross when people oppose me , " she tells Marlow . " If you left , I'd never have anyone to call my own . " Naturally , it's tailor-made material for Crawford who holds the spotlight without any difficulty , although Betsy Palmer and Barry Sullivan do nicely in supporting roles . It's a well mounted production , filmed crisply in glorious B & W photography and the interiors of Joan's mansion are only slightly less imposing than Manderlay in REBECCA . But it never becomes much more than high camp , with Crawford strutting her stuff as only she can - - and the others performing capably enough but never having a chance to really shine . Summing up : Ideal viewing for Crawford's legion of fans who probably will enjoy seeing her in a series of Jean Louis gowns , impeccably poised as she delivers some sweetly sarcastic lines . Her clothes even got an Oscar nomination , as did the B & W photography . Trivia note : Joan's best line : " A party is to women , what a battlefield is to men . "
This is the film where I first fell under the spell of the quirky heroines SHIRLEY MacLAINE seemed to embody in her early screen roles - - and continued to play long after the charm had worn off . But here she's refreshingly innocent , naive , quirky , good-natured and easy to like . In fact , she has to carry the film even though she's playing opposite such pros as David NIVEN ( rather stuffy here ) , GIG YOUNG ( casual , relaxed performance ) , and ROD TAYLOR ( always good in light romantic comedies ) . But it's MacLaine's show all the way as a girl who stumbles into a job at a market research firm run by two brothers , opposite types , one of whom ( Niven ) decides to shape her into the kind of woman his brother should fall in love with . Naturally , his little scheme backfires and he ends up falling in love with his creation . If you detect a touch of " My Fair Lady " here , you're right . Passes the time quickly in an era where most films did exactly that , lasting no more than an hour and a half .
Handsomely photographed and nicely scored romantic drama from Samuel Goldwyn about a childhood friendship between three people that develops into an intense romantic triangle . MERLE OBERON , FREDRIC MARCH and HERBERT MARSHALL have the pivotal roles as star-crossed lovers during the World War I period . Unfortunately , the three leads are lifelong friends destined to have their lives shattered by the war . Love , guilt and fate play a part in their lives when March is blinded but keeps away from Oberon , unable to tell her the truth and letting her think he's died . As for the rest of the plot , with a screenplay by Lillian Hellman , you have to watch the film . Nobody stumbles in any of the roles and , in fact , MERLE OBERON won her only Best Actress nomination as Kitty , warm and appealing as the romantic interest of both men . The tearful final reunion scene will remind you of the final touching scene from RANDOM HARVEST where Smitty and his lost love find each other again . Modern viewers beware . You'll probably find some of the tear-jerking moments a bit too mawkish but remember , this was the 1930s . Trivia note : Oberon was photographed much more flatteringly in another film she appeared in that year , THE SCARLET PIMPERNELL . What a difference a more flattering hairdo and period costumes make ! !
DARK WATER is worth watching mainly for the performance of JENNIFER CONNOLLY as a distraught mother who almost has a nervous breakdown over the mysterious happenings in a run-down apartment she rents on Roosevelt Island in New York City . Indeed , the apartment is so intent on leaking " dark water " with ominous ceiling stains , you wonder how the woman didn't just move out when the hauntings began . A lot of common sense is missing in the screenplay , which starts out with the mother and father ( DOUGRAY SCOTT ) fighting over custody of their young daughter ( ARIEL GADE ) , who , by the way , gives an excellent performance as the girl with an imaginary companion . Or so it seems , when the girl disrupts the classroom by arguing with her overbearing companion . But the ghost factor of the story is never clearly resolved and most of the attention is riveted because the atmosphere and the music seems to imply that something is about to happen . It rarely does , which is another weakness in the story - - but when it does , it's not always credible . What the story does do is provide a good fifteen minutes toward the end which makes a rather satisfying conclusion as the mother confronts the ghost of a child that's been at the center of the haunting . To tell any more would be to give away the ending , but suffice it to say that here at least the script wraps up in an interesting way . JENNIFER CONNOLLY gives a very intense performance as the young mother , especially the scene where she has an emotional collapse . JOHN C . REILLY as a sleazy rental agent injects some much needed humor into his role and TIM ROTH is good as a concerned lawyer . Summing up : Some taut suspense and chills but ultimately somewhat of a letdown and lacking credibility . Would an intelligent woman really move into such a dank , dismal apartment so obviously badly in need of a good plumber ? I know she was distracted and under a nervous strain , but give me a break !
Before George Sanders took over the role , it went to LOUIS HAYWARD for THE SAINT IN NEW YORK . Hayward was an interesting actor who should have had a better career than he did in Hollywood , proving that when he got a chance to play an interesting scoundrel ( " Ladies in Retirement " ) , he was fearless in letting his bad side show . Too bad he didn't play " The Saint " more often in the string of films RKO came up with in the ' 40s . He's good , better than his material here which is strictly a by-the-numbers sort of thing . " You should have a question mark after your name , " he tells his romantic interest , KAY SUTTON , a dark beauty who looks somewhat like a softer version of Gail Patrick . She's an enigmatic woman and remains so since her character is never developed . Hayward joins the search for " The Big Fellow " , head of a crime gang wanted by the NYPD and along the way encounters several misadventures with mob members being disposed of in his unorthodox way . Interesting to see JACK Carson , JONATHAN HALE and SIG RUMAN in the supporting cast . Modestly entertaining but nothing special in this series .
ROBERT RYAN has to carry at least forty-five minutes of the first half of ON DANGEROUS GROUND which seems to be establishing the story as a tough crime drama with some interesting looks at the tough as nails cop ( Ryan ) who is accused of not caring about people other than seeing all thugs as human punching bags . When he's forced to take a change of scene away from the big city , he's sent to a rural farm where the police are on the lookout for a man who has murdered a young woman . WARD BOND shows up as the woman's father who wants nothing more than to seek immediate revenge on the killer whom he's willing to kill with his bare hands . They seek shelter in IDA LUPINO's house and both of them suspect immediately that she's sheltering the killer . It turns out that she's a blind woman protecting her mentally deficient brother whom she knows did commit the crime - - but she makes a pact with Ryan that he won't use brute force on her brother when they do capture him . What happens next would give away too much of the plot , but suffice it to say that from the moment they enter Lupino's home the film veers more into psychological drama than noir , as the puzzle surrounding the murderer and his capturers becomes clear . All of the melodrama is directed with a firm hand by Nicholas Ray . Summing up : A fascinating mix of crime drama and psychology with sterling performances from the entire cast . Lupino is sensitive as the blind girl and Ryan is at his best as the conflicted policeman . Trivia note : Bernard Herrmann's score is a bit bombastic ( beginning with the opening credits ) but there are tender passages as well . All in all , very effective .
Pre-code films are always fun to watch although they do seem primitive by today's standards . But as a measure of what Hollywood was able to do despite film censorship that had to downplay the more censorable aspects of the original story , this is pretty risqué for its time . Bennett , of course , was the Joan Crawford of her era , always playing a put upon heroine in sob stories that never had too much credibility . Here she pines for Robert Montgomery ( singularly lacking in the big romantic star department , even then ) , while her disapproving brother-in-law ( Clark Gable in an early role ) , frowns on her unorthodox behavior as a kept woman ( Adolphe Menjou is the rich sugar daddy ) . Enjoyable only as a relic . Bennett does a passable job , no more , her false eyelashes and peroxide blonde hair making her look a little harsh under those kleig lights . But the most natural performance , as well as the most charisma , is clearly Clark Gable's . He comes across as a handsome newcomer who steals a scene by his mere presence . He has the final Christmas scene with Bennett , and it's a touching one . He would later become the big romantic male star that Robert Montgomery failed to develop into .
MARLON BRANDO rides into town leading a pack of wild motorcycle riders who proceed to terrorize a hick town before LEE MARVIN shows up and gets into a drunken fight with Brando ( as Johnny ) . Meantime , Johnny flirts dangerously with a cop's daughter ( MARY MURPHY ) who runs a cafe . Her father is played by ROBERT KEITH , a lawman who's reticent about using his authority with a bunch of motorcycle thugs . Tension builds when Keith manages to haul Lee Marvin off to jail . Brando's buddies manage to get a hold of one of the town bullies and put him in the jail cell with the drunken Marvin who has passed out . They then go on a wild rampage but not before some of the town's men decide to form a vigilante squad and go after Brando . Brando has a brief romantic fling with the girl who realizes loving him is a lost cause . POSSIBLE SPOILER AHEAD The plot moves swiftly to a conclusion once the girl is able to convince the authorities that he wasn't responsible for the death of an elderly bystander hit by a motorcycle . Stanley Kramer production has a nice , tense background score by Leith Stevens . Summing up : Early Brando is impressive to watch , but much of the dialog is very dated and anchored firmly in the 1950s by the slang and be-bop expressions and overall concept of the film . Famous for the moment when a girl taunts him with : " What are you rebelling against ? " Brando's terse reply : " What have you got ? "
Sinatra came out after retirement , at age 57 , to do another of his concerts , this time backed by the wonderful Gordon Jenkins and Dan Costa and with guest star GENE KELLY , at age 61 . Frankie starts off with a standard called YOU WILL BE MY MUSIC before getting into some oldies like I GET NO KICK FROM CHAMPAGNE , STREET OF DREAMS , I'VE GOT YOU UNDER MY SKIN , I'VE GOT THE WORLD ON A STRING and LAST NIGHT WHEN WE WERE YOUNG . His voice is not quite as mellow as it was in the past and he doesn't hold onto the end notes the way he used to , but he's still in good form and the band sounds great . You can spot some celebrities in the audience , including Richard Conte and Lucille Ball . He talks briefly about films he'd rather forget - - like HIGHER AND HIGHER , JOHNNY CONCHO , THE KISSING BANDIT ( that one got lots of laughs ) , and the " one about the cannon " - - you know , THE PRIDE AND THE PASSION with Cary Grant and Sophia Loren . Then comes the best part of the program - - his easiness and charm comes through as he greets his guest , GENE KELLY , after clips from " Take Me Out to the Ball Game " and " Anchors Aweigh " are shown . They both start to talk about the old days at MGM and sing a little ditty called " We Can't Do That Any More " , but little by little they ease into some dance steps and before you know it , Gene Kelly is doing some good taps ( without getting too strenuous ) and so is Frank . Another great moment comes when Frank sings " Nice and Easy Does It " while Gene goes into his dance , up and down steps , but mostly taking it easy . At the end of this number , they both get huge applause . Frankie ends his show with " Let Me Try Again " and the beautiful ballad , " Send in the Clowns " ( which I myself performed publicly a few times ) . For the finale , a reprise , this time the complete song of YOU WILL BE MY MUSIC and the show ends . Summing up : Nice work by Frank and Gene , and especially the skillful and scintillating sounds of that orchestra on all of the music .
1840s Bangor , Maine is the setting for THE STRANGE WOMAN , by the author Ben Ames Williams , who also set his modern story of a jealous woman in the same sort of Maine setting for " Leave Her To Heaven " . This one does not have the production values of the Fox film , is directed by a less distinguished director , Edgar G . Ulmer , but gives HEDY LAMARR a stronger role than usual while at the same time permitting her to be her beautiful self . As Jenny , she's really the stock heroine of the sort of novels Williams wrote , centering around jealous women who destroy the men in their lives by their shallow nature . Hedy first marries a wealthy man ( GENE LOCKHART ) for his money , then latches onto his weak son ( LOUIS HAYWARD ) whom she convinces to kill her husband during a boating accident , then sets her cap for a man she puts in charge of her husband's business ( GEORGE SANDERS ) , never minding that he's already got a sweetheart ( HILLARY BROOKE ) , and eventually coming between them in a less than subtle way . In fact , all of Hedy's machinations are less than subtle , accompanied by some dramatic background music by Carmen Dragon , and enhanced by close-ups of the star flaring her nostrils and posing provocatively in shadow or light , never once looking less than rapturously beautiful . Despite all her physical charms , it's clear that her acting , while acceptable , at the same time has severe limitations . Her face remains a beautiful mask whether she's suffering nobly or expressing radiant delight that her multiple schemes are working . LOUIS HAYWARD is a bit too old for the role of a man returning from college to live with his father and his step-mother , but acquits himself well in the role nevertheless . GEORGE SANDERS has a rather nondescript role for an actor of his brittle charm , obviously so enamored of Jenny that he overlooks all the puzzling elements that go into making her " a strange woman " . DENNIS HOEY is excellent as Jenny's drunken father in the early scenes and ALAN NAPIER is effective in a brief supporting role . Production values are less than luxurious despite the detailed sets and the B & W photography suffers from the under-lit lighting , not helped by the fact that the print itself being shown on TCM is not high quality and sometimes gives the film a harsh look rather than Gothic grandeur . For Lamarr's fans , it's one of her better vehicles at a time when she was free-lancing away from MGM . At least the story gives her more of a chance to show some dramatic talent that was largely obscured in most of her MGM outings , although her range is clearly limited .
EDWARD G . ROBINSON spoofs his own image as a tough guy crook in LARCENY , INC . in which he's the leader of a bunch of inept crooks who open a luggage shop because it's next door to a bank with a vault they want to rob . Never mind that it means digging a tunnel . . . Robinson has dumb cluck BRODERICK CRAWFORD doing that and ED BROPHY acting as a front for the luggage shop . On top of that , pert JANE WYMAN is Eddie's girlfriend who really wants him to go straight and JACK Carson is a luggage salesman who hasn't got the foggiest idea that the store is really not in the luggage business . It's sappy but relieved by some good performances from a dependable Warner stock company that includes a lot of their best contract players , even JACKIE GLEASON in a minor role and good old HARRY DAVENPORT . It's the kind of film you'll see once and forget immediately after , but fun while it lasts . JOHN QUALEN as a banker , FORTUNIO BONANOVA as a barber and BARBARA JO ALLEN ( A / K / A VERA VAGUE of radio fame and voice-overs for Disney ) are a few that stand out in the supporting cast . Summing up : Lightweight stuff , but good for a few laughs .
Probably the most distinguished feature of DESERT FURY is the spectacular Technicolor Paramount lavished on it , a story of personal conflicts among Nevada's gambling set . Another distinguished feature is MARY ASTOR as Fritzi , a hard-boiled dame who runs a gambling establishment and keeps a tight leash on her willful daughter ( LIZABETH SCOTT ) . Scott is strikingly photographed and reminded me of a more animated version of Veronica Lake . But complications arise when two men pay too much attention to Astor's daughter - - JOHN HODIAK ( a no good hunk who may or may not have murdered his wife ) and BURT LANCASTER as a wary police officer who keeps Lizabeth Scott on his radar at all times . It's fun as melodrama , nothing more or less , and at times achieves something of a camp classic with Astor's butch performance as she effortlessly steals the film's acting honors . Take it or leave it , it's all in good , steamy fun with lots of fury going on under those hot Technicolor lights .
Although never entirely flawless , THE LAST DAYS OF POMPEII ( ' 35 ) was an ambitious undertaking for RKO to take at that time . The storyline , about a bitter blacksmith who turns gladiator , is really a morality tale wrapped up in biblical settings and given the usual " cast of thousands " publicity by the studio that spent a lot of money in recreating Ancient times . PRESTON FOSTER was never a particularly charismatic actor , often accused of being " wooden " , but there's a sincere element about his performance here that allows the film to work . So too does BASIL RATHBONE , giving some extra dimension to his take on Pontius Pilate . Interesting to catch a glimpse of WARD BOND as a gladiator - - an actor who has appeared in so many classic films it's almost amazing to realize he was kept as busy as he was . With Max Steiner supplying the score , it's a lesser known gem that makes for enjoyable viewing even if it comes off as a cross between BEN-HUR and THE ROBE and lots of other stories dealing with the effect of the crucifixion on men's lives and their search for the truth .
Handsome young MICHAEL YORK is a drifting social climber who takes advantage of an impoverished Countess ( ANGELA LANSBURY ) and her underwhelming family - - a plain daughter and a homosexual son - - using them for his own twisted needs to become the Prince Charming of a Bavarian castle . Directed with finesse by Harold Prince , it's a dark comedy that abounds with wit and a never ending series of complications that ensue when York manipulates and charms his way into everyone's affections . It has a TALENTED MR . RIPLEY kind of feel to it , but decidedly more comic than serious . ANGELA LANSBURY did not even mention this film during a one hour session with Robert Osborne on TCM recently , but it has to be among her best work . It raised eyebrows but failed to connect with whomever the target audience was back in the ' 70s and became a favorite among the art house crowd for obvious reasons . Rampant with sexual implications , it's way ahead of its time and would probably do better box-office business in today's more accepting world of oddball themes .
ANN SOTHERN and EDMUND LOWE were teamed earlier in a romantic comedy , but this time it's a suspenseful little programmer about tracking down an arsonist . It's a clever story with some brisk dialog that keeps things going merrily along while the chase for the arsonist consumes most of the plot . Lowe is a former tracker of arson fires who is re-hired when a series of fires puts the city out of control in trying to curb the serial man determined to burn down various factories . Lowe suspects it might be ONSLOW STEVENS , while Stevens in turn suspects Lowe of setting the fires in order to get his old job back . Then too , suspicion is firmly planted on ANN SOTHERN when she turns up at every fire and turns out to have an assumed name in order to cover a very valuable clue . It's dated , of course , but fun to watch with a puzzling mystery at the center of things . Lowe and Sothern work well together and Stevens does well in an interesting supporting role .
Any fan of Agatha Christie will recognize her format in the plot outline of THE LAST OF SHIELAH . Have some old codger ( JAMES COBURN ) invited five disparate personalities aboard his yacht for a game of " Clue " ( although he doesn't tell them that ) , let the bold accusations and one-liners go back and forth between these sophisticated show biz people , have one of them murdered , get a room full of suspects for the final quiz - - and voila , you have THE LAST OF SHIELAH , with most of the loose ends neatly tied up - - almost . But for some , there will still be some head scratching going on when the finale comes and it's not a bad idea to view this one again . And why not ? It's so full of sarcastic or bitchy lines ( most of them , courtesy of DYAN CANNON who plays the boldest dame ) , with others getting a fair share of some ripe digs too - - RICHARD BENJAMIN , JOAN HACKETT , RAQUEL WELCH , IAN McSHANE and JAMES MASON . It's one of those contrived mystery who-dun-its that keeps you guessing until the end , but the puzzle is fun while it lasts . Summing up : Smart , funny , stylish entertainment .
The reformed internationally famed jewel thief is back in the guise of GERALD MOHR , replacing the late WARREN WILLIAM . He looks comfortable in the role . The story , of course , starts with a jewel robbery and he , once again , is the prime suspect . The name " Michael Lanyard " is mentioned at least a dozen times in the opening scene which seems to be overdoing the explanatory exposition to the nth degree . But the film itself is nicely paced , well written and smoothly acted by the entire case . ERIC BLORE , who describes himself as " a gentleman's gentleman or a cad's cad " is on hand again for plenty of comedy relief . EVELYN ANKERS is a woman of mystery ( as usual ) , adding to the intrigue of the plot , which has the Lone Wolf solving a theft from the Scotland Yard safe . Seems the Lone Wolf is in need of cash , having spent all his money on research for his new book about famous jewels , especially a pair called The Eyes of the Nile . He's not the only character in need of heavy cash , thus the set-up for some stolen jewels that are the center of the mystery . As usual , the plot unwinds at a fast pace and all the loose ends are tied up during the last five minutes . Summing up : Nothing special , but not bad as far as these series go .
TOM KEENE and KAREN MORLEY are the lesser-known stars of this Depression-era classic , a poor man's " Grapes of Wrath " , about a young farming couple who use ingenuity to overcome a drought that threatens to ruin their crops . Tom Keene was a B-actor who did mostly westerns and does a sincere , earnest job of playing the kind of " everyman " role that Henry Fonda and Joel McCrea usually played in these sort of films . While he has a limited range , he makes an appealing hero , a man who fires others with his ambitious idea to build a gully for the water to reach the crops that are badly in need of water . It's this sequence , with the men following orders and digging the ditches that make a pathway for the water , that really makes the film special . Otherwise , it's a rather drab exercise in showing the downtrodden lives of farming people during the Great Depression of the ' 30s . KAREN MORLEY is lovely as the loyal woman who stands by her man and JOHN QUALEN does an effective job as a frustrated farmer . Some striking scenes for the last half-hour , but a bit heavy going before that .
Picturesque " TravelTalk " from James A . FitzPatrick is another mildly interesting look at an England that still embodies much of the past in its ancient landmarks . We glimpse a vine covered grammar school which Wordsworth is said to have attended ; quaint towns looking much as they did in earlier centuries ; old churches with tombstones of famous British figures ; the Markham Bay health resort with its huge swimming pool using filtered sea water ; the ancient city of York featuring the shell of an ancient castle . A pleasing enough documentary with some nice Technicolor images .
I have to give NO COUNTRY FOR OLD MEN a very mixed review . For the most part , I agree that NO COUNTRY FOR OLD MEN is a well executed crime drama , patterned somewhat after the much better written FARGO , in which the central character was a female officer . Here , it's a male sheriff ( TOMMY LEE JONES ) given to some armchair psychiatry aimed at trying to understand what makes today's western civilization ( or lack of it ) tick . He gets no answer from the script . Nor do we get a satisfying ending to a story that is full of grim menace supplied by its main character ( JAVIER BARDEM ) who goes around dispensing with almost every member of the supporting cast . Nor do the characters act in a way that makes common sense . This is the main trouble with the script . WOODY HARRELSON , for example , seems to walk meekly to his final destiny with the casual air of a man unalarmed by the situation after warning JOSH BROLIN ( a man on the run ) that he's up against a man who simply wants blood . Likewise , Brolin's wife accepts her fate meekly after stating that she " knew " the killer would show up on her doorstep . It's taut with suspense most of the time with only a few spots that drag , but it's the inconsistencies of certain characters that gave the script some flaws , as well as a general lack of humor which made the dark happenings in FARGO more bearable . The biggest letdown is the dry ending with no justice for the guilty man and Tommy Lee Jones describing a dream that has nothing to do with the events we just witnessed . Period . The End . The very flat ending is the weakest part of all . But the performances of JAVIER BARDEM , TOMMY LEE JONES and especially JOSH BROLIN in a very unusual role for him , make the film eminently worth watching .
While it's a ' 60s spy film in the same vein as THE IPCRESS FILE ( the same sort of ingredients ) , it in no way matches the wit or intelligence of that particular espionage film . It moves a little too sluggishly under the direction of Michael Anderson , though it does have a wind-up that proves satisfying at the conclusion . Nor is it overly complicated , often the ruin of many a spy film . But the central performance by GEORGE SEGAL is played with the sort of humor and charm that would have worked better in a different kind of story - - not an espionage film . Segal's job is to find the identity of a Nazi group in post-war Berlin . He works without cover and is soon captured by MAX VON SYDOW and his henchmen who try to pry information from him . Unexplained , he makes his getaway and the movie turns into a spy chase with lots of plot loopholes that are never cleared up . A distinctively inappropriate soundtrack by John Barry is off the mark even during the opening credits . His main theme , " Wednesday's Child " , is nice enough but does nothing to add to what ought to be the suspenseful mood of this kind of thriller . Another shortcoming of the film is that Segal's character never seems bright enough to be involved in clever espionage . For a man on a delicate spy mission , Segal seems too laid back to be believable . Nor is the script by Harold Pinter anything special with less than crisp dialog . ALEC GUINESS manages to be intriguing in a small role but GEORGE SANDERS is completely wasted . SENTA BERGER is lovely as the German schoolteacher who gets involved with Segal , largely due to physical attraction . There's a wistful " Third Man " kind of ending striven for , but it never has the same effect it had in the Carol Reed film . Nor , as I mentioned previously , is John Barry's score more than ordinary - - surprisingly so , since he was capable of wonderful music for the James Bond films . All told , a fairly routine spy story given nothing special in the way of treatment with the overall effect being one of quiet disappointment .
Vincente Minnelli's first film for MGM was CABIN IN THE SKY , from the Broadway musical - - a film that no other studio at the time would take a chance on producing . A splendid cast does justice to it and it's a rollicking good time to watch ETHEL WATERS , EDDIE ' ROCHESTER ' ANDERSON , REX INGRAM , KENNETH SPENCER , Oscar POLK , LENA HORNE and BUTTERFLY McQUEEN have fun with the story and music . Rex Ingram is especially good as the horned Devil wearing black and Kenneth Spencer , using his rich bass baritone voice to good effect , is in excellent shape as The General in white . ( Spencer sang ' Old Man River ' as Joe in SHOW BOAT on Broadway in ' 46 ) . Basically , it's the story of temptation coming between Petunia ( ETHEL WATERS ) and Little Joe ( EDDIE ANDERSON ) and her crusade to win him away from The Devil and away from the temptress Georgia Brown ( LENA HORNE ) . Lena never looked sexier and plays her sultry role for all it's worth . A few of the musical moments don't come off as well as intended , looking rather awkwardly staged , and Waters has a tendency to overplay her role both in the acting and singing segments . LOUIS ARMSTRONG makes a brief appearance on the trumpet and the DUKE WELLINGTON orchestra gets to get the joint swinging with his big number . The HALL JOHNSON CHOIR does some excellent choral work for some stirring background music . What hurts the film is the pace , a bit too slow in developing its theme and the songs , while fine , are not always given the best possible treatment . I seem to remember seeing this in Sepiatone at one time , but the print on TCM is in B & W .
THE GENERAL spends so much time depicting BUSTER KEATON on the rails that it should have been called " The Runaway Train " . Filmed in Oregon , with all of the outdoor scenes photographed attractively in sepia-tone , it's regarded as one of Keaton's best works . His dexterity with physical comedy is never better paraded in a motion picture than it is here . He's climbing aboard the train from every conceivable angle as he tries to block the path of the pursuing Union Army who have stolen " The General " ( his train ) and aims to get the message to the Southern army of the Union plan of attack . It's a lavish production and obviously a lot of attention to detail was spent in giving THE GENERAL Grade-A production values . TCM is showing a pristine print of the film , complete with good background music , courtesy of The Alloy Orchestra . Frankly , I think all the train scenes became a little tedious after the first forty-five minutes with a lot of repetition dulling my interest in the outcome of the story . Summing up : Fans of Keaton will have a field day enjoying his bumbling character and all of his physical feats as he struggles to win the stolen train from the enemy .
Time hasn't been kind to certain films and THREE COINS IN THE FOUNTAIN is one of them . The story at its center is trite and only exists in order to show the splendors of Rome in color and CinemaScope to lure patrons away from their television sets when the film was made , in the mid-'50s . The only performers emerging from the film unscathed are JEAN PETERS , gorgeous as a secretary looking for romance away from the office , and the two men who are in their physical prime and give the film's most ingratiating performances - - ROSSANO BRAZZI and LOUIS JOURDAN , both being the prototypes of the sort of European men American women find so attractive . DOROTHY McGUIRE is saddled with the role of a spinster ( of 38 ) whose object of affection is CLIFTON WEBB ( mid-'60s ) who seems an odd choice for any woman and tries hard to be his usual urbane self . Nor is MAGGIE MacNAMARA any help as a conniving American girl who diligently learns the likes and dislikes of the man ( Jourdan ) she plans to trap into marriage . Miss MacNamara too often seems more annoying than charming . But it's harmless fluff , nicely staged in real Italian locales so that there's something to look at when things get dull - - as they often do . Surprisingly , the film - - which gets off to a nice start with a rendition of the title song by Frank Sinatra - - was nominated for a Best Picture Oscar . Summing up : No surprises here , just a dull story that gets an occasional lift from the romance between Peters and Brazzi which is the best , but briefest , part of the whole film . As a story , it's all too familiar by now but Jean Negulesco manages to combine story and scenery with a fluid touch , disguising the fact that it's little more than a pleasant travelogue .
TV showings of ' That Hagen Girl ' became more and more rare as the years went on - - but lately it surfaced on TCM when they saluted Shirley's birthday with showings of four of her films . Basically it's a story of the effect gossip has on a small-town girl ( Temple as Mary Hagen ) and lawyer ( Ronald Reagan ) . Good performances by Rory Calhoun , Jean Porter and others . The meanness of the small-town gossip is well realized under Peter Godfrey's direction and the background score by Franz Waxman adds much to the melodramatic proceedings . Not really as bad as many would have you think . Shirley seems more poised and assured than usual ( except in an embarrassing rendition from ' Romeo and Juliet ' ) and she herself regards it as her best adult performance . Despite all of its flaws , it's worth viewing to watch the nineteen-year old actress opposite Ronald Reagan . His primary love interest in the film is Lois Maxwell ( who later became Miss Moneypenny in the James Bond films ) . The ending is rather unresolved and unsatisfying - - a curious ending for an odd film .
Whatever its flaws - - stereotypes among soldiers , wartime propaganda using the Wake Island battle as symbolic of America's fight for freedom , weak comic relief - - WAKE ISLAND is the kind of story Americans needed to hear during the height of WWII . It begins just before the Pearl Harbor attack when the men were losing their morale to fight against the Japs , then changes once American ships and servicemen are attacked in sneaky fashion at Pearl , to become a story of fighting men who want to avenge what F . D . R . called " a day of infamy " . Forcefully directed by John Farrow , it's a gritty , realistic war drama given occasional relief by ROBERT PRESTON and WILLIAM BENDIX as a pair of squabbling soldiers arguing over re-enlistment . BRIAN DONLEVY plays Maj . Caton with steely-eyed determination and a large male cast of upcoming actors and future stars fills the supporting cast : ALBERT DEKKER , MADONALD CAREY , ROD CAMERON , WALTER ABEL , DANE CLARK , PHILIP TERRY and FRANK FAYLEN . Similar in content to BATAAN , which also told of American losses against overwhelming odds and had a downbeat ending , the true story of Wake Island is even more downbeat than the film hints . Brutal stories of torture at the hands of Japanese military awaited many who survived the assault on the small island in the Pacific . But that's something you can learn about at The History Channel . Summing up : A reminder of what sort of films Americans were looking at during the height of WWII - - you have to view it in that context .
While RING OF FEAR may not qualify for Best Film of the Year ( as DeMille's circus epic did ) , it is a colorful and fast moving story of life under the big circus tent , whereby an ex-employee returns to his old job seeking vengeance on none other than CLYDE BEATTY and intent on evening the score for an ex-girlfriend who married another man ( JOHN BROMFIELD ) . Beatty's lion-taming act is fascinating to watch . The film's main purpose seems to be in showcasing the circus life , the roustabouts setting up the tents , the training of wild animals ( and I do mean wild ) , the petty arguments among the trapeze artists and other performers , and all of it supervised by a caustic manager ( PAT O'BRIEN ) in the sort of brassy wise-guy role he could have performed in his sleep . For added interest , there's a laid-back performance from MICKEY SPILLANE as himself , helping O'Brien solve the case of the psychopath bent on murderous revenge , who is hiding out in the traveling circus . SEAN McCLORY is guilty of overacting in many a scene but he does create a fascinating offbeat character as the madman who has escaped from confinement and is intent on revenge . The last fifteen minutes of the film contain more suspense and excitement than deMille managed to do in his lengthy , pretentious Oscar-winning epic THE GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH . Summing up : Not masterpiece theater as far as acting and script are concerned , but interesting enough as a suspense tale played against a colorful circus background , to maintain a reasonable amount of interest .
PUSHOVER is an underrated , little known crime melodrama from the mid-'50s that introduced the blonde beauty of KIM NOVAK to audiences and gave FRED MacMURRAY another chance to play an authority figure seduced by the charms of a femme fatale . When the story begins , it turns out his accidental meeting with Novak was really a set-up , he being a cop assigned to keep track of her whereabouts after a bank hold-up results in the death of a police officer . He suspects that her mobster boyfriend pulled the job and at first resists when she tries to convince him they can use the bank money for themselves . But eventually , he weakens and before you know it he's informing her that her phone is wire tapped and the two of them are just one step ahead of the police for the rest of the film . PHIL CAREY , as a fellow officer and E . G . MARSHALL as the lead detective are excellent in supporting roles , as is DOROTHY MALONE in a pivotal role as a girl occupying the apartment next to Novak in a U-shaped building that enables MacMurray and Carey to keep an eye on both gals through binoculars ( shades of REAR WINDOW ) . Conveniently , no one ever draws the blinds in these sort of thrillers and spying is made so easy for the sake of plotting , as the 24-hour surveillance occupies much of the story . The noir elements are present throughout , the dark rainy streets , the shadowy photography during car chases , the clipped delivery of lines , the murder scheme gone awry , the femme fatale angelic on the outside , bad within . But somehow it never becomes a major film noir , relegated to its place in obscurity over the years and not really a title that pops up when one speaks of film noir - - but it does qualify as noir , on a minor scale , and it's given some taut direction and tight suspense by director Richard Quine . Kim is as easy as ever on the eyes although a bit robotic in her acting technique and never quite convincing as a mobster's moll . MacMurray has a less interesting , more one-dimensional role as a cop corrupted by beauty . All in all , definitely worth watching .
Considering that this was made in 1937 , the special effects are amazingly well done throughout . . . and the fact that CARY GRANT is billed beneath CONSTANCE BENNETT in the credits is a reminder that this was made long before Grant emerged as a superstar . But there's a stale quality to the whole screwball comedy that has ROLAND YOUNG as a henpecked husband of BILLIE BURKE who gets a chance at becoming less stuffy due to the machinations of two friendly spirits who were recently killed in a fancy sports car . That about sums up the plot - - and nothing much happens that can be considered memorable - - nor is it any kind of morality fable . Interesting too is to note some of the key players among the supporting cast - - Eugene Palette as a bumbling hotel detective , Arthur Lake ( who became Dagwood Bumstead ) as an equally bumbling hotel porter , Alan Mobray as a butler who sometimes forgets his place in society , and an uncredited Ward Bond who shows up in just about every film made in the ' 30s . The art deco sets are very handsome and modern looking , but the whole film has the feel of a late night movie that's been shown too often to have any lasting effect now . As the two spirits , Constance Bennett is just a wee bit too frivolous to be believable as the ultimate playgirl and Cary Grant has little opportunity to be more than a decoy for Roland Young - - who , in the title role , manages to steal the film from both of them . As his wife , Billie Burke is her usual fluttery self .
ROBERT MONTGOMERY is the injured gangster being sheltered by a farm family with a lovely daughter ( MAUREEN O'SULLIVAN ) who quickly responds to his tough guy charm . MICKEY ROONEY is the ornery little brother continually pestering everybody and declaring " Don't call me Willie ! " Montgomery gradually reforms after his initial discomfort with country life . ( " Hurry up and lay that egg ! " ) . The predictable plot is light-hearted nonsense but enjoyable for the performances of Montgomery and O'Sullivan who seem to be enjoying their bucolic roles that have them feeding chickens , milking cows and collecting eggs . It's a pleasant little film , directed in workmanlike style by Woody Van Dyke . Maureen O'Sullivan looks radiant and has seldom been seen to better advantage and Robert Montgomery makes the most of his reformed gangster role . As a film , it's nothing too special , but it does pass the time pleasantly thanks to the warm chemistry between its two stars . Too bad MGM couldn't find better future material for Maureen , who is at her loveliest in this outing . I've never been a big Robert Montgomery fan , but he does give one of his more appealing performances here .
AMANDA REDMAN is the tough police boss of a squad of discontented officers she has to keep in line in order to solve unsolved murder cases . I've only watched one from this series but intend to watch more because it moves swiftly , has interesting and rather eccentric characters , and the plot took some unpredictable turns before the solution came . The British do this sort of thing well . Instead of Inspector Morse , we have Redman's female boss dealing with detectives who'd rather not handle some of the cases they're assigned to . Handsome production values help , as does the intelligent writing . Worth watching if you like your detective stories told in British style .
Sorry , but I can't get on the bandwagon here of glowing adjectives to describe A STAR IS BORN with mousy Janet Gaynor in the Esther Blodgett role - - a girl swept into big time stardom by a man whose own career is on the descent . FREDRIC MARCH plays the alcoholic Norman Maine ( modeled after someone like John Barrymore ) who meets Gaynor at a party , is presumably dazzled by her enough to get her a screen test , and that's how the career of Esther Blodgett starts . This would make sense if Gaynor had the sort of charm and personality suggesting she could be turned into a major star and win an Academy Award . Gaynor's screen persona here is dull and naive . Period . But somehow , that doesn't matter as much as it should because all the other characters are much better realized . The second half of the movie builds up some dramatic intensity completely missing in the dreary first half . And for some reason , the Technicolor improves as the film goes on . The interior scenes in the first half are darkly lit and look like primitive use of color . The touching ending is well handled , but I can't believe Janet Gaynor in the role of a girl whose talent is so arresting that she immediately is scooped up into the frenzy of film-making . The role should have been played by a girl in her early twenties who looks the part and has the out-sized talent needed to convince us she could be molded into a star of Vicki Lester proportions . Summing up : Disappointing , especially when compared to the Garland / Mason version , but worthwhile for Fredric March's performance as Norman Maine .
Josef Von Sternberg must have been first choice for this assignment since he did do SHANGHAI EXPRESS which did magic for Marlene Dietrich back in the ' 30s and he knows how to take advantage of the exotic atmosphere and shadowy photography . Russell has never looked better . But this is no SHANGHAI EXPRESS - - just a low-key melodrama that gives JANE RUSSELL her usual sassy role as a gal who wanders into Macao looking for a job and ends up singing in a high class dive that is more of a gambling joint than anything else . ROBERT MITCHUM is a detective , WILLIAM BENDIX a salesman , and the plot spins along rather breezily with BRAD DEXTER as Russell's jealous employer with a criminal background . GLORIA GRAHAME has a colorless role as a bad girl with a weakness for Mitchum . Russell and Mitchum are pros at the kind of dialog they're asked to toss off - - and why not - - they've done it all before in previous flicks together . Naturally , they fall in love within the first forty-five minutes , which is about how long it takes for the plot to thicken . Seems none of the characters are quite what they seem to be , which makes for a nice plot twist toward the end . Nothing special , just a good look at Russell in her prime and Mitchum delivering his usual laconic performance until things get taut and he's forced to take on the role of action hero . Passes the time pleasantly enough but isn't essential viewing .
With PETER FALK doing a superb turn as Sam Diamond ( a Raymond Chandler type of detective with Humphrey Bogart characteristics ) , and EILEEN BRENNAN as his moll , quick with the humorous sarcasm , this is a clever parody of every murder mystery ever written . In fact , everyone concerned with this Neil Simon parody is having fun in their offbeat roles . Most offbeat of all is NANCY WALKER as a ditzy mute maid and ALEC GUINESS as a blind servant - - and , unfortunately , TRUMAN CAPOTE as Lionel Twain , the host of a dinner party designed to trap a murderer . Too bad Philip Seymour Hoffman wasn't around at the time to do justice to Capote's embarrassingly bad interpretation of Twain who , despite all the Capote mannerisms , seems stilted and unrehearsed . David NIVEN and MAGGIE SMITH do wonders as a Nick and Nora type of couple , ELSA LANCHESTER is eccentric as Miss Marbles , and JAMES COCO has fun with his interpretation of a Belgian detective modeled after Hercule Poirot . All the requisites for mystery are present : the thunder and lightning , the heavy rains , the dark old house , the group of dinner guest suspects , and a plot that gets sillier with each scene . True , there's a bit of a letdown at the revelation of the killer , but it's all done with such high spirits and witty lines that you won't care much about that . Delicious parody of all those who-dun-its we all grew up on , stylishly directed by newcomer Robert Moore .
I have to preface my remarks by stating that BROKEN BLOSSOMS , for all of its worth , is suitable only for fans of silent films who can forgive all the excesses of silent melodrama . I'm not an aficionado of silent films , but BROKEN BLOSSOMS is noteworthy for what Griffith was able to achieve on film as early as 1919 . And surprisingly , the most over-the-top performance comes from an amazing character actor , DONALD CRISP , who went on to become an unforgettable player in " talkies " years later , notably as the father in films like NATIONAL VELVET and LASSIE COME HOME . Crisp gives a wild-eyed , mouth-twisting performance that has him gnashing his teeth and looking like he's Mr . Hyde in his angry close-ups . Here , he's the meanest of the mean , a father who abuses his daughter and then becomes fiercely protective when she dares to seek shelter elsewhere from a Chinese man who wants to spread the peaceful message of Buddha to Anglo-Saxons when he travels to " the great nation across the sea " . The scene shifts to the Limehouse district of London where his dreams are tested by the sordid realities of life - - like opium dens . Enter Battling Burrows ( DONALD CRISP ) as the gorilla-like prizefighter who is the villain of the piece , in full swaggering mode and chewing the scenery with relish . Forlorn looking and frail , LILLIAN GISH wanders into the story at this point and we're told she's been badly treated by her brute of a father . Since she's treated no better than a doormat , we can tell where the story is going . Naturally , she ends up in a dead faint near the Chinaman's store and he takes her in , giving her shelter , warmth and kindness that she never had before . Truthfully , Gish never manages to look like the fifteen year old girl she's supposed to be playing and her wan performance seems rather one note . Looking forlorn seemed to be her staple . As with most silent films , the pacing is very slow and it's a good thirty-five minutes before Gish and Barthelmess even meet and the story picks up more interest . And let me say that by today's standards , the scenes of mistreatment in " the house of suffering " are ludicrous before Gish retreats to the streets and is taken in by Barthelmess . A tender moment in the film has a title card sure to provoke some chuckles when Gish says to Barthelmess : " What makes you so good to me , Chinky ? " Close-ups of Gish are not the most flattering , as others here seem to think . Instead , her tiny mouth and pinched face give her a look much older than her years that cannot be softened by soft focus photography . Barthelmess , on the other hand , has the looks and bearing of a romantic star even in his Oriental make-up and gives the film's most natural performance - - at least until the last fifteen minutes . POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD The melodramatic ending has Battling Burrows seeking revenge , outraged that his daughter is living under the same roof with her Chinaman protector . Unfortunately , the last fifteen minutes of the film reek of unabashed melodramatic excesses as the story delves into even darker territory with Gish's death at the hands of her abusive father and the Chinaman's eventual suicide after killing the brute . The excesses are so over-the-top that you almost expect the characters to sing an operatic aria before dying . Summing up : If you're a silent film fan , you may find this one worth watching . Everyone else , beware . It's not for every taste .
There was a preoccupation with paranoia about invasion from aliens that permeated all the science fiction in the ' 50s . This story builds on that fear by giving us an E . T . sort of encounter with an alien , in this case a super-sized piece of metal called THE IRON GIANT , who is saved from extinction by a little boy who pulls the " Off " switch when it appears the Giant is about to be electrocuted . It's stunning right from the opening scenes , animated with fresh originality and voiced by some expert actors ( HARRY CONNICK , JR . , VAN DIESEL , CLORIS LEACHMAN and the little boy voiced by ELI MARIENTHAL ) . Not only is the story engrossing , but there's a humanization of " the creature from outer space " that defies description . The animators manage to make his thought process apparent with minimal dialog and you can really feel for his emotions when he is asked to perform a noble act ( at the climax ) in order to save mankind from a fate worse than death . There's an effective background score by Michael Kamen , without the songs that seem to irritate some devotees of animated films , and it moves briskly at a pleasing pace that should keep young and old riveted to the sometimes magical events . Briskly entertaining and well worth watching - - among the best of the animated films based on pure fantasy . The very expert voice-overs make the characters seem amazingly real .
ART CARNEY and his orange tabby take a cross-country odyssey when he loses his lodgings in a rundown NYC building being converted to a garage . He leaves his friendly , somewhat eccentric friends in his neighborhood , makes a brief stab at living with impossible relatives and then heads for the open road again . He's independent in every way except one - - he won't live without his cat Tonto either at his side or in tow . The situations are a little extreme . He disembarks from his bus ride so that the cat can relieve itself and then can't find Tonto when the cat runs off . He does find his cat and they continue their journey , meeting up with a few other kookie characters on the way . 56 year-old Carney , in age make-up , does a remarkable job of holding audience interest while he spends much of the time addressing his remarks to Tonto . Geraldine Fitzgerald has a nice bit as an old flame , now in an old age home . Nothing deep here . His most philospophical comment is : " Did you know that the strangest thing about being old is , all your friends are dead . " There's also a priceless moment when his nephew , Norman , who never says much , responds to ELLYN BURSTYN , " I love you too , Aunt Shirley , but you're a such a bitch . " Some editing would have trimmed the last half of the movie to a more suitable length . Two hours is a bit much for this kind of slight tale . Considering some of the great male performances that were up for Oscars that year , Carney's win is surprising . It's a rather one-note , one dimensional role - - although he makes the most of it . Good , but too many rough edges - - not quite as heart-warming as I expected it to be .
Brian dePalma really accomplished quite a feat by paying homage to Hitchcock with a strong variation on VERTIGO's theme - - a man who loses the woman he loves sees her reincarnated in another woman and then loses her too . He takes this premise and does some fancy camera-work that swirls around the lovers with an intensity only matched by the whirling colors of Bernard Herrmann's magical score . He sets up the tale by having a convincing kidnapping take place in which his wife and daughter are taken by the criminals and has him mourning their loss until he encounters another woman in Italy , years later , who strongly resembles his presumably dead wife . The rest of the plot must remain undisclosed for " spoiler " purposes , but I'm sure there are those who will at least have a suspicion as to the real purpose of all the foregoing events . CLIFF ROBERTSON has the difficult chore of appearing downtrodden and depressed most of the time , so GENEVIEVE BUJOLD has the task of brightening up the tale with her unconventional good looks and upbeat manner . JOHN LITHGOW makes his screen debut as Robertson's close friend and business acquaintance . If it's a stylish dePalma movie you're in the mood for , this one will fill the bill nicely . And that Bernard Herrmann score alone makes watching the movie completely worthwhile . It's dazzling .
For a film that has been doing fantastic box-office business , one would hope that HARRY POTTER AND THE ORDER OF THE PHOENIX would be a much more energized and fascinating movie than it is . Instead , it's like watching a rehash of previous Potter subplots , previous ingredients stirred into a new stew leading to a climactic confrontation with Lord Voldemort that ends in a blaze of fireworks . But the few " big " action scenes , while well staged with all the CGI effects bound to please the Potter fans , are hampered by a rather dull and listless storyline that has Potter looking at the dark center within himself as he plots how to avenge the dark forces trying to destroy him . And even the humor that is usually so much a part of these films is lacking , probably because EMMA WATSON and RUPERT GRINT have so little do do with the main action . But as a consolation , there are some striking performances , especially IMELDA STAUNTON as the overbearing and strict disciplinarian who injects a lot of humor into her wickedness . The film is fortunate to have her in a key role . Not much can be said for EMMA THOMPSON and MAGGIE SMITH who speak no more than a few lines , but ALAN RICKMAN and GARY OLDMAN at least have much more to do in supporting roles . Even the main villain of the piece , RALPH FIENNES as Lord Voldemort , has little actual screen time . One big ingredient the film has going for it is the background score by Nicholas Hooper which gives zest to the action scenes and the proper mood to all the dark sequences - - of which there are plenty . Some of the sets are richly detailed and atmospheric , but too much of the photography takes place in the dark . Summing up : A so-so chapter in the Potter series . Hard to see why this one is proving to be such box-office gold when the story is less than satisfying .
On one point I have to agree - - that the sound quality ( especially for the dialog ) needed improvement . But I found a solution for this whenever I watch a British-made film . I use the CAPTION FEATURE on my remote . Works every time . I never have to miss a word of plot and when watching a mystery , this is very important . I could toss the same complaint at GOSFORD PARK , the Robert Altman film that had so much cockney dialog and busy music score in the background that I couldn't understand a thing when I didn't use the caption feature . But putting aside the hearing complaint , AT BERTAM'S HOTEL was a fascinating story , even with the added twists and added characters , and not hard to follow at all . I think the screenwriter did an excellent job of putting some nice touches on the original Agatha Christie story . I wish , in fact , that he'd been the writer who did the updated version of MURDER IS EASY ( ' 82 ) ( with Helen Hayes and Olivia de Havilland in cameo roles ) . That was scripted by Carmen Culver who made a mess of updating it . Too bad Tom MacRae wasn't available then . GERTRUDE McEWEN does a nice job as Jane Marple , but I confess I thought Jean Hickson was the best of all the Miss Marples . You could actually see those little gray cells working when the camera caught her face in pensive close-ups . The settings are opulent , the mystery is a clever one , the cast of players are extremely talented and , aside from the changes that were made adding or changing certain characters to the story , AT BERTRAM'S HOTEL still makes fascinating viewing . Summing up : Just remember to use that CAPTION feature on your remote if you're lucky enough to have bought a set that includes it .
Art film lovers would probably rank this much higher on their scale of appreciation , but I found DEATH IN VENICE , while sumptuous to look at and listen to ( the music of Gustav Mahler fills the soundtrack with his symphonic music ) , as beautiful and empty as a multi-colored seashell . It assails the senses with sensuous shots of Tadzio's youthful beauty as seen by DIRK BOGARDE , but fails to give us a narrative strong enough to sustain over two hours of story . Furthermore , it moves at a snail's pace while exploring the beauty of the seashore in Venice , spending far too much time on close-ups of Bogarde as he sinks deeper and deeper into despair over never possessing the creature he so desires . SYLVANA MANGANO , the great Italian actress , is fine as the boy's mother and the fair-haired Italian boy himself ( BJORN ANDRESEN ) is merely seen and glimpsed from afar and remains an enigma until the very end . Based supposedly on composer Gustav Mahler's personal life ( although never actually proved ) , it's the kind of film that could fill art houses in the ' 80s with high approval from the pseudo-intellectuals who claimed to have read Thomas Mann's novel and approved of the film's tasteful rendering of a difficult and , at that time , taboo subject . Beauty is in the eye of the beholder - - for some , this film is a masterpiece of its kind - - for others , beware the tranquility of the whole piece . It may put you in a dreamlike trance .
JOHN PAYNE , like Dick Powell , began the earlier part of his career as the romantic leading man for Betty Grable , Alice Faye and June Haver in Fox backstage musicals - - and like Powell , when he left his singing roles in that genre he branched out into tough guy crime films or westerns when he entered the free-lancing phase of his career . KANSAS CITY CONFIDENTIAL is evidence that he succeeded in making that choice . It's a gritty crime film about a bank heist , an innocent victim ( Payne ) , the mastermind behind the heist ( PRESTON FOSTER ) , and the three hoods played by the ultimate screen villains LEE VAN CLEEF , JACK ELAM and NEVILLE BRAND . The opening scenes are guaranteed to hook you into the story , as the three hoods are trapped by a clever masked man into doing his dirty work . Once Payne has been hauled in by the police for some tough questioning , the story keeps getting more involved and more ambiguous as it suggests that Payne may want a share of the money because of all the injustices forced upon him by the police . COLEEN GRAY hasn't got much of a role but it's Payne's film all the way and he gets excellent support from everyone else . JACK ELAM takes quite a bit of physical punishment in some graphic displays of temper from Foster and Payne . Tight , suspenseful and well worth viewing , it's my kind of film noir .
DIANE is probably the least well-known of all LANA TURNER's " big " pictures at MGM - - the studio which ironically was on the verge of bankruptcy at the time of this film , but you'd never know it from the opulence of the finished work in gorgeous Technicolor and featuring one of Miklos Rozsa's more subtle scores . It's interesting for a couple of reasons : mainly , because it appears to be a faithful recreation of that period in costumes and settings , features ROGER MOORE ( youthful and handsome before his James Bond adventures ) , and gives LANA TURNER and MARISA PAVAN some very interesting moments as they oppose each other in a number of well played scenes . Other than that , it's a stilted costume romance that never quite comes to life despite all the efforts to give it handsome production values . That explains its obscurity among Lana's films . The lady herself is very fetching here , beautifully costumed ( mostly in black ) , thanks to Walter Plunkett's designs , and attractively photographed for maximum glamor effect . But part of the unreality comes from the excessive glamor given to Turner . Despite this flaw , she does turn in a good performance as Diane de Poitiers , courtesan who stirs envy in the king's wife and is the subject of much court intrigue in medieval France . Neglected by today's viewers who probably have never had a chance to see it , it deserves a wider audience .
JONATHAN HALE is the courageous small-town doctor who has the strength to defy the villagers who are opposed to any doctor using surgical instruments to open the human body . When a woman becomes in need of surgery to remove a cancer , the doctor feels obliged to follow the wishes of her husband that he operate . Of course , the operation is successful and the doctor , instead of being the subject of a public hanging , is treated with the respect he deserves . Told in very melodramatic fashion , as so many of these short subjects were during the late ' 30s and throughout the ' 40s , this is an MGM short directed by Fred Zinnemann , who would soon go on to direct major projects like THE SEARCH with Montgomery Clift after serving time as a director of shorts or full-length B-films at the studio . Interesting but a bit hokey in its approach .
Clever is the word that comes to mind when I think of the mixture of horror and comedy that makes up a good deal of BRIDE OF CHUCKY , much of the humor due to some good one-liners by Chucky ( courtesy of BRAD DOURIF's voice ) . And JENNIFER TILLY does an exceptional job as a dim-witted , evil partner of the doll eventually turned into a doll herself who is just as manic as her boyfriend . NICK STABILE and KATHERINE HEIGL are the leads , the unsuspecting victims of much of the mayhem , who have to confront the evil they're dealing with which leads toward a cemetery in Hackensack where the evil dolls hope to retrieve an amulet from a corpse that will restore their original bodies . It's photographed expertly , well directed by Ronny Yu and there's an unusual amount of range to the expressions on both dolls that make them seem eerily real . The final scene in the cemetery is guaranteed to give you a final startled moment . JOHN RITTER plays his role as Police Chief Kinkaid with some restraint , but it's not much of a part until his gruesome demise . Summing up : Not bad as far as these sort of horror capers go .
Another FRANK SINATRA show from ' 66 has him opening with FLY ME TO THE MOON and closing with PUT YOUR DREAMS AWAY FOR A LITTLE WHILE . It's a breezy hour show with Sinatra looking as jaunty and comfortable before an audience as he ever did . He seems in a bouncy mood as he goes through a whole slew of his favorite songs , as well as a brief duet sequence with Nancy , who says she'd been in the business for six months when this show aired and already had a couple of Gold platters . His songs include : FLY ME TO THE MOON , THE MOST BEAUTIFUL GIRL IN THE WORLD , MOONLIGHT IN VERMONT and NOBODY TILL SOMEBODY LOVES YOU . Then Nancy came on and sang two of her hits , BANG , BANG HE SHOT ME DOWN and ON Broadway before dad joins her for YES , SIR THAT'S MY BABY and DOWNTOWN . And finally , the two of them join in for her hit song , THESE BOOTS WERE MADE FOR WALKING . Sinatra winds up his segment of the show with IT WAS JUST ONE OF THOSE THINGS , MY HEART STOOD STILL , LOVE IS BEAUTIFUL , LUCK BE A LADY ( at his zesty best ) , THAT'S LIFE , GRANADA and CHICAGO . With Nelson Riddle and Gordon Jenkins arrangements , it's a solid show for Sinatra fans to enjoy and a bit of nostalgia too .
WINONA RYDER makes an impressive Jo in Louisa May Alcott's LITTLE WOMEN , tomboyishly charming and persuasive as she matures into a fine young writer . She won a Best Actress nomination , but strangely , her career never took off as strongly as it should have after this success . Except for GIRL INTERRUPTED , she hasn't had a recent string of hits nor has she been as busy at her craft as one would expect . A good Jo is essential for the story to work , and since everyone else is well cast this is no problem . SUSAN SARANDON does a nice job as Marmee and the priceless MARY WICKES ( in one of her last roles ) is a formidable Aunt March . Christian BALE ( who went on to much better roles in the future ) makes a completely acceptable Laurie , and the sisters are well played by KIERSTEN DUNST ( especially good as the young Amy ) , CLAIRE DANES , SAMANTHA MATHIS and TRINI ALVARADO . Filmed in Canada , there's a genuinely wintry look to the New England landscapes and a warm glow to the interior scenes that is perfectly in keeping with the story . In fact , all of the technical elements are in fine order . But somehow , it never quite reaches the grandeur of Alcott's beautifully written tale and , for a film based on a classic novel , doesn't linger in the memory as it should when the distance of a few years have passed . It should have been a minor masterpiece , but misses the mark , although it's considerably more worthwhile watching than the sweet George Cukor version with Katharine Hepburn which now seems awfully dated in style and conception . There are some modern sensibilities written into this LITTLE WOMEN ( thanks to Susan Sarandon's observations as the mother ) and , in general , it plays more believably than the ' 33 classic .
This is one of those patriotic shorts produced during WWII that asked patrons of the movie theater to buy U . S . Defense Bonds or Savings Bonds at the nearest Federal Reserve Bank or Post Office . Most of the full-length features made by the major studios , always included a closing credit that said something like : " Buy U . S . Defense Bonds . . . " . Soldier Robinson makes the pitch for his fellow countrymen to buy war bonds and a montage shows how the money is put to good use by the government on all sorts of defense projects . He's an earnest young man and makes a nice presentation , but the material is all pretty obvious and not quite as inspirational as intended . A good example of the prevailing American sentiment at the time . Incidentally , it was on one of the bond-selling tours that movie stars made that Carole Lombard lost her life when the plane she was in crashed into a mountainside .
BURT LANCASTER stars as THE KENTUCKIAN who has a yearning to go where the grass is greener and wants to leave Kentucky for a new life in Texas with his young son in tow . DIANA LYNN is a pretty schoolteacher at the schoolhouse cabin and DIANNE FOSTER is the other female lead , an indentured servant , with a yen for Lancaster . Good supporting roles for WALTER MATTHAU ( making his screen debut ) and JOHN CARRADINE . JOHN LITEL makes a welcome appearance as a riverboat man , but the story lacks a strong enough plot to maintain interest in the rather pedestrian proceedings . Filmed in widescreen color and CinemaScope , it looks as though a lavish budget has been expended on a tiresome script . Fortunately , the film picks up interest toward the last fifteen minutes when Lancaster and his son have to defend themselves against badman Matthau and his cohorts . There's also a confrontational bullwhip scene with Matthau and Lancaster that is well staged and effective . But the story is rather trite and there's nothing special about Lancaster's performance or his direction . I would have preferred a more appealing youngster for Young Eli than DONALD MacDONALD who walks through his role without ever inhabiting it .
Noteworthy for a couple of stunningly choreographed numbers - - namely , " Baby , You Knock Me Out ! " with CYD CHARISSE and the boxers at Stillman's Gym going through some fantastic acrobatics , and DOLORES GRAY singing " Thanks A Lot , But No Thanks " to a bevy of loose-limbed chorus boys who gyrate to the tune with some acrobatic flip-flops - - well , in those moments IT'S ALWAYS FAIR WEATHER really sizzles and comes to life . But unfortunately , the script by Comden and Greene is only fitfully witty and is not on par with some of their other MGM greats and the other numbers are not quite catchy enough to create much more than a passing remark and likely to be quickly forgotten . Even more detrimental is the fact that while GENE KELLY gets a fair share of nice musical turns ( his cool roller-skating routine is really polished ) , DAN DAILEY ( a great singer / dancer talent ) is given the worst material imaginable and much less screen time to shine . MICHAEL KIDD is also underused but shows a nice flair for comedy , as well as his dancing skills . But the three men , when sharing a split screen for a couple of their dances , are as nimble and talented as can be . DOLORES GRAY has to get mixed reviews . When she's acting as the TV host of a " reality " show that puts surprised guests on the air , she's as phony as a three dollar bill - - and overacts to the nth degree with what she supposes is syrupy charm . But when she goes into her big dance routine with those acrobatic chorus boys , well - - it's on par with Judy Garland's " Get Happy " routine from SUMMER STOCK , which is high praise indeed since that's considered a Garland highlight . Gray's routine is even more imaginatively staged for maximum effect . While not quite up to the standards of other Stanley Donen-directed musicals , IT'S ALWAYS FAIR WEATHER is worth watching for the splendid performances ( even CYD CHARISSE warms up in that boxing scene ) . The only drawback is it never quite overcomes the dark streak that runs through the plot , showing how three men can despise each other when a ten year reunion brings them together and forces them to realize how their values have changed . This must have given the plot extra relevance after the war years ended , but it does put a damper on the overall plot line .
ANTHONY DEXTER , thanks to make-up artists and costuming , makes a believable stand-in as Rudolf Valentino , the silent screen's biggest male heartthrob , but creative license had to be taken with the screenplay because many of the participants in Valentino's life threatened to sue . The result is a rather lifeless bio smacking of Hollywood artifice . This standard treatment of the Valentino story is interesting mainly because it gives a pretty accurate look at a period during the 1920s when silent films were the rage . It also provides some nice eye candy in the form of ELEANOR PARKER and PATRICIA MEDINA , both easy on the eyes and capable enough actresses to bring some life to a rather dull screenplay . All of it has been photographed in luscious Technicolor under Lewis Allen's direction . He gets the most out of the dance sequences and it's here that Dexter's Valentino really comes to life . Otherwise , it's a pretty one-note performance throughout . Director Allen lets DONA DRAKE do her usual job of strenuously over-acting the role of a hot blooded Spanish dancer who is too aware of Valentino's roving eye . There are times when Dexter's Valentino resembles George Raft rather than the silent superstar . RICHARD CARLSON and OTTO KRUGER do nicely as director and producer , and other parts are well played . I have no idea how much of the script is strictly fiction but it seems to capture the essence of the Valentino story , showing his early reputation as a gigolo and his eventual climb to stardom through a series of well mounted adventure romances . Eleanor Parker gives the story class with her performance as Joan Carlisle , a co-star Valentino is continually getting a brush-off from , and eventually marrying Richard Carlson's character . The on again / off again romantic relationship between Parker and Dexter is at the heart of the story . How much of it is strictly fiction , I don't know . His illness and subsequent death comprise the last scenes , but the dramatics involving disclosure of his affair with Carlisle seems like a creation of the scriptwriter . The mysterious lady in black who brings a rose to his gravesite every year is mentioned and gives a touch of mystery to those final scenes . Nice attempt at a bio , but it's an uneven , surface profile of the star and never gets one deeply involved in his story .
This is one of the better Musical-Merry-Go Round shorts produced by MGM and featuring Martin Bloch introducing various bands and their best numbers . # 5 features Martin introducing nimble pianist and composer / orchestra leader Frankie Carle opening with " Sweet and Lovely , " with Carle at the piano and the orchestra behind him . We meet his daughter , Marjorie Hughes , singing the ballad , and explaining to Bloch that she grew up in a musical household and sang with the band for a couple of years . Carle is featured again on a number called " Sleepy Time Gal " with some male singers . Marjorie sings an original Carle composition , " Oh , What It Seemed To Be " and then the short concludes with Carle's nimble fingered piano version of his own song , " Sunrise Boogie . " Well done and one of the most enjoyable musical shorts I've seen in a long time .
A nice chance to see ALEC GUINNESS as a mad abstract artist with KAY WALSH as his bitterly complaining friend in THE HORSE'S MOUTH . Guinness also wrote the script which has him as a mad artist - - crusty , eccentric , but sometimes lovable - - who has a knack for getting into trouble whenever he decides to splash his paints on any bare wall . I must say the resulting paintings are not to my taste , so I squirmed uncomfortably at the sight of them . But the film is really a character study of the eccentric man and his close friendship with some equally weird friends . Ronald Neame uses the Technicolor camera to capture some nice scenes of London , but the story is essentially a two-character study that works because of the excellent performances of Guinness and Walsh . Summing up : Uneven results but generally amusing and entertaining with some very funny moments .
ROSALIND RUSSELL was always at her best in comedies and here she had a role that got her an Oscar nomination for Best Actress in 1942 - - and it's easy to see why . She's downright hilarious as the gal from Ohio with writing ambitions and a pretty blonde sister ( JANET BLAIR ) with a penchant for attracting men and trouble . All the wacky situations stem from their Greenwich Village basement apartment which seems to have more visitors than Grand Central Station . It's all exaggerated fluff , but it works , thanks to a fine cast and sterling performances . RICHARD QUINE and GORDON JONES do repeats of their Broadway roles , and DONALD MacBRIDE as a policeman who wants quiet on his route is hilarious . JUNE HAVOC makes a brief appearance as a medium who used to live in the girls ' apartment . GEORGE TOBIAS , as the opportunistic landlord with the Greek accent , is at his funniest in a colorful supporting role . My favorite moment is the conga sequence with Russell and Blair trying to get rid of sailors who don't speak a word of English , creating a disturbance that lands Blair in jail . Janet Blair is pleasant as the blonde bombshell but it's Russell who milks the most out of her role and gets all the laughs . She's terrific . BRIAN AHERNE does what he can with the role of the talkative editor , but it's not much of a part . Still , he adds a certain debonair charm to the role . Summing up : Notable chiefly as a terrific vehicle for Russell's unique brand of comic talent .
Charles Brackett and Mitchell Leisen collaborated on a few successful films , including the dramatic TO EACH HIS OWN ( ' 46 ) , but here the accent is on a rollicking romantic comedy starring GENE TIERNEY , JOHN LUND , THELMA RITTER and MIRIAM HOPKINS . It's a spin on the mistaken identity theme , with Ritter inadvertently thought to be a much needed maid when she shows up at Gene Tierney's house at an opportune moment with the lady in distress for a good cook . Thelma assumes the identity of the hired help while socialite Tierney is unaware that she's really the mother of John Lund , her new hubby . Even more complications ensue when Tierney's snobbish mother ( MIRIAM HOPKINS ) turns up , intending to show her disapproval of Tierney's impulsive decision to marry Lund . Lund has no affection for Hopkins . " She fills every room with poison gas , " he remarks to his colleagues at work . POSSIBLE SPOILERS HERE But it's his own snobbish attitude in not wanting to tell Tierney his mother's identity that gets him into hot water with Gene when she finds out the truth about their cook . She puts on the big freeze and tells him she's going to take up residence in Mexico - - until things are straightened up in the last ten minutes with a rather contrived ending that has Tierney and Lund suddenly reunited while Ritter unexpectedly finds a mate of her own . THELMA RITTER was Oscar-nominated as the fast talking mother-in-law who happens to be a gourmet cook - - one of six nominations but no wins . Summing up : Well worthwhile , with all of the principal players getting a chance to show a nice flair for comedy .
17th Century period films done by the British are always so impeccably cast and acted that you're taken back to that time when actors played all the roles ( including the female leads ) and women were forbidden to trod the boards . All this changed when King Charles II ( RUPERT EVERETT in too brief a role ) decided it was time for reformation . At least , that's the way it goes in STAGE BEAUTY starring CLAIRE DANES as the lovely woman determined to become an actress and BILLY CRUDUP as the male actor playing women's roles who becomes jealous of the woman who happens to be his dresser . Sumptuously costumed and with authentic looking interiors and exteriors , it's played in the grand manner by a cast of excellent players , including TOM WILKINSON , JAMES FOX , BEN CHAPLIN and HUGH BONNEVILLE , all of whom nail their roles beautifully . But it's BILLY CRUDUP who has to carry much of the film with his impassioned performance as the young man who must adjust to playing a man's role when he finally plays Othello to Danes ' Desdemona and the two of them triumph in the tragedy when they capture the attention of the audience with an ultra-realistic scene where Desdemona gets brutal treatment from the Moor . Frankly , I enjoyed this much more than the similarly themed Shakespeare IN LOVE with the dismal playing of GWYNETH PALTROW masquerading as a boy . This should be of special interest to anyone with a background in theater who wants to see how theatrical shows were managed and performed in " ye olde days " . Summing up : Highly entertaining with an ensemble cast at their peak .
GLENN FORD is very effective as a straight arrow schoolteacher caught up in the discipline problems of one of the city's worst schools and striving to bring his own sense of decency to students who reject him at every turn . The story of his crusade , from Evan Hunter's best-seller , is still timely today when just such problems still exist in certain troubled areas populated by minorities . Supporting Ford are a group of talented actors portraying students , notably VIC MORROW and RAFAEL CAMPOS - - and especially , SIDNEY POITIER . All of them are convincing enough to keep the tale taut and dangerous throughout . ANNE FRANCIS gives some nice warmth to her role as Ford's anxious wife who wants him to quit his dangerous teaching job . It explores the relationship between Ford and his fellow teachers , with LOUIS CALHERN especially adept at showing us a teacher unwilling to be confrontational when it matters . It also deals with issues of race and ethnicity in a more moderate way than you might expect . It's notable today for its early use of rock music , specifically the " Rock Around the Clock " theme that's used over the opening credits . Summing up : An interesting study of the discipline problems many teachers face in city schools . Absorbing , well-paced and filled with tension from start to finish .
THE MORE THE MERRIER is one of many comedies exploiting the theme of crowded Washington during the WWII period - - and one of the best . Personally , I thought it worked best until the point where CHARLES COBURN ( in his Oscar-winning supporting role ) was booted from JEAN ARTHUR's apartment over reading her diary . From that point on , the screwball situations became less amusing and the film stretches credibility a bit too far when the comic situations include McCrea suspected of spying on government buildings with his binoculars . The best moments come early in the film , when Arthur insists on clockwork timing to make getting up in the morning ( with a roommate ) workable . The frenzied rush to keep to her schedule makes for the most amusing moments in the story , thanks to the artful playing of CHARLES COBURN who is delightful as Mr . Dingle , the man who thinks that she deserves a nice , clean-cut young man rather than the stuffy fiancé she's engaged to . Along comes McCrea , and the rest of the plot has Coburn managing to bring the two lovebirds together . Amusing spoof of manners and morals of the period , with JEAN ARTHUR and JOEL McCREA shining in the leads and Coburn doing a nimble job of the cupid-playing Dingle with tricks up his sleeve . The last twenty minutes get a little tiresome , but overall it's a cheerful comedy well worth viewing .
There are three segments to this two-reel short , and each one has their highlight . It begins with HAROLD LLOYD as a struggling writer who can't pay the rent ( a flimsy amount of $3 . 70 is overdue ! ! ) and this leads to a boarding house sequence that has him avoiding the grim landlady and her strong partner bent on giving deadbeats rough treatment . Lloyd excels in this segment as he narrowly avoids detection when they try to track him down . BEBE DANIELS makes little impression as " the girl , " also unable to pay her rent until Lloyd comes to her aid . Thereafter , there's a backstage Broadway scene that has Lloyd trying to sell his story to a producer with dismal results . And finally , a gambling joint scene climaxes the film with a wild chase as the dumb cops try to nab Lloyd , who comes up with an ingenious coat rack trip that has to be seen to be believed - - or described . This all plays very quickly - - fast and funny throughout with nary a lapse of pace , making it one of the most enjoyable of all the Lloyd silent shorts that I've seen . The TCM showing has it accompanied by a brisk musical score .
Fascinating documentary on the construction of the N . Y . subway which opened in 1903 . Includes the various accidents that made improvements necessary , the switch from steam engines to electric tracks , the stories that made newspaper headlines throughout the early part of the 1900s , and newsreel footage of various stages of progress that led to the ultimate underground system we have today . The latter footage is extremely interesting for history buffs who enjoy seeing how New York City looked when the railroad was being constructed . The program that followed on PBS showed how Grand Central Station was constructed and made an excellent companion piece to the " New York Underground " segment . Once again , the footage showing what 42nd street looked like during that era made for a fascinating glimpse of history in progress . These " American Experience " shows are in a class by themselves .
The 1940s seemed to be the decade of the romantic " women's films " featuring stars like Bette Davis , Merle Oberon , Olivia de Havilland and others . And Samuel Goldwyn had the good taste to hire the best script writers , the best cinematographers , the best musicians , and the best available actors to play in all of his films . None was more romantic than ENCHANTMENT and it has a warm glow about it , despite being a tale of unrequited love whereby an elderly man ( DAVID NIVEN in convincing age make-up ) recalls his younger days and his sweetheart ( TERESA WRIGHT ) who leaves him because of a misunderstanding caused by his neurotic sister ( JAYNE MEADOWS ) . When a young woman ambulance driver ( EVELYN KEYES ) , who happens to be his niece , comes to stay in the grand old house during the London blitz of World War II , he advises her not to make the same mistake he did in following his true love . Result : a happy ending for Keyes and her pilot lover FARLEY GRANGER when she goes rushing after him during an air raid . The tale is told in a clever use of flashbacks from one generation to the other , and all of it is photographed in crisp B & W splendor by Gregg Toland with a quietly effective musical score by Hugo Friedhofer . It's a handsomely mounted production , tastefully done without overdoing the sentimentality of the tale . LEO G . CARROLL is excellent as Niven's servant , realistically aged for the part of the tale that takes place in the present . Highly recommended as a quality picture of its kind . It's also a sad reminder of the fact that after leaving Samuel Goldwyn under the contract system , TERESA WRIGHT's screen career floundered and she soon found that she had to work for lesser salaries in films not worthy of her presence . She became a free agent but admitted that it turned out to be a huge mistake .
THE TRAIN delivers a taut suspense tale that could have been told in less than the two hours and thirteen minutes it takes to expand on an incident wherein French railroad engineers did their part in halting some of the German plans during the occupation . It takes place during World War II in 1944 , shortly before the allies liberated France . It's a grim story of stubborn Germans and an overreaching Col . Von Waldheim ( PAUL SCOFIELD ) who is impressed enough with the priceless art inhabiting a French museum to want to take it out of Paris by train to Germany . The story involves a group of French resistance workers , headed by Paul Labiche ( BURT LANCASTER ) , who scheme ways to delay the train until the allies show up , so they can keep it out of German hands . The gritty B & W photography seems to suit the tale , although it might have been just as effective in vivid color . At any rate , it gets most of its realism from the effective performances of the entire cast , turning the drama into a gripping movie that holds the attention all the way through , with only a couple of lags . JEANNE MOREAU makes a nice cameo appearance as Christine , a hotel clerk who helps Lancaster out of some tight spots by giving him an alibi , and all the supporting players do a fine job . Directed by John Frankenheimer , it could have been tightened to a shorter running time , although it barely ever runs out of steam . For train watchers , it's a fanatic's delight . Whenever I watch the film I think of a landlord my family had many years ago who used to take home movies of trains moving along the tracks at varying speeds or into tunnels , etc . I'm sure anyone with this sort of hobby would find the film fascinating from start to finish . Lancaster puts his athletic prowess to good use , doing his own stunts , and Scofield is impressive as the German officer .
Before I go on to praise the good points of THE GOOD SHEPHERD , I should mention at the start that the film badly needed some judicious editing . There are many scenes that go on for too long a time and are badly in need of some artful editing to get the point across just as well . Aside from length , everything else about the film is on the plus side - - the handsome cinematography , the vast amount of settings , the background score that adds to the drama , and the performances of the entire cast which are uniformly good . I'm not a great admirer of ANGELINA JOLIE as an actress , but here I think she demonstrated skill at suggesting the loneliness , frustrations and jealousies of a woman whose life has to remain outside the boundaries of her husband's job with the CIA . Through a series of detailed vignettes , the murky world of an agent's life of deception within the government is sharply observed . More of a character study of Edward Wilson ( played in stolid , very serious fashion by MATT DAMON ) than a straightforward spy yarn , it manages to hold the interest even though it uses the flashback method of storytelling that is apt to confuse a viewer if it isn't done well . But here again , there is a flaw - - it covers a span of twenty or more years but the aging of the central character is never quite convincing enough . Damon never looks that much older than his grown son - - whereas a few gray hairs might have helped considerably . As his grown son , EDDIE REDMAYNE does reasonably well as the man seeking his father's approval . As for the supporting players in this story about one man's experiences in the newly developing CIA , JOHN TURTURRO does an outstanding job as a tough inquisitor and MICHAEL GAMBON is outstanding as a security risk with homosexual tendencies . ALEC BALDWIN has little to do but is intense enough as one of the agency's top men and others in the cast maintain credibility all the way through . The story itself is rather problematic in that nothing is what it seems and not all the information is readily given to the viewer in a way that makes sense . This is partly the fault of the script and partly the fault of director Robert De Niro who also assumes a small role effectively . But still , despite the handicap of being too long ( and a bit too involved at certain points ) , it makes for fascinating viewing and is the kind of film you dare not divert your attention from for a moment . If you do , you are liable to miss an essential plot point . Summing up : Highly recommended for anyone with a keen interest in espionage dramas .
With William Wyler at the director's helm , Lillian Hellman writing the screenplay , and Richard Day's stage-bound but artful sets , DEAD END has plenty of fine ingredients going for it . And the cast is great - - JOEL McCREA , SYLVIA SYDNEY , WENDY BARRIE , HUMPHREY BOGART , CLAIRE TREVOR , MARJORIE MAIN , ALLEN JENKINS and WARD BOND , as well as " The Dead End Kids " themselves . Interestingly , the usually comic Main and Jenkins have straight dramatic roles here . The image of a luxury apartment building adjoining a slum area in the Lower East Side is strikingly presented and makes for the conflict in a story where poverty breeds crime and the rich have to suffer for it . Joel McCrea is the idealistic architect who'd like to eliminate the slums , Sylvia Sydney is a poor shop girl limited by her meager surroundings , and Wendy Barrie is a wealthy society girl . The story is more a series of vignettes than a well-constructed story , but interest is held with forceful scenes directed well by William Wyler , who was always able to get the best from his cast and crew . Claire Trevor makes the most of a brief role as a prostitute , a warm-up for a similar role in STAGECOACH - - and deserved her Oscar nomination . Dated in some respects , it's a well-written play that Kingsley wrote and it still has the power to command interest even though much of it borders too much on melodrama .
THE PALM BEACH STORY is not to be confused with reality . It's a zany romantic comedy given full speed treatment by director Preston Sturges who brought screwball comedy to an art form . His script , full of hilarious one-liners that fly by almost too fast to catch , is acted to perfection by CLAUDETTE COLBERT , RUDY VALLEE and MARY ASTOR - - with a less enthusiastic turn by JOEL McCREA who gives the only so-so performance , perhaps because none of the wittiest lines come his way . I've always liked this actor but here is performance is almost muted and strangely remote . Nevertheless , if screwball comedy is your dish , this is one you can relish . From the moment Colbert gets aboard a train carrying her to Palm Beach , the fun starts and gets into high gear , racing toward a conclusion that is not altogether satisfying nor even remotely hinted at until the final few minutes of film . It's a twist that somehow doesn't ring true - - the only really false note in an otherwise perfect screwball comedy . Rudy Vallee is outstanding as a nutty millionaire , a role written expressly for him ( and he even gets to sing a little ) - - and Mary Astor , as his husband hunting sister , is hilariously over the top as a woman who can't stop talking while pursuing her man . A good way to spend a pleasant 90 minutes .
DORIS DAY and ROCK HUDSON were at the top of their form in PILLOW TALK , and it was the beginning of a wonderful friendship that lasted through the years , until the actor's untimely death from AIDs . In this sunny romantic comedy , they share a party line ( which makes the story dated already ) , and the comedy stems from their instant dislike for each other that melts only when Hudson happens to see what she looks like at a night club . Realizing he'll never score with her unless he pretends to be someone else , he puts on a Texan accent and proceeds to charm her - - until the deception wears thin . With THELMA RITTER as Doris ' tipsy maid offering one-liner wisecracks and TONY RANDALL as best friend , the supporting roles are in good hands . It's the only time Doris received an Oscar nomination for her work and well worth seeing for the clever script and sexy situations . This would be the beginning of the sex comedies Day starred in throughout the next decade and still remains the best of the lot .
" Summertime " is more of a mood piece than anything else . It captures the loneliness of a traveler in a foreign land , in this case a spinster who is hungry for love but too repressed to accept the love Rossano Brazzi offers . It has a bittersweet ending , appropriate for a thin story that sets the tone early on and never once makes us believe that Hepburn is going to find her true love in Venice . The photography is gorgeous and must have had everyone heading for the nearest travel bureau for a tour of Italy when the film was released . The performances are all excellent - - but the film belongs to Hepburn . She creates one of her most moving and truthful portraits - - sensitively showing us what this woman feels as she watches others pairing off for affairs , alone and unable to really connect . The sexual mores of the 1950s permeate the film - - the sexual revolution was just over the horizon but not yet evident . One of Hepburn's most subtle , yet affecting performances . With David Lean's sensitive direction , the gorgeous photography and the evocative background music , " Summertime " will put you under the spell of its fragile romance . Easy to see why Brazzi was the ultimate continental charmer .
