This is just a bad movie . There is no way to sugar coat it . The plot is apparently set in a future where people aren't allowed to watch TV , but they are allowed to have their minds placed in animals for fun . Or in the case of Raul Julia be forced to have your mind placed in a animal because you watched tv . Then that gets botched so he is placed in a virtual reality simulation where he doesn't do much except try and act out Casablanca and reprogram the computer . In the meantime there are a lot of made up words ( flavo fives or something ) and alot of not much happening . Why Raul Julia agreed to be in this is beyond me . Though anyone who would agree to be in Street Fighter would appear in anything I guess .
This is the most jumbled movie I have ever seen . It is badly edited , grainy , and the acting is bad . It also seems to have no story whatsoever . It apparently centers around three guys : one an escaped convict ( Griffin ) , and the other two excons ( Landis and Cook ) . They ride the countryside getting into all these stupid and avoidable situtions . How they got suckered into going to Cuba is anyone's guess . And I wonder are we supposed to be rooting for these guys . I mean they mercilessly throw one guy down a well . Oh well what can you expect . There is a suprise at the end , but the guys of MST 3000 said not to reveal it .
This movie based on a fighting game actually has very little martial arts action in it . Instead it has a very bad plot and lots of bad comedy and Raul Julia in his last role doing a bad job as Bison . Van Dame sucks too , but that is no surprise . . . what really makes this movie bad though is the almost complete lack of fighting . And why is Raul Julia Bison . . . Raul hasn't exactly made a career playing super tough fighters has he . Seeing him fight Van Dame in the end is laughable . They also try to squeeze every Street Fighter character into the movie they can which doesn't help the plot along . All in all this movie is pretty bad and if you watch it don't expect to much " Street Fighting " .
I am guessing , however , that this movie was not the inspiration for Top Gun . What to say about this one , well , for one thing it is hard to describe , but probably nearly impossible to spoil . Why you ask ? Well honestly there is no plot or anything startling revealed in this movie . I am not kidding when I say this either , almost the entire film is sort of a commercial for this jet , you would think the military planned on mass marketing them to the public or something . The only semblance of a plot is that these new recruits are learning to fly the starfighter jet and that is about it . You do not even get the competition of Top Gun . What you do get is more stock footage of jets flying than should be allowed in one movie . Lots of stock footage and lots of light music . I am thinking they got this movie from a department store elevator . Even during scenes that should have a bit tense music you still get the light stuff . As for the tense scenes there are like two . One a problem with hydraulics that went no where , the other a storm that is only implied and never shown that interrupts one flight and the second prolonged fueling scene in the movie . The rest of the film is clunky dialog , the main pilot focused on making his moves on a really stupid gal , strange telephone pranks that are not funny , and an annoying senator calling about his son . Oh yeah , I can not forget the the guys getting in a pool to test out their " poopy suit " . Then you have the most anti-climatic ending ever with more light music . I am thinking the makers of this film figured you did not need a plot . . . showing jet stock footage would be plenty to keep people entertained .
Sure it takes place in the west , but the title makes it seem like it is a conventional western . Instead , it is a movie of a woman sheriff . Make no mistake though this is a bad movie about a woman sheriff . She becomes sheriff when her husband is gunned down ; she is only a tad bit upset by this . Her main goal is to go after the villain who is also a woman , but the villain hires a guy to kill her . So this is what happens , the hero falls in love with the killer and vice versa . Utterly stupid , as anyone killed in this movie has the new sheriff to thank . She had more than a few chances to put the killer behind bars , but I guess because she liked him she wouldn't do it . The killer is also after the mayor of the town for personal reasons that are also rather dumb . This movie is very boring and not really worth watching . . . it is not one of the better episodes of MST3000 they made . I can not imagine anyone seeing this without them because that would make it that much more painful . Corman is a low budget director , but even he should know better than to have people go into one place and coming out another .
The basic story of this bomb is a caveman played by Richard Kiel is discovered . After being captured by the caveman a father and daughter try and distract eagah from wanting to get it on with the daughter . They escape and eagah later comes after them again . That is the basic plot nice and simple . The hero is this dweeb that looks like a cabage patch kid and the girl apparently prefers him to the caveman who knows why . There are stupid scenes where the daughter shaves her dad then shaves eagah and he of course is turned on by this . The hero somehow beats eagah and they ride around in his dunebuggy . Best to avoid this movie at all costs .
I can see this movie wasn't that badly reviewed and people have made some good arguements for it , but I just did not enjoy it . The costume was nothing like the comic book and though Dolph looked like the punisher he did not act like him . He was to dreary and slow talking the real Punisher is not this silent and brooding . But overlooking that , this Punisher is always seemingly unprepared . He runs out of ammo quite often or he is stuck using a 12-gauge when he needs a machine gun . The villians aren't to great either , but this is Marvel's fault because they sell the rights to their characters to whoever . The Kingpin or Jigzaw should have been the villians instead we get nondescript mobsters and the Japanese mafia . If Marvel would just sell the rights to all their characters to a major studio they would be much better off and their movies would not be so cheaply made . Look what New Line did with Blade and Fox did with X-man , if you sell the rights to your characters to good studios you get a better movie .
This movie does not flow very well . The movie starts out with a burglar breaking into a house . He gets shot and Mitchell is on the scene . He then is assigned to watch over this other guy , who is connected to two other guys . These guys may or may not have some connection with the first guy who shot the burglar ( I think he is one of their lawyers ) . Meanwhile , Mitchell is breaking every rule in the department and violating constitutional rights . Shooting people who aren't a threat , sleeping with hookers , and entering a house without a search warrant . In fact he wouldn't get anything done if not for one of the criminals bringing him into the fold . Oh yes , the clown also does the famous stick your fingers into the highly addictive drugs to taste it ( police do not do this if they want to keep from becoming hooked on the drug themselves ) . In fact , he really covers his fingers with the stuff and takes a big ol ' taste . I think he was disappointed that it wasn't heroine . Also , there is this most annoying scene involving Mitchell and this kid that will make you scream .
Yes , I am just going to tell you about this one so don't read if you want surprises . I got this one with the title Christmas Evil . There was also another Christmas horror on the DVD called Silent Night , Bloody Night . Whereas Silent Night , Bloody Night ( not to be confused with Silent Night , Deadly Night ) had lots of potential and was very close to being good , this one wasn't quite as good . It started out interesting enough watching the villain ( if you can call him that ) watching the neighborhood kids and writing in books about who is naughty and nice , but after awhile you are looking for some action and this movie doesn't deliver . You need character development , but this goes overboard and you are still never sure why the heck the guy snaps . About an hour in he kills three of four people while a whole crowd watches in terror , and the guys he kills aren't even his targets they are just making fun of him . This is one of many unsuccessful attempts by the killer to knock of the naughty . He then proceeds to try and kill this other guy , and he tries to break into his house by squeezing himself into the fireplace . He promptly gets stuck and barely manages to get out . He then enters through the basement and then tries to kill the guy by smothering him in his bedroom . He can't seem to kill the guy this way so he grabs a star off the tree and slits the guys throat . What the heck was a tree even doing in the bedroom in the first place ? Oh yeah , the killer before this kill stopped off at a party and had some fun too . Well that is about it except for the town people chasing him with torches and the unresolved part with his brother and that tune he wants to play . What was that even about ? He kept talking about something that was never really explained . How does it end you ask , well since I have spoilers I will tell you . He runs off the road in his van and proceeds to , well lets just say it was lame ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !
What to say about this movie . Well it is about a bunch of good students who have some bad drugs and turn into delinquent students that sell more of the bad drugs to people . Two of those people have adverse effects as one turns into a toxic avenger type and his girlfriend throws up some creature that grows in the school's basement . That is about all there is to it and they stretch it out for 84 minutes . This movie is pretty bad and should be locked away forever . Though that is not fair , some people like Troma's movies and they can watch it if they want . Troma movies for me though , are the worst movies there are out there . I just watched this one out of morbid curiosity .
Why this movie is called Giant Spider Invasion I will never know . For one , there is only one giant spider , two , it isn't really an invasion . The plot starts at some redneck's home where from out of the blue something lands in their back yard . Then a bunch of tv stars and b movies stars try to figure out what happened . Then a giant spider which I believe is really a dune buggy terroizes the countryside . For the most part the spiders are just tarantulas which are rather big , but not giant . You will love the scene where they discuss black holes and how they relate to the spiders as well as how they kill the spiders , because it is a clear example of cheap movie science .
Not that it didn't have its moments , but this is definitely one that should have gone directly to video . It just seems very poorly made . This movie also has Sherman Hemslely in a rather large role so once I saw that flash on the screen , I knew the film would be kind of generic . Still I like Norm MacDonald and he does his best , though he doesn't have much to work with . This movie has a butler who kidnaps his boss's dog , but the dog goes away . The police find a ransom note and Norm's blood everywhere and think he is the one who was kidnapped . There is a twist at the end anyone will see a mile away and there are some humorous scenes with Danny DeVito , but for the most part I wouldn't look too hard to find this movie .
I only got this one because it came free when I bought " The Mist " on DVD . I am sure glad I never bought it . I thought about it at one time , but I have never been much of a Christina Ricci fan and she is the star of this one . Unfortunately , her scenes drag the movie down , not she is bad , but for me the most interesting scenes involved the discovery of the church . The story has a girl hit by a step mum with her kid in the car . The woman grateful the girl is okay lets her stay with her and her husband in their rather big house . The husband is a researcher of some sorts looking at the remains of the church mentioned above . There is something different about said church . There are also mysterious people showing up in town that seemingly know Ricci's character . A rather good death at the beginning of the film and a few premonition scenes like one would find in the movie " The Sixth Sense " scattered throughout the movie . Then at the end a couple of more deaths and the startling revelation which I had figured out a bit before the end . Did not really startle me . So not much horror , not much tension , a mystery that really was not to hard to figure out and the pacing was a bit slow with needless plot points . However , someone else may well think this movie is great , just not my taste .
This movie is not really anything like the title implies it is about . When I think rebel , I think bikers with leather jackets , or people who laugh in the face of the law . Here it is three losers looking for a break all for varying reasons . Well not all that varying as they all want money . One , is an unemployed actor who has a lovely wife and is apparently a bad actor . One , is a writer who is shopping around a book that is bad . The other guy is just trying to escape his mother's shadow or something . . . was not quite as sure about him . Well , a man who runs a rather crappy establishment has assembled these men to perform a robbery of an armored car . So that is about all there is to it . They take a train to Chicago , rob the armored car and get on the train and head on back home . Except , once on the train things begin to unravel as greed takes over one of the guys , another gets jumpy and then dead bodies begin to turn up . It is rather interesting to watch in places as it does move fairly quickly and the lead guy is likable enough as is his wife who stands by him . You also get to see the chief from Get Smart as the mastermind behind the heist . However , you also get to see a chase scene at the end that is to long and rather anti-climatic and the other guys in the heist are rather bad in how they are presented .
Congrats " The Village " , you have replaced " The Chronicles of Riddick " as the lowpoint so far of the 2004 movies I have seen . The sad part is I sort of liked that one , this one , however , I did not enjoy much at all . In fact , I have now finally seen a movie that was worse than last years " 28 Days Later " , in fact after seeing this one I feel bad about being as hard on that movie as I was . I give this movie a three only because at least it has good performances . . . still those performances cannot make up for the fact the plot was awful , it was dreadfully boring , and the ending was very predictable . . . I think I got it five minutes in when I saw their community resembled an amish village , and I was 100 % sure once the origin of the creatures is revealed . The movie is totally devoid of humor , it takes itself seriously to a fault , and quite frankly it would not scare a child of three or four years old . The only reason it is so highly ranked here at imdb is that M . Night directed it so people feel they have to like it , but he isn't a god and so I say this movie is just a mistake by him . Why he can not make a movie without the twist ending is beyond me . Next time he should just make a straight horror movie with no twists at the end and that would probably surprise people more than this one did . I mean if you did not see this one coming you probably have problems concentrating , but then who could blame you ? This movie is very tedious and if you can manage to keep awake through the whole thing you will say " so that is it ? " You would have been better off sleeping . There are also more holes left unfilled than can be found in a piece of swiss cheese . It also irked me that Phoenix is basically not even in the second half of this film . All in all a grave disappointment , a movie that looks like a made for television movie presented by the Lifetime channel . If this scares you seek medical help .
Here is another Eddie Murphy comedy that if you saw the trailers for it , you have seen all the best parts . This is also a movie that is more marketed to children than adults and that is another problem with it . It bogs down with a lot of sentimental rubbish as well . . . I don't know if it is just me , but I want to laugh when I go see a comedy , not have a message jammed down my throat . Though this one is probably good for families , the parents should be warned that they are in for a good joke here or there , but the rest of the time it is a bit stupid . Norm MacDonald is rather good as the voice of the dog and Chris Rock is recognizable as well , as for the rest of the voices who is to say who they are , no other actors with really distinct voices seem to be used . Some of the jokes may be a bit inappropriate for children , but they most likely will go over the child's head . For the most part this movie is a slow mover that just isn't all that funny for most adults . Seems like Eddie though is making a career off of this type of movie so more power to him .
I really couldn't get into this movie . The plot is some old woman has been torturing someone so long that he is deformed . She dies and he is left in the basement to starve . Months must pass and a family moves in . The daughter is blind because of an accident caused by the father . Well anyway this guy in the basement , who for all rights should be long dead is still around . He eats a cat and now is superhuman . He now wants to eat people and have sex . And when a hooker dies father gets the blame . I always dislike movies where someone else is blamed for the killings because you always here the typical lines " I didn't do it " , " I could never do such a thing " , blah blah blah . And the family storyline could be a lifetime movie storyline .
I liked the setting , there seemed to be some interesting story elements . . . but it was poorly executed and the ending completely destroyed what the rest of the film set up and was just awful . An ending right out of a Lifetime movie's ending to be sure . The movie starts with a rather interesting burst . . . girl being chased by unknown force , but I figured there may be trouble when the ghost was seen and the effects looked like something out of a television movie . Still when the story shifted from modern times to the 1800's it seemed to be going in an interesting direction again . However , the movie basically shows this one girl repeatedly attacked , in the same fashion numerous times and it quickly wears thin . They try to figure out the cause for these attacks by a seemingly angry spirit , but they never find out anything that could help or save the plot as the movie spirals to a rather bad ending that really is quite lame when you consider what the movie seemed to be setting up . I mean just because you can make a twist ending doesn't mean you should and this was a twist just to make a twist . You don't get what the movie promises with its opening words , you get really no satisfaction at all . I mean I am doubting the reason all the stuff happened was like the movie maker here suggested . I am thinking they could have made this movie a little more interesting with a bit more research into the actual " Bell witch Hauntings " .
Nothing special , it like all sega cd games has flaws galore . This one is basically the very limited control of the situation you have in this game . Of course , that is basically a problem with all the games that incorporate movies into their game . This one has you flying around a bunch of pipes exterminating creatures that are infesting these tunnels . You have a copilot that constantly gives you advice , cuts you down , are says what a good job you are doing . Your boss also does about the same thing . He also goes berserk near the end of the game and sets super monsters on your tail for some reason or another . So be prepared to fly around basically on autopilot except for the occasional turn where you pick the right way or crash in a dead end . For the most part you are aiming a target though at the various monsters in the sewers and the higher your score the more impressed your copilot and your obnoxious boss are . If you really suck and score really low not only will they not be impressed the game will end . I was rather good at this one as all you really had to do was memorize where the monsters are as they are in the same place all the time .
Not that the endings are much of a surprise , it is just the movie sets up one thing only to tear it down in the end , and then it tears down what just happened and sets up what the movie was trying to establish in the first place . I know that doesn't make sense , but if you saw it you may get what I am trying to say . This movie stars Michael Caine as a comic book artist . He ends up getting into a wreck , well actually he and his wife just avoid a wreck , but he gets his hand chopped off . He goes through some depression because his hand is not found and can't be reattached . He ends up getting an artificial hand which lets him to some things , but not things that take a little touch ( like draw the comic he does ) . He tries teaching a class , but he is still depressed about losing his hand and not being able to draw . Meanwhile , his lost hand has seemingly come to have a life of its own , and for some reason it wants to kill . Could have been a good movie , but they turn stuff around here and there to try and surprise the audience and it ends up really deflating the whole movie .
The book was really good , rather scary , and had its share of gore . The television movie was in comparison just plain weak . I can understand you can not include everything from one of King's longer and most imaginative novels , but this movie seemed like it was made for the Lifetime channel ( in fact I have seen it on there ) . No gore , no scares , and a totally screwed up ending . Many of the best parts of the book are completely left out such as the house where the silver shot was actually used and too much of some of the slower parts of the book are left in ( the in depth scenes of them getting the call ) . It was also done a totally different way because in the book the children flashbacks are throughout the book and run along the adult stories while here the children are in part one and the adults part two . In fact in the book the children are more of the focus while in the television version it is the adults . I can understand some of the changes , you absolutely could not do the one scene in the sewers with the boys and Beverly even if it was an " R " rated theatrical release , but leaving out almost all the gruesome deaths and making the ending as corny as they did just ruined the whole thing for me . I wasn't particularly thrilled with the casting for the most part either , only John Ritter stood out in this one . Well so did Harry Anderson , but that was because I used to watch " Night Court " . So what you get is a totally non-scary horror movie that just doesn't have the zip the book did .
What happens when you send three student film makers into the woods to shoot a documentry about a witch ? Well somehow they manage to get lost when the road can't be more than a mile away if that much . Perhaps , they should have taken some outdoor survival classes , because these clowns would probably get lost in someone's backyard . And guess what ? We get to watch them complain , moan , and groan almost the entire movie and it is supposed to be scary . During all this they are been stalked by an unseen force or something , which is probably just someone camping who is sick of hearing them yell , scream , and cuss each other out . This force does scary things like shake the tent and make barely audible noises in the distance . It also makes arts and crafts and displays them . . . Oh how scary ! Meanwhile , our " woodsman " keep walking around in circles like idiots instead of following the river which would have prevented them from going around in circles . This movie could have been really good . The beginning was alright where they interviewed those people and before they yelled at each other constantly , and the end was alright too . The middle , though , did not have enough in it . There should have been more hints at what might be out there . You don't have to show it so everyone knows what it is , but perhaps give peeks at something in the darkness . Hear noises that are a bit more distinct . This movie had potential , but wasted to much time showing the three argue .
You can tell this one is a TV movie in that you don't see a whole lot of blood or anything . The story is pretty sad as a mentally retarded man is accused of hurting a little girl . . . which turns out not to be the case and this idiots who are not police go looking for him . The police could have prevented what happened next by locking the mentally retarded person up till they questioned the girl , but that wouldn't have made for much of a movie . The rednecks go to where he lives and find him hiding in the fields dressed as a scarecrow and they proceed to kill him even though he didn't make a move . They get over in the trial cause they have connections and then they proceed to be killed one by one . Predictable and a bit to slow paced , but watchable .
First , from the looks of things this movie was an actual theater release which is a bit surprising . It looks and feels like a made for television movie , when I first saw it on USA network I thought it was a movie they made . Second , why is it listed as a horror movie ? It is not very horrific at all . It is a rather mild thriller about a crazy paper boy who becomes really attached to this mother and daughter , so much so that he does everything in his power to make them like him . If anyone tries to warn the mother , then he deals with them . Here is a movie where you just want to beat the snot out of the stalker character ; it drives you crazy at what he gets away with . It also makes me glad I don't have a person that likes me that much . Sure some days I wish a gal would form some sort of crush on me , but then you see some of the possible results of such an unhealthy obsession . All in all though this movie is not good , and it is not bad . It is just a mediocre thriller worth a look see if you see it on the television .
There really is not much horror in this movie and for the most part it is more drama than anything else . A bit of a drama with some supernatural elements added in . I wanted to see a horror so maybe I am being harder on the movie than I normally would . The movie does make you wonder what angle it is going to use and it keeps you guessing throughout . Is the movie going to turn into a horror about some strange monster ? Is the movie going the " Deliverance " rout ? Or is this movie sort of a " Legend of Boggy Creek " type movie ? Turns out it is a little of this and a little of that . It makes for rather good viewing the first time , but once you have seen it there is no reason to see it again . For the first part of the movie it is mainly like watching your average family vacation gone badly as the vacationers have a run in with a surly hunter . Then they through in some weird dream sequences for the kid and the mysterious showing us photos of this and that . In the end it starts to become fairly predictable and a bit to sad for my tastes . . . All that is left in the end is a shot of a truck being towed , still not sure what the significance of that was . Worth one look , but that is enough .
This movies cover leads you to believe that it is a spoof of Silence of the Lambs , but the movie itself is more of a spoof of Psycho . It has a few good jokes here and there , but for the most part it is the same old gags . That is the case with most spoofs though , dumb joke after dumb joke with a gem scattered here and there . Dom Deleuise plays the Hannibal type character and that is one of the mistakes of the movie . This may be a spoof , but you still need someone with a Hopkins like demeanor . The guy who did Hannibal in " Loaded Weapon 1 " was much better . Billy Zane is okay in his role as Joe Dee Foster and there are some others who do all right as well . Though it seems that every spoof has to have a cameo by someone who isn't and never has been a real star . Usually , it is Hulk Hogan or Dr . Joyce Brothers . . . in this one it is Rip Taylor and Bubba Smith . Is there some rule that says you have to have a cameo from one of these people if you are making a spoof ? Though I thought the one scene with John Astin running up behind Billy in the bowling alley was funny . . . I don't know why .
Well the good here is that Peter Weller is back and there is a rather cool fight at the end . For those who say who does it matter who plays Robocop you must watch the next one and you can hear Robocop is just not as forceful in his voice as he is here . The fight at the end between Robocop and the other robot is rather cool to . . . though it is a bit of a throwback to claymation or stop motion at times . The story has this new drug on the streets and corrupt business is at it again . You also have Robocop briefly reunited with his wife , he also gets a bit tore up again . You have a mysterious criminal and his kid sidekick , a team working on the next Robocop , the original Robocop being reprogrammed , a police strike and do you get the feeling there is just a bit much going on here ? You also get the stupid commercials , but here they are even worse . Still , you get lots of blood and violence as this is just before the lets make every movie we can pg-13 phase that is still the plague of Hollywood . If they could have just worked on the story a bit and took out some of the elements while focusing more on the drug villains this movie could have been as good as the first . However , this edition of Robocop is a bit of a jumbled mess . Sadly though the next one would be worse as it would feature a robot ninja and a flying robocop .
This is one of those movies you have to see at the theater to really enjoy . The tornados on the big screen look great and the sound is effective too . You can lose your mind and just go for a thrill ride . Unfortunately when you see it on your own TV the magic is gone and you are left with a movie that has so many things wrong with it , it becomes a rather blah film . The story , storm chasers want to deploy some stupid thingies to measure a tornado from the inside . How will this help anything . . . who knows , but more power to them . The tornados look good , but it isn't like you can't see real tornados everyday on the weather channel . The scenes with the tornados though are the highlight , but the talking scenes get kind of boring after awhile . This movie runs just a bit to long and could have easily been trimmed a bit . The rival storm chasers for instance were kind of pointless and really added nothing to the film . This is a movie , unfortunately that also suffers from so many scientific flaws as well . I am no scientist , but even I had my doubts on some of the stuff . Best to have seen this one at the theater , cause that is just about the only place this movie can be really enjoyed . . . scaled down to TV it becomes rather weak .
This movie is about a couple that lives on this outpost in space . They are lovers and their world is carefree and simple . That is until a criminal comes and builds a robot that goes insane . The problem with this movie is that there just isn't enough cast here to make this movie as cool as it should have been . The robot needed people to kill , but there were only three people around so it didn't really get to flex its muscle . On the plus side Kirk Douglas is good , and so is Harvey Kietal as the criminal . Fawcett isn't great , but she does ok . The plot should have included more though as a lot of this movie goes unexplained , like Kietal's character motivations , or why didn't anyone warn Kirk and Farrah that a criminal was out there . In the end this movie has its moments , but tends to become a bit tedious .
This was supposed to be a James Bond spoof , but if that is what you are looking for then check out the Austin Power's movies . This one just spoofs a bunch of movies with mixed results . The best part of the movie is the title song , sung by Weird Al ; it is actually the only thing that really spoofs Bond flicks . There are also a few other good scenes in this as well , and then there are other ones that just seem to have Leslie Nielson reenacting a scene from a movie with no real pay off . Some of the movies spoofed are True Lies , Speed , Jurassic Park , and Pulp Fiction . There are more , but I can't remember them all . If they could have stood with some basic form of a plot this one would have been better , but as it is it has a couple of laughs in it . I particularly like the kid who was acting like the Home Alone kid and what happened to him .
I know , you are thinking that it was made in 1979 so the effects are not up to par with today's stuff . No , I mean the special effects are bad for then . The special effects just don't measure up to movies like Star Wars ( the space scenes ) or other disaster movies of the time . I like Sean Connery though and the rest of the cast is rather good , so this one is not completely unbearable . It is , however , rather slow moving and when a chunk of meteor falls it is not very impressive at all . The highlight would have to be the tidal wave that hits Japan , it looks okay , but that is only when compared to all the other scenes in the movie when the meteors strike . The ones that burn up over Italy look like brake lights flying through the sky , the mountain top blowing up also looks incredibly bad . Then there is the scene at the end where they have to get through a tunnel , it looks good , but the scene is so short . You are left wishing there was a bit more to it ( though I can't believe they covered Connery with mud like that ) . This movie needed to be a bit more like other disaster movies in that there is more stuff in the middle of the film other than the two minute scenes depicted meteor damage . Most of the action here took place at the end .
Like Student Bodies this one is a parody of slasher flicks . Unlike Student Bodies this one never has scenes that are too serious . Having said that it isn't the best movie ever , it is merely tolerable . Though I loved Paul Reubens ( Pee Wee ) . His character made me laugh any time he was on screen .
I usually like an Arnold flick and this one was pretty good . It amazes me how the last movie he made that made 100 million was the god awful Batman and Robin . . . meanwhile the three flicks he has put out since then are all better movies and didn't even get close ( I didn't see the 6th day but people say it is pretty good too ) . In this one he plays a fire fighter whose family is killed in a terrorist attack and he goes searching for said terrorist . Some twists along the way make this an interesting movie as well . Could have been better , but what the heck I enjoyed it . I really hope Terminator 3 is good enough to bring Arnold another super hit .
I liked the first two Austin Powers ' movies quite a bit . Not so much with this one , this one was okay as most of it we have seen before . Granted , there was a humorous opening I did not expect and the closing was the same , but the stuff in the middle was just same ol same ol . The only two new facets in this entry are Michael Caine as Austin's dad which is somewhat funny and Goldmember a new villain who is not funny at all . Also , Austin has a new girl and Beyonce is the weakest of the Austin girls by far . So the story , of course Dr . Evil has a plan involving Goldmember , kidnapping Austin's dad and a new doomsday device all doing most of the same jokes from part one and two . Sure some of it is still a bit funny , but it is also old too . The story is not as fluent either as it goes here and there making jokes at everything and not seeming to be as well put together as the first two were . Then there is the revelation at the end that makes little sense especially considering the previous two movies . So just about everything in this one is weaker than the previous two movies . Nothing really is better here and for the most parts you are just revisiting jokes from the previous installments as well . So in the end if this is the last one of the series it goes off on a rather weak note , and I have not heard anything about a sequel anytime in the future and how this one ended I would not think it possible anyway so expect a good chuckle here and there , but nothing new really worth seeing .
I am not the biggest fan of this movie , I only give it a six , but compared to the other movies and the show it is almost an Oscar worthy picture . This one is about an immortal who through the killings of other immortals hopes to attain the prize . He must win , because if he loses , one who is evil will have total power to do anything he wishes . How do you kill an immortal you ask ? Why , you chop their head off of course . Sounds cool , but it plays out very slowly with the highlight of this one being the scenes with Sean Connery . Especially , the fight between Connery and the villain of this piece . There are other good fights here and there and a very good musical score mainly comprised of Queen songs that makes up for the parts of the film that just seem to drag by . Lambert and the villain are good though and they have a pretty good fight in the end , though not as good as the one involving Connery . When this movie ends though that should really have been it as everything done and said in the movie really points to the last fight as the final one with the phrase " there can be only one " .
I finally now have seen this the second Godzilla movie made . The first where Godzilla takes on another monster . . . the other monster presented is Anguirus . The story was pretty good for the most part as they make it clear in the Japanese cut anyway , that this is a new Godzilla and not the one destroyed by the oxygen destroyer . Also , this new monster is also discovered . The cities just off the coast are on alert , everything seems to go well until a bunch of prisoners escape and start a large fire ( light apparently attracts Godzilla ) and not only does he come , but so does Anguirus and they battle in the city . After the battle there is time to relax as Godzilla leaves peaceful like enough and the city was evacuated very well this time too . Everything is going well until Godzilla reappears in a more northern town , however at one point he is in the middle of a bunch of snow capped mountains and a plan is hatched to stop Godzilla's onslaught again . This movie could have been better though , there is a lot of filler in this movie , I am thinking they felt they needed more scenes to pad out a rather short running time film . However , with this movie coming out only six months after the original , the extra scenes had to be scenes of people rather than of the monsters . Also , the film goes on a bit to long well after the battle between the two monsters . So much so that the threat of Godzilla seems to even evaporate for a time . I also think the plane scene at the end went on to long as their plan should have to worked after they figured it out rather than going back to base to load up on missiles . However , the fight between the two monsters is rather good , and unlike the professional wrestling like quality of the next movie " Godzilla vs King Kong " in this one the monsters fighting seems to be like that of two actual animals and not men in costumes . I think this one would have been much better though if they did not rush to complete it .
Though he is in this one a bit more than the first one . This one I like a tad more than the first , still this series is a bit freaky . This one has this weird doctor doing experiments and stuff and he ends up bringing the wife of the first movie back to life by using a rather gory method . Meanwhile , the daughter from the first one keeps having dreams of her father needing helped , trapped in some bizarre place . There is also some gal who is catatonic and she is the one who opens the gates into the strange universe of Pinhead . Some twists here and there as the good doctor is betrayed and turned into something like what Pinhead is , only he is a bit more deadly . The daughter finds the source of the dreams and all sorts of other unpleasant things are revealed . The ending is kind of over the top as it just gets weirder and weirder , but hey that is what this series is all about .
I was a bit disappointed by this film . From the back I was expecting one of the best , if not the best Afterdark movie yet . Why else would this one be held off from the others and released separately . Well it is not because it is a horror movie that is going to blow anyone away or surprise . It is simply a haunted house movie , a bit like " The Shining " , with there really being nothing new being added to the table other than the fact it is set in Russia . Everything else this movie has done has been done before , other than fact they literally let you know what is to become of our main characters . When the source of the horror is revealed you will be thinking , " that has been done to death " . Not that it was all bad , it is just the ending really makes this movie lose any steam it had . Weird things are established , mysterious tunnels never fully explored , strange noises never explained all done in by the simplistic source of the horror . What is the source ? Well if I told you that I would ruin the movie , however if you have seen any of the other numerous haunted house movies released the past four or five years , you shouldn't have to hard a time figuring it out . So great setup in this movie , good atmosphere , basically a could have been good horror done in by its ending . Though that is hardly a rarity in horror movies now is it ?
Here is a case where they got good actors in Dennis Quaid as the dragon slayer and Sean Connery doing the voice of the main dragon , but the story really was not very good . It has its high points , but to many low as well . The story of a really annoying prince turned king who is evil and the knight who blames the evil portion of him on a dragon that gave part of his heart to save him is just not all that good . The highlight of this movie comes in the form of the fight between the knight and dragon and their subsequent teaming to help the dragon slayer make a little money . Then the movie goes south again as the dragon is captured and we have just a typical movie without the title character the dragon which makes for a very anti-climatic last portion of the film that ended about how you would expect it to . The effects are okay , not quite on par with a movie such as Jurassic Park , but the dragon looks real enough . I am guessing they tried to keep him out of the movie as much as possible to keep the costs down , unfortunately this hinders the film and it is not as good as it could have been . Still it is worth a look .
Yes , I played a demo of this game and thought it was very cool . The music , the fight on the boat , and all that stuff . Then I played the full game and I found it rather weak compared to the first one as it really became rather repetitive as it were . The story is okay as the prince is being pursued by a super monster who most certainly does not care for the way the prince changed time around in the previous installment . The prince hears that the sorceress of time on some island is the key to stopping this unstoppable beast . He goes there and is promptly attacked by a rather scary lady . His ship crashes and he begins his quest to stop the sands of time from being created thus putting right in some strange way what he did wrong in releasing the sands in the first place . Can not release them if they never existed in the first place . Well it is okay , but you back track to much . The fighting is nice and fluid , but it gets old after a while . There is not enough of the wall crawling in this one either as they seemed more concerned with improving the fighting and adding nothing to the most fun aspect of the first game . The time shift stuff would be neater if you could shift through a couple of more times , still not all that many boss fights either . So in the end a step backward from the previous game for me , the whole making the game more bloody and stuff was unnecessary as was the heavy metal soundtrack as opposed to the great soundtracks of one and three . Still , it was good enough to be an okay game . . . just needed more work in a couple of areas and it quite frankly needed more areas .
Yes , this movie was a bit of a knock off of the ring , grudge and any other Japanese remake made in the past four or five years , still though I enjoyed it a bit . I thought it moved rather fast , and it was not boring for me so there you go . If I was a film critic I would lament the movie and curse its ever being made , but as just a dude who likes horror movies I liked it okay enough . This movie is a remake of a Japanese movie called " Kairo " , and I found this movie to be better than that one . It had better images and scary stuff . That movie was a bit overlong and did not really explain anything at all . However , this movie did explain to much . . . let me just say if you combine the two movies you would probably have a really good scary movie . This one is typical , everything is told to us and to be frank I hated the whole stealing the will to live thing . This was not in the original , but then this one only has some scenes that resemble each other and some of the plot is similar as well , but for the most part they are different . The movie has an eerie force coming through computers and other devices of a communication nature and coming after people . That is the extent of the film , nothing groundbreaking and certainly nothing original as the back of the box claims . I think it was wireless magazine that said it was the most original horror movie of the year , I am guessing this is the only one he has seen . This movie is more about ghosts coming to get you , while the Japanese version was more of a tale of loneliness and isolation that only gets touched on once here . So should you watch it . . . I don't know , if you are like me and give horror movies a break and enjoy them for what they are , an hour and a half cheesy diversion , then see it . If you tend not to like movies of this nature , basically " The Ring " and stuff skip it , you will not like it .
Yes , say what you will about the bizarre plot and somewhat pointless setting of the movie on another planet , Kurt Russell did a rather good job as a soldier raised to complete missions and to follow orders to the max . His name , Todd , and you see how his life has been during a brief portion of the first part of the movie . It moves a bit to quickly after this to the old soldiers being replaced by artificially created soldiers who after a rather nice demonstration scene show they are superior as far as running and stuff goes so the military quickly ditches an apparently dead Todd and makes the rest of his outfit nothing more than regular Joe's . Well Todd is taken in a garbage spaceship to this planet of junk . Why they felt the need to have this movie take place on another planet is beyond me . Seems rather unnecessary as it could have easily taken place on an island that could have been turned into a landfill , but whatever , it does not really add or take anything away from the film . Suffice to say there are people on this planet and they take Todd in though they are wary of him . Finally , they decide to send him on his way as he is to dangerous for their tastes . Sadly Todd feels rejected a bit , but then comes his chance to show what he is made of as a military outfit consisting of the soldiers that replaced Todd are on the planet killing the people for a reason I can not remember at this time . Well finally we have some really good action scenes and a rather strange yet happy ending . The movie could have used a bit more of this and that . . . some more action , a few more alien lifeforms , and a better defined plot , but it is not all that bad and proves to be a nice distraction .
This is an okay comedy for me that has become quite the cult classic in its own right . Released in the summer of 89 a year of many big hits , this movie just got lost in the shuffle , but found a home at the local video store . It follows Yankovic's character as he gets to run a television station and turns what should be just a filler channel into one of the top rated networks on television on the back of a wacky children's show host . Al is rather good in his performance and Michael Richards is good as the janitor turned star , and the movie has some really funny parody scenes that I found to be the highlight of this one . There are problems though as the movie bogs down here and there a couple of times and there is not all that much going on . Still it is worth a look as it has some very funny stuff in it as well . So if you want to watch poodles learn to fly , a hilarious Raiders and Rambo spoof , a janitor trying to fight for his freedom from some goons then check it out .
This movie focuses on a gang of thugs who race cars and take the cars of the losers . Apparently , the leader of this gang is very possessing of his girlfriend . So much so he and his gang killed this guy who had slept with her . Now , a bit of time later this mysterious figure is challenging the gang to races and winning . Well , let me just say that this movie has its moments , but it needed something more . For the most part the races were all very similar to each other . Even the big race between the wraith and the leader of the gang at the end was no different to any other race the wraith was involved in . And how the heck does this gang of thugs get away with so much ? They should be behind bars , but for some reason the sheriff can't pin anything on them . There are quite a few flaws in this one , but overall it was an ok movie . There are some good scenes in it as well . Though at the end when the guy gave his car to the other guy it left me wondering " Wouldn't the cops be looking for that car ? "
For an adult film it is shot very well and stuff , but with the exception of the magazine scene the movie's sex scenes left a bit to be desired . The first scene involving a teacher is rather good in its set up , but it leaves you wanting more as the actual sex lasts maybe a minute with to much lead up to it . A scene at a gym just does not really get going good at all as once again the actual sex is not really all that great same with a car scene . The two scenes that actually have rather good sex are the end scene involving two gals and a guy and the highlight of the movie , the second scene involving all the magazine girls in a rather nice lesbian scene . By far the best scene to me as you had lots of girls the only thing I did not care about that scene is the occasional shots of the guy rubbing himself . However , even in the scenes that do not hit a bullseye the women are really cute and have that 80's flair to them as I always think girls of the 80's are still some of the hottest there was as they had really pretty hair and wore lots of eye shadow . Granted the 70's girls were rather pretty too as they had a more natural look . All in all if they would have just had a bit more actual sex and less foreplay in the other scenes it would have been a much better adult film .
The story has a young man taking the mantle of " Devil Summoner " . He wields a sword and gun , but in a pinch what sets him apart is his ability to summon demons to fight along side him or help him solve mysteries . He works at a detective agency and one day a girl with a bizarre request calls them to a bridge where the ultimate challenge awaits our hero . The story is rather good , and for the most part the game was okay as you could use demons to read people's minds and do various other things . The combat though was a bit of a pain . Not like the other games of the Shin Megemi Tensei name this one relies real time combat . A combat that at times is hard to pinpoint where exactly the enemy is in relationship to you so you end up swinging at air . You also run into very hard battles near the end and you almost always need a healing demon summoned to help you and you only get one demon on screen at a time . The ending to it was not anything special either . I prefer the fights in the other Shin Megemi games as they took more strategy , to many of the fights here turn into slashing away frantically . Still the setting is great in 1900's Japan , it is sort of like the Shadow Heart games in the way it is set in the real world . The music is okay for the most part , but it does get repetitive . Also , I would have like the characters to actually speak lines rather than just word boxes . Still , thanks to the story it is a all right game .
The games main story mode has a humorous introduction as a rather strange looking alien declares they have control over earth's monsters and that it is useless to resist . Then the camera was supposed to fade and the alien is like " are we still on " ? That type of humor is needed more in this game as is better level development or perhaps more monsters . If the game could have just let you control Godzilla and fight levels where at the end you fight one of the other monsters as the boss of the level it could have been a more fun game . They have a game like that for the Nintendo and while the graphics are bad it is more fun to play . The game is Godzilla , why not have him progress through a level then have an epic battle with one of his adversaries ? I would not mind the brawler format so much if they would have more monsters . Mothra , Hedorah , and Space Godzilla could have all been playable characters and there are more than those in the Godzilla universe so why not add them ? The fighting is also a bit weak as in the movies Godzilla's ultimate attack is is radioactive fire breath . . . here it is not very strong at all being one of the weaker attacks . Still , I am a Godzilla or Gojira fan and I enjoyed playing the game for the most part . It is nice using Godzilla to pound my way through the other monsters , with a bit of tweaking this game could have been could have been something special .
This movie is an okay adult film . Not quite one of those movies that are just one random sex scene after the other this one interjects a bit of story in it to progress from one scene to the next . Of course , the sex scenes are a bit longer and are the main point of the film . The story which is not exactly a work of art , but moves rather well a researcher is trying to make a sex robot or something to that effect . I could not tell if it was supposed to be a robot or some sort of artificial life or something . I mean this is a porno so not much money is going to be spent . You get to see him try to make robots or whatever then test them , then meet at the bar with people who recount their tales of passion in hopes their tales will inspire the researcher and improve on his project . There are two sex scenes like this and three involving the testing of the droids or whatever . I like the two involving the bar people's stories the best . One involves a very hot gal in red lingerie who has a bit of weight on her , but I somehow find this makes her look even better . The other involves a very cute blond in a picnic like setting . This one is the highlight of the movie for me . Then there is the first robot scene that does not have the twins of the title and the two with the twins . They are all right , nothing special the final one being rather anti-climatic after the picnic scene . Still , a rather good sex flick . . . you have your bit of plot that progresses to rather good sex so fun to watch .
It probably has something to do with the fact I have never been a big Mothra fan and hate it when they fight each other , because Mothra should not do as well as it always does . Lets face it , it is a giant moth and they should burn to a crisp when hit by fire . Still this one starts out promisingly enough with a nice little comical jungle adventure . Still when it is the scenes with the people that are the strongest and not the ones with Godzilla then you are probably in trouble . Godzilla is in this one a bit more than the previous movie , but this one just is kind of dull . To much singing for Mothra to come and such , and watching Mothra trample through the city is always boring cause Mothra just doesn't compare to other monsters doing the same . We also have another monster a tougher version of Mothra called Battra that wants to fight Mothra . Near the end they fight and Battra is beating Mothra and Godzilla literally saves Mothra so what does it do ? It joins forces with Battra to attack Godzilla . Godzilla is to much of a secondary monster here , with to much focus on the stupid moth . Still it has its entertaining moments such as Godzilla's first appearance and his resurrection on the volcano . More Godzilla less Mothra would have helped however .
It has some very good stuff in it , but I still think there is just something missing . This movie has Combs in it and Barbara Crampton in it and I know these two were also in the later movie " Castle Freak " together , thought this is the better movie . Combs is a scientist who was working with another scientist using a tuning fork like instrument to stimulate a gland . When this gland is working though , you can see these creatures floating around and they can see you and they attack . The scientist working with Combs gets his head bitten off and Combs ends up in a mental hospital . So enter Crampton who whisks him away , back to the place where the experiment took place to recreate it . Ken Foree from " The Dawn of the Dead " is a cop escorting them . They get the tuner working again , against Combs wishes to just leave it alone and here comes his old pal , now somehow fused with the creature that killed him . The rest of the movie is just the very annoying gal repeatedly wanting to turn on the machine against the cop's and Combs ' wishes . She gets on my nerves the way she keeps turning it on and putting them in danger . The ending is pretty gory though and makes up for some of the bad parts of the film .
This is one of my favorite haunted house stories and comedy horrors . The characters are likeable and so is the story . The plot follows William Katt as he encounters many strange things in his old aunts home . His kid has been missing for some time and he is seperated from his wife . He has an annoying neighbor played by George Wendt who does an excellent job . What is behind all the weird stuff going on in the house , well I won't give it away , but just watch the flashback scenes and you will figure it out . Especially the last one that he actually acts out .
This movie is kind of a take on reality TV . The show focuses on Jim Carrey's character Truman . The cameras follow him everywhere as he is actually living in this big TV studio . Everyone he thinks he knows are actors including his wife . Interesting enough , but I just have a hard time believing this show would have stayed on the air from this guy's birth to the point of being a grown man with a wife . No show lasts that long and this show would be rather dull one to watch . This one is at its best when it is more comedy oriented . Unfortunately , it is more of a drama and takes itself to seriously when it should be more fun to watch . Carrey does do a good job in the main role , but Ed Harris is just too bland for me . I can't believe he was nominated for an Oscar for this role . . . he just was not very good to me . I also don't think this TV show is realistic in that I would think it would be illegal to keep someone basically as a prisoner without their permission . All the faults aside though it is a rather good movie to watch , I just wish it were a bit funnier .
This movie would be the first of four movies and is by far the top one of the bunch . This movie would have a couple of groan moments , but not as bad as two and three , never saw four all the way through , but from what I have seen the entire movie is a groan . This movie has a new kid moving into a new place and seemingly making new friends right away . He gets invited to a beach party and there is a cute girl taking a shine to him . Wow , it can not get better than this ? Well the girl has a jerk ex-boyfriend that crashes said party and proceeds to use his karate to beat up the new kid . Granted the girl feels for him , but the guys at the party seem to look down on him . Well this sets some stuff in motion where he becomes friends with the complex he and his mom are living in maintenance man who helps make him a disguise where he is able to go to a dance and be with the girl and instead of living well enough alone he proceeds to do something to the guy who beat him , that makes said guy want to beat him up again . Well the maintenance guy turns out to be a rather good karate teacher and thus the teacher pupil relationship is born and the kid even is able to build a relationship with the cute girl . Good movie for the most part as it has some drama , action and comedy to keep a person entertained . Much more so than any of the sequels , I prefer to think of this movie as stand alone . The tournament at the end is okay , but a bit much in places .
While this movie is not as good as the first Indy movie " Raiders of the Lost Ark " or the third , " Last Crusade " it compares rather favorably to " Temple of Doom " and " Kingdom of the Crystal Skull " . It mainly can compete with those two movies as it has a very fast moving story and for a low budget picture they sure do get a lot of places . The story follows Allan Quartermane and this girl who I don't recall her name played by Sharon Stone as they go on a quest for the lost diamond mines of King Solomon . They have to fight their way there through hordes of bad guys , have a train ride , have a couple of chase scenes and get caught by cannibals and nearly get cooked . Then they have to get through the mines guarded by a very annoying witch lady , in fact the movie would have been better had she never entered the movie , yes she is that annoying . Still , for a low budget movie that I am sure was trying to capitalize on the success of the Indy films this movie was rather good , much better than the very boring sequel .
This is one of the few King movie adaptations that follows the book pretty good . Only Jud's wife seems to be missing from the movie , but you can't have everything that was in the book . The story revolves around an old Indian burial ground that can apparently bring the dead back to life . The book was written in 84 I think and there is actually an Italian movie called Zeder put out in 83 that is very similar in some areas to this . I don't think King was inspired by it cause I doubt he could have seen it , but there are similarities . One part from the book I wish they had left in the movie though is the path to the Indian burial grounds . The creepiest part of the book is all the strange things they saw on their way from the pet cemetery to the burial ground . In the movie it doesn't look as if there is a whole lot they have to go through to get there . For the most part a rather somber movie that could use a few more scares . . . all in all though it is a pretty good King movie .
I just commented on this movie in another review , but I didn't know the title . Now I do . This was a rather good haunted house type movie that does play sort of like an episode of " Tales from the Darkside " . That is not a bad thing coming from me as I liked that show . This one is really pretty creepy and it goes at a quick pace and seems to be over really quick . This one has a husband and wife moving into an old house where there apparently is something lurking . There are scenes where they show the house and you hear people having these strange conversations . They seem to really take to the wife and the wife seems to be the target of their attention . The movie progresses quite nicely and has a rather surprising end . Really good television movie that could have explained a bit more , but not too much more . I can not believe it was made in 1973 as it seemed to be newer than that to me .
This movie is another horror anthology . It is rather good , but it could have used a bit more . I compare it to " Doctor Terror's House of Horrors " , though in this one the title fits . It has four stories all somewhat connected by a house . The first tale is about a writer and his wife moving in . He creates a killer for his latest novel and then he starts seeing the killer roaming around in his house . This one is sort of predictable , but it does throw a few twists in the end . The next story is a bit more unpredictable , and you really do not know where the heck it is going . This one features Peter Cushing and was probably my favorite of the bunch . This guy buys the house , but it is not the house that takes center stage , but a rather strange wax museum . The third story starts out rather good and features Christopher Lee . This one has him as a rather bizarre dad who seems awfully protective of his daughter . The problem is that once you know what is going on the story does not end soon enough . It drags a bit leading to a very predictable conclusion . Then the final tale concerns an actor buying a cloak from an odd little shop . The actor really gets what he paid for . Then there is a small story about an officer who is seen throughout trying to find out what happened to this actor and then an explanation of why these things happened . Though I was not very satisfied with the explanation as I don't think it really explained Cushing's story much at all . I think they needed a bit more back story for that one . All in all though it was an interesting set of stories .
This film was very strange , but I really enjoyed it . It starts out ( and I haven't seen it in a while so I may be wrong ) with a guy at lunch or something and he has to track down some author . Another guy with an ax tries to kill the guy that has to track down the author . Well anyhow my favorite stuff just about exclusively happens in the town . All this weird stuff happens . . . things the author has written about . It kind of tails off once they leave town , but the ending is kind of disturbing .
I enjoyed this one to a certain degree , but it is definately not Moore's best Bond flick in fact it is probably the weakest . The problem is not Bond or Walken who do superb jobs , or even Grace Jones , but the story is just not that great . Bond on a fire truck is just to much . Also , Tanya Roberts just isn't a Bond girl . Nothing against her , she just doesn't seem to be the type , kind of like Denise Richards in " The World Is Not Enough " . That said there are some good action scenes in this one , but all Bond movies have good action sequences and the bad guys motives are interesting to . It is just hard to pinpoint though why I don't like this one as much there is just something about it . Though interesting side note . . . this is the movie that really started the snowboarding craze .
I saw this movie a long time ago . It was , however , a rather disturbing movie about a Vietnam veteran whose rather mundane life is going to pieces by strange visions . He is also being stalked by what are seemingly demons . Through the movie you watch as this character tries to find answers to why he is being stalked by these creatures and by visions of his deceased son . He tries to read up on demons , all the time going through strange episodes , at one point trapped in a hospital where they want to do some rather strange experiments on him . He seems to be getting somewhere when a fellow veteran lays out a story for him . That is about all I can say without giving to much away , it is though a rather interesting movie and I really had know idea where it was going , though the ending did make sense and you will probably go " that makes sense " . The images are disturbing and for the most part it is a good movie . I could have used more horror and less thriller , but that is me . . . I am more of a horror fan as one could probably tell from my reviews . The cast is rather good , the story interesting like I said give me some more scares and this one would have been really good .
This movie was a rather good drama starring Sylvester Stallone as the title character Rocky . It also is one of those movies that has a theme that sticks with a person because it is so memorable . The movie , too is memorable although kind of slow moving in places as well . They try a bit to hard making Rocky seem real , showing a bit to many details of his courtship of Adrien , though I have to say that these scenes while slow help with the ending making it a bit more emotional . The story , the heavy weight champion of the world Apollo Creed ( Carl Weathers ) is about to fight a title bout . Well the person he is supposed to fight drops out so Apollo decides to fight an unknown guy and picks a local named Rocky . Rocky is a bit of a washed up fighter , he can win but he does so clumsily . The trainer who I think owns the gym , Mickey , decides to help Rocky train for this fight and these two opposing forces meet in the ring for more of a fight than Apollo was expecting . This fight is a bit more realistic than the fight in two in that Apollo was not taking this fight seriously at all and was not training hard . An underdog that he had never really seen before could have taken him by surprise the way Rocky did here . So a good fight sequence a some filler before then to pull at the heart strings and inspire one . Still good though for a sports movie .
I actually like this one . I am not a big fan of the series as a whole , but for some reason this one is one of the few I like ( 4 and 6 are the other two ) . This is the movie where Jason first puts on the hockey mask he is known . Shot as a 3-D movie some parts get a bit annoying as people shove things toward the camera for no reason , but you get used to it . I would have loved to have seen this one in the theater . Is it a bit lame you ask ? Sure is , but this one is fun to watch as long as you don't take it to seriously . Some pretty good kills in this one as well . Is it a masterpiece . . . most definitely not ! Not every movie though is out to be a masterpiece and you can't judge movies the same . I love the part with the eyes .
This movie is rather funny , not up there with " Shaun of Dead " or " Hot Fuzz " , but still once again Simon Pegg does a great job and makes you sympathize with his character . Thandie Newton is rather good too as is Hank Azaria . . . though my favorite costar was Moran as the rather laid back and a bit strange cousin to Newton's character . What is the story ? Man makes a run for it on his wedding day and leaves his pregnant wife behind at the alter . Flash to five years later and our runaway husband to be is now an out of shape security guard for a women's apparel store . He still is in his ex fianc's life as he does try to do stuff with his son , but there is now a new man in her life in the form of what initially seems to be a really nice and well off man . Let's just say he changes throughout the course of the film and he begins to get a bit more obnoxious as the movie precedes along . Well Dennis ( Pegg's character ) decides to show his ex that he has what it takes to change by agreeing to run in a marathon . A twenty-six mile marathon that is only three weeks away and yes our hero is not in the best of shape . Thanks , however , to a bet made by his ex's cousin and a landlord who seems a tad off , but seems to really like Dennis , he is trained very hard to reach his goal . Let's just say there are some very funny scenes that ensue during the training . The marathon itself while not the highlight of the film is good too . A few serious scenes damper the mood a bit here and there , but for the most part it is a rather funny film and I rather like the London setting too .
For the most part I enjoyed this movie , however , I thought it could have been better too . The story has a the town of Barrow , Alaska about to go into its yearly ritual of 30 days of night . A time when the sun doesn't come . However , this year things are going to be particularly bad as a group of vampires are coming to town for a thirty day feeding frenzy . Let's just say that they do not take to long making their presence known as they begin slaughtering the citizens soon after sundown . I was thinking at this point they should be thinking about pacing themselves because unlike the real Barrow , Alaska where I think there are quite a few people this one is limited to like 150 people during the dark month . Soon we are left with the sheriff and a few survivors doing what they can to avoid being on the menu . Lot's of blood as to be expected and for the most part it is pretty good . Still , in places the camera work and editing make the movie seem rather choppy and I had a rather hard time telling what was going on . The vampires were not distinct enough for me and for some reason spoke in a foreign language which I found rather unnecessary . Also , I doubt if anyone else thought this , but I kept thinking the way the movie was setup was a bit familiar . It reminded me of the Australian or New Zealand zombie flick " The Undead " . I mean we have the initial stage of chaos , survivors finding rather good shelter ( here in an attic , in that movie a fallout shelter ) , a town isolated , and even a scene in a local store where our troops gather supplies and run across another creature . Of course , that movie was funny while this one is almost completely devoid of humor . Still though , it is a nice little horror movie with a great concept . . . just needed a little work here and there .
This movie was pretty good for the most part . Nice visuals and great action here and there . With that came a few pointless scenes ( the strange dream sequences ) and a conclusion that could have used a bit more sword fighting . The story , vikings have come to North America with seemingly no other purpose than to kill . What can stop them ? Well looks like a storm took some out killing everybody on board a viking vessel leaving only a boy alive . He is taken into the care of the Indians . Well guess what ? The vikings return and to their surprise one of the natives can take up a sword and slice and dice them . So what are you in store for , lots of head chopping and blood spurting . Unfortunately , at a certain point in the movie it gets a bit tiresome as the hero leads said vikings here and there trying to take out their numbers using nature . Not that it is all bad , but these scenes are a bit overlong and protracted . I preferred him hacking away with his sword . Still , it passed the time nicely and there were some great scenery shots too . The mountain looks particularly good . It probably helped that I watched this movie on blu-ray too , as this made the scenery shots really stand out . So despite its flaws and lack of any stars , for the most part this movie was entertaining and passed the time rather nicely .
Not that it was bad , overall I thought it was enjoyable enough . . . however , this Blade was just not in the same league as the previous two movies . Let's start out with the fact that the movie had almost a television show quality to it . It just did not look as sleek as Blade and certainly not as sleek as Blade II . The sets and everything mostly looked like regular street corners and warehouses . The lighting was not of the caliber as the other two movies either . It also had a rather weak plot . . . granted the second movie did not have the strongest plot either , but it was still better than this . Then there is the final showdown between Blade and Dracula , the fight is rather anticlimactic . I was expecting one heck of a fight instead it was just an okay final showdown , no where near as good as the other final fights in the Blade series . You would just expect that this super showdown would be done in a way to top Blade's fight with Deacon Frost or the super Reaper . There is also what happens to Whistler , lets just say considering his importance to the other movies here he is taken out of the picture with little fanfare . Not that this movie was all bad , I did give it a seven ( I gave a ten to the other two ) , I liked the action scenes it was great just seeing Blade do his thing . I also enjoyed the addition of Ryan Reynolds to the cast as he added some very humorous dialog . This movie was also action packed so you at least were not bored . It just needed more time or something . A better script maybe could also have helped this movie . Then maybe we wouldn't have characters that seemed important to the plot just disappear and other characters that seemed unimportant become the focal points of important plot points .
As a kid I saw this one at the theater and I loved it . Not as good now , but it still holds up ok . This movie has a bunch of Greek mythology and a lot of stop motion animation . I am not the biggest fan of this technique , but when Ray Harryhausen is involved it is usually rather good . . . he is the best . This movie has it all swordfights , monsters , and mechanical owls . The story follows our hero as he tries to save the princess from first this monster guy , then the deadly Kraken a giant beast . Medusa , Cerberus , and the three blind witches are in this one too . This one is a really good movie to show your kids that is enjoyable to adults as well .
The movie is about a writer who has to go to South America to bring a map to this guys who have the writers sister . This is a fun movie to watch , as the writer ( Turner ) runs into Michael Douglas and the interplay between these two is great to watch . The map leads to a stone so Douglas's character convinces Turner's to go after the stone , cause frankly he wants it . Danny DeVito also is good in this one and is quite funny . They have a lot of adventures in the jungles and that is another thing I like about this one . The conclusion is also pretty good as well .
I do not usually care for this type of game unless there is something interesting going on . In the case of this game it is the fact you are going against an army of monsters that are coming from within the earth . So that right there means it will not be the typical shooter or bland army game . So you have your super tough soldier you control , released from a prison because at this stage in the conflict the military needs all the help they can get . So you now must battle your way through the locust horde to reach various mission objectives all with the sole purpose of destroying the opposition . Fear not , though as you have other soldiers on your side , helping you with their firepower as well . You also get a vehicle to drive and plenty of weapons , though I really loved the default weapon best . A machine gun with a chainsaw bayonet . The sniper rifle was also cool . Plenty of monsters to shoot too , as you have your basic foot soldiers , your giant nearly indestructible monsters , bat type creatures that avoid light and others . So even though usually this type of game is not for me , this one was rather fun and exciting .
and surprisingly I enjoyed it . Not the best movie ever , but I thought it was a very well paced horror movie a bit like " The Omen " with enough differences to keep it interesting . A woman who proves most miracles that occur usually have a scientific reasoning behind them is approached by a man who is having a problem in his town and wants her there to find out what is going on . Seems that the water has turned to blood in the nearby river , of course she is going to try to dispel that when other things of this nature occur such as dead frogs and livestock and a very powerful bout of lice . All signs seem to be pointing towards a little girl that lives on the outskirts of town a girl whose brother died of mysterious circumstances right before the river turned to blood . The movie was at its best to me when they were trying to find the reasons behind the strange occurrences , but it is still good when she just has to believe something is up . The ending was okay , if a bit to flashy for my tastes . Still , considering how many times this one was pushed backed it was surprisingly good . Most movies pushed back as much as this one are pushed back because they really suck .
This is a good movie . . . about a cop , who is recruited to be part of this secret agency . He is basically recruited there against his will , as he is given a new face and even a new name . It is funny how he gets the name Remo Williams ; a lot of thought was put into it . Most of this movie is the training that Remo ( play excellently by Fred Ward ) must go through to become the agent . His teacher is an old Korean played by Joel Grey who is great in the role . It is funny watching this two do their roles cause they are great and have a very good chemistry on the screen . Most of the action takes place near the end , as Remo has to investigate this guy whom sales weapons and stuff to the military . Great conclusion to this one as there is some good action scenes . Too bad there was never a sequel to this one cause it was a fun movie to watch .
I enjoyed this movie , sure it isn't the most original movie ever made or the best , but it was what it set out to be . . . which is a combo alien attack movie of the 50's plus an all-star disaster movie of the 70's . A lot of critics don't like this one and a lot of people who think of themselves as critics don't care much for it either , but it still brought in over 300 million at the box office in the summer of 96 . I thought it was an entertaining film with lots of action and a good dose of comedy as well . One complaint I have is that it runs a bit long and you feel the time pass not like other movies like " The Two Towers " where it doesn't feel like all that much time has passed . Another problem with this movie is that it is best seen in the theater . This movie has a score of only six at imdb , so a lot of people who saw it probably saw it on TV . Or if they did see it at the theaters , realized it just wasn't as good on the small screen when they saw it on TV . The movie also benefited from a great ad campaign that started with a super bowl spot that showed the White House being destroyed . The movie is basically an alien invasion movie and it is like a 50's science fiction movie . It also has a lot of stars , not the biggest names , just like a 70's disaster flick . If you don't care for either of these genres you probably won't like this movie , but if you like one or the other or both it is worth checking out . Just don't take it too seriously and have fun watching it .
This Grandia started off with a bang , great introduction , the graphics completely ramped up and the fighting engine from previous Grandia's was intact . The story was also great as our wannabe pilot finds himself in the middle of a pursuit for a mysterious girl . Add to that lots of humor , a wise cracking ship captain , a fixed game of dice and this game was going great . It continues to do so as our hero meets his hero and flies the heroine into a holy city to perform a ritual to speak with a god . Somewhere though the game just loses some luster as unlike previous Grandia games , you don't get to have all that many playable characters coming in and out of your party . The villains , aside from one of them , are for the most part largely unexplored . . . I mean you will not know their motivations at all . Then there is a point where you just keep hitting dungeon after dungeon with no real opportunity to explore any new cities or such . Then there is the combat difficulty . In previous Grandia's , you never had to build your level . . . by that I mean spend an hour or two just fighting monsters to level up . You simply had to fight everything in your path and by the end you had no troubles . Here the monsters got incredibly hard , not only did I have to level up , I had to run from monsters . Especially in the last level , I had a harder time with the regular monsters than I did with the final boss . Still , it was a pretty good game with the best ending of any in the Grandia series .
What do you expect though , he is the title character and he is the main focus . That is Ron Pearlman though , he is an underrated actor and it is nice to see him as the star in a rather big movie . This movie is good too , but not without its flaws . The main problem I had with it other than the John Hurt character and Hellboy , no other character is really all that developed . Which is probably fine if you read the comics , but I have not so I would have liked to have known a little more about some of the characters . This is especially the case with the villains . . . all three were underdeveloped with the lady in the group being the most so . I would have also liked to have seen more monsters rather than the same one they had through the whole picture . Still though this movie was good as it had great action , the effects were good and there was good humor in it as well . And as I said before Pearlman was great . The plot is more of an origin type plot which is to be expected for the first movie of any comic character . A little more development would have helped it a bit , but all in all this is one wild ride with a lot of cool looking locations .
It is a good movie if you like action , gore , and horror . This movie is non-stop and if you like the above then you will definately not be bored . A trained team of commando's have to break into a facility to find out why the computer running the place killed everyone inside . What they find when they turn the computer off is that the computer was trying to hold back scores of zombies and other creepy things . The plot isn't anything original , but the movie is performed to perfection . Not as good though as classic zombie movies like Dawn of the Dead and such it still entertains . My main complaint is they killed the leader of the commandos to quickly he was my favorite character ( the poor guy didn't even get to be killed by zombies , but really cool lasers ) .
This movie was rather good and it was a bit light and not as serious as say " Batman Begins " . Hey these are the Fantastic Four though and not the Dark Knight , their name suggests they are going to be a bit less serious . Could have been more action , but it had its comic moments that made up for the lack of action . All the Fantastic Four actors were great so now it is time for my number one major gripe of the film . Doctor Doom was portrayed completely wrong , I did not let it ruin the film for me , but I really did not think the actor was right and I also don't think it would have been all that hard to get his origin correct . He never had any powers in the comic book , he was simply a brilliant scientist and dabbler in magic who blamed Reed for an accident that left him permanently scarred . He created a powerful armor to combat the Fantastic Four and is one of the best Marvel villains there is even fighting the likes of Spider-man . Here he also comes into contact with the cosmic rays and the armor he built in the comic just starts to form on him . They make mention of his homeland , but I am not sure if he is the leader . To tell ya the truth I feel Arnold Schwarzenegger would have been the perfect Doom , but then I am not a movie maker so what do I know . Other than that for the most part I liked the movie . People have been complaining about the effects , but I thought they were pretty good , not top notch , but then this movie was not given an unlimited budget . Probably had something to do with the fact the Hulk underachieved , I doubt they were going to give this movie over a 150 million budget when the slightly more known Hulk didn't pull in all that much . Five or six years ago though , had this movie come out the effects would have been considered top notch , just not by todays standards . The Thing was great , it did look like rock , and all the others had their powers working good too . The fight with Doom could have been a bit longer , but this is an origin tale so they have to establish characters first . So in the end do not expect to be blown out of the water , but do expect a more basic summer popcorn flick .
I preferred Final Fantasy IV to this one , but I did enjoy this one greatly when it was released as Final Fantasy III . The opening was absorbing , the plot really good for awhile , this one though does suffer from a rather weak ending . This is nothing new , most role playing games start out with a bang yet as they progress they become a bit tiresome . Probably because the most fun to be had is meeting the characters and doing the simpler things before moving on to the conclusion where the entire world is about to be destroyed by an evil villain . Still , for the most part the Final Fantasy series doesn't have that problem , this one just at a certain point becomes to free roaming for my tastes is all . The story follows a group of various people from various walks of life becoming entangled in a struggle over an empire that uses machines and such and who are also experimenting with magic . The resistance fighters gain the services of a young girl who was brainwashed into working with the empire and she is somewhat the focal point , however , this final fantasy doesn't have the typical focal point character such as Cecil , Tidus , or Cloud . The fighting is turn based and is a bit of a step up graphic wise from part IV . The characters all can learn every magic so they are a bit less unique than in IV , they are still more unique than say those of later versions as they use their different weapons and each has his or her own special skill . The plot is great , and there are quite a few memorable scenes , where the story kind of became less interesting for me is when you get the second airship later in the game and then the story is just finding your missing comrades and heading to the final battle . In fact , you are not required to find anyone at all and you can even head straight for the final battle if you are so inclined . There are also a few plot points that are never really touched upon as well , such as Shadow's identity and that character's relationship with Realm which is hinted at , but not really touched upon . The ending was weak too compared to four , all in all though still a very good game . There is also a section of the game I really enjoyed and that is when the characters all got split up at one point , this is a device I wish was used more in role playing games especially featuring many playable characters .
The selection of role playing games for the 360 is very slim . Other than this all you basically have is Fantasy Star Universe and Elder Scroll's Oblivion . Of these , only this one can really be compared to say a Final Fantasy type rpg . This game is rather fun , the story pretty good and the fighting rather good as well . It is turn based , using a grid system as depending on what attack you do the more squares on the grid are colored and the more enemies you damage . Works rather good and it is more fun to me than a action rpg when there are lots of characters to control . Here you can control a heck of a lot of characters , though most are going to be creatures called golems . . . in the end I found it easier to just use the main hero characters . The story has a youth in a magic type university accidentally awakening a creature called a Devil Golem . This Golem harvests the power of ice and is in fact called the Queen of Ice . Atsuma ( the main character ) must travel the lands and attempt to stop her goals and ambitions , though her actions seem to suggest she wishes Atsuma to try and stop her . If this is not bad enough she has taken Atsuma's best bud Toya as her puppet and power source . You meet other characters along with other Devil Golems and a really annoying emperor all in your quest to defeat the Queen of Ice . All in all rather good , not super difficult to play and the graphics are gorgeous , the American voices at times are a bit annoying , but overall an enjoyable albeit nothing original game .
It has its bad points , but for the most part I liked this title , which is more of a comedy than a horror . Bruce Campbell as Van Helsing is pretty funny to watch in this one and the rest of the cast does a good job as well . The tale is about an all vampire town that is tired of killing so they actually have been able to create a synthetic blood with the help of this one guy who doesn't know they are vampires . Something goes wrong with the machine so the guy who made it comes to town to fix it . . . unfortunately the town has malcontents who want to go back to the day of drinking real blood rather than the fact stuff . Van Helsing also arrives in town looking for Count Dracula who doesn't apparently live in the town . Like I said more comedy and action than horror . There are some flaws in the movie , but most of them have to do with the plot . Like why would these two teenagers join the vampires when one killed their friend ? There are a couple of other points like this , but it is best to just sit back and enjoy the show .
Rather good and sleek action / horror hybrid in the same vein as a Blade , though not quite up to that movie . The action is good , and the scenery is good to as the city setting seems very other worldly , a Gothic mixture of old and new . The story , there has been an ages old feud between werewolves and vampires , the vampires apparently winning as they are slowly but surely wiping the wolves out . However , there seems to be a new target of the wolves , a young doctor whose blood the wolves want for reasons that are not immediately clear . So there ya have it , throw in a lot of gun fire and some latex and you have your movie . There are problems with the film though as there are a lot of double crosses and I am still not one hundred percent clear as to what made the doctor dude so important . Still , there is plenty of action to watch and lots of blood too . It was funny seeing how the werewolves were a bit rough and the vampires looked like aristocrats . It was a bit hard to pull for either side until the end when all the motivations were on the table too , as neither side seemed really to be making a target of humans . So all in all a good action / horror flick .
Yes , this movie has monsters in it . . . for the most part giant insects . They are , however , the weakest link in this film as they look only a bit better than say a creature from one of the sci-fi channel's original productions . I think they should have used computer generated graphics a bit less , especially when the creatures got a hold of something and this flaw could have been overcome easily enough . That being said , the story and the characters make this one and they make it rather good . I also have to agree with what is said on the DVD box . . . it does have a rather shocking ending and horrifying too . I hated it , yet I hated it not because it was bad , but because it did what a good horror movie is supposed to do , shock you and make you think about it thereafter . The story , nearly straight from the original short novel by Stephen King . The main differences was that there was not as much setup before the storm or during as there was in the story . That and the ending . Other than that and the military men playing a bit bigger role it is a very by the book movie . There is a storm and a father and son and neighbor go to the store to restock some groceries . However , there is a mist coming and it quickly envelopes the store and makes those inside hesitant to come out as a man runs wildly in the store talking of things in the mist that took someone . Well fear takes over as the father quickly figures out there is something about the mist and a scene of a brave , but foolhardy bag boy proves there is something in the mist . Unfortunately , not all those in the store believe this and even more unfortunately some people in the store believe this is the end of times brought on by an angry God . So paranoia and fear take a hold and general chaos is in the air . Played out very well , but man the ending . I am imagining Stephen King , the master of horror seeing it for the first time and saying " Damn , that is dark " ! Dark , disturbing , and very effective .
I gave this movie a solid 8 , but I definitely have seen plenty of movies that I have enjoyed more over the years . What gets me is all the people who act like this movie is so original . What is original about it ? It is basically a combination of the Terminator movies and any number of virtual reality movies that were released prior to this one including Johnny Mnemonic also starring Reeves . Heck , it wasn't even the first movie to use bullet time as the movie Blade was the first time I had seen that done in a movie , granted on a much smaller scale . Also , I think it was seen in a Korn music video as well before this movie ever came into being . So this movie just borrows , for the most part , from a bunch of different movies and other entertainment . Still it is good , though the parts that are the best take place in the matrix . Some of the real world scenes are quite frankly boring . The second time I watched this one I was basically thinking , " Come on , capture Morpheus already so we can get to the good part of the flick " . The action at the end of this movie , more than makes up for the many dry spells in the flick . Reeves and Fishburne are good as well , though I could have done without some of their talking scenes and their fight wasn't anything special either . Like I said , I loved the movie when they were in the matrix and not as much when they weren't . I hear the third installment will be entirely set in the real world too , so I don't have high hopes for it . Carrie Ann Moss wasn't anything special in this either . . . if it wasn't for this movie who would ever of heard of her ? Let's face it , you could have put anyone in that role and they could have performed just as well are better . She isn't very good looking either . All in all it is worth checking out cause of the great action at the end , and because Hugo Weaving is great as the villain .
This movie has a group of soldiers investigating the apparent deaths of a platoon of troops in a zone known as r-point . Why ? Because this supposedly dead troop has begun radioing hq with strange and rather spooky messages . They go to the scene and go into the area which seems to have something unnatural about it and it isn't long before unnatural forces begin to seemingly stalk the platoon . This movie is great on atmosphere and it is not a case of there being nothing really going on . The pacing is good and there are kills , I just needed a little more to make this rather good movie into a great one . To me this movie was a bit Dog Soldier and a bit Evil Dead , however it had some original elements of its own to add to the mix . Thankfully , there were no twist endings or anything of that nature , and there were relatively few moments where you have no idea what is happening . Still there are a couple of confusing things here and there , but not to much . I like the cast and I was pulling for them to get out of the seemingly inescapable situation . . . it just needed more supernatural happenings maybe , or something I just can't put my finger on it . Still it is a good Asian horror movie worth a look or two as it is a bit different than the Ringus and Juon movies that most Asian horror tends to resemble .
Saw this on sci-fi channel so I have no idea how much was cut out . What I saw though was pretty cool . It is a bit slow at first , but once a dream sequence starts up it gets moving pretty fast . The story is about a group of bikers , one of them takes a spill thanks to a mysterious boy in the middle of the road and the army takes the dude who had the spill and does experiments on him . These experiments end up giving him telekinetic powers . . . powers that were apparently given to another named Akira . Well the guy ends up going berserk and using his powers to destroy the city , looking for the one called Akira . Meanwhile his old friend joins some rebel group in the hopes of finding his friend . The rebel group opposes the Akira experiments . After awhile the two friends have a cool duel . Parts are hard to follow , but all in all it is a cool movie and trust me nothing I wrote will spoil it for you . This is a very brief summary of the plot .
I first have to admit I did not much care for 28 days later , however , part of my dislike for that movie may stem from the fact a review I read said it was like " Dawn of the Dead " which it wasn't really . Still , I may not be as harsh on it now as I was when I first saw it , I found it was a bit slow at times and you really never got to see the best horror , only have it described to you by the one person talking about how people were in a panic and that one by one people turned . Here you get to see exactly that . The movie starts with a bang as a husband flees from the rage infected hordes of people having left his wife behind seemingly to die , flash to 28 weeks later and the city is being repopulated slowly , but surely as the husband from the beginning is reunited with his kids who are extremely stupid . Yes , they do what they are not supposed to and go into a non safe area in search of their old house so they can pick up a few mementos of their mum . Well surprise , surprise their mother is alive , though not so well and is taken back to the city for examination . Well we soon find out why you should stay in the safe zone as the infection begins again and I am pretty sure most of the people who have returned home are now thinking maybe we should not have returned . The infection spreads as fast as described in the first movie , there is panic in the streets and the military is now in kill mode as our two kids are joined by a medical officer and a military man not keen on shooting everyone in sight whether infected or not . So you have cool chases with both the infected and the military and the characters in this one don't have much time to do anything , but catch their breath . Very good and fast paced horror movie .
Did not see Cloverfield , however , from the previews I could tell it had a person shooting the film as the action is happening just like in Blair Witch which I did see , but did not care for . This one I enjoyed though . Story , students filming a bad horror movie become involved in something bigger as the dead have begun to rise and they are out for the flesh of the living . Why is it happening ? No one seems to have the answers and the mainstream press seem to be trying to cover up the truth . So one of the intrepid student filmmakers decides to make his own movie documenting the ever increasing zombie epidemic . This movie was better than Blair Witch to me , because unlike that movie the film quality here was a lot better . I mean there were very few instances of shaky camera syndrome which is more realistic , but usually ends up making for a rather motion sickness like production . Romero seems to know in the end you are making a movie for enjoyment , it isn't real so why go out of the way to make the movie look to amateurish . There are also some funny scenes in this one too as I laughed at the Amish guy and was bummed out when he was out of the film . I also liked the end where the blond drove off in the trailer . So while not perfect and not quite as good to me as Land , Day , or Dawn , Diary was still a very fine installment into the dead series .
Yes , this movie follows the typical teen romantic comedy type formula , but it adds a lot of weird stuff in it to make it more original and a bit demented . Kind of like the mother added this and that to the one meal she cooked , granted the one ingredient she mentioned was normal enough . . . raisins . The story , guy who seems likable enough has just been dumped by his girlfriend . Sounds normal enough , till you realize the girlfriend seems to date just about anyone and everyone . Well guy wants to win her back so he is going to try to ski this deadly run that the one guy his ex seems to be dating a bit more than others is an expert at . There you go , sounds simple . . . throw in a cute foreign exchange student and you have your typical teen romantic comedy . Though it is not as cut and dry as that as our hero must overcome an obsessed paper delivery boy , a strange introverted guy and his loud mouth mother , a fairly normal dad but odd mother , a brother who gets the ladies and builds super science fiction stuff , a friend who snorts everything but drugs because their town apparently does not sell them , a part time job at a burger joint , a drawing that takes a life of its own , and many other strange happenings . Add to that the fact from time to time our hero tries unsuccessfully to commit suicide and you have your very strange , but funny teen romantic comedy .
Considering these days of the 50 plus hour role playing game , it was a nice change of pace to play this quirky game . Granted it wasn't exactly short topping 30 hours , but that is still a far cry from the games out today that take over 50 without doing all the side quests . However , it being a Mario game it is going to be more kid friendly and funny rather than dramatic and epic . The fighting is turned based , however you get to push buttons to strengthen your attacks . You have two people in your party , one always being Mario and the other one of the many funny characters Mario meets during his journey through a place called Rougeport . Princess Peach sent Mario a map said to have the location of a hidden treasure on it and she wants him to meet her in Rougeport . Well Mario can't refuse , but by the time he arrives , gasp , the princess has been kidnapped . Well this time Bowser is not responsible , though he does make many humorous appearances in the game . . . no this time it is a mysterious group called the X-nauts . So Mario must join forces with many in the town of Rougeport and surrounding lands to obtain the crystal stars . You have your basic levels and your not so basic as you have train mystery's to solve and you must fight your way to the top in an arena type setting . So the game gives you differing things to do so all in all it is rather fun .
I found this for sale and I thought I would check it out . I wasn't expecting much , but it turns out I liked this movie . This is a tale of spiders that mutated from some chemicals and grow to giant size and attack . Simple enough . The effects were good and the actors were rather good themselves . Arquette was good too , and that was somewhat surprising . There were three or four different types of spiders on the rampage so you got to see them kill in different ways . The comedy was pretty good too , as this one doesn't take itself to seriously . I agree with those who said it was like a 50's sci-fi flick and it is definitely worth a look .
Though it is considered by many to be the weakest of the original three ( as do I ) it is still a very good movie . . . and a lot better than the first two of the new trilogy . The best part of this flick is clearly the rescue of Han Solo from Jaba the Hut . These desert scenes are great and the flick is at its best here . We also learn of the empire , which is constructing a new Death Star . Then the movie gets to the weaker part of the film where they go to Endor which just looks like any North American woods rather than any alien world . And we are introduced to the ewoks who are nowhere near the pain that Jar Jar would later become . There is also a cool space battle with Lando in command while Han leads a team to destroy a shield generator on the planet . Luke goes and confronts Vader as well . I like the way it looks like the good guys are losing on all three fronts , but all of them get their act together .
Yes this game known as Resident Evil to us , Biohazard to others is the best of the series mainly because you can aim ! ! ! No longer do you get ripped to shreds simply because your stupid gun can only point high or low , now you can shoot for the head or blow out their legs so they fall to the ground . You get plenty of ammo and health too , though you certainly need it as at one point I thought I was sitting pretty with bullets for my weapons , the next , I was down to a few shots in my handgun . Yes , you get a vast array of weapons that you can buy from a weapons dealer , and you can upgrade said weapons also . However , sorry to say the dude does not sell ammo to ya . The story has Leon from part two in Europe to find a girl named Ashley , who is the president's daughter . Leon finds a village of insane people , who are less like zombies and more like the infected from the film 28 days later . The graphics are great , the game play a bit tricky at first , but once you get the hang of it , its a lot easier than any of the resident evil games . At one point you are in a small village and the people are attacking and you can go into one of the houses and push a shelf in front of the door to hold off the attackers which I loved as it was just like out of a zombie movie . So for a good gory time this game is one of the better ones I have ever played .
This was a really good horror movie about the last real man on the planet earth . By day he hunts them down killing them and feeding their bodies to a pit , but at night they come for him and his blood . They are a form of vampires , infected with a disease that makes them rise from their graves . It even makes them abhor their very own reflection and makes them allergic to garlic . In the middle of this one we get to see the beginnings of this plague that has swept across the entire world . Though this movie is very good , it is depressing and rather sad . Someone said the ending was a surprise , but if you have seen " The Omega Man " then the ending is not going to surprise you all that much . Suffice to say both endings suck . However , this movie is very good in spite of the ending as Vincent Price does a very good job as the final man on Earth , I felt badly for him . This one even does a better job of making the streets look deserted than the modern movie " 28 Days Later " , because at least here we have bodies littering the streets . Definitely worth a look if you can find it . I bought a horror gift back for real cheap that had it in it .
It wasn't as good when I first saw it , but as time passed this one got better as I got more used to seeing Pierce in the role as James Bond . This one has lots of action and lots of good characters . Sean Bean is great as the Bond villain in this one and so is Famke Jannsen also a baddie . The story revolves around a Russian weapon called goldeneye , which has the ability to knock out anything with an electrical circuit in a 30-mile radius . Bond has to do a lot to get this weapon back including infiltrating the base of the Bond bad guy . There is also a great scene where Bond uses a tank to chase the bad guys and demolishes downtown Moscow in the process . This one has good humor and Pierce is a better Bond than Dalton in that he is a bit more humorous than was Dalton who was way to serious . One complaint though was the fact Bond got a cool car from Q that had a bunch of gadgets and he never uses it .
This movie starts with Godzilla being trapped in ice by a group piloting a strange ship , it then flashes forward to the present where they use these ships to subdue all sorts of monsters . However , not all is perfect as all sorts of monsters seemingly strike at random from everywhere . . . but not to worry help arrives in the form of some very helpful aliens . Of course they have ulterior motives and thus an onslaught of earths toughest monsters commences . Good Godzilla movie as we get to see a lot of monsters , though I was disappointed in Hedorah's scene in the film as it did absolutely nothing in the movie . One of Godzilla's toughest foes ever reduced to a very short scene . Still for the most part I liked it . Because with most of the Earth's defenses wiped out and monsters running rampant they only have one place to turn . . . the south pole where Godzilla is trapped in ice and when released goes on a monster killing rampage which includes our stupid American version of Godzilla which is not much of a fight , but then who thought it would be ? There are problems with the movie , because at times you almost forget it is a Godzilla movie as the focus turns to the humans fighting the aliens and it seems kind of like the Matrix or something in these parts . Still , you get to see plenty of monsters , I like the way Gigan was kind of a focus in this one as he is one of my favorites . Some of the monster usage is puzzling though , why Ebirah instead of say Megalon ? Why have Hedorah in it at all if he isn't really going to do anything at all ? Why does Monster X at the end have to turn out being . . . wait I don't want to ruin it for you , the cover of the DVD will do that for you . Still it is a cool movie especially if you want to see Godzilla stomp a mud hole in everything he fights and you want to see the last Godzilla movie in a while end actually good . . . then this is for you .
Seeing as how they had to make this one the conclusion despite the fact they were going for a six parter the makers of this game did a relatively good job on the story . However , one can not help but feel there is an entire episode of the Xenosaga series left out between this one and part two . As there is a giant piece of the story that you can only find about if you read the story in the area provided in the menu screen . Still , this one wraps up quite nicely despite all of that and the story keeps you wondering what is going to happen next . The ending is a bit bizarre and might even offend some , but hey it surprised me . Shion and the gang are getting closer to finding out the cause of it all , the mysterious force that seems to be guiding all into an epic battle . The fight is the best yet as you have many cool moves to perform , and the robots are great . . . my only complaint is that they had no place in the final battle as I had my robots super strong and nearly unbeatable by the end . There are also characters that did not get their fair shake of the story either , such as Ziggy . You only get a brief peek as to what it is all about for him . Still , he had one uber cool moved called choke that had to be the best fight move ever in a role-playing game . The music is great this time and even though this is the end a sequel door was still left open . So be prepared for the most emotional of the three Xenosagas as this one is very sad , however it is also sort of happy in the end .
Yes , of the games featuring these characters this one is still my favorite of them all . Granted the story is not as dark , however I as a gamer do not necessarily like my games dark all the time . They made the same mistake in the Prince of Persia saga too , trying to cater to the Grand Theft Auto set of people . This game features two buddies snooping where they should not , the one named Daxter soon falls into a vat of something called dark eco and is transformed into a fuzzier version , granted this does not stop his wisecracking which is the highlight for me for the entire series . Jak is the silent protagonist here and I prefer that a bit more to the talker he becomes . Well Jak and Daxter must navigate the world finding the legendary sages so that they might help not only Daxter , but the world from a dark threat looming in the background . The graphics are great as they really show distance very well . At the beginning you go to an island from the island you can see the mainland , from the mainland you can see the island . The game is filled with areas where you can see in the distance where you must go and where you were . The action is performed via standard platform gaming with your jumping and spin attacks on enemies . The controls are simple and for the most part the game is not the type to make you pull your hair out . The environments are great as you navigate tropical locals , snowy mountain tops , and fire filled mine shafts and you get some top notch boss fights too . It is a shame they did not stick to this formula for future games though . Not that the others are bad , but they just do not match this one in fun .
This is one of those movies so effective in its delivery that it almost makes you uncomfortable to watch . You have your cop in a giant office building that has been overrun with high tech bank robbers posing as terrorist , and his wife is one of the hostages . Not only that , but the poor guy doesn't have any shoes which really makes an uncomfortable scene when the glass starts to fly . Willis is great as the lead character and Rickman does an excellent job as the bad guy as does the other guy who was a Russian dancer or something before defecting here . Great performances by the other members of the cast as well . The action is great , though at times they really seem to be throwing it at our hero and things seem to be going badly . Many memorable action scenes including the roof explosion and McClain ( Willis ) swinging to safety on a fire hose , his many encounters with said villains and a particularly good ending with the main villain . Don't think it is all action however , as Bruce Willis adds some comedy by means of very funny quips that add a lot to the flick . Still though at its heart it is an action movie first and the action comes fast and furious .
This like the terminator is a role that is just right for Arnold to play . Here he plays a warrior slave who as a child witnessed his mother killed at the hands of James Earl Jones who is a great bad guy here . He is raised as a slave and he becomes a fighter slave . He is one of the best until one day his master frees him . Once freed he meets allies and enemies alike as a king finally catches him after stealing stuff from this tower that worships snakes . The king requests Conan and his two friends to go find his daughter being held by James Earl Jones . At one point Conan is captured and left for dead before they infiltrate the base . Then near the end of the movie there is one heck of a battle between Jone's men and Conan that is really the highlight of the movie . One gripe though is that through the whole movie you expect Jone's character and Conan to have an epic battle . . . the ending is still satisfying even though that doesn't really come about .
This so far is by far my favorite Bond with Bronson . It was very entertaining and exciting . The cast did a great job especially Bronson and Berry ( who is one of the best Bond girls in years ) . The bad guys were good , Stephens did a wonderful job . And the stunts and action will blow you away . . . I especially liked the car chase over the ice when Bond finally uses all the gadjets in his car for a change . The plot involves stuff I won't mention because I don't want to spoil the plot for anyone , but I thought it was good . There are also a lot of tributes in this one to Bond movies of the past in this one . Highly reccomended .
I really enjoyed this flick , however , I probably gave it a higher score than necessary mainly because unlike every Dragonball Z movie , this film actually has a rather good running time of more than an hour and a half . So it has a better developed story , good action scenes , and of course some good comedy as well . The story has our gang having to escort a bit of a spoiled actress to a realm known as the land of snow . However , as easy as this sounds it does not play out this way as a strong gang of ninjas attacks again and again . Seems our actress has a secret and it is up to Naruto and pals to defeat this ninja clad in special armor . The fights are great showcasing all the young ninjas special talents as well as their teacher and there are a couple of surprises along the way as well . The animation is to be expected just like the television show with a few nice visuals along the way . Though I may only be saying this because I love snow and living here in Alabama I haven't seen any first hand in ten years or so . The characters are their usual selves and you will probably find the actress annoying at first then feel for her then dislike her again . The bad guys are typical , nothing to special about them , in fact Gaara from the television show is more menacing and a way better bad guy than any displayed here . Still , I really enjoyed this movie and hope to see the other Naruto movies released soon .
