Having just watched this on YouTube and read several of the comments here , I've concluded that while Scream Bloody Murder has some effective scenes , some partially good performances from the two leads , and an interesting early bit from Angus Scrimm ( Phantasm ) , this is just mostly junk that has inconsistent characterizations ( Matthew , having spent most of his life in a convent with a hook hand , is actually able to drive and actually found the car's key for the stolen vehicle on such short notice , really ? ) , randomly gratuitous killings ( what was that doomed young married couple thinking when they let Matthew ride with them ? ) , and painful dialogue ( especially Matthew's constantly saying " Now we can be free " to both his mother and Vera who he calls " Daisy " since she resembles his mother-no surprise since the actress is the same ) . Anyone expecting logic should look elsewhere . And part of me wonders how the " MST3K " gang would have ' riffed on this picture . Occasionally , there are some unintentional amusements like when that old lady hit Matthew with her canes or when that dog , seeing him pick that now-dead lady up , was just staring at him ! LOL ! And how about when that delivery boy kept knocking and talking for more than a few minutes even though no one was answering ! And that near-sex scene with " Daisy " and Matthew did turn me on . But with all the inconsistencies I just mentioned , I can't quite recommend Scream Bloody Murder . It's on YouTube , however , if you want to see this for free .
Outdoor Indore is yet another disappointment from Felix's late era at the Pat Sullivan Studio . Felix tries to join the circus . He goes to the fire department and gets a hose , attachés it to the fire hydrant , and presents it to the ringmaster ( Why , I don't know ! ) . An angry fireman turns on the apparently stolen hose which douses Felix and sends him to India . He encounters a boy sucking on a huge peppermint stick . When Felix encounters him , the stick is now standing on the ground . The boy leaves and Felix grabs the stick which turns into a tiger's tail . The tiger chases Felix who turns into a cactus that the tiger passes . As the tiger stops , the cactus behind him turns back to Felix and takes the tiger's stripes which become a ladder ! Felix climbs the ladder and with his glasses spots from afar a man playing a cornet which causes a snake to appear from his basket . Felix detaches his tail and plays it like a flute causing a snake each to appear in the two holes Felix is between . Felix jumps to a tree branch so that the snakes jump out of their holes to form a unicycle . On the unicycle , he sees a man driving a wagon with an exhausted elephant leading . Felix goes to the elephant to offer him a job at the circus where he will get adulation . The elephant accepts and he and Felix boards the next boat available . As the ship leaves , it leans heavily on the side the elephant and Felix are on making the captain on the other side furious . Felix tells the elephant to drink the water so he does . With all the seawater gone , they walk to the customs officer who is greeted by the elephant's seawater from his trunk ! Felix and the elephant walk to the ringmaster who offers them a job . They are a hit with the audience as the film iris out . This might have been an attempt to make Felix more of a heartwarming character but it doesn't really work here . And the gags seem to have a " been there , done that " kind of feel , so lacking is the timing . Perhaps the sound era and Pat Sullivan's ailments are contributing factors to these disappointing last shorts . Certainly the competition from Disney and Fleischer couldn't have helped . After a few years , Felix would be gone but would be briefly revived by Van Buren and then fully revived by the late ' 50s on television for a new audience .
This was a spoof of travelogue shorts shown in theatres in the ' 30s and ' 40s as filler before the double feature . You hear some stereotypical Swedish voice narrating while we're looking at some animated figures moving over some live-action backgrounds . There are mostly literal jokes ( babbling brook with a bunch of dismembered mouths moving loudly , weeping willows with many of them crying , etc . ) that are very lamely depicted here ( they lack the pacing of a Tex Avery cartoon that might have done wonders ) . Dave Fleischer is the credited producer here and , compared to the shorts he collaborated with his brother Max , is not well served . The fault of this cartoon's lameness goes to writer / director Alec Geiss . Nothing here is funny except the ending since it reflects my feelings exactly . So unless you're an animation buff who's curious about this , I wouldn't recommend Tangled Travels .
This is one of those late ' 60s Warner Bros . theatrical cartoons that uses new characters instead of the classic Bugs , Daffy , Porky , etc . The star here is Merlin the Magic Mouse whose W . C . Fields-inspired voice is done by Larry Storch of TV's " F Troop " fame . He does all the other voices here like that of Second Bannana and the Indian Lo . Perhaps because of the obvious low-budget look , this cartoon was mostly " eh " to me . Whatever funny gags provided here come courtesy of Lo , the Poor Indian . Like when he gets Merlin's hat and pulls the rabbit out of it with that hare biting him on the nose . Or when Lo gets off a cliff , stands for a few seconds , then falls with the scene changing to the ground from up high with the impact signaled by a small smoke ( reminiscent of the Road Runner cartoons with While E . ' s impact ) . Then we see Lo running on a treadmill which he calls , " Portable warpath " . LOL ! Otherwise , this was mostly blah for me .
Having recently discovered the films of Mabel Normand and seen some of her great slapstick scenes with Roscoe " Fatty " Arbuckle , Barney Oldfield's Race for a Life was a big disappointment for me since Ms . Normand spends most of the short film tied onto railroad tracks because villain Ford Sterling didn't accept Mabel's rejection of his advances ( glad to see her do so by knocking him down , however ! ) . When her bashful boyfriend Mack Sennett finds out , he gets real-life race car driver Barney Oldfield to help him rush to her rescue . Also on hand are the Keystone Kops who get a hilarious scene at the end . Other than that and some of Mr . Sterling's over-the-top performance , this was mostly blah for me . Worth a look at least once for silent movie buffs . I saw this on YouTube with a score that contained some modern music from John Williams and other scores from recent movies and TV shows .
Buddy runs a movie theatre . The feature stars his crush Cookie . Before that , there's " Passe News " , a preview trailer , and " Rejected Short Subjects " . In the feature , Cookie performs on a piano and sings until a gorilla comes through her window . Buddy sees this and vows to " save " Cookie . Now that I told you the synopsis , I'll just say that while there are some amusing gags here and the animation is quite good , the short doesn't have much of a plot and , as usual , Buddy is just the blandest character ever created for Warner Bros . This character was created because when Hugh Harmon and Rudolf Ising took Bosko with them to M-G-M , Leon Schlesinger was left without a regular cartoon character for his animated shorts . Lucky for us , Porky Pig would be created the same year this short was made . . .
Once again , I'm in agreement with the previous reviewer so I'm not sure what I can add except to say while this short is primitive , it does have some charm to me . I liked seeing a close-up of the cat's tail from behind with the mouse looking up as the tail swings back and forth as well as spin around once in awhile . This is also one of the few cartoons I know of in which a DOG wants to eat a mouse while the CAT is not only friends with the little rodent , in this case he ( or she ) is in love with him . It's too bad , though , that the short doesn't live up to the title since while we see the leading characters GO to the circus , we don't see anything HAPPEN at the circus . Still , it's worth a look for animation buffs once .
As the second Sad Cat cartoon directed by Ralph Bakshi that I've seen on YouTube , Scuba Duba Do is a slight improvement on Gadmouse the Apprentice Good Fairy . The cat's been assigned by brothers Fenimore and Latimore to clean the chimney . There , Sad finds a treasure map . When his brothers find out , they make their brother vote to make one of them the leader for the search . Sad closes the curtain and picks . When he is asked who he voted for , Sad says , " Can't tell you . It's a secret ballot . " After his brothers leave , Gadmouse appears and gives the remaining cat some magic wings to help him quickly find the treasure . It turns out to be guarded by a sea monster who scares Latimore and Fenimore into giving up their search . After they leave , Sad comes by and also is asked by the sea monster if he's seeking the treasure . Sad says yes . The monster then turns into a game show host who offers him various prizes including a luxury ship ! When his brothers come back and open the treasure chest , all that's in it are a sandwich and a cup of coffee . As Sad Cat leaves on his cruise , his brothers are left bickering . . . This one has a little more life in it than the previous short I just mentioned at the beginning of this comment with the leading cat singing at the start and various amusing touches I mentioned in the synopsis . Interesting for anyone who's a Ralph Bakshi completist .
Coutesy of the Classic Television Showbiz site , I discovered this rare " Shindig ! " entry from the YouTube one . It's the Halloween edition from 1965 with Boris Karloff as the guest co-host to regular host Jimmy O'Neill with special guest star Ted Cassidy who appears as both himself and as his " Addams Family " character , Lurch . The show begins with O'Neill singing two Beatles songs : " Help ! " and another one whose title escapes me ( fascinating note : later Fab Four collaborator Billy Preston was a musician here ) . Then we see Boris at a table with a crystal ball doing some banter with the host before disappearing , courtesy of a trick cut . After a commercial for Streidex , Boris then does his version of " The Peppermint Twist " in a speaking fashion with the camera literally panning up and down when he goes to those words . Then there are the regular singers warbling the hits of the week , none of which I recognized except for the " Memphis , Tennesse " number . Oh , and Mr . Preston sings a little during this . I should mention that somewhere here Mr . Karloff was supposed to have performed his own version of Borris Pickett's " Monster Mash " and while that particular segment may have been lost to the ether , an audio version was found on YouTube by someone else and was later recreated with existing video footage and scenes of Universal monster movies , Frankenstein among them . Also , Ted Cassidy as Lurch performing " The Lurch " with the female dancers was also lost though there are his performances with such-like dancers from other shows on the site ( with Terri Garr among them ) . Then , after the Almond Joy spot , Boris makes both O'Neill and Cassidy as himself disappear ( again , courtesy of a trick cut ) before plugging the following weeks ' lineup . Then , O'Neill and Cassidy say their own goodnights before dancing with the other cast as the credits roll . . . The version I saw was on kinescope with washed-out visuals almost throughout . So that was a mar on some of my enjoyment though also some of the performances weren't all that . I did get a kick out of Mr . Karloff's " Pepperment Twist " number , though , as he just sat there while those dancers were gyrating around him ! Also , the Billy Preston number was off-sync here . Still , this was a fascinating chronicle of a dance-music show from a part of a decade before I was born .
In continuing to review the film accomplishments of African-Americans on film in chronological order for Black History Month , we're now at the start of the talkies . St . Louis Blues is the only film appearance of the legendary singer Bessie Smith . As an excuse to warble the classic W . C . Handy-composed song that's the title of this short , Ms . Smith gets two-timed and then rejected by Jimmy Mordecai . The other woman is the light-skinned Isabel Washington , sister of Fredi Washington who's in the next short I'm reviewing , Black and Tan . Anyway , when she sings , Bessie is in a class by herself though I wish the recording on the soundtrack ( which was presumably live ) had sounded sharper . Mordecai later returns for some tap-dancing before coming back to Ms . Smith only to reject her again when he gets her money from her leg garter . Then she reprises before " The End " flashes on the screen . This interesting curio also had the Hall Johnson Choir doing the chorus with James P . Johnson playing the piano . One more interesting fact : The distributor was Sack Amusement Enterprises which later handled later race movies like Spencer Williams ' The Blood of Jesus and Go Down Death .
Just watched on YouTube as linked from Cartoon Brew what was another Paramount Modern Madcap called From Dime to Dime . In this one , a poor man finds a dime on a sidewalk and decides to get a cup of coffee at a diner . It's here that his conscience tells him to use it to gamble on a slot machine . From there , the guy's luck changes for the good until . . . This being from the former Famous Studios , this cartoon has the usual cast and crew from director Seymour Kneitel and music director Winston Sharples to voice artists Jackson Beck and Jack Mercer who co-wrote the story with Carl Meyer . Nothing really funny happens and if you're familiar with this kind of story you can probably guess the ending but it's fascinating to see such an adult subject matter being treated in what was still at this time considered a kiddie medium . So on that note , From Dime to Dime is worth a look for Paramount / Famous completists .
This is the rare Porky and Daffy cartoon in which the two characters don't communicate much , in fact , Porky just appears in the beginning as a farmer who asks which of his hens laid the golden egg . The actual hen , knowing how the last one that did this ended badly , points to Daffy . Daffy accepts the undeserved credit as Porky presents him to the press . After Porky is forced to sell the duck to Rocky and his gang , that's the last we see of him . The rest of the short has Daffy pressured to lay another one in five minutes . Some amusing gags abound in the Friz Freling short but realizing it's not going to be a satisfying ending for the leading character made Golden Yeggs one of the weakest I've seen so far in The Looney Tunes Golden Collection DVD set , Vol . 1 .
In the late ' 60s when Terrytoons was a part of CBS , Ralph Bakshi got a big break when he pitched a cartoon series that spoofed superhero groups . The Mighty Heroes was the result . The lineup consisted of Strong Man , Rope Man , Tornado Man , Cukoo Man , and Diaper Man . In this episode , the villain is called The Raven who with the help of his flying friends rob a jewelry store . He also has a gun which has the power to liquefy anyone still . While the MH manage to grab the gun , they keep clumsily aiming it at themselves allowing The Raven to get everyone captured except Diaper Man who follows his friends to the villain's hideout . Eventually , good prevails . . . It takes a while but the laughs do come at the climatic fights at the end . Loved Diaper Man's use of his baby bottle in defeating The Raven or the Rope Man saying , " I'm tied up . " after getting such with his rope skin . Bakshi probably provided Terrytoons with one last hurrah before the cartoon studio closed for good a few years later . He never forgot his roots either since about 20 years after he developed Mighty Mouse : The New Adventures . . .
In what was the earliest appearance of Felix the Cat , Feline Follies , he is called Master Tom and is more cat-like here than in most of his subsequent appearances . In this one , he's a house cat guarding some mice in the kitchen . When he gets away for awhile to rendezvous with his girlfriend , the mice make a mess of the kitchen . He serenades her with his guitar while she dances . Later , some notes appear literally and become wheels for go-carts they ride on . When he comes back and finds what the mice have done , the female head comes and throws him out . He then goes back to his girlfriend and sees other cats in a crowd look interested in her . The cat then goes to a gas site where he finds a hose and commits suicide . . . Yikes , what a downer beginning for animation's first superstar character ! Otto Messmer must have not of thought of long-term commitment when he created his famous feline . Good thing with a more appealing design , and a more lasting name in Felix , this character would eventually take over the silent animation world . So for many Felix enthusiasts out there , this is worth seeing for at least historical interest .
This early cartoon directed by Charles M . Jones ( better known as Chuck Jones ) features the first appearance of the short's title character with the voice and facial features though he's a little heavier here and still has traces of his predecessor , Egghead . His nemesis is a rabbit who looks a little like Bugs Bunny except his face is pink and he sounds more like Goofy with a laugh like Woody Woodpeckeer ( no surprise since Mel Blanc also did that bird during this time ) . Elmer's trying to take wildlife pictures but keeps getting pranked on by the rabbit . A pretty amusing dry run for the hunting pictures started by Tex Avery's A Wild Hare , this cartoon should be seen at least for historical value . It's on disc 3 of The Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Vol . 1 .
This was another entry I found on Saturday Morning Blog that was focused on Halloween . In this Max Fleischer-Inkwell Imps episode , we see Max and another cartoonist next to him ( probably his brother Dave ) at the drawing board with the other artist stealing Max's inkwell . That inkwell becomes a big house ( well , big enough for the board ) that Ko-Ko and his dog Fitz go into . They encounter several ghosts and skeletons ( many of those in chalk white drawings on black paper-supposedly construction ) . Plenty of weird gags abound like seeing a tiny ghost using a pickaxe on Fitz ' tail or a person being human on the back and skeletal on the front ! Then there's some statues moving that scares the other cartoonist at the end that makes Max laugh . The print I saw on YouTube wasn't in great condition and the score that was picked seemed a little cheery . Despite that , Ko-Ko's Haunted House is well worth a look .
I'm not sure what the title has to do with the plot which is this : An alarm clock ( with arms and legs ) rings loudly to wake up a cat in pajamas . Cat gets up and dances to some music on his stereo . His head comes off , then goes back on during this sequence . He then shaves and makes pancakes at the same time ( he uses his tail to flip the pancakes ) . After eating , he kisses his girlfriend's picture before going to his job checking hens ' eggs under them . One who was missing turns up drunk but when the cat checks her out , she has more than a handful under her ! He then brings a large mobile empty egg box to a large row of slides on which one hen up above provides tons of eggs with this action repeating constantly with each large egg box . At this point , Farmer Al Falfa and his secretary-the cat's girlfriend-arrive . Cat kisses her while the farmer is sitting looking the other way . When Al Falfa catches them he shoos the cat but the cat then takes her away jump roping while the eggs are overflowing in one big box left alone . This gets the farmer angry as he banishes the cat from the premises and he scolds the secretary . Cat gets revenge as he rides on one of the egg boxes as he jumps down from way above , with the result of tons of eggs hitting Farmer Al Falfa as the cat and his girl escape from his anger . . . This was a silent Paul Terry cartoon I just discovered on YouTube among other silent cartoons from the same guy . Many of the gags are pretty amusing if primitive today . Worth a look for any animation fans especially those of Paul Terry .
Having originally recorded this movie , Blame It on Rio , a little more than 20 years ago on HBO , I finally got around to seeing it a few hours ago . I have to admit that the reason was to see some nudity of young women like those of Demi Moore and Michelle Johnson . Johnson certainly filled up nicely considering she was about 17 at the time while Moore seemed a little awkward with her hair covering her breasts up . Loved the way Ms . Johnson keeps teasing Michael Caine at the dinner table after they made love on the beach ! Also loved Caine's covering his naked self with sand when a couple who are acquaintances with him meet him there . Ms . Johnson does reveal her amateurish acting skills when she attempts to confess her affair with a middle-age man ( without IDing him ) to Caine's best friend and her father , Joseph Bologna , but maybe she's supposed to sound like that . Anyway , this was a leisurely sex-romantic-travelogue comedy with some witty lines and visual touches provided by co-writer Larry Gelbart and director Stanley Donen . Also making the most of her part is Valerie Harper as Caine's wife who's considering a divorce . All in all , not hilarious except in parts but pretty enjoyable especially when focused on Caine and Ms . Johnson . I'm getting aroused just thinking about them . . .
This is the second Arthur Wontner-Sherlock Holmes movie I saw on a two-sided dollar DVD ( The first was The Sign of Four ) . Silver Blaze has Holmes and Watson ( Ian Fleming , no not THAT one ! ) visiting the Baskerville house to spend a little holiday there . The title character is a horse that a bookie doesn't want to win since he'll lose his shirt if that horse finishes first . Holmes ' nemesis Prof . Moriarty ( Lyn Harding ) , for a certain amount , will make sure that won't happen . A bit talky for my tastes until the end when Watson gets . . . Well , I'll just leave it to anyone who reads this to seek this movie out . The print I saw was a little better looking than The Sign of Four though it still could have used some improvements . Well worth seeing for any Holmes fans or even those who love ' 30s British pictures .
Just saw this music video at atom . com . It's basically a silly pop-rock song about three boys in white jeans that drive the girls wild making them use brushes and soap to make their jeans the cleanest ever ! And they're in their bikinis too ! Done with some humor especially when a homeless guy appears as the three boys pass him a condom and the girls wash his ratty clothes on him too ! That's all the synopsis I can write about so to fill the 10-line requirement here at IMDb . com , I'll just say I found this short on atom . com under the category " Sexy short comedy " or something similar like that . I previously commented on another short there called The Babysitter . Like I said , Tight White Jeans is a pretty amusing episode of " That's My Daughter " on atom . com .
Just found out on this site that the man who portrays Stephen Foster here was the voice of the Prince in Disney's Sleeping Beauty and the singing voice of Freddie in Warner Bros . ' My Fair Lady . I recognized two names in the cast credits : Louise Beavers , who I knew from Imitation of Life , portrays another Mammy role , the kind that she became known for and Carl " Alfalfa " Switzer ( credited as Carl Dean Switzer ) who portrays a different Freddie here ( his character works at the same accounting office Foster works ) . Everyone else drew a blank though I also found out Rex Allan , who guests here in blackface , was also a narrator in films like the original movie versions of The Incredible Journey and Charlotte's Web . Mostly enjoyable musical despite the blackface number near the end that I just referred to . For that reason , more sensitive souls should proceed with caution . Made before the civil rights era came into full bloom .
Margie and Freddie arrive at Margie's apartment at 2am , two hours after Margie's curfew as set by her father Vern ( isn't Margie old enough to set her own curfew ? and why is she still living with her father ? ) . Margie arrives in her father's room while he was sleeping and sets his clock two hours before but Vern was awake at that point unbeknownst to Margie . So when Margie comes back and wakes him up , she shows father clock to prove she arrived on time when she sees it was set back ! Since Margie wants a convertible so bad , Vern agrees to give her one on condition she has no contact with Freddie for a month . That is broken a day later so , with the help of Charlie the doorman and neighbor Roberta , Margie keeps trying to hide Freddie out of sight of her father who has just been to the doctor and is required to take a certain number of pills . Vern takes them when he drinks some coffee that Margie laced with . Vern wakes up in the middle of the night when he hears some snoring : Freddie slept in the shower stall ! As Vern takes Freddie to his bed , Margie passes by and catches her father unbeknownst to him . Roberta passes by and she and Margie make a last ditch effort to fool Vern . As Vern reminds Margie of his condition of her getting a convertible , he takes her and Roberta back to his bed to find Charlie lying there leaving Vern with a surprised look on his face ! Another contrived episode but the way it's performed is so wacky that I found myself laughing in spite of myself ( the fact that there is no laugh track probably helped ) . Certainly it was nice to see Willie Best and Hilary Brooke again in an episode though Best didn't seem to do too much this time . Worth seeing for anyone with an interest in vintage ' 50s sitcoms .
All I'd like to say about Universal-International's The Land Unknown is that three navy men and a woman reporter land accidentally in a warm spot in Antartica with their helicopter stuck for 30 days during which time they encounter some dinosaurs and another man who had survived there for 10 years from another expedition after his three crew members died there . Jock Mahoney is the commanding officer Harold ( though I could have sworn he was called " Alan " here ) who tries to keep everything together . I recognized him from the TV western " Range Rider " on America One a few years ago . Shirley Patterson ( credited here as Shawn Smith ) is the reporter , Maggie , he falls for . Henry Brandon ( best known as Silas Barnaby in Laurel and Hardy's Babes in Toyland where he was then known as Harry Kleinbach ) is 10-year survivor Dr . Carl Hunter who initially tries to make a deal for the 3 men to escape in exchange for the woman to stay with him . Great conflict results . The dinosaur scenes are a combination of actual footage of close-up lizards and a man wearing a tyrannosaurus outfit . The outfit makes this movie a little cheesy but they worked with what they had at the time on whatever budget was allowed . Otherwise , a mostly compelling entertainment for anyone interested in ' 50 sci-fi movies especially of the Universal-International kind . Wonderful atmospheric score by Joseph Gershenson . P . S . Jock Mahoney was Sally Field's stepfather .
During much of the cartoon , I thought Bobby was pretty cruel to both the goat ( I didn't like it when he jacked him up like that ) and the black boy who is supposed to be his friend ( when he blindfolded him and was going to have the goat butt him ) . But by the time the black boy was stuck on the tree with the bear between cliffs with Bobby on the other side and then Bobby was then stuck on a rope hanging on that same tree with the bear on top of him with each making truces , I forgave Bobby and was amused by the rest of the cartoon and the ending where they both get initiated into a lodge . You'll have to watch the cartoon on YouTube to see how it all ends . Worth a look for any silent animation buffs out there .
Just watched this Oscar-winning animated short directed by Fred Wolf on YouTube as linked from Cartoon Brew . It's basically the story of an old bearded man sitting at a bar drinking with a box on the counter . First a man and then a woman have drinks with this bearded man as they try to find out what's in the box . Both times-after a few minutes-the bearded man allows each one to look in the box with neither pleased to have found out and with both leaving indignant . Then another woman arrives . . . Scored with just drums , The Box is an amusing animated short with an ending that may make you think if the bearded man is who one may think he is . This director Wolf ( who is different from a recent former SNL writer with the same name ) , I've recently found out , is the same person who made those " Puff the Magic Dragon " specials with Burgess Meredith as the voice of Puff as well as the feature film The Mouse and His Child which I reviewed last fall . All of those I mentioned were pretty enjoyable and so it is with this short . So on that note , I recommend The Box .
Jamie goes with Antonio to Paraguay to find this doctor . When there , Antonio has themselves arrested which results in them meeting the man . Because he knows something he's not suppose to , Antonio tries to have him killed but Jamie stops him as she takes a bullet . This doctor later treats Jamie and tells her she may die soon . Meanwhile , Sarah , held back in a chair , takes a psychological test under Ruth which leads nowhere . She manages to break free as she nearly chokes her ex-boyfriend . After Becca finds out older sister Jamie lied about going " away " with a friend , Jamie tells her she can't say where she's going but she'll always look after her . I'll stop there and say while this episode wasn't as exciting as the one before , at least nothing seemed out-of-place either . Michelle Ryan seems to grow into her role and Katee Sackhoff is excellent as usual . Will review again next week . . .
A man is waiting near the road with a rope in his hand . He is hitchhiking . Car after car passes him by . This seems to go on for a long time . Finally , a little man in a small car stops by and ties rope to bumper . As little man starts to drive off , the hitchhiker disappears down hole where rope is . The rope pulls some motorcycles , then an open-air limousine which the hitchhiker is now inhabiting , then one where a German band is playing , and now a band of army tanks and so on as we hear German marching music playing in the background as the credits appear . Amusing punchline in this East German entry of Volume 5 of The International Tournee of Animation on videocassette . Worth seeking out for animation buffs .
I have long been familiar with Dick Tracy through first his comic strip when I was a kid in the ' 70s , then an Archie series that showcased animated comic strips , then an early ' 60s cartoon series from UPA , then Warren Beaty's 1990 movie and now from the last of four RKO Tracy movies from the ' 40s . As he had in some late ' 30s Republic serials and the previous RKO entry , Ralph Byrd plays the title character whose nemesis here is the other title character played by the legendary Boris Karloff . In involves a gas that paralyzes people for several minutes that makes it easy for Karloff and his cohorts to come in an rob a bank . Also in the bank is Tess Truehart ( Anne Gwynne ) who happens to be in a phone booth when the gas goes off so she isn't affected and calls boyfriend Tracy as the robbery takes place . Nicely dramatic and comedic use of freeze-frame throughout with subsequent action sequences an added bonus . Very good performances from Karloff and his cohorts Skelton Knaggs as X-Ray and Tony Barrett as Melody . The good guys aren't so bad either ! I liked Pat's line about doing business with Boris Karloff the best . Well worth seeing for fans of ' 40s series programmers . P . S . Jason Robards , Sr . plays the bank vice president here .
Baby Huey is an overgrown kid duck that keeps annoying the other kids and the teacher . His mother brings in a tutor that has a German accent that made me think of Ludvig von Drake . While Huey causes trouble here too , he eventually redeems himself when he saves his tutor from a shark . On receiving his diploma , however , he cuts it to make a series of children dolls . . . This is one those slapstick cartoons that , no matter how stupid it all looks , you can't help but laugh at which I'm sure was the intention all along . So close your brain and just laugh your head off at an overgrown kid duck that reminds me of Junior in Warner's Three Bears cartoons . Oh , and to Sid Raymond , the voice of Baby Huey : Rest In Peace .
Just watched on YouTube as linked from the Saturday Morning Blog this Terrytoon cartoon starring Mighty Mouse . The villain he's after this time is the title character who's a western cowboy wolf who comes into a bar to order a real tough drink that makes him spin constantly around . Quite a few funny gags involving speed as well as feminine wiles abound here with the appearance of a buxom lady mouse attracting other wolves especially amusing as we watch them just go weak at the knees at the sight of her . Having not seen too many Terrytoon cartoons as a child , it's now a treat to find what I've been missing whenever I find these rare items on YouTube or elsewhere . So for all that , Mighty Mouse Meets Deadeye Dick is worth a look is you're a die-hard animation buff .
Gypped in Egypt is a Van Beuren Aesop Fables entry that features a cat duo-one tall , one short-who seem to be the precursor of the humans , Tom and Jerry , Van Beuren introduced a year or so later . They somehow get stuck in Egypt where they encounter various skeletons-one of whom plays a mean swinging " Chopsticks " on a piano with the short one playing along . There's also some dancing with some hieroglyphics joining in . The cat duo later encounter another skeleton who takes them up on an elevator up a monument only to leave them outside at the top . I'm sure you can guess what happens after that . No real plot to speak of but entertaining enough on merits of movements that dominated many of these cartoons of the ' 30s . Worth seeing for any animation buffs of Van Beuren .
Andy Barker P . I . is Andy Richter's third try at a series since he left Late Night with Conan O'Brien in 2000 . This pilot is moderately amusing with Barker opening his own CPA office above a video store owned by Simon ( Tony Hale ) . Also occupying space is a Middle Eastern restaurant whose owner has a " Down with MSG , Up with USA " sign on his door to show his patriotism . A Russian woman played by the Orbit spokeswoman asks Barker to look for her presumed deceased husband . She leaves the card that identifies the office's previous occupant : a former private eye who's now in a nursing home . I loved the sequence that has a Sandra Bullock doll quoting her line from Miss Congeniality and Andy and Simon debating the merits of that movie and its sequel . Good support from Clea Lewis as Andy's wife and Harve Presnell as the retired P . I . who helps Andy on the cases . Can't wait for next weeks episode . Co-written by O'Brien and Jonathan Groff .
As Chuck waits for a ride on an elevator at his hotel , he meets a couple of network news guys who are having a meeting at Carnegie Hall . They complement him for getting back his anchor job at his old stomping grounds before parting as Chuck goes to his ride . Once the elevator goes back up , those same guys come on and Chuck overhears what they really think of him : They think he's reached bottom . So Chuck becomes determined to scoop Kelly on the top story that evening . Meanwhile , Montana's intern spends too much time with Marsh . Marsh resolves to get a new one for her . He turns out to be a very old man . . . The one-upmanship is pretty hilarious between Chuck and Kelly . Kelly's line about the dingoes especially made me laugh . And wait till you hear the voice of the camping victim on the live newscast ! The intern subplot was mildly amusing though it's nice to see Bill Macy as the old man . By the way , where's Gary ? Better episode than last weeks , though the show could see some more improvement . Glad Fox is still sticking to it !
Max Davidson is an unsung comedian of silent movies from Hal Roach Studios . Maybe the fact that he was obviously Jewish and therefore not very appealing to much of America at the time might have been the reason he wasn't very popular then and is pretty much forgotten now . Maybe some of his characterizations tended to be on the stereotypical side ( though I'm not too familiar with that to know what stereotypes there were about Jews ) . Anyway , Don't Tell Everything has Mr . Davidson and his teenage son , Spec O'Donnell , attending a party where he meets a rich widow . Because Spec plays some pranks ( such as using a rubber band to ruin James Finlayson's tricks ) , Max doesn't reveal his son to the widow . They get married ten days later and the son reveals in a note to his father that he's going to dress as a girl and become the maid in order to live with them . I'll just stop here to say there's plenty of funny set pieces like when Max gets his supposedly fixed car from a mechanic and finds out it's now falling apart , or his embracing his son while in ladies ' underwear while his wife-unbeknownst to him-is watching , or an earlier scene when Max and the widow are sitting on the couch and the son-through the back window-touches his father's face and Max thinks it's the widow touching him so he touches her face and she doesn't like it ! And , yes , Fin does his famous double takes that always make me laugh ! So on that note , I highly recommended Don't Tell Everything .
With Judge Wallace Rainer now confirmed , Senator Jeffery Collins waits for Sara to come home . Marcy , recovering from her miscarriage , asks her doctor to test her blood to find out if her condition was induced . At FBI , Agent Daniel Lucas gets a call from someone who contacted the late Agent Graham Kelton before his unfortunate passing . He asks Lucas to appear in a church confessional alone . Lin Mei comes as the only backup . At the place where Sara is held , she is watching video of her stepson blaming her for his-and by extension , his family's-unhappiness . Sara demands the set be turned off before she knocks it down . The woman in the next cell , a Deborah Hensley , wife of death row inmate Dr . Aaron Hensley , tries to console Sara before she gets taken out . At the church , Lin Mei recognizes blood on a painting as the same way it looked at the place where Sara was supposedly killed when she and Graham checked there weeks before . Lin Mei listens via earpiece to Lucas ' conversation with this contact who wants the circular piece Lucas found . Lucas only agrees to this when Sara is found . He furthermore states that his partner has a gun pointed outside . After deal is made , Lin Mei tries to indeed to arrest the contact only to find him quickly gone . Marcy's doctor calls and says that indeed her miscarriage could have been induced but offered no proof . Marcy tells Ben about her affair with Rainer included her rape by him two months before on the day of his nomination . We find out Sara's kidnappers wanted Rainer confirmed so he could possibly help overturn a case which , if this happened , would help free several convicts , including Dr . Helnsley . Senator Collins asks a female judge he also helped confirmed to say no to overturning said case . Instead , she recuse herself bringing the motion to a possible standstill . Roperter Judy Nash goes to Marcy hoping to get some info Marcy was supposed to give her but Marcy goes back at her word without explanation . At FBI , Lucas and Lin Mei have found on computer the whereabouts of Sara and arrive in a forest only to be caught in the crossfire while Sara escapes unnoticed . Lucas and Lin Mei hold up a couple of hunters who seem to have done nothing wrong . Then under the sheet in the back of the truck behind a dead deer , we see Sara . Before wrapping up , let me mention that Seantor Collins found out from his handler that his ex-wife left because she got more than a thousand dollars from the handler to do so , so the ex-wife has left no trace . This turns into a relief to Marcy who thought she simply abandoned her . As the hunters ' truck gets stopped in traffic , Sara gets out and identifies herself to the cop on duty . . . With only two episodes left , we are closer to finding out what the kidnappers ' intention is . And Ming-Na's character really was necessary this time in IDing certain past clues from when she was with Kelton . Now that Ben knows , is he looking to kill Justice Rainer ? And where did Mrs . Henlsley go ? I can't wait to find out ! Until next time . . .
In this episode , executive producer Ashton Kutcher guests as " educational wanderer " Beaux who's teaching Spanish during his stay . Regular Spanish teacher Tim O'Malley is worried about going back to teaching shop so when the principal and his vice check on him a day or so early , Tim calls Becky for help . Unfortunately , she gets interrupted by Beaux who kisses her ( this being one day after Becky found out Beaux likes her and not rival Lisa ) with the result being Tim got a D on his teaching skills . Looks like he's going back to his old class but Becky then finds out student Mandy ( Jamie Lynn Spears ) is deciding to not go to college after talking to Beaux . When Becky and the school heads find out he didn't go to college , Tim's job is safe ( though we find out he's two credits shy of an actual degree ) . . . This was a little better than the first episode and Kutcher is perfectly charming in his role here . Loved the way vice principal Terry keeps sucking up to him even after Beaux's firing ( Chris Parnell does it again ! ) . As Becky , Judy Greer shows both her venerability with Beaux and her support with Tim who she likes immensely . " Miss Guided " is shaping up to be a pretty quirky show about what it's like to be employed at the same high school that you went to working with some former fellow students . I think this one's a keeper . Now I'm going to review episode # 3 . . .
Bug Vaudeville is just that : a series of insects performing various acts ( boxing , dancing , acrobats , etc . ) while a man watches . Give Mr . Winsor McCay credit for detail in the insect drawings and , unlike his mosquito short , there's nothing frightening here . Well , except maybe near the end when a spider appears and seems to tear the man apart before our eyes but then he wakes up . . . Pretty fascinating of a bit more conventional for a McCay animation . Loved some of the humorous touches like the potato bugs " boxing " or the somersaults of a couple of other insects . Anyone who has major interest in all animation history especially that of McCay's should check this rare short film at least once .
This special about The Great One is hosted by Jeff Garlin of " Curb Your Enthusiasm " . He basically just stands there and mentions many things about what makes Jackie Gleason what he was . His widow , Marilyn Taylor Gleason , is also interviewed about her late husband's work habits-such as his refusal to rehearse more than once-and about his characters that he showcased on " The Jackie Gleason Show " during the ' 50s . Among his characters that we see clips of : The Poor Soul , Fenwick Babbitt , Joe the Bartender , Rudy the Repairman , Charlie Bratton the Loudmouth , Reginald Van Gleason III , and , of course , Ralph Kramden . Of course , many of those clips also have second banana Art Carney in them especially the Kramden ones where he plays the scene-stealing Ed Norton . There's also an Audrey Meadows one in which she doesn't play Alice Kramden : a Reginald Van Gleason where she plays his girlfriend Monica who wants to marry him . Reginald responds by literally sending her to the moon ! Many other funny sketches abound though both Rudy and Charlie may be a little too obnoxious for my tastes . While I do love " The Honeymooners " , the scenes picked for this special seem to emphasize the arguments of Ralph and Alice too much and not enough on the great chemistry of Ed and Ralph and , by extension , Art and Jackie . I did love the " Can You Do This ? " game show sketch that Fenwick enters and many of the Gleason dances especially one where he danced with Marilyn . I also loved The Poor Soul sketch where he fails at bowling and the various Joe the Bartender monologues . And I admit liking one story Charlie told Clem ( Carney ) about his uncle , a garbage man . This special only showcased Gleason's work on his ' 50s TV variety show . Maybe someday someone with make a DVD box set of whatever surviving episodes from that era exists .
The short starts with a mouse playing some bell-like tulips like musical bells . He then dances with his girlfriend whose skirt falls in the middle of the number ( leaving only her panties ) . Her partner plays that skirt like an accordion until she takes it back ! A cat is driving on the highway and stops to try to get alone with the girlfriend mouse . When the cat chases her to an abandoned barn he offers her pearls . The girl mouse throws them back in the cat's mouth . The boy mouse crashes through the locked doors and attempts to fight the cat but the cat manages to tie the boy mouse to a log about to be sawed . The girl mouse calls for the Northwest Mounted Police mice ( on regular sized horses ! ) to come to rescue her boyfriend . They manage to defeat the cat and one of them pulls the lever that operates the saw and it breaks ! Don't worry , he pulls an extra one out of thin air . Boy and girl mouse are reunited and they get married as we hear the strains of " Oh , Promise Me " . The reverend mouse silently marries the couple as each says " I do " ( the boy mouse sounds a little like Mighty Mouse when he says his only line ) . The reverend then ties the married couples tails together as the choir now sings " You're In The Army Now " . The boy mouse is frowning during this number until his wife kisses him . They embrace for a long clinch as we iris out heart-shaped style . Then a little mouse with a big dog next to him gives us the moral : " All's Well That Ends Well " before the dog elongates his tail and beats the mouse down the ground forming a hole . Then the still picture of cartoon character dogs with the " suger coated pills of wisdom " sign in place of " The End " appears . This was one of several Aesop's Fables cartoons made by John Foster and Harry Bailey after series creator Paul Terry left the Van Beuren Studio to start his own Terrytoons . If the mice bear some resemblance to Walt Disney's Mickey then it should be noted that Disney based his beloved character animation on many of Terry's Fables . Nevertheless , it is possible that Disney sued Van Beuren ( and possibly other cartoon studios ) for copyright infringement when mice like the ones in this cartoon appear with some resemblance to Mickey . It is still a good and amusing short that should entertain some animation buffs that are interested in all animation from the early sound era . The synchronization is good for this period for both sound and music . By all means , check this one out !
In this Friz Freeling directed cartoon short , Elmer stops trying to hunt for Bugs in the forest with his dogs after receiving a telegram telling that his Uncle Louie will give him three million dollars if Elmer stops harming animals-especially " wabbits " . Well , when Bugs hears of this , you know he'll annoy the " fat boy " constantly ! ( Mr . Fudd was drawn on the heavyset side during this period ) . . . If you love to see Bugs at his most obnoxious , this is the cartoon for you ! Many gags are probably familiar to you if you've seen a ton of Warner Bros . cartoons . There's one scene when Bugs gets thrown out and he does a hysterical routine that has him breaking the fourth wall and saying , " This could get me the Academy Award ! " On that note , I highly recommend The Wabbit Who Came to Supper .
In this , the last " Creature Comforts " episode that aired on CBS , there's some small clips of various animals mentioning what celebrities they look like . I liked it when one of the lobsters said he was told he looked like Charles Atlas ( that muscle guy in the comic book ads that I remember from the ' 70s ) ! Then in Winter , we see a groundhog trying to analyze the weather just before seeing his shadow then he runs back to his treehouse ! Also , a male horse discusses spooning with his female mate before that mate asks what he's talking about ! In The Zoo , a gorilla says he wants porn ! And so ends another segment of ordinary people's voices coming out of clay-animated animals ' mouths for the last time due to low ratings . Not as funny as the last two episodes but still amusing enough . Hope to see something again from the creators of Wallace and Gromit real soon . Until next time . . .
In this one , Jack and Elisa are having relationship problems , Liz and Kenneth attempt to recover Liz ' cell from a cabbie , and Tracy on " Larry King Live " tells everyone to panic when the Asian markets fall . . . Not quite as funny as previous eps of " 30 Rock " and I can't help thinking the staffers looking for Tracy's money in his office is excuse for them having something to do especially the Scott Adsit character since this is one of his rare appearances this season but there are still some pretty funny lines and scenes and it's touching how the Kenneth character really is in certain situations . Also touching was Salma Hayak's exit for this arc . Hope she's available for a comeback . And how about Liz ' nana's " lullaby " song being " 99 Luftballons " . . .
Having had their own successful radio show for the past seventeen years , this marked the first time George Burns and Gracie Allen appeared on live television . It begins as Burns steps from the curtain and explains what it's like to be a straight man . We then see Gracie opening her window as she trims the hedges with George's razor ! A book salesman comes and tries to sell Gracie some encyclopedias but gets confused by some of her nonsense logic and keeps getting his hat smashed whenever Gracie puts some of his books down ! After this scene ends , George introduces musical act The Skylarks and then does some banter about George's singing . Then Gracie drops in on the Mortons and asks Blanche ( Bea Benaderet ) to go to the movies which Harry ( Hal March ) at first refuses but relents to avoid an argument with Blanche . Announcer Bill Goodwin then drops in on George as he tells a story of how he was stuck on an airplane running out of gas and mentions to control tower , " Do you use Carnation Evaporated Milk ? " leading to a plug for the show's sponsor . After this ends , Bill almost walks off the set before George tells him to use the door . " Now , wasn't that better ? You see , we've got to keep this believable , " George says as he tells us it's now three hours later . He talks to Harry to make plans to get out of going to the movies with their wives by inventing a card game called Kleebob hoping the confusion would free them to go the boxing match . But Gracie recognizes the rules having played a similar game a week ago when George wanted to get out of something else with his wife ! Goodwin then comes by himself to plug another Carnation product before George and Gracie say good night . Very amusing first episode of a transplanted radio show that shows how in command of the camera Burns , Allen , and the rest of the cast were . Gracie , especially , is very funny whether wondering how milk came from carnations or mentioning how she never gets dizzy prompting Harry to choke from his drink ! The sponsor's product , while obvious , is amusingly integrated into the plot . The only real intrusion is the musical act which would eventually be phased out except for musical-like episodes . The George Burns and Gracie Allen Show on television marked the peak of the comedy team's success that would last until 1958 when Gracie retired . Well worth seeing wherever you can find any episodes !
An amusing Tex Avery cartoon made near the end of World War II . Basically , a pilgrim who doesn't want to wait in line goes to " Ye Black Market " building to get a live turkey . The turkey who offers himself sounds like Jimmy Durante . Various chase gags are executed like the one where the pilgrim paints on a brick wall outside scenery to fool the turkey . Turkey goes through that scenery . Pilgrim tries to chase turkey through only to smash himself . The kind of gag that would be more perfected in Chuck Jones ' Road Runner cartoons . Many other gags involving modern gadgets follow . Highly worth seeing for any Tex Avery fan . Don't miss a final gag involving someone constantly carrying the sign , " Eat at Joe's " . . .
Last week , we found out Claire's bio-dad was Nathan Petrelli . He offers the bio-mom lots of money which she accepts . Hiro and Ando offer to help a Vegas showgirl in exchange for info to Linderman's whereabouts . Jessica is assigned by Linderman to assassinate a Mr . Malsky who is guided by Matt as a newly hired guard . Mohinder calls a Zane Taylor in Virginia Beach , Virginia and offers to come over but Sylar gets there first . Claire's adopted mom gets a big headache from possibly HRG's constant mind wipings . Claire overhears Petrelli and her bio-mom but doesn't show herself as she throws a rock at Nathan's car as he leaves . Hiro and Ando sneak into showgirl's ex-partner's room to get her purse but Hiro leaves quickly while Ando is stuck under bed while showgirl's ex-partner sits . Hiro overhears showgirl's phone call about lying to the boys and gets punched by her then gets locked in while Ando goes with her outside . An agent gets Hiro out . Jessica knocks Matt out a window but Matt recovers after landing on ledge . Malsky is killed , however . Matt does recover suitcase of diamonds and is about to give them to police then changes his mind when he hears in their heads what they think of him . Mohinder arrives at Taylor's house and unknowingly gets Syler who demonstrates Taylor's powers that he stole-turning metal into liquid . HRG has grounded Claire because she skipped school . Clair's adopted mom can no longer remember her life . And Jessica has a new assignment-Kill Nathan Petrelli . . . Pretty exciting though still slow-moving . Hope the New York explosion comes soon so there can be some real action . I thought Matt was a goner for a while when he was unconscious on that ledge . Still love Hiro and Ando's exchanges about heroism . Claire gets more suspicious of her adopted dad . Syler sure has fooled Mohinder . Until next time . . .
At a little over ten minutes , Harmon and Ising's Bottles is one of the longest one-reel cartoon shorts I've seen from the ' 30s . It's basically about a druggist who's up overnight mixing a potion for a poison bottle . As he falls asleep on the counter , the bottle comes to life and pours some of its liquid on the druggist's neck as he shrinks to a small size and wakes up . It's here that things get surreal with various medicine and alcohol bottles that come to life and sing and dance with the druggist joining in . Prominent among them are three baby bottles with diapers singing about doing nothing but crying because " no one will change our di-di " . Quite amusing and a little bit atmospheric . Worth seeing for anyone curious about MGM cartoons before Tex Avery and Tom and Jerry came aboard .
Before Veronica Mars , there was Nancy Drew , the teenage amateur detective with an attorney father created in a series of juvenile novels by " Carolyn Keene " ( not a real name ) . Nancy Drew . . . Reporter was the second of four films that starred Bonita Granville as the title character for Warner Bros . Directed at a fast pace with crackling dialogue and humorous and suspenseful moments throughout , this movie is a breeze at just 68 minutes . Wonderful supporting cast includes John Litel as Nancy's father , Frankie Thomas as Nancy's boyfriend Ted , and Mary Lee and Dickie Jones as Ted's sister and her friend who cause trouble wherever they go . The last two had a future association with Gene Autry with Lee appearing in some of his ' 40s movies and Dickie ( later Dick ) also appearing with him then starring in later TV series " Range Rider " and " Buffalo Bill , Jr . " for Autry's production company . Though it stops the story , there is a wonderful swinging version of Nursery Rhymes as sung by Granville , Thomas , Lee , and Jones . Dickie would also be famous as the title character voice of Walt Disney's Pinocchio . Well worth seeing for fans of Drew and ' 30s programmers . P . S . Joan Leslie and Florence Halop appear as classmates of Nancy in the newsroom field trip sequence .
While I agree this episode was a setback from the previous season premiere , Automatic for the People was still a pretty enjoyable episode of " Terminator : The Sarah Connor Chronicles " . The most enjoyable scene for me was when Cameron in that hot outfit at the pool table was asking Bob if it was still her turn after sinking nearly every ball her first time out ! It was also a nice surprise seeing a pregnant Busy Phillips as the woman selling Sarah the house at the beginning . She's been a favorite actress of mine since I first watched her in " Freaks and Geeks " . And thanks to someone at tvguide . com for identifying that concerned guy at the nuclear plant as the one who played Ryan Chapelle on " 24 " . When Derek Resse later discovered him hung in his house and we saw his cyborg replacement , those provided some very exciting fight scenes with Cameron and Sarah . The only concern I have is with John letting Riley into the new house so soon after meeting her so it was reassuring when Cameron sees no danger from her yet . Overall , a pretty good episode so until next time . . .
On the September 30 , 2006 cold opening , we are at a South Carolina town hall where the state comptroller ( Jason Sudeikis ) is speaking . All of his supporters , including President George W . Bush ( Will Forte ) , are there . Bush annoys some people with his constant speaking during the speech . Sudeikis ends up saying , " Live from New York , It's Saturday Night . " New montage is revealed for the 32nd season opener with Sudeikis , Bill Hader , and Kristen Wiig no longer featured players . In fact , there are no featured players this season . Dane Cook then does a 10-minute monologue about how some friends committed suicide , and some YouTube videos . First sketch is about Federal Aviation's meeting about what constitutes liquid ( no , not turkey sandwiches ) . Next , Hugo Chavez ( Fred Armisen ) has a McLaughlin Group-style discussion with other foreign leaders about the evils of America and Bush . In " Al Pacino Balances His Check " , Pacino ( Hader ) calls someone at Wells Fargo ( Wiig ) to transfer some of his savings to checking . Musical guest The Killers perform their first song , " When You Were Young . " We then see Amy at the Update desk being greeted by Brian Williams ( yes , the real one ) , who is expected to be the new co-anchor . Actually , it's Seth Myers . Williams leaves disappointed . After commercial break , Don Pardo , for the first time since Norm McDonald , introduces the new Weekend Update team . Amy begins by mentioning that two foreign leaders refuse to shake hands at the White House which is made more awkward when Osama bin laden shows up . Senator George Allen ( Sudeikis ) apologizes for saying the word " macaca " , Dustin " Screech " Diamond ( Andy Samberg ) tries to plug his sex video , and Myers ends with an item about a robber trying to steal a Tickle Me , Elmo doll getting subdued by a Give Me a Reason , Bert one with a picture of Bert with a switchblade behind Seth . Update simply ends with Amy and Seth saying good night and shaking hands . Next sketch has Cook and Forte as water delivery men who get caught hiding empty bottles from boss Wiig ( amusing scene of bottle after bottle falling in closet lasts about two minutes ) that ends with them getting fired and Forte mentioning a friend from SNL who will submit the sketch we just saw and also mentioning having another friend from Studio 60 while Cook mentions knowing someone from 30 Rock ( though the show in that one is actually titled , " The Girlie Show " ) . The Killers perform their second song , " Bones " then , after another commercial break , Amy appears as a spaced out Farrah Fawcett plugging a save the ocean life PSA before leaving set to appear in a closing time sketch . This sketch has Cook and Sudeikis forcing customers to leave bar by any means necessary . Finally , a Geico commercial parody with Samberg as a college student and Maya Rudolph as Whitney Houston mentioning her past drug problems . Mostly amusing show with the highlights being Hugh Chavez , Federal Avation meeting , and another Update piece with Bill Clinton ( Darrell Hammond ) and Condi Rice ( Rudolph ) as well as Pacino , some of the water bottle sketch , and a digital short called Cubicle Fighting . This was Cook's second show and he did fine throughout . The next episode will have Jamie Pressley with musical guest Corinne Bailey Rae .
This is a four minute computer-animated short about a Russian bear named Potapych who makes friends with a man named Mishr sharing vodka drinks and having a good time partying everywhere they go . But then it ends in a poignant but satisfying way . Despite its short running time , this short makes its point in the most succinct way : you're nothing without friends and happiness . Wonderful use of Russian-style music and a narrator . I saw this on a recommendation of Jerry Beck at Cartoon Brew . The person who made this should definitely have a long career ahead of him . So by all means , if you're an animation buff and you take Mr . Beck at his word , make it a point to see this one .
Just watched on YouTube this Walt Disney educational cartoon starring Goofy . Or at least three of them , each given a Latin name representing what kind of car driver he is : Driverius Timidicus-the timid driver , Motoramus Figitus-the fidgety driver , and Negleterus Maximus-the neglectful driver . Each one demonstrates how disastrous their driving on the freeway is by doing several " don'ts " that get them into trouble with the last character providing the most laughs from me . The original voice of Goofy himself , Pinto Colvig , is allowed to be a little more insulting here since these Goofys are nothing like the more " aw shucks " version of the character like when Motoramus tells many of his other cars stuck in accidents to " Get a horse ! " Quite entertaining while providing a lesson on driving . So on that note , I highly recommend Freewayphobia # 1 ( a . k . a . The Art of Driving on the Super Highway ) .
It's All in the Game is one of the more fascinating of the latter-day Columbo movies for three reasons : 1 . Peter Falk wrote this episode . 2 . Faye Dunaway plays a character who flirts with the Leutenant in order to distract him from his suspicions . 3 . Columbo almost seems to fall for her . As another poster mentioned , I did see some kind of lesbian subtext in an early scene between Dunaway's character and that of Claudia Christian's in the latter's apartment before the big reveal at the end . Also appearing were Bill Macy as the building super and Shelley Morrison , years before playing Karen's maid in Will and Grace , as the murdered victim's maid who is amusing showing Falk how she cleans the refrigerator . So the Leutenant likes peanut butter and raisins . O-k-a-y ! Highly amusing and suspenseful and Ms . Dunaway deserved her Emmy . Definitely recommended for Columbo fans .
Having read many tributes to the late Robert Altman , I was fascinated by one that mentioned Brewster McCloud was on YouTube . So I clicked the movie there and marveled at seeing Rene Auberjonois ( whom I loved in the TV series " Benson " ) talking about birds and humans and then Margeret Hamilton singing the National Anthem as the credits roll but stopping to correct the key before she sings again with the credits starting again ! Bud Cort is mesmerizing in the title role and Sally Kellerman is luminous as his guardian . Newcomer Shelley Duvall is appealing as Cort's sometime girlfriend but I'm really fascinated by Jennifer Salt's performance as a health store worker who delivers goods to Cort's place in the Astrodome and gets off just thinking of him while he does pull-ups in his underwear ! Perhaps the funniest and sexiest performance in the movie . She and Auberjonois are the best parts in the film . So by all means , if you love Altman , watch Brewster McCloud and be stunned by the tragicomic ending !
Wild and Woozy West is another of the unsung cartoons from the Columbia studio of the ' 40s . It concerns the capture of the western wolf villain Angel Face , wanted dead or alive ( perferrably dead ) . Among his list of crimes is " using naughty words " . The setting is Pivot Point , pop . 502 . After Angel arrives , however , that would change to 112 . . . I'll just stop right there and mention there are plenty of other visual gags that I don't think I've seen in other cartoons of the period like when the wolf leaves the sheriff's office the wooden door falls down , nails , wood , and all . When the sheriff escapes being locked in his safe and comes outside to find the wolf , the destroyed door comes back together the reverse way it fell apart ! So on that note , anyone seeking these obscure Columbia cartoons can find many of them on YouTube . And Wild and Woozy West is worth seeking out if you do !
Filled with veterans , ( Ellen Burstyn , Anne Bancroft , Jean Simmons ) recognizable character actors , ( Rip Torn , Holland Taylor , Esther Rolle , Alfre Woodard ) , hot young adult stars ( Winona Ryder , Dermot Mulroney , Samantha Mathis ) , some up-and-comers ( Jared Leto , Claire Danes , Johnathon Schaech ) , and a poet ( Maya Angelou ) , How to Make an American Quilt is an inspiring movie about a young college student staying during the summer at her aunt's house with many of that aunt's friends sewing a quilt while sharing memories of their young lives that provide material for the young woman's college paper . Based on a novel , this film provides detailed flashbacks of some of those lives and less so on others but they mostly provide some impetus for the aspiring author's decisions as she makes up her mind of what future she decides on . As a result of the constant flashbacks , some of what happens may be confusing but most gets explained at the end . So on that note , I recommend How to Make an American Quilt .
While I saw lots of Three Stooges comedies on afternoon television in the late ' 70s , I admit I don't remember Termites of 1938 . So on discovering Society Mugs on YouTube , I found myself laughing at the antics of Shemp Howard and Tom Kennedy as exterminators mistaken for escorts from college . They turn a society party upside down with their unorthodox manners concerning dining and music . That plus lots or rats , some near-close calls with drills , some Stooge foils like Christine McIntyre and Vernon Dent , and a nice appearance by Charles Williams from It's a Wonderful Life makes this a very hilarious short for me . A look at Shemp outside of brothers Moe and Curly and Larry Fine . Society Mugs comes highly recommended .
After more than 3 months , " 30 Rock " is back with a new episode . Glad it's back , especially after it won the Emmy for Best Comedy ( loved Ms . Fey's acceptance speech in which she thanked " dozens and dozens of viewers " ) . This episode begins with Liz and Jack saying how good their summers been ( Liz doing a long quilt after breaking up with Floyd , Jack putting successful reality shows like " MILF Island " on after his surgery ) and how it's going to be a great year . Both , though , have their own troubles : Jack has been digitalizing Jerry Seinfeld on all the NBC shows without Jerry's approval , Liz keeps calling Floyd's apartment in Cleveland . Also , Tracy Jordan now lives in the building with Kenneth since his wife threw him out . Meanwhile , Jenna has gained a lot more weight since she kept eating pizza while performing in " Mystic Pizza : The Musical " on Broadway . And Seinfied , having found out about Jack's deceit during his family vacation in Europe , comes back to NBC . . . Many funny lines abound in this Fey-written season premiere with some favorites being Alec Baldwin's " Liz , women your age are more likely to be mauled by a bear than getting married " or Cerie's ( Katrina Bowden ) exchange to Liz after Liz accepted a bridesmaid invitation : " Now I've got something old . " Also loved Kenneth's creepy grin whenever he sees Seinfeld and his reciting the guy's TV theme in front of him to which Jerry can only reply , " Really ? " So much stuff that was funny that I won't reveal here . And nice to find out the ratings have indeed improved so on that note , to quote Jack and Liz , I think it's certainly going to be their year !
At first , I wasn't too thrilled about this movie because of Cab's rough treatment of Minnie ( Jeni Le Gon ) and her insolent attitude in return . And the idea of Calloway going to an audition arranged by his manager Nettie ( Ida James ) when , at this point in his life , he had already entertained millions of people in several movies , on radio , and in concerts makes this very much a plot for the birds . Good thing then that not too much time is spent on the " story " though Minnie's tragic end was a little touching with Cab granting her last wish . From then on , it's just a variety show starring Cab with his orchestra along with The Peters Sisters ( a talented group of full-figured women singers ) , and the tap-dancing Millers and Lois ( their tap routines are some of the best I've seen ) . While just every number performed by the Hi-De-Ho man is great , he's especially compelling on the " St . James Infirmary " number . And seeing the wedding number with Cab , Ida without the glasses , and Augustus Smith as the preacher makes an excellent finale for the picture . So on that note , I highly recommend Hi-De-Ho ( 1947 version since Cab previously made a couple of shorts with this name , one of which I reviewed in February ) . P . S . David Betha who plays the Brass Hat Owner here was previously in The Green Pastures ( another movie I reviewed in February ) as Aaron , Ms . Le Gon was born in my birth town of Chicago , Ill . , Mr . Smith was born in Jacksonville , Fl . , a place I lived in from 1987-2003 .
Since this movie was made while there was still a Production Code , that is before the movie ratings system of 1968 , Kiss of Death may strike some modern-day viewers as dull except for the famous scene of Richard Widmark's Tommy Udo pushing Mildred Dunnock's crippled woman down a flight of stairs , a sequence I first saw as a clip in Sean Penn's 1984 Bad Boys . From a script by Ben Hecht and Charles Lederer with direction by Henry Hathaway , this movie takes its time with the story of Nick Bianco ( Victor Mature ) , a career criminal who can't get a break going legit so he robs a jewelry store during the Christmas season and gets caught . It's in jail that he meets Udo who he befriends . Initially refusing to play " stool pigeon " , he changes his mind after a tragedy involving his wife . That's all I'll tell you except I'll also mention good support from Coleen Gray as the narrator and Mature's second wife and , especially , Brian Donlevy as the attorney who tries to protect Nick . Because sequences involving the first wife were not allowed under the Code , like I said , it might make for dull viewing but when some of it gets mentioned later one can almost put two and two together and make for some compelling visuals for the thinking mind to ponder . It's the performances of Mature and Widmark and the various point-of-view shots and shadowy lighting that makes this one of the more compelling film noir's of the late ' 40s . So for all of the above , I highly recommend this movie . P . S . Look for a young Karl Malden .
This musical short from Paramount was another rarity that I read about in the Matinée at the Bijou site which linked this to YouTube . As we watch a performance of Phil Spitalny and his All-Girl Orchestra and Choir , the first song being performed is " I'll Bet You Tell That to All the Girls " led by a three-girl chorus . Then we segue to Evelyn and her Magic Violin with singer Maxine for " Rendezvous with a Dream " . After that , pianists Rochelle and Lola provide their version of " Goody Goody " . And finally , the entire orchestra plays " Song of India " with silhouettes of two female belly dancers as the short concludes . . . Very entertaining from beginning to end , Musical Charmers provided another musical act on film that possibly entertained many audience members who otherwise couldn't have afforded to see them live . I myself was familiar with them having seen them in Abbott and Costello's Here Come the Co-eds . This short is highly recommend to anyone interested in vintage period music as well as anyone who just loves to find new discoveries from the cinema of yesteryear . P . S . Evelyn Kaye Klein-the one with the " magic " violin-was married to Spitalny in real life .
What's Up Doc ? is a pretty amusing , if not hilarious , cartoon from director Robert McKimson about Bugs Bunny's rise in show biz . As a child , he learns to play Franz Lizst on the piano . Then as an adult , he starts in the chorus in various musical revues . Bugs blows his big chance , however , when his solo act only gets crickets chirping ( a familiar cartoon gag for when a performer bombs ) . Down on his luck , he sits on a park bench with Al Jolson , Jack Benny , Eddie Cantor , and Bing Crosby when headliner Elmer Fudd walks by . Fudd rejects everybody as they do their trademark cues except Bugs . Bugs is basically a stooge to Elmer so he switches punchlines in New York which causes an angry Fudd to get a rifle in the wabbit's face making Bugs say , " What's Up Doc ? " for the first time . As he notices the audience eat it up , he tells Elmer to say it again . He does and the applause gets louder ! That leads to their first screen test at Warner Bros . where Bugs sings " What's Up Doc ? " with Elmer singing and dancing along at the end . Having told all this to a female reporter , Bugs looks at his watch and says he's due on the set for his next starring role . As the curtain with his initials goes up , we see him singing and dancing with . . . those same chorus boys he performed earlier with in his career ! Like I said mostly amusing if not hilarious though I loved many of the jokes that Elmer and Bugs did in the vaudeville segments . And the celebrity voices done mostly by Mel Blanc were spot on . Anyone who saw the live-action What's Up , Doc ? that starred Barbra Streisand and Ryan O'Neal should be very familiar with the " What's Up Doc ? " number since that sequence appeared at the end of that movie . This short is part of Volume one of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection .
Here's another animated cartoon I watched on Uncle John's Crazy Town blog . It's a Terrytoon starring Kiko the Kangaroo . Who you ask ? This was an animal character that originated in the Farmer Al Falfa series . In this one , Kiko is a fire fighter who's called to douse the flames of Station KIKO which has a literally hot jazz band playing in the building . The instrumental music provided is highly enjoyable throughout and is accompanied by some amusing gags like taxis dancing or some notes literally moving on air . The Kiko character didn't really have much of a personality to last long in the Paul Terry staple like later characters like Mighty Mouse or Heckle and Jeckle but in cartoons like this , he got showcased in some of the best black-and-white ones the company made in the ' 30s . So on that note , I highly recommend Red Hot Music , .
Just finished this , the sequel to Rankin / Bass ' " Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer " . With Red Skelton as narrator Father Time as well as the Baby Bear , Frank Gorshin as the knight Sir Ten-To-Three , Morey Amsterdam as the caveman-O . M . ( One Million ) , Hal " Great Gildersleeve " Peary as the whale Big Ben , Paul Frees as various voices , Don Messick as Papa Bear , Iris Rainer as Mama Bear , and , returning as Rudolph , Billie Mae Richards . Written once again by Romeo Muller , " Rudolph's Shiny New Year " is a wonderful Tall Tale about how the reindeer with the shiny nose managed to make sure that it didn't become December 31st forever . Even as an adult , I was enthralled by the way Muller kept making things up as the story went along and didn't care a lick about logic or stuff like that as long as it was still believable . Although when Red said this story took place just after the events in the previous special , I did question why Rudolph's antlers had shrunk to when he was a kid . Other than that , I still highly enjoyed " Rudolph's Shiny New Year " . P . S . I just found out Frees and Amsterdam were born in the same city as I , Chicago , Ill .
In this one , Daffy plays himself as an actor tired of comedy roles so he pitches J . L . a script called " The Scarlet Pumpernickel " by Daffy Dumas Duck . The duck's the title character hoping to rescue the fair Melissa from the evil Porky Pig . The pig tries to get Sylvester to marry her to keep her from Daffy . Also involved is Elmer ( done for the first time by Mel Blanc instead of Arthur Q . Bryan ) and the Mama Bear from Chuck Jones ' Three Bears cartoons . Nice humorous touches throughout with Daffy , especially , in fine form . I noticed Sylvester doesn't have any whiskers here . Essential viewing for any Jones fan or anyone who loves animated spoofs of old movies .
Having sent herself and the Connors ahead to 2007 by a computer that was hidden in a bank vault at the end of last week's episode , Cameron , after three days , now tells Sarah about getting new ID's . Sarah and Cameron go to an old friend named Enrique who tells them he's now retired and sends them to his nephew , Carlos . Carlos agrees to make the fake cards for $2000 . Meanwhile , tired of being a " statue " at home , John goes to a mall where he goes on computer to find about events that happened between 1999 and the current time but gets interrupted by an employee there before he finds out about his mother's death of cancer in 2005 . He does find out about Charlie Dixon , Sarah's fiancée , and sneaks into his house where Dixon's pleasantly surprised . John hits him before he can get any closer and leaves . Later , Charlie's wife asks him if he's all right . He says yes but his face reveals otherwise when she leaves . When the Connors and Cameron go to the safe to get the money , they hear footsteps . It's the " teacher " terminator from the previous episode ! They escape . After paying the money and getting their ID's , Sarah , knowing Spanish , overhears Carlos reveal his uncle as a rat . She goes back to Enrique who tells her he did not betray her . While she pointed her gun , it's Cameron who shoots from behind as Sarah cries over Enrique's dead body . It's later revealed from an FBI hidden recording that he lied to Sarah . . . Another exciting episode of " TTSCC " . Loved seeing Cameron do exact movements and attitude of a lady next to her as she stood outside while Sarah was dealing with Carlos . Also cool seeing her get knocked out by a car and thrown outside a window several stories down and then get back up several seconds later as if nothing happened ! And finding out that the wife of Charlie was also Penny of " Lost " from a TV Guide blog was another thing that was awesome ! Both episodes , while having some action , were slow in plot pace but next weeks preview shows the program should up the excitement considerably . So until next time . . . Update / 08-Correction : The terminator after the Connors and Cameron at the safe was not the teacher from the previous episode ( he was still in his skeletal phase with his head missing which he recovered here ) but a different one entirely . If the two out of five that didn't find my comment useful was because of that mistake , I now stand corrected .
Leonard , Sheldon , and their two friends are at Penny's restaurant playing a game that mixes Civil War generals with various sci-fi heroes . Penny tells them they have to order something or they'll get thrown out . Leslie , Leonard's lab partner , comes by and asks if he'll agree to play cello for her music group . He agrees . Once there , Leslie has to make obvious what her intentions are so Leonard doesn't get confused . Meanwhile , Sheldon asks Penny over to his place in order to get her to tell him what the tie on Leonard's door with music playing inside means . With Penny now knowing about Leonard and Leslie , Leonard makes his move on Leslie but she tells him she won't be available to him " until at least New Year's " . So a relationship is over before it really began . . . Another funny episode of " The Big Bang Theory " with the welcome return of Sara Gilbert as Leslie . Many funny double-entendres abound . Most of the best lines , as usual , come from Sheldon . Glad to know this show is doing well for the CBS Monday lineup . Will post another review next week . . .
Isle of Forgotten Sins is one of those rarities I discovered at my local library . In this case , this was one of Edgar G . Ulmer's low-budget poverty row pictures he made for PRC . John Carradine and Frank Fenton are rivals for gambling club owner Gale Sondergaard but they put aside their differences for a chance to get sunken treasure . Ms . Sondergarrd and her girls ( which includes a crafty Veda Ann Borg ) come along but all of them seem to be pawns for Sidney " Charlie Chan " Toler and his partner Rick Vallin . Also briefly appearing is Bill Edmonds-Mr . Martini in It's a Wonderful Life-as the island chief . Enjoyably and breezily fast-paced ( whenever possible ) B-movie that benefits from Ulmer's expert direction and a suitable underscore by Leo Erdody ( who like me was born in Chicago , Ill . ) mixed in with some public domain classical music . The composer is billed by his last name here . If there's some quibble , it's how some scenes obviously reveal how some boat scenes use a toy model and the underwater ones reveal the diving suit , which is also a small plaything , being manipulated . Otherwise , great fun with even some singing from one of the girls not marring the storyline too much .
This special from PBS chronicles Sting's playing , performing , and recording the music of one John Dowland , a songwriter and musician from the 16th century . To perform the songs as they sounded then , Sting plays the lute and collaborates with Edin Karamazov , an expert on Dowland's music . We also get biographical information from a couple of historians , David Pinto and Anthony Rooley . And , yes , Sting performs throughout , either for an audience or in a yard somewhere . Near the end , he also gets a chorus with him . While I found most of the special fascinating , I was a little frustrated that I couldn't understand everything Sting was singing perhaps because the English language was slightly different then or maybe I am not too familiar with the songs to really decipher the meanings behind the words or feelings being described . Nevertheless , the special and the music was compelling and maybe I'll get the CD .
Just finished watching this annual awards special which had the following honorees : actor Morgan Freeman , choreographer Twyla Tharp , surviving Who members Roger Daltrey and Pete Townshend , Country music singer George Jones , and singer / actress / director Barbra Streisand . Let me first mention some disappointments : When Denzel Washington mentions a " children's show " that Morgan appeared on in the ' 70s ( and they show a clip of ) , he neglected to mention the title : " The Electric Company " which entertained many children like myself when it aired on PBS from 1971-77 . Also , he didn't mention the first movie that got Freeman critical acclaim as well as his first Oscar nomination : Street Smart . Maybe that's because he played a pimp on that one . Not exactly the kind of role that inspires the American Dream . Also , The Who's musical tribute seemed too short to me especially compared to that of George Jones . That said , all the tributes were wonderful . I especially loved the NY police and firemen who survived singing the " teenage wasteland " line from " Baba O'Riley " back to Daltrey and Townshend . And how hilarious was Jack Black's speech at the beginning of their tribute ! And how wonderful were Kelli O'Hara and Nathan Gunn when they sang " Somewhere " in the Streisand tribute . And while I'm not really a Country music fan , I did enjoy Laura Bush's beginning speech and the musical tribute that followed . Finally , the couple that danced the " Sinatra Suite " - which played the entire recordings of " Strangers in the Night " , " That's Life " , and " My Way " - in Ms . Tharp's tribute were class exemplified . The same goes , as always , to host Caroline Kennedy . On that note , I salute all the 2008 Kennedy Center honorees .
Days of Being Wild is the first film I've seen directed by Wong Kar-Wai as well as the first time I've seen any of the actors that I'll now list here : Leslie Cheung , Maggie Cheung , Andy Law , Carina Lau , and Tony Leung . Those beginning scenes with Leslie and Maggie are some of the most erotically charged I've seen in movies yet and I haven't seen too many adult dramas as you've probably guessed if you've read all my comments so far . The gradual , quiet , and eventual shattering desperateness that involves most of the characters made this movie very compelling even during very slow scenes in which nothing happens . Both Maggie and Carina Lau are sexy in their own way with their individual scenes with Leslie Cheung and their one confrontation is one of my favorite scenes here . Also loved Andy Lau's policeman character and his keeping Maggie company as she recovers from her affair with Leslie . Just about everything is compelling about Days of Being Wild though I admit being confused with Tony Leung's only scene at the end . Knowing that an unfinished sequel exists based on that frame makes me hope to one day get to be able to view it eventually . . .
This musical short from Warner Bros . - Vitaphone was what the title says in the following order : 1 ) The 3 Whippets-Three dancers that do somersaults , back-flips , and one of them stands at the top of two chairs with each foot on each chair without falling , 2 ) Adelaide Hall-a female singer who does a little dance , 3 ) The Nicholas Brothers-siblings Harold and Fayard , both under 20 , tap-dance up a storm , and 4 ) Eunice Wilson and The Five Racketeers-another fine female singer with a song who then gives the stage to the backup group that then sings " Tiger Rag " ( a . k . a " Hold That Tiger " ) , which is the unofficial theme song for the LSU Tigers , with Eunice then appearing at the end dancing as this very entertaining music short ends . If there was one negative thing I saw here it was the giant watermelon backdrop that was the background of the last act . I saw this on The Green Pastures DVD as an extra .
William Windom is Randolph Lane , a worker at a plastics company for the last 25 years who's been off drinking and reminiscing at the abandoned - and - about - to - be - torn Tim Riley's Bar . His boss ( John Randolph ) doesn't like it and is considering replacing him with his underling Harvey Doane ( Burt Convy ) who's quite a hotshot . Only his loyal secretary Lynn Alcott ( Diane Baker ) still treats him kindly . Lane's been having memories of his homecoming from the war and how happy he seemed to be when he first worked at his company as well as how sad he didn't get to say goodbye to his now-late wife . I'll stop there and say while Rod Serling wrote a very compelling tale of the effects of aging and how those years can pile on like a sledgehammer ( a suitable word considering the story ) due to alcohol and not having enough time to smell the roses , he backtracked on the ending which was probably forced on him by the network . Still , " They're Tearing Down Tim Riley's Bar " was possibly his last compelling work as a writer before his untimely death four years later . To which I can only add , rest in eternal peace , Mr . Serling .
In a nutshell , Porky Pig is a lumberjack who's chopping down a tree that occupies a squirrel who wears pajamas , hangs a " Brooklyn Dodgers " banner over his bed , and reads the racing forms from the newspaper . The squirrel tries various ways to shoo the pig away like putting aluminum siding on the tree and then disguising it with varnish as Porky fails to chop with various axes that keep losing their sharp heads . Many funny chase gags abound and a twist involving a bear especially pays off here . This cartoon came from the short-lived Arthur Davis unit and it shows how talented Davis really was with the timing of the gags and pacing that also marked his predecessor , Bob Clampett . Too bad , due to budget constraints , Warner Bros . later had to cut Davis ' staff . Porky Chops is highly recommended .
This is a very entertaining cartoon that pre-dates Chuck Jones ' Duck Amuck by about 21 years in which a short fellow named Jerry draws various objects sometimes to the consternation of his tall partner Tom . Yes , this is the Van Beuren Tom and Jerry , two humans created long before the more famous cat-and-mouse team from MGM when the Van Beuren ones were already discontinued . In summation , Jerry draws an egg that spills on Tom's face , he draws a saxophone whose notes turn into ducks , he draws wooden shoes with a couple of birds dancing on them , he draws some vegetables with faces that sing " Yes , We Have No Bannanas " that then turn into a hero , his girlfriend , and a villain with pencil-thin mustache . All this makes the short one of the most creative from the Van Beuren studio so anyone interested in the early days of talkie animation especially the Van Beuren kind should seek this one out .
This broadcast of December 19 , 1954 starts with Dean and Jerry in their dressing rooms trying out various Colgate products as the announcer mentions the sponsor's product names we see Dean and Jerry display on the screen . Then a big production number of how the show is canceled when Martin and Lewis come on stage and they sing Lose That Long Face while The Nick Castle Dancers all perform . The first sketch takes place in a restaurant that Dean runs . On a chalkboard it says , " Soup 15 cents " . Dean tries the soup , looks around the chalkboard and says , " There was supposed to be a chalk that I was going to use to mark this out to say Soup 10 cents but I can't find it ! " He starts to eat dinner . Jerry looks out the window and starts to make faces to indicate he's hungry . This goes on for a few minutes before Dean offers him a job . Jerry runs to indicate how quick he can be . A lot of customers come in . Jerry chops a long line of prop spaghetti noodles resulting in accidentally chopping a man's coat in half ! Bus call causes customers to leave without paying . Dean gets angry at Jerry and tries to train him as waiter . There's a hilarious set piece involving a big block of ice during this scene . More customers come in . To keep them from taking next bus , Jerry ties bus to counter stools . Bus takes those stools away ! Dean puts Jerry on stove as sketch ends . Dean sings Without a Word of Warning to a female cast member on stage . Next sketch has Martin and guest Vera Miles adopting Jerry here playing Orville . When Dean comes home from a hard day's work Jerry overreacts by hugging and sitting in his chair causing it to fall several times , and trying to take his shoes off by pulling on them while sitting on his legs ! Dean then says he didn't really want children and then wife Miles tells Orville about " present " under couch which Dean opens and reads a humorous and touching speech about little boys which results in Martin and Lewis sympathetically punching each other . Then the Nick Castle Dancers do another number . Then Jerry does a solo piece about having nothing to do for three minutes before Dean sings Mambo Italiano . They then introduce special guest " Phil Abrams " before Love in Bloom plays and it's actually Jack Benny who comes on stage . He just says , " Well . . . " before Dean and Jerry rush him off stage . Their next number is Every Street's a Boulevard which they performed in Living It Up . They introduce Jack Benny for real at the end and Jack mentions " Money's not everything since I got paid nothing to be here . " in mock disappointment . ( Of course , this might have to do with the fact that Jack was then a CBS employee on an NBC show ! ) Then as Jack leaves , Dean and Jerry reprise their last number as the credits roll . Good show throughout considering the conflict that was already brewing between Martin and Lewis before their split two years later . I saw a good print kinescope on a DVD collection of various Martin and Lewis shows so if you love this team by all means seek this one out !
In the late ' 40s and early ' 50s while Chuck Jones was making Porky and Daffy cartoons that had the latter the " hero " while the former the " sidekick " , Robert McKimson was bringing back the adversarial relationship they originally had when they first met in Tex Avery's Porky's Duck Hunt . This short is similar to that in that Porky is once again a hunter who's looking for ducks . Daffy , of course , becomes the target but because he emptied many bullet shells of pellets , the shooting Porky does won't hurt him . At this point , the dog makes a deal with the duck for him to surrender to him so his master won't throw him out . Many funny gags involving the duck and dog follow . And dig the holiday twist that ends this short . So on that note , I highly recommend Daffy Duck Hunt .
A man is lying on a hammock reading and listening to the radio . Wife is tending garden . They each throw something on the ground . Wife tells husband to throw ground trash away . Husband digs ground . Wife points to trash can . Husband puts trash in garbage can . Garbage truck comes to take trash and dumps everything in large pile . Pile gets dumped in a large hole in earth that gets sown up by giant needle . When wife is again tending garden , something with a funny smell comes out . She starts praying to virgin statue . A dog strikes same hole and faints at smell . Husband gets his pickax to strike hole and everything explodes leaving us with space which dissolves into a picture observed by two small green men in a space ship . " The Big Bang " , asks one . " No , the Pig Bang ! " says the other as he laughs and we fade out . Pretty amusing short from the director of Allegro non troppo that makes you think . A worthy entry from the Volume 5 VHS of the International Tournee of Animation .
Another funny episode of " 30 Rock " I had to catch up on nbc . com . In this one , Kenneth loses the pants of Jack's suit so he tries to earn some money to buy a new one by performing some of the writers ' dares like swallowing ketchup that expired a couple of months ago or scaring writer Lutz awake in a gorilla suit . Liz suspects a new Middle Eastern neighbor ( Fred Armisen ) is a terrorist . And Jack falls for a woman at a party named C . C . ( Edie Falco ) who he later finds is a Democratic senator . . . Not as funny as Greenzo , Somebody to Love is hilarious enough with welcome appearances of Tina's former SNL castmates like Armisen and Kristen Wiig who plays an actress who plays C . C . in a very funny Lifetime movie parody . " I'm . . . going into politics " , Wiig says after the dog shoots her in the face ! LOL ! Also loved Tracy's Rerun ( from " What's Happening ! ) impersonation in the cold opening . Some of the most memorable lines are , of course , from Alec Baldwin's Jack . When he mentions to Liz a party thrown by John McCain and Jack Bauer , Liz says she doesn't think he's real . Jack explains , " I assure you , Liz , John McCain is definitely real . " There's many more like that but why should I tell you ? Just watch . Will review another episode soon . . .
As the episode begins , Cameron is dressed as a cop . She's going to the police station to put the power out with her hand so she can get the dismembered hand from the Terminator she killed . A look at the sheet list reveals it's in the possession of Agent Ellison . After Cameron goes home and tells Sarah about the hand , Sarah tells her to look for the man who took the Turk from Andy , Dimitri . Cameron poses as a ballet dancer to find his sister , Maria . It's there she overhears her and Dimitri talking about their troubles with the Russian mob in their native language . Agent Ellison watches some tapes of Sarah when she was put in a mental institution and watched by a Dr . Silberman . He goes to where the doctor now resides : a cabin in the woods . Silberman acts kindly towards him initially then cuts his knee after poisoning him with tea to find out if he's a machine . Ellison then gets tied up and almost killed when Silberman sets fire to his own house . Sarah saves the agent after punching Silberman before taking back the hand to later burn . Ellison then turns Silberman in the same room Sarah was held in . After Cameron gets info from Dimitri about where the Turk is , she leaves him and his sister just as the mob comes up to kill them . During much of this time , John watches one of the tapes of his mother that she earlier took from Ellison's house and is saddened to find out she had years before singed away parental rights when she left him in the care of some now-dead foster parents . And Derek and Cameron each declare that they knew each other from before and Derek tells her , " You may have fooled the others but you haven't fooled me . " Though he must wonder how human-like she's becoming when he sees her ballet dancing to some familiar music . . . While this was more of a drama with expository dialogue that references T2 : Judgement Day , most of it was compellingly played . Certainly the scenes involving Silberman and Ellison were some of the most shocking I've seen so far in this series . And how wonderful to see Summer Glau put her dancing skills to good use here ! No wonder she has such a nice figure . Brian Austin Green gets better with each episode and has managed to ditch his previous role as 90210's David Silver forever ! Can't wait for the two-part season ( hopefully not series ) finale so until next time . . .
Well , New Year's Eve is coming up but poor Charlie Brown is stuck with having to read " War and Peace " ( which is about a thousand pages ) for his school book report . On top of that , Peppermint Patty invites him for her and Marcie's party while Linus tries to avoid Sally and her calling him her " Sweet Baboo " . Oh , and there's a certain " Little Red Haired Girl " that Charlie's crazy about . . . Another funny and insightful " Peanuts " special with a wonderful script by creator Charles Schulz , direction by Sam Jaimes and usual helmer Bill Melendez , and a not bad musical score by Ed Bogas and Desiree Goyette who also wrote a couple of songs as well as sang on one of them . Too bad no one thought to put the late Vince Guaraldi's " Linus and Lucy " in there but otherwise , this was another fine " Peanuts " holiday special .
Robert McKimson's Devil May Hare marks the first appearance of the Tasmanian Devil , an ugly little monster who constantly spins around that will eat any animal especially rabbits . When he comes upon Bugs Bunny , however , he's in for a surprise ! First , he eats a pig that's actually an inflatable raft , then chicken made of bubble gum . Taz is on to Bugs , however , when the rabbit tries to pass a barrel with sticks as a deer even as Mr . Bunny tries to warn a real deer of the monster . He finally gets the Devil a bride as he hilariously marries them in their language ! Those grunts alone make this one of the funniest moments in a McKimson short . So once again , like I've done before commenting on cartoons included on The Looney Tunes Golden Collection DVD , Vol . 1 , I highly recommend Devil May Hare .
Anyone who's read many of my comments here know what an animation buff I am . So it was as one that I decided to check out R . O . Blechman's The Soldier's Tale from my local library . Based on compositions by Igor Stravinsky and a popular Russian folktale , this concerns a soldier's post-war trials and tribulations after making a deal with the devil to trade his beloved violin for a book that guides him to his future . Various styles of animation come together to form a mostly cohesive whole with Fred Mogubgub , Bill Littlejohn , and Tissa David among the animators . Among the voices , Max von Sydow provides his charming self as Satan . Might be confusing at times but The Soldier's Tale never gets boring . Well worth seeing for animation fans .
In honor of Memorial Day , which this year is on May 28 , I started watching the first two episodes of the documentary series " Victory at Sea " . This one titled " Design for War " is the first . It chronicles the first two years of World War II in Europe before the United States ' full involvement . Germany succeeds in invading Poland and France but is held back by England thanks to Canada and much of the American naval forces . Very compelling use of actual footage is memorably accompanied by the resounding music score of the great Richard Rodgers . This is an excellent start to one of the most historically important documentaries on television . A must for any history buff .
The title of this Victory at Sea episode refers to the circle of ships the military of the U . S . , Australia , and New Zealand manage to surround around the Japanese base of Rabaul in the Solomon Islands . Many of these events happened in the fall of 1943 . . . Besides the stirring action accompanied by such likewise narration and Richard Rodgers ' music , there's some humor concerning the R & R of the military like the sign of Maude's Mansion Masseur : " Sorry , he's a he , not a she " as we see men get massaged by such a man . I also liked the one beer-drinking man seen here who has a shirt with " Vestal Virgin " printed on it . By the way , they're all drinking at a place called Duffy's Tavern which was supposedly named after a then-popular radio program . Another excellent segment of Victory at Sea that should please all World War II buffs !
This is my fifth consecutive comment on a Rod Serling-related project and my first this month of December on a Christmas-related one . Having never seen this particular episode when " The Twilight Zone " was airing on Superstation WGN-TV in Chicago on cable during the ' 80s , I was ecstatic when I found this on joust . com as linked by Google Video . One of six episodes shot on videotape , Art Carney is Henry Corwin , a drunkard who arrives late and inebriated at his job of a department store Santa . When one parent in particular complains , the manager ( John Fielder ) fires him on the spot but not until Henry expresses his wish to help less fortunate folks , as opposed to the arrogant and spoiled ones in the store , does he leave . Outside as he stumbles into his alley , a cat drops a big bag down in front of him . When he comes to the church of salvation , all the poor souls there miraculously get whatever presents they wanted from that bag ( one of those souls is played by Burt Mustin , who I remembered from a couple episodes of " All in the Family " ) . The organ playing woman there does not approve and gets a cop who takes him in . At the station , Henry's former manager tries to take back what he thinks are his store's stolen goods but sees nothing but tin cans and thinks the cop wasted his time bringing him there . But when Corwin reaches back in the bag , he presents his ex-boss with a bottle of a certain vintage wine that he wished for . I'll stop there and mention how wonderful to discover another great Art Carney performance after years of seeing him as Norton in " The Honeymooners " as well as his Oscar-winning turn in Harry and Tonto . He brings such belief and optimism to his role that when the whimsical turn of events come at the end , you can't help but be happy for him . Not a typical " Twilight Zone " episode , that's for sure , but one worth seeing for anyone who loves the Christmas spirit .
The British and the Greek military teams manage to defeat the Italians and later the Germans in the battle to take over the Mediterranean . At issue is who controls the Suez Canal in Egypt . . . One team of Europeans unite against another team in order to fight for what's right ! Another compelling episode of the great TV documentary series Victory at Sea with stirring narration and music by the legendary Richard Rodgers . History doesn't get better depicted on film than this ! How exciting to see such footage come to life almost as if we're living it now ! One of the most essential documentaries to come about the way World War II was fought and won for the democracy of the world . Can't wait for the next installment !
Based on the Newberry Award-winning book , Bridge to Terabithia is the story of two tween outcasts , Jesse and Leslie , who bond over their creative endeavors , drawing and writing , respectively . After school , they swing a rope across the brook and go to their tree clubhouse where they imagine being in the land of Terabithia , fighting various creatures and racing each other . Josh Hutcherson and AnnaSophia Robb are wonderful as the lead characters . Among the adults , I especially liked Zooey Deschanel as the music teacher and Robert Patrick as Jesse's dad . Despite some sadness along the way , this is essential viewing for the whole family . Kudos to Gabor Csupo and the Disney Company for making it .
Just watched this Warner Bros . cartoon on YouTube . In it , husband John ( Mel Blanc , of course ) asks his wife Marsha ( Bea Benaderet ) if she's done various chores . When she replies " no " on the lawnmower question , he tells her she doesn't do enough work during her free time . Marsha rebuts with a tale of what her work day entailed . . . Director Robert McKimson fills this day - in - the - life - of - a - housewife premise with lots of hilarious verbal and visual gags that keeps building until the much deserved finale . And the stylized ' 50s design that was probably UPA-inspired is perfect here . And music director Carl Stalling , as always , provides many familiar music cues-like the " Powerhouse " score by Raymond Scott which is my favorite-their suitable moments in the short . So for all that , I'm highly recommending Wild Wife .
" Pushing Daises " is the most critically acclaimed new show of the season and I can't help but agree how great the pilot or " Pie-lette " is ! Lee Pace is charming in a role that requires him to not show too much personality as Ned . Chi McBride shows a flair for comedy as Detective Emerson Cod , Ned's partner on cases and his pie restaurant . Kristen Chenoweth as Olive Snook , Ned's waitress , brings her pixie spriteness to the table , and Anna Friel brings a spunky optimism to her role as Charlotte " Chuck " Charles , a childhood crush Ned brings back to life he dares not touch again if he wants her to keep living . Also want to mention Swoosie Kurtz and Ellen Greene as Chuck's aunts that she lived with after Ned , when they were young children , inadvertently killed her father ( which she doesn't know about ) . What wonderful veterans they are ! This show is worthy of all the acclaim it got and the ratings it got means that a lot of people were willing to try this one out . Can't wait to see what the rest of the season brings !
Just finished watching " Good Ol ' Charles Schulz " , an episode of the PBS series " American Masters " . This celebrated cartoonist had long been a hero of mine because of the way he made universal the insecurities of everyday life by putting them in the leading character of his long-running comic strip " Peanuts " , one round-headed kid named Charlie Brown . We follow Mr . Schulz as he grew up as the only child of Norwegian-immigrant parents who rarely spoke much or shown much affection , then through a courtship with a woman named Donna who became the inspiration for Charlie Brown's Little Red-Haired Girl crush , his first wife Joyce who became Lucy in the strip , his second wife Jeanne , and finally his cancer and death . We also get interviews with his children , some friends , some art instruction colleagues like one actually named Linus , fellow cartoonists Jules Feiffer and Lynn Johnston , and his partners in the animated Charlie Brown specials-Lee Mendelson and Bill Melendez . In between all of this , we are shown panels that illustrate some aspects of Charles Schulz ' life that brought out some of the most profound humor in him . During the whole 90-minutes , one gets the feeling that despite his success , Mr . Schulz always wondered if he truly was loved by all the people that praised him or was it simply because of his fame . Hopefully , any mail he received after he announced his retirement shortly before he died in 2000 put any doubts he had to rest . This was a wonderful special that truly honored the life of Mr . Schulz . May " Peanuts " , which has rerun his classic episodes for millions of readers for the last 7 years , always be in the hearts of anyone who's ever felt like Charlie Brown ( which may be most of us ! ) .
In this cartoon directed by Friz Freling , Bugs is the carnival barker announcing high diving daredevil Fearless Freep as the big attraction . Yosemite Same gets so excited he buys hundreds of tickets . Bugs gets a telegram saying Freep won't show because he's delayed by a storm . Sam ignores explanation and attempts to make Bugs do the dive . Several times . Now that you know the premise , I won't tell you the rest except to just watch . And the one scene where Sam says , " You notice I didn't say Richard . " is a reference to a then-current popular song called , " Open the Door , Richard " . Simply hilarious especially Bugs ' line at the end .
" In about 1 hour , 33 minutes , and 47 seconds , Santa Claus will be here ! " So says Sniffles , a cute mouse from Leon Schlesinger Productions ( later Warner Bros . Cartoons ) during the ' 40s . He's trying to stay up late waiting for the bearded man in the fat red suit by drinking coffee , listening to the radio , etc . Will he succeed ? Chuck Jones , the one animation director during this period of Looney Tunes-Merrie Melodies that didn't go for straight gags , takes his own sweet time in finding various ways to get Sniffles ' attempting to stay awake as entertaining as possible for the next 6 minutes . Nothing hilarious here , just some mild chuckles but Jones succeeds in his goal . I was especially amused by one magazine ad that reminded the mouse of sleep that had a boy toddler in nightgown holding a candle with the slogan , " Time To Re-Tire " which was an actual one for the now-defunct tire company Fisk ( there was still one in the Baton Rouge area when I first moved there in 1975 ) . For fans of both Christmas cartoons and those made by the folks at Termite Terrace , I highly recommend Bedtime for Sniffles .
Just saw this British animation short on Cartoon Brew . Pan-tele-tron is a pretty entertaining look at the way communication was achieved through the eras from wires to telephones to radio to television . Produced and sponsored by Phillips , this film has that wonderful ' 50s abstract look so common for this era . While you do see the Phillips logo at the beginning and end , there are no blatant product placements of their items anywhere in this animation short . Instead , you get a wonderful education of communications throughout the centuries and their inventors like Alexander Graham Bell and Marconi . Well worth seeing for animation and history buffs .
Having previously seen Sweet Sweetback . . . , Watermelon Man , his son Mario's Badaaaasssss ! , I took one look at this documentary on DVD at my local library and had to check this out quickly ! What a fascinating look at Melvin Van Peebles ' life and various careers ( as a side note , I was pleasantly surprised finding out here that he was born in Chicago , Ill . which is also my birthplace ) . From train conductor to Air Force pilot to French novelist to filmmaker to musician , Van Peebles seems to have done it all and I haven't even mentioned Wall Street trader ! However , because of his independent streak-Watermelon Man being his only Major Studio film-Melvin is not always respected . He's never out , however , and seems to treat his jobs like he treats women-one day at a time ! Nice insights from fellow filmmakers Gordon Parks and Spike Lee but the real treats are of his children Max , Megan , and especially Mario who had played his father in one of the titles I mentioned . While the Sweetback movie gets the lion's share of attention here , we also see snippets of Story of a Three Day Pass , the Watermelon pic , his televised musical play " Ain't Supposed to Die a Natural Death " , his musical movie-Don't Play Us Cheap-from the ' 70s , and the one he was shooting at the time-Bellyful . There's also some bonus features of some of his concert performances and of his commentaries he did for a New York TV station . The most hilarious of those was on his seeing " X-Rated " movies as a child which he defined as those that portrayed his race in a demeaning manner ! Witty and refreshing , How to Eat Your Watermelon in White Company ( and Enjoy It ) is a must for a look at this multi-talented man .
With the recent death of jazz great Oscar Peterson , Amid at Cartoon Brew showed his tribute by linking from YouTube two animated shorts scored by him . One was directed by John Hubley . This one , Begone Dull Care , was done by Norman McLaren and Evelyn Lambart with the abstract paint done directly on film . Peterson provides three jazz pieces with the second one just played to white lines on black background and the other two mixed with that and various other colors , mostly red . Wonderful Jackson Pollock-like images that might have inspired many a trip during the ' 60s ! What a great tribute to a recently departed music genius from Canada .
Liz reluctantly goes to her high school reunion with Jack along with her pretending to be former student Larry who apparently was very popular . It seems Liz was actually a " mean girl " ( nice reference to Ms . Fey's movie from a few years ago ) whom many former classmates ( including one who's gay ) didn't like . Meanwhille , Tracy and Jenna try to stop Kenneth from being the center of attention in the elevator rides since that's THEIR jobs . Oh , and the reason Jack pretends to be someone else at Liz ' reunion is because Don Guiess , having woke from his coma , is staying as network CEO and isn't planning to die soon . . . Another very hilarious episode of the sublime " 30 Rock " series what with moments from Don's mentally challenged daughter Kathy and a revelation from a former girlfriend of Larry's , not to mention the almost " Carrie " moment that Liz narrowly missed . Oh , and if that " former girlfriend " looks familiar , it's Janel Moloney , formerly Donna on " The West Wing " . All right , now I'm going review the Christmas episode of " 30 Rock " . . .
Having never seen any VHS copies of this last Beatles movie and since it will probably be a very long time before it gets on DVD , I was stoked when I found out YouTube had this uploaded since the later part of summer 2007 and it was still there . All the things director Michael Lindsay-Hogg filmed were fascinating to me especially when Ringo played some piano with Paul or when John and Yoko danced or when Heather-a young pre-teen who's Paul's future wife Linda's daughter from a previous marriage-hung around the Apple Studios . ( Oh , and while I did know of George's argument with Paul over George's guitar playing from an outtake that was used in " The Beatles ' Anthology " , only Paul's explanation to him about that is in here . ) Then there's organ pianist Billy Preston who might have officially become the fifth Beatle had the group not split up some time after this film . The real exciting part was the legendary rooftop concert that caused some traffic and had Paul ad libbing some lines about getting arrested at the end of " Get Back " ! What a way to end the film and loved hearing mostly positive comments from the crowd below . So on that note , Let It Be is very essential viewing for all Beatles fans or just any that loves good music performed live on film .
Peter is in the interrogation room questioned by FBI agent Audrey and mind-reading cop Matt . When Matt tries to read Peter's head , Peter ends up reading Matt's ending with a colliding block effect . Peter mentions that Claire , not the dead Jackie , was who Syler was after so Matt and Audrey leave to get her as Peter is left behind . Jessica hit Niki's ex-husband D . L . but the bullets went through him though Jess doesn't seem to know this yet ( she must have memory loss from when D . L put his hand through her previously ) . The next morning , D . L . and son Macah go to a cabin to settle down just before Niki comes nearby and sees her Jessica reflection on a puddle with Jessica saying how stronger she is for anyone , especially Niki , to take her on . Jess must have figured out by this time that D . L . was still alive and takes her gun and hides it as Micah finds her , thinking it's his mom , and takes her back to the cabin . As Micah calls to his dad , D . L . kicks the door open and attempts to knock out Jessica . Sometime after kicking down Micah , Niki comes back and turns herself in the the police . Back to the interrogation room , Claire is questioned with her father witnessing stopping short of revealing her powers since her dad doesn't want anyone else to know . Claire later stops by Peter's cell to tell him what a hero he is to her while her dad confronts Syler and calls him by his real name of Gabriel Gray . He later gets orders from above to keep Syler alive though Eden , with her powers of persuasion , mentions being able to make Syler kill himself without anyone being the wiser . Eden then visits Issac and gives him a cell phone and a card . Issac calls the number on the card and gets Hiro , still at the diner in Texas . They agree to meet at a bus station . At a nearby hotel room , Issac tries to paint without drugs for the first time as Hiro and Ando watch . The result is a scene of Hiro with a sword confronting a dinosaur . Hiro looks at that and says , " I gotta get me a sword . " Eden calls Mohinder in New York and confesses she lied to him , promising to tell him everything after she takes care of some business . She goes to Syler's cell and attempts to kill him , but he manages to break the glass between them and somehow quickly point the gun back at her instantly killing her . Before going home , Claire is assured by her dad that he'll take care to explain to her little brother about knowing her powers and is ordered to have the tapes Zack recorded of her to be destroyed . She does just that when Zack brings them , then goes to her brother who has no memory of the incident . Neither does Zack later on and he's now wondering why Claire is speaking to him since she's ignored him since sixth grade . Claire , now feeling alone , calls her dad who reassures her everything's all right . Just then his Haitian assistant , who was always silent previously , surprises Claire and reveals he's wiped certain memories of everyone she's been close to and was going to do the same to her but reneges this time . He only asks her , " Can you keep a secret ? " During this whole time , Peter has been having dreams or visions of his brother Nathan , Syler , and now of being back in New York with all the other heroes except his brother running away from him as he begins to explode . . . But wait , now he's back in present time feeling normal with Nathan embracing him and some of the others coming back . . . Wow , what a way to end the year before the month-long hiatus ! So Eden's now dead . Although I mentioned that Syler pointed the gun back at her , I now wonder did Eden purposely turn the gun around to keep him from getting her persuasion powers or did Syler manage to get some of Eden's powers before or after killing her ? When Matt shook hands with Claire's dad , he didn't recognize him but on a later stakeout he did recognize his Haitian assistant with him . So how long before he figures out that his mind's been wiped by the Haitian man ? And was Peter actually about to cause the bomb explosion or did he get close to that man who actually makes things burn sometime before ? I can't wait to find out all these things and more come January 22 , 2007 !
On this May 13 , 2006 broadcast , the cold opening takes us to an alternate universe as we see President Al Gore address the nation on how well our country's been doing . Yes , that's the real Al Gore ! He then says , " Live from New York , it's Saturday Night ! " During the monologue , Julia Louis-Dreyfus mentions being on SNL from 1982 to 1985 and being the first female former cast member to host ( it's at this point that I wish they had shown some sketch highlights from her earlier period-like the spit-take talk show skit from her last show or The Julia Show when she talked about just herself even with guests Eddie Murphy and Jamie Lee Curtis ) . She then mentions her new show , " The New Adventures of Old Christine " in which she talks about alternate titles like " CSI : Christine " . She then discusses the " Seinfeld Curse " leading to a film of her encountering Jason Alexander and discussing his being on the show . Jason leaves happily before getting hit by a car ! " Oh , well " , shrugs Louis-Dreyfus . Then a ceiling light almost hits her . " Curses " , says a taped Jerry Seinfeld up above holding scissors . Next comes Techpack , a commercial parody about carrying Ipod and other entertaining gadgets on a belt that could also carry a bomb . We then go to a restaurant where Louis-Dreyfus is joined by Amy Poehler , Rachel Dratch , and Maya Rudolph and a homeless guy ( Bill Hader ) outside the window makes obscene gestures to Poehler , Dratch , and Rudolph but not to Louis-Dreyfus who gets jealous at not getting the same attention as her friends . While I enjoyed this sketch , I half thought that maybe Louis-Dreyfus and Dratch should have switched places but that's just me . . . Next is a morning talk show skit where every technical thing that can go wrong does . Hilarious ! In the next sketch , Louis-Dreyfus plays a mom with a teenage daughter who is in a MySpace class with perverts and pedophiles portrayed by nearly the entire male cast . Very amusing . She then introduces Paul Simon who sings " How Do You Live in the Northeast ? " On Weekend Update , Tina Fey mentions George Bush approval rating going down " $3 . 00 a gallon " . Al Gore debates with Poehler about global warming . Finesse Mitchell talks about suitable prom wear . David Blane ( Andy Samburg ) talks about holding his breath at Update desk for 9 min . but only manages 22 seconds of it . On ' 70s game show Charades , first-time contestant Louis-Dreyfus is facing five-time champion Poehler in performing such pantomime bits like " licking two ice cream cones " or " seal blowing horns " . Both contestants seem to border on the sexual in their moves but the celebrity guests correctly guess Amy's charades while Julia's is described is either " fraternity party " or " stag party " ! After commercial , camera pans audience and there's husband ( and fellow former SNL cast member ) Brad Hall with their two boys ! Julia then portrays an actress who's reenacting an " Unsolved Mysteries " segment of a woman who's been abducted by E . T . , Dracula , and Gremlins with Col . Sanders to the rescue ! Kristen Wiig plays the woman who believes all this happened to her while Julia's character can't believe a word of it . Simon then performs , " Outrageous " . On An SNL Digital Short , Will Forte tries to convince Andy Samberg not to jump . . . then we find out Samberg is standing in front of Forte as the film ends with a picture of peyote with the announcer mentioning how the ad was sponsored by the Peyote Growers Foundation . Before the goodnights , we see a photo of former cameraman Al Camoin who died two days before this broadcast . Then Louis-Dreyfus thanks everyone and says , " I'm not gonna wait another 21 years to come back , I'll tell you that ! " as credits roll . Paul Simon makes his fourteenth appearance overall and first with Louis-Dreyfus . This was perhaps the best show of the season and what a homecoming for Julia Louis-Dreyfus ! Please , Lorne , if you can , bring her back as soon as possible !
This is another Felix cartoon worth preserving that you can see on YouTube . It starts with a mouse about to walk a rope tied to a ship being chased by Felix . After they both get on , a sailor unties the rope leaving them stuck in ! As the ship sails , Felix gets seasick . The ship lands in Holland . Felix flirts with a human Dutch girl . Her boyfriend catches them and throws the cat out but not before Felix gets a pump from a nearby car and pumps the boy's pants up causing it to hoist the boy to the sky . Felix then takes a banjo and serenades the girl . It bothers a big man in a nearby house who throws a shoe that hits Felix's head . Felix uses the shoe as a boat and an exclamation point above his head as an oar ! He goes to the man's house and finds a bottle of milk he'd like to drink . The man tells him he can't have it unless he waters the plants . Before doing so , Felix accidentally backs unto a table of gin which knocks the gin into a water spray can ! The cat picks that spray can and sprays some flowers that keep asking for more . Then he sprays a tree trunk that gets drunk and starts staggering all over the place ! The man is furious at this and chases Felix all the way to a windmill . Felix dispatches his tail and uses it to spin the windmill fan which forces the man's clothes off and the man himself to blow away . Felix laughs as we iris out . It's easy to see why Felix was such a phenomenon during the ' 20s , since pre-Mickey Mouse there hadn't been such an animated character with such personality . By all means seek this one out !
