Pirates of the Caribbean : The Curse of the Black Pearl in My opinion is not one of the greatest movies of all time . Sure , it has a huge budget , a different cast ( which included Johnny Depp , Geoffrey Rush , Orlando Bloom , Keira Knightley , and Jonathan Pryce ! ) , great special effects , and a lengthy two hour plus run time but this film never did anything for Me and here are the reasons why it didn't . The following is in My opinion . 1 . Johnny Depp is a good actor but I just didn't know what to think of his character whether I should like him , hate him , or feel sorry for him . 2 . I'm an action movie nut and there was a lot of action but the action just wasn't exciting enough that its so great it'll be one of the films I'll see over and over . In other words nothing special or spectacular happened in this one . 3 . The music by up coming composer Klaus Badelt was ok but most of it was just recycled of Hans Zimmer's one of a kind score from the greatest epic called Gladiator ( 2000 ) ! Badelt composed an excellent score for the Time Machine and retooled the music and this is what we get for this ? Why ? 4 . Some of the things that happened in the film was supposed to be funny but I didn't think it was and I didn't think the comedy stuff was needed . 5 . The late great Trevor Goddard had a brief role in this movie and I believe it was his last one . Why give an actor with an incredible muscular build , a unique accent , and amazing talent a scene where it makes him look like a complete joke ? You may be thinking why I am saying this . How can I say this about a movie that is so high in fame and stature ? I am just saying how I feel about the film . The film had all the potential and everything going for it but it just didn't do it . I wanted to like the movie but it never changed . I don't agree about it being on the IMDb's Top 250 : # 235 ! In fact , I think it shouldn't even be on the list . There are many other films that deserve to be on the list more than this film ! You mean to tell Me that this is on the same list with The Lord of the Rings Trilogy ? Plus there are many more movies with much more excitement similar to this movie like the Planet of the Apes ( 2001 ) , The Mummy , and The Mummy Returns , and Cutthroat Island ! In My opinion Pirates of the Caribbean's competion The Hulk and Terminator 3 : Rise of the Machines was so much better and exciting in My opinion ! Anyway I feel if you wanted to watch a much more epic pirate movie instead see Cutthroat Island , its much more exciting ! I hate to say this but Pirates of the Caribbean is awfully dull , boring , uninteresting , uninspiring , it has no depth , and it should be avoided like a flood !
Contains disgusting SpoilersThe following is My opinions and Mine only ! When I saw this film I couldn't believe it . Right then and there from the beginning I knew it was going to be a very , very different film . Don't get Me wrong here , I love futuristic films and I . Have seen plenty of them but this film here went way out of line in My opinion . I can't believe that the great Steven Spielberg directed this . Sue he did a nice job and John Williams score was neat but this film just is too much . I said out loud that's so stupid when this dumb scene appeared and that one scene I'm talking about is when Tom Cruise just got those eye implants several hours later he is at that door and he must use his old eyes via take them out of the bag and scan them or one of them to enter . Next thing you know he drops them and you hear the old squishing sound of them being dropped and we have the pleasure seeing them roll on down the floor and he runs after them and one falls into the sewer and he catches the one by the socket ! Yes , I say again he grabbed it by the socket ! How disgusting can you be ? I want to know how this neat looking but dumb film got on the IMDb top 250 : # 131 ? Max Von Sydow is a great actor and he is one of the best actors ever but his talents are wasted here . Sure the role he played was good and he played it well what he was given but even he couldn't save this film . Again I can't believe Spielberg was a part of this . HE could have made another Indiana Jones or something I mean lets face it people wouldn't you want to see another Indiana Jones film instead of the garbage that is the Manurety Report ? Just because the film is directed by Spielberg doesn't make it a good film . If haven't seen it yet then please don't see it but if you do see it expect a hard to follow story / plot and stupid things to happen . Avoid it and see something else that Spielberg did right like any of the Indiana Jones films or Jaws to name a couple ! Once again I expected a good film out of this and am so disappointed that I got to see Tom Cruise chasing his own eyes ! That's what I always wanted to see ! NOT ! ! !
Python is a fair film that has an okay cast which includes Frayne Rosanoff , Robert Englund , William Zabka , Dana Barron , Sara Mornell , Wil Wheaton , Jenny McCarthy , Chris Owens , Sean Whalen , Gary Grubbs , Theo Nicholas Pagones , Scott Williamson , David Bowe , Keith Coogan , John Franklin , LoriDawn Messuri , Kathleen Lambert , Robert Lepucki , Ed Lauter , Marc McClure , Natasha Roth , Trevor Baer , Greta , and Casper Van Dien . The acting by the actors is fairly good . Robert Edglund and Casper Van Dien were good . The thrills are fairly good and some of it is surprising . Beware of the stupid lezbo scene . The movie is filmed fairly good as well . Same thing goes for the music The film is interesting and the movie keeps you going until the end . This is a fairly good film . If you the the cast in the film , Monsters , Giant Animal films , Horror , Thrillers , Mystery , and interesting films then I recommend you to see this film today !
The movie is ok , it has good acting and effect but that's just about it . I was disappointed about the end . Sci-Fi fans may want to check this out and James Spader is good in it and if you are fan of his you'll like him in it but I think you'll be disappointed like I was . It was just a ok film , that's all .
Guilty as Charged is a fair film that has a good cast which includes Antonio Sabato Jr . , James Remar , Duane Davis , Yuji Okumoto , Melissa Lewis , Elijah Mahar , Emilio Rivera , Johnny Urbon , William Jones , Deron McBee , Randy Mulkey , Gary Cervantes , Robert Crow , Bob Rudd , and Dean Hayman Mason . The acting by all of these actors is very good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The only downfall is the sex and nudity scene which I thought brought the excitement of the film down a few stars but however , the film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Antonio Sabato Jr . , James Remar , Duane Davis , Yuji Okumoto , Melissa Lewis , Elijah Mahar , the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Thrillers , Crime , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Earth vs . the Spider is a good film that has a good cast which includes Dan Aykroyd , Devon Gummersall , Amelia Heinle , Theresa Russell , Christopher Cousins , Mario Roccuzzo , John Cho , Randall Huber , Zia Harris , Lloyd Lowe Jr . , Michael Keenan , Ted Rooney , Dan Martin , and and Rob Hill . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Aylroyd is really excellent in this film . I thought that he performed good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Dan Aykroyd , Devon Gummersall , Amelia Heinle , Theresa Russell , Christopher Cousins , Mario Roccuzzo , John Cho , Randall Huber , Zia Harris , the rest of the cast in the film , Horror , Sci-Fi , Thrillers , Action , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
This animated feature is no cartoon . I don't think children will understand and plus there is alot blood and sword fighting . I would not recommend this to a child but to a teenager . I am suprised the the film followed this so close but in this film most of the characters look different . This film is nearly flawless with great action for a animated film and it is never boring . I hope all Lord of the Rings get to see this !
The film is quite fun to watch and the Mole People are a little on the wired side but nonetheless they looked good especially for the 50s ! If you like the Universal Monsters movies then check this out soon ! I think you'll like it !
Mission to Mars is very good . I don't know what is wrong with it . It has a different cast , good acting , good music , and effects ! Sure you may not be in love with the ending but its just another theory or at least it in My opinion . If you like Gary Sinise , Tim Robbins , Connie Nielsen , Brian De Palma , sci-fi , and aliens then watch Mission to Mars ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : If you like alien movies and / or the subject of aliens I also recommend the following films : The Thing from another World , The War of the Worlds , The Day the Earth Stood Still , The UFO Incident , E . T . the Extra-Terrestrial , John Carpenter's The Thing , Time Walker , My Science Project , Howard the Duck , Mac and Me , Explorers , Invaders from Mars , The Abyss , Communion , Fire in the Sky , Independence Day , The Arrival , Mars Attacks ! Stephen King's Dreamcatcher , Xtro 3 : Watch the Skies , Impostor , Stargate , The Puppet Masters , John Carpenter's Village of the Damned , Life Form , The X-Files : Fight the Future , Signs , Alien , Aliens , Alien 3 , Predator , Predator 2 , The entire Star Wars saga ( A New Hope , The Empire Strikes Back , The Return of the Jedi , The Phantom Menace , & Attack of the Clones ) , the entire Star Trek movie saga ( Star Trek : The Motion Picture , The Wrath of Khan , The Search for Spock , The Voyage Home , The Final Frontier , The Undiscovered Country , Generations , First Contact , Insurrection , & Nemesis ) and Stephen King's IT !
This Van Damme film is pretty good . I don't agree what the video box says " The best Van Damme movie ! " The film is different and has a good story and Van Damme has a different role here . The movie has Ted Levine as a good villain ! Joss Ackland performed well . Also The film has special appearances by Thomas Rosales Jr . and Sven-Ole Thorsen ! The music by Mark Isham was good and the music in the beginning sounded similar like his other work in Fire in the Sky . Like I said before this is not Van Damme all time greatest but its good and different . If you haven't seen it yet check it out ! Movie Nuttball's Note : I Also recommend Hard Target ( which I believe is Van Damme's best ! ) , Bloodsport , Cyborg , Lionheart , Street Fighter , Sudden Death , Kickboxer , The Quest , Double Team , and Double Impact .
I am not big on comedies but this was a cool one . Matthew McConaughey and Kate Hudson were good . There are some funny parts in the film . It is a longer movie closing in on about two hours . If you want to see something funny and like the cast then check out How to lose a guy in 10 Days today !
The Wishmaster series is a very different series . In the first Wishmaster Andrew Divoff plays the Djinn excellently ! The film starts off with a bang and it is gory but its not that bad . The film is really a good horror fest ! If you like Michael Myers , Freddy , and Jason , then you'll love the Djinn , the Wishmaster !
Mac and Me maybe similar like E . T . but I really like the movie . It has many good moments and and is some times funny . The acting is good and the story is fine . and the effects are good . The music by Alan Silvestri is pretty good too . If you are a fan of E . T then I think you'll like Mac and Me !
Nothing But Trouble is excellent comedy with a great cast which includes Chevy Chase , Dan Aykroyd , John Candy , Demi Moore , Valri Bromfield , Taylor Negron , Bertila Damas , Brian Doyle-Murray , Peter Aykroyd , and Daniel Baldwin ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Aykroyd has a great performance and Candy is really wonderful in the movie . Chase and Moore are also very good . I think that they were excellent together . The music by Michael Kamen is good . The film is very exciting and its just so hilarious the entire time . This really is good comedy and in My opinion . If you love John Candy , Dan Aykroyd , Chevy Chase , Demi Moore , and the rest of the cast mentioned and great comedies then I Strongly recommend this film ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : If you love John Candy then I recommend that you see the following films : Summer Rental , Armed and Dangerous , Spaceballs , The Great Outdoors , Who's Harry Crumb ? , and Uncle Buck !
Al Pacino , Robin Williams , and Hilary Swank was very good ! The action scenes were good ! This film is entertaining and it was cool to see the scenery like that ! If you like the above mentioned cast then check it out for a good time !
Blade , The Marvel Comics Vampire movie sequel ! It loaded with action , vampire action , and more ! Wesley Snipes , Kris Kristofferson , and Ron Perlman were very good ! Snipes looks so cool here ! The film has some shocking moments and the end is really awesome ! Highly recommended for fans of Snipes , vampires , action , sci-fi , and horror !
This film is very good and it has tons of action ! Wesley Snipes is good as always and Bruce Payne performed as the ultimate villain ! What a bad guy ! His fellow colleagues are very convincing and I like Elizabeth Hurley in the film as part of his team ! Tom Sizemore was good . The music was very good and it was very 80s like which was very cool ! If you like terrorist films on air planes and like Wesley Snipes and especially Bruce Payne then see Passenger 57 !
If you want to see a different movie then check out The Stepford Wives ! It has very good acting and character involvement ! Its not a action packed film at all but Its an intelligent movie that is interesting to watch ! They are remaking the film which will be interesting ! If you like different movies then check out The Stepford Wives !
When this show was on I watched it every time I could ! I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious like the Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes then I strongly recommend that you watch this show !
Deadly Invasion : The Killer Bee Nightmare is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Robert Hays , Nancy Stafford , Ryan Phillippe , Gina Philips , Gregory Gordon , Dennis Christopher , Danielle von Zerneck , Michael A . Nickles , Whitney Danielle Porter , Jeff Johnson , Mindy Lawson , Donré Sampson , Carolyn Hennesy , Thomas E . Jacobsen , Thom Dillon , Anthony Leger , Jenniffer Buckalew , Douglas Patrick , and Jerry Penacoli ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . I was surprised to see the beautiful Danielle von Zerneck in this picture ! The special effects and thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Robert Hays , Nancy Stafford , Ryan Phillippe , Gina Philips , Gregory Gordon , Dennis Christopher , Danielle von Zerneck the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Mystery , Thrillers , Horror , Dramas , and interesting Bee films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
It Came from Outer Space II is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Brian Kerwin , Elizabeth Peña , Jonathan Carrasco , Adrian Sparks , Bill McKinney , Dean Norris , Dawn Zeek , Lauren Tewes , Mickey Jones , Iilana B'tiste , Jerry Giles , and Howard Morris ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Kerwin and Norris are really excellent in this film . I thought that they performed good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by Shirley Walker . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Brian Kerwin , Elizabeth Peña , Jonathan Carrasco , Adrian Sparks , Bill McKinney , Dean Norris , Dawn Zeek , Lauren Tewes , Mickey Jones , the rest of the cast in the film , Mystery , Sci-Fi , Thrillers , Dramas , and interesting Action films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : I noticed this is the second film that Dean Norris and Mickey Jones were in a movie together . The other being the classic violent epic Total Recall ! Funny seeing them in another alien flick ! If you like alien movies and / or the subject of aliens I also recommend the following films : The Thing from another World , The Day the Earth Stood Still , War of the Worlds ( 1953 & 2005 ) , Horror Express , The UFO Incident , Invasion of the Body Snatchers ( 1978 ) , E . T . the Extra-Terrestrial , John Carpenter's The Thing , Krull , The Return of the Aliens : The Deadly Spawn , Time Walker , My Science Project , Howard the Duck , John , Carpenter's Starman , John Carpenter's They Live , Mac and Me , Explorers , Invaders from Mars , Alien Seed , The Abyss , Communion , Suburban Commando , Fire in the Sky , The Arrival , Mars Attacks ! Contact , Men in Black I & 2 , Stephen King's Dreamcatcher , Xtro 3 : Watch the Skies , Battlefield Earth : A Saga for the year 3000 , Stargate , The Puppet Masters , John Carpenter's Village of the Damned , Independence Day , Life Form , Contact , The X-Files : Fight the Future , Roswell : The Aliens Attack , The Faculty , Mission to Mars , Pitch Black , Evolution , K-Pax , Signs , Silent Warnings , The Forgotten , Alien Hunter , Spaceballs , Alien , Aliens , Alien 3 , Predator & Predator 2 , AVP : Alien Vs . Predator , The entire Star Wars saga ( A New Hope , The Empire Strikes Back , The Return of the Jedi ( Original and Special Editions ! ) , The Phantom Menace , Attack of the Clones , & Revenge of the Sith ) , the entire Star Trek movie saga ( Star Trek : The Motion Picture , The Wrath of Khan , The Search for Spock , The Voyage Home , The Final Frontier , The Undiscovered Country , Generations , First Contact , Insurrection , & Nemesis ) and Stephen King's IT !
I just watch the Time Machine for only the second time but I appreciated the film much more than I did before ! The effects is very good , the acting is good , the sets look very realistic , and the story is fantastic ! Guy Pearce was good and I thought Orlando Jones was good . The music is extraordinary . The truth is I cried when this wonderful part was at the end credits . It starts when the credits say about Stan Winston Studios . It was of course in the film when Guy Pearce lost his necklace in the Time Machine . Also it is located on the original score track number six " I don't belong here " . It is really an emotional piece of music composed by Hans Zimmer's colleague Klaus Badelt ! I really liked this short but epic picture . Great for time traveling movie fans ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : The following is in My opinions and My thoughts . This movie has an important message I believe . To make it short a person should appreciate life even if it isn't a perfect world . A person should look up at the sky and look at the moon and think how beautiful it looks and what ever time it is whether the sky is a twilight , a cloudy , or what ever kind of sky and thank the lord that he / she can look at it . Us people should be very thankful that we have all of the great trees and animals to live together in the same world . The person should make life better for a better future just not for the person but for everyone around the person . We don't know how the future will be in several years or decades or even further . We should start and use ours minds and stop being cocky and thinking we know everything when we really haven't even begun to learn . Think about , We don't know what God and his heaven looks like . Heck , we don't even know all of the species of fish and other life forms in the ocean . Sure we humans have existed for thousands of years but how long have we had our great technology of today such as televisions . video games , and of course electricity . This hasn't been around long at all compared to how long our human race has . We should all appreciate everything and think before we leap . I just think of things that are important and that most that don't care . This is My thoughts ! Thank you for reading !
Cellular is an excellent film that has a great cast including Kim Basinger , Chris Evans , Jason Stratham , Willaim H . Macy , Noah Emmerich , Jessica Biel , Rick Hoffman , Valerie Cruz , Caroline Aaron , Eric Etebari , Brendan Kelly , Matt McColm , and Dean Deviln ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Basing , Evans , Stratham , Emmerich , and Biel is really excellent in this film . I thought that they performed greatly ! I like Evans and I love when it Stratham is a bad guy ! Macey surprised Me here ! The thrills is really great and some of it is very surprising . The movie is filmed excellently . The music is great by John Ottman ! Great directing by David R . Ellis ! The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a superb end extremely thrilling film . If you like Chris Evans , Jason Stratham , Willaim H . Macy , Noah Emmerich , Jessica Biel , Rick Hoffman , Caroline Aaron , the rest of the cast in the film , Thrillers , Action , Crime , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Close Encounters of the Third Kind is really a unique movie ! I don't want to spoil it so is all I'll say is Steven Spielberg did a great job here and John Williams score is great ! The special effects are tremendous ! I just love the sky views in this movies ! It a fantastic movie and I strongly recommended anyone to watch it ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : If you like alien movies and / or the subject of aliens I also recommend the following films : The Thing from another World , The War of the Worlds ( 1953 and 2005 , The Day the Earth Stood Still , The UFO Incident , E . T . the Extra-Terrestrial , John Carpenter's The Thing , The Deadly Spawn , Time Walker , My Science Project , Mac and Me , Explorers , Invaders from Mars , Communion , Fire in the Sky , Independence Day , The Arrival , Mars Attacks ! Stephen King's Dreamcatcher , Xtro 3 : Watch the Skies , Mission to Mars , Impostor , Stargate , The Puppet Masters , John Carpenter's Village of the Damned , Life Form , The X-Files : Fight the Future , Signs , The Forgotten , Alien , Aliens , Alien 3 , Predator , Predator 2 , The entire Star Wars saga ( A New Hope , The Empire Strikes Back , The Return of the Jedi , The Phantom Menace , Attack of the Clones & Revenge of the Sith ) , the entire Star Trek movie saga ( Star Trek : The Motion Picture , The Wrath of Khan , The Search for Spock , The Voyage Home , The Final Frontier , The Undiscovered Country , Generations , First Contact , Insurrection , & Nemesis ) and Stephen King's IT !
Road Rage or A Friday Night Date is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Casper Van Dien , Danielle Brett , Joseph Griffin , Catherine Oxenberg , Chuck Byrn , Anthone Tullo , James Millington , James Binkley , and Wayne Lame . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Lowe is really excellent in this film . I thought that he performed good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Casper Van Dien , Danielle Brett , Joseph Griffin , Catherine Oxenberg , Chuck Byrn , Anthone Tullo , James Millington , James Binkley , Wayne Lame , the rest of the cast in the film , Thrillers , Action , Dramas , Mysteries , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
The Green Berets is a great John Wayne film ! He is very good in the movie . The cast is also good . George Takei is excellent in the movie . The music is by Miklós Rózsa which is a very good score . The action is unbelievably realistic and I am amazed how the battles and fighting scenes were especially since it was made decades ago ! The end of the film is quite emotional . The box of the movie has John Wayne on the cover which the picture has him as a tired and angry man . It is such an unusual picture . This is one of the best and finest war films I have ever seen . With its good acting , incredible and I mean incredible action , great special effects , and awesome directing this is a classic ! It is arguably The Duke's best film ! If you want to see a great war movie that is way ahead of its time then this is truly the ultimate one to watch !
This is a great animated feature film . It was so cool to see He-Man and She-Ra and Skeletor and Hordak together ! I loved it when He-Man and She-Ra did their transformation after each other near then ! That was wonderful ! I loved that ! Most of the characters from both series ' were in the film and the music was great as always ! If you like He-Man and She-Ra then watch this masterpiece . In My opinion this was one of the greatest animated features ever ! Just like the series ' its a classic and I think it'll be hard for something to top this ! I really love this movie and I don't think you'll be disappointed !
The Lethal Weapon series is an explosive and exciting one that is always exciting with a lot of action and great acting from the stars . There's Lethal Weapon 1 , Lethal Weapon 2 , Lethal Weapon 3 , and Lethal Weapon 4 all starring great actors Mel Gibson and Danny Glover ! Also Joe Pesci and Rene Russo are in the later editions ! Steve Kahan and Paul Tuerpe are in all four as well . Shane Black did a great job with the writing ! I also like how the series has the same composers Michael Clapton , and director Richard Donner has directed all four ! Lethal Weapon is the one that started it all ! It stars Mel Gibson , Danny Glover , and Gary Busey ! Also in the movie is Mitch Ryan , Tom Atkins , Ed O'Ross , and Grand L . Bush . Look for Joan Severance , Sven-Ole Thorsen , Mic Rodgers , Peter DuPont , and Al Leong ! There are some really neat action scenes and Gibson puts on an excellent performance ! Good music by Michael Kamen and Eric Clapton ! Looking for action and love Mel Gibson , Danny Glover , and Gary Busey ? Watch Lethal Weapon today ! I strongly recommend it ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : I noticed that Danny Glover , Gary Busey , and Steve Kahan were all in two movies together and they are Lethal Weapon and Predator 2 ! Interesting !
Under Pressure AKA Bad Day On the Block is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Charlie Sheen , Mare Winningham , David Andrews , Noah Fleiss , Dawnn Lewis , Chelsea Russ , John Ratzenberger , Keone Young , Reggie Jackson , Cody Jones , David Hewlett , Phillip Jarrett , Tino Monte , Sheldon Turcott , and Karen Brigman . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Sheen is really excellent in this film . I thought that he performed good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good by Gary Chang and good directing by Craig R . Baxley . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Mare Winningham , David Andrews , Noah Fleiss , Dawnn Lewis , Chelsea Russ , John Ratzenberger , Keone Young , Reggie Jackson , the rest of the cast in the film , Thrillers , Mystery , Dramas , and interesting Action films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
I thought Hellboy was an excellent film ! The cast was chosen well . Ron Perlman was awesome in My opinion . He put so much excitement into the Hellboy character . He looked so neat as well . In fact his character has not only become of My favorites but Perlman himself has become one of My favorite actors . Selma Blair was also good and she looked neat . Doug Jones also played a great and colorful character . John Hurt , Jeffrey Tambor , Brian Steele , Corey Johnson , Rupert Evans , Ladislav Beran , and Biddy Hodson was also very good . All of the characters have great personalities in My opinion . The music by Marco Beltrami is very good . The action is awesome to watch , the special effects are realistic , and the direction by Guillermo del Toro is great . In My opinion The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen should have been like this . I strongly recommend this great action packed movie !
The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is one of My favorite Three Stooges shorts ! This one is with Shemp ! Dick Wessel performs good here as a gentleman and as rugged boxer . Tiny Brauer was great as the villain . Cy Schindell also was good . Also in this short is Claire Carleton , Stanley Blystone , Heinie Conklin , Dave Harper , Sammy Stein , and Tom Kingston . There is another Three Stooges short with Shemp very similar like this one called Fling in the Ring . I strongly recommend both !
Krull is an excellent Sci-Fi action fantasy adventure ! Ken Marshall was a good choice to play the hero ! Lysette Anthony was good . Alun Armstrong and Liam Neeson were really good ! In My opinion I think Neeson would have done a good performance as the hero if he was chosen to be the hero ! There is a lot of action and the special effects are spectacular ! The evil soldier or slayers were really cool and when they got killed they yelled similar like the ones in Flash Gordon ! The beast was awesome ! Beautiful music by James Horner ! I wouldn't say it is the all time greatest in cinema history but it is one of the greatest ! This is a fantastic and classic film of the 1980s ! If you like fantasy action movies check out Krull ! Movie Nuttball's note : If you like Krull check out the following movies : Flash Gordon , Clash of the Titans , Legend , The NeverEnding Story , Willow , The Lord of the Rings : The Fellowship of the Ring and The Two Towers !
Venomous is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Treat Williams , Mary Page Keller , Hannes Jaenicke , Catherine Dent , Anthony John Denison , Geoffrey Pierson , Brian Poth , Nicole Nieth , Christal Chacon , Jim Storm , Rick Hurst , Melissa J . Hayden , and Marc McClure ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Williams is very good . The special effects and thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Treat Williams , Mary Page Keller , Hannes Jaenicke , Catherine Dent , Marc McClure , the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Mystery , Thrillers , Dramas , and interesting Snake films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
This is My favorite Three Stooges feature film . The intro is very good and the Stooges are as funny as ever . The settings are very good and the music is very good . I think all Three Stooges fans with like this movie !
The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! Cookoo Cavaliers is a funny one ! The fish sale scenes are good . In the beauty salon scenes is where all of the big time hilarious stuff happens ! Especially all of the scenes when the Stooges are working on Dorothy Appleby ! Lynton Brent is in the short and his accent is sounds realistic ! I recommend this Three Stooges short , Cookoo Cavaliers !
The Fly series is a remarkable one that makes sense , if a scientist actually had a teleportation pod or some type of machine this is the way it would happen n real life . The movies are jam packed with great acting , action , effects , superb horror and excellent gore . Both movies are very unpredictable and very scary and both films follow right after the other and both main cast in The Fly / Fly II have love interests ( Fly I , Goldblum and Davis , Fly II , Stotlz and Zuniga ) which is pretty cool . All in all The Fly series is a fantastic series of the 80s ( which was a great decade I might add ) . In MY opinion there will never be movies like this again , they are classics , a real thrilling horror series . When the last time you got scared of a movie ? ? ? Heres a tip : DON'T WATCH THEM IN THE DARK ! ! ! The Fly part 2 has a great beginning much like its predecessor with a great promo . You get to know Seth's ( Goldblum in Fly 1 ) son Martin ( Stoltz ) as he goes on with life much faster than everyone else . You feel sorry for him as well much like Goldblum in the first movie . You also feel sorry for Beth ( Zuniga ) as she trys to help martin . Yes its true Strathis ( Getz ) reprises his roleThere are lots of doctors and security guards you just hate because of what they do to martin . Once martin evolves into the Fly , all hell breaks loose . You never know what is going to happen next . This is really one heck of monster movie and you won't believe what you'll see ! By the way , listen to music score by Christopher Young , it really makes this movie even better . When you here the main title theme you think holytoledo , this is really gonna be good and you know what ? It is , I suggest you buy buy the score , you'll love it ! The film is great , like the other a bit sad but very good . The Fly II is an excellent horror movie ! The acting by Eric Stoltz was really good ! The part with the dog was sad but you can tell its animatronic . The real horror begins when Martin discovers the camera in his room ! His transformation is really gruesome . I think the fly monster is one of the most terrifying monsters ever ! I just love the score by Christopher Young ! The music is beautiful , dark , and aggressive ! My favorite part is the main titles ! It is one of the greatest songs ever composed in My opinion ! I liked in the main title how the credit says the Fly II in nice and bright blue letters ! The Fly II is My favorite of the Fly movies and even though Jeff Goldblum acted superbly in the first , the sequel has some big time moments ! Speaking of Goldblum , he has two archive footage scenes in the film ! Some of today's horror movie are very good but there hasn't been a movie like the Fly II since it came out . In My opinion , if your looking for a great horror movie then this is it ! Horror movies just ain't made like this often ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : As you know I love the music and in fact I adore the score to the Fly II ! There is a special edition CD of the score . It contains the score of the Fly and the Fly II ! If you are a fan of the scores I recommend that you get it ! It is well worth the buy !
This is one of the great movies of the 80s in MY collection that I think about all the time . E . T . the Extra Terrestrial is a powerful and magical film that I feel is arguably Steven Spielberg's best film ! It has a lot of emotion even in the scenes that are not emotional ! What makes this effect work in the movie even better is John Williams ' incredible score ! E . T . I believe is arguably his greatest score ! I love the views of the sky and how beautiful the stars look and those trees are awesome ! Even today this film is wonderful . I don't think there will be anything like it again ! If you like Spielberg , Williams , & Alien movies then you must see this incredible movie called E . T . the Extra Terrestrial ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : If you like alien movies and / or the subject of aliens I also recommend the following films : The Thing from another World , The Day the Earth Stood Still , War of the Worlds ( 1953 & 2005 ) , Horror Express , The UFO Incident , Invasion of the Body Snatchers ( 1978 ) , John Carpenter's The Thing , Krull , The Return of the Aliens : The Deadly Spawn , Time Walker , My Science Project , Howard the Duck , John , Carpenter's Starman , John Carpenter's They Live , Mac and Me , Explorers , Invaders from Mars , Alien Seed , The Abyss , Communion , Suburban Commando , Fire in the Sky , The Arrival , Mars Attacks ! Contact , Men in Black I & 2 , Stephen King's Dreamcatcher , Xtro 3 : Watch the Skies , Battlefield Earth : A Saga for the year 3000 , Stargate , The Puppet Masters , John Carpenter's Village of the Damned , Independence Day , Life Form , Contact , The X-Files : Fight the Future , Roswell : The Aliens Attack , The Faculty , Mission to Mars , Evolution , K-Pax , Signs , Silent Warnings , The Forgotten , Alien Hunter , Spaceballs , Alien , Aliens , Alien 3 , Predator & Predator 2 , AVP : Alien Vs . Predator , The entire Star Wars saga ( A New Hope , The Empire Strikes Back , The Return of the Jedi ( Original and Special Editions ! ) , The Phantom Menace , Attack of the Clones , & Revenge of the Sith ) , the entire Star Trek movie saga ( Star Trek : The Motion Picture , The Wrath of Khan , The Search for Spock , The Voyage Home , The Final Frontier , The Undiscovered Country , Generations , First Contact , Insurrection , & Nemesis ) and Stephen King's IT !
The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is a hilarious Three Stooges short in My opinion . The Stooges are so funny . Jean Carmen , Lucille Lund , and Earlene Heath all perform well and they look excellent ! Bud Jamison and James C . Morton were good . Also appearing is Bobby Burns ! There is another Three Stooges short with Shemp very similar like this one called A Missed Fortune . I strongly recommend both !
Dennis the Menace is a great hilarious movie . The music composed by the legendary Jerry Goldsmith is perfect especially for the scene when we fist see Christopher Lloyd . The cast is great and it was great seeing Llyod and Lea Thomson in the same film again ala the Back to the Future trilogy . Walter Matthau , Joan Plowright , and Paul Winfield were very good and I think it was a fine choice of putting Mason Gamble for the menace job as Dennis . The film has non-stop laughs especially the scenes with Matthau and I just love the scene when the end credits are playing . If you want to laugh look no further than Dennis the Menace !
Stephen King's Green Mile is an excellent film ! Tom Hanks , David Morse , Michael Clark Duncan , James Cromwell , Barry Pepper , Michael Jeter , Harry Dean Stanton , William Sadler , Gary Sinise , and Jeffrey DeMunn put on strong performances ! In My opinion Duncan's was the best performer as he played his great character well ! The Green Mile is a great film ! I recommend this to everyone !
Armageddon is a great film that has a great cast including Bruce Willis , Billy Bob Thornton , Ben Affleck , Liv Tyler , Will Patton , Steve Buscemi , William Fichtner , Owen Wilson , Michael Clarke Duncan , Peter Stormare , Keith David , Kimsey , Chris Ellis , Jason Isaacs , Udo Kier , Judith Hoag , Shawnee Smith , Lawrence Tierney , and Charleton Heston ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . The action and special effects is great . The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by Trevor Rabin . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Bruce Willis , Billy Bob Thornton , Ben Affleck , Liv Tyler , Will Patton , Steve Buscemi , Owen Wilson , Michael Clarke Duncan , Peter Stormare , Keith David , the rest of the cast in the film , Sci-Fi , Action , Thriller , Diasaster , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
In My opinion this is the real Shining movie ! Don't get Me wrong , Stanley Kubrick's The Shining is a somewhat spooky movie but its no where near the book and if you want an almost exact duplicate version of Stephen King's The Shining this mini series is it ! One big note is it has the animal hedges in it which Kubrick's film really lacked . The film focuses on the boy and his shining which the other version did not ! Is all the other version focused on was an excellent performance Jack Nicholson . In My opinion Steven Weber actually played the father quite well and Rebecca De Mornay was very good and looked great ! Melvin Van Peebles was good and he fitted the character more than Scatman Crothers in My opinion . If you have read the book on the Shining and haven't seen either film do see both but see Kubrick's for Jack's performance but see Stephen King's The Shining Mini series for the real thing but if you haven't read it and seen neither of them then see both and compare them . I really liked the mini series a lot better and I think you will too !
Arachnophobia is a great spider film that stars Jeff Daniels , Harley Jane Kozak , John Goodman , Julian Sands , and Peter Jason . The film isn't really scary but its the creepyness that gets to you ! Arachnophobia has good acting and it has a great beginning ! Good music too ! I recommend Arachnophobia to all creature and horror film fans alike !
Night of the Living Dead is an excellent horror film that has an unusual cast including Duane Jones , Judith O'Dea , Karl Hardman , Marilyn Eastman , Keith Wayne , Judith Ridley , Kyra Schon , Charles Craig . The acting by all of these actor are very good . The special makeup effects are superb and the zombies look great . The music by is great as well . Its cool how radio announcer and TV personalities talk about the incident in the film . The film is very exciting and keeps you interested until the end ! This really is a great film . If you like the cast I've mentioned above , classic black and white films , and horror films then I strongly recommend this film , Night of the Living Dead !
National Treasure is a great film that has a great cast including Nicolas Cage , Diane Kruger , Justin Bartha , Sean Bean , Jon Voight , Harvey Keitel , Christopher Plummer , David Dayan Fisher , Stewart Finlay-McLennan , Oleg Taktarov , Stephen A . Pope , Annie Parisse , Armando Riesco , Erik King , and Mark Pellegrino ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . The action and thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by Trever Rabin ! Great directing by Jon Turteltaub ! The film is really good and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very entertaining film . If you like Nicolas Cage , Diane Kruger , Justin Bartha , Sean Bean , Jon Voight , Harvey Keitel , Christopher Plummer , Oleg Taktarov , Mark Pellegrino , the rest of the cast in the film , Adventure , Action , Mystery , Thriller , and excellently interesting and entertaining movies then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is a very funny Three Stooges short . Its hilarious . The Stooges are a little different in this one . Dick Curtis is very good in this one and his character is a good one . Chester Conklinand and Lola Jensen perform well as father daughter ! The scenes with the fire house mouse and the bulldog is very funny . There is another fire fighter Three Stooges short called False alarms which it is a great one ! I recommend this one !
Below are my opinions . This special program is located on the features menu on the DVD of the excellent movie Cellular starring Kim Basinger , Chris Evans , Jason Stratham , and William H . Macy ! Larry Cohen , Martin Cooper , Joel Engel , Xeni Jardin , Don Kilhefner , and Ian MacRury are all featured in this and talk about the history of the cell phone . These people on this program talk about many things and its really amazing to know these facts . Such as these : There are over a billion people who use cell phones a day in this world and how it has changed our conversations from speaking face to face to phone to phone . One thing that is shocking in My opinion is the thing that these people are very serious about is that in the future of implanting phones in the human body to save time and other factors for our society . According to these people this'll work by us thinking of the numbers we want to dial and have our speakings to whoever or whatever . I think that this is a terrible idea and could go horribly wrong as it could cause serious damage to the human race and not to mention the world . This is an idea that should never ever be made into an reality . Its bad enough as I write this that people talk and talk on cell phones in their cars and cause things to happen by not having total concentration on the driving area and people just talking up a storm in a store and / or a theater when its simply a regular conversation about normal things that could be talked about at a later time and distracting other people from their activities . All of this above and below is My opinion about cell phones and the cell phone plantation master plan in the body idea . Since most of the people on this planet crave cell phones imagine what kind of future their kids and their kids will have ! Yeah , they'll be more cell phone crazy than their predecessors and they'll also be living phone projects ! Now isn't that one of the greatest ideas ever ? If there is a poll or polls soon or any time about this subject I for one am voting a big NO ! I don't want to be experimented on especially not like that . Its not My idea of fun . I hope that you think this over and say no in case this does become a reality . Those are My opinions and thank you for reading !
I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today !
Cats and Dogs is a great comedy action film that stars Jeff Goldblum , Elizabeth Perkins , Alexander Pollock , Miriam Margolyes , Tobey Maguire , Alec Baldwin , Sean Hayes , Susan Sarandon , Michael Clarke Duncan , Jon Lovitz , Joe Pantoliano , and Charlton Heston ! There are several hilarious moments in this picture . The action scenes are done very well . Goldblum and the other actors were . The castle scenes were really cool . The music by John Debney is very good . The movie is totally funny . I thought it was something else seeing all those different types of dogs and cats . So if you who like Jeff Goldblum and the rest of the cast mentioned and comedies with animals then I strongly recommend this film !
This is one of the great movies of the 80s in My collection that I think about all the time . May contain spoilers . In this second comment It will be an in-depth edition . The Predator films are awesome ! It is extraordinary that such films were created about an alien monster that is a hunter with such a unique personality ! I like the Predator movies because of the fact of what I mentioned above , the great stars that the movies consist of which a lot of the actors are really big men , the action is incredible , the special effects are phenomenal , and the music is just tremendous ! In My opinion this score by Alan Silvestri is a classic and is one of the greatest ever ! Below is an in-depth review of the characters in Predator ! Arnold Schwarzenegger as Major ' Dutch ' Schaeffer - Dutch is an intelligent muscular man . He has fought in other wars and this Guerilla battle that he and his team fought was no simple task . After the deaths of Hawkins and Blain and what Mac described to him what he saw Dutch knew to take this situation with extreme caution . Carl Weathers as Major George Dillon - The muscular Dillon is one Dutch's best friends . He joins Dutch and his team . Bill Duke as Sergeant ' Mac ' Eliot - Though Mac maybe a nice guy but he also is no body to mess with . After he saw what killed Blain he lost it and from that moment on he made his own mission to kill what killed his best friend . Jesse Ventura as Blain - Big , tough , and strong is what Blain is all about . With his huge gun nothing stands in his way . Unfortunately what killed Hawkins shot Blain from behind . Sonny Landham as Billy - They don't come any braver than Billy , a muscular Native American Indian . He knows that something not human is lurking around in the jungle . After most of the commandos are slaughtered by the Predator Billy confronts this huge alien being one on one with his large razor sharp knife . Even with one hundred percent courage he is no match for this extraterrestrial beast . Richard Chaves as Poncho Ramirez - The smart commando is really handy at things . He speaks more than one language and can handle guns very well . When he got shot by the Predator's laser he was gone instantly . Shane Black as Hawkins - After chasing Anna through the jungle Hawkins found her but something found him and he just disappeared without a trace ! Elpidia Carrillo as Anna - Anna was the lone survivor in the Guerilla camp . She is kept prisoner by the commandos but since she knows that something superior killed Hawkins right in front of her and that his body has disappeared she is asked by Dutch what happened and she tells him in English and is untied by Dutch . R . G . Armstrong as General Phillips - General Phillips , a long time friend of Dutch . He is an intelligent individual . He lets no man back talk to him ! Sven-Ole Thorsen as Russian - This big Russian Guerilla is no body to mess with . He can handle just about any kind of fire arm with ease . He shot a prisoner that was tied up after kicking him hard in the stomach . Little did this large man know there was going to be a big surprise in store for the Guerilla camp . Kevin Peter Hall as The Predator - This being and his kind are one of the most intelligent life forms in the universe . The Predator is a giant reptilian humanoid . His visions infrared as he hunts unexpecting victims . He has great fighting skills and can be invisible . His laser mounted gun on his left shoulder is deadly and his right wrist blades are extremely sharp . The control panel on the other wrist is his most deadly weapon of all ! I believe that there is other life in the universe . In fact , there's so much that we have yet to discover on our planet which a great example is Cryptozoology but when it comes to extraordinary things such as these subjects the planet Earth is a world of doubt and with that it can't know squat . This is all My opinion . Thanks for reading ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : If you like alien movies and / or the subject of aliens I also recommend the following films : The Thing from another World , The War of the Worlds , The Day the Earth Stood Still , The UFO Incident , E . T . the Extra-Terrestrial , John Carpenter's The Thing , Krull , Time Walker , My Science Project , Howard the Duck , John Carpenter's Starman , Mac and Me , Explorers , Invaders from Mars , They Live , Total Recall , The Abyss , Communion , Suburban Commando , Fire in the Sky , Independence Day , The Arrival , Mars Attacks ! Men in Black I & 2 , Stephen King's Dreamcatcher , Xtro 3 : Watch the Skies , Battlefield Earth : A Saga for the year 3000 , Impostor , Stargate , The Puppet Masters , John Carpenter's Village of the Damned , Life Form , The X-Files : Fight the Future , Mission to Mars , Signs , Spaceballs , Alien , Aliens , Alien 3 , The entire Star Wars saga ( A New Hope , The Empire Strikes Back , The Return of the Jedi ( Original and Special Editions ! ) , The Phantom Menace , & Attack of the Clones ) , the entire Star Trek movie saga ( Star Trek : The Motion Picture , The Wrath of Khan , The Search for Spock , The Voyage Home , The Final Frontier , The Undiscovered Country , Generations , First Contact , Insurrection , & Nemesis ) and Stephen King's IT !
This movie , Perfect Murder , Perfect Town : JonBenét and the City of Boulder is a very good crime drama movie based on the true story that stars Ronny Cox , Marg Helgenberger , Kris Kristofferson , and John Heard ! All of these actors and the rest of the cast are excellent ! I was very surprised how Cox and Helgenberger acted . Their performances are remarkable ! In My opinion everything is fine such as the editing , music , and directing in the film . The movie is about three hours long and during this time it really keeps you guessing who did it ! If you want to see one of the most unbelievable crimes in history told in a great movie and like the cast mentioned above in great performances than I strongly recommend this film !
I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious like the Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today !
The Fury of the Wolfman is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Paul Naschy / Jacinto Molina , Perla Cristal , Verónica Luján , Mark Stevens , Francisco Amorós , Fabián Conde , Miguel de la Riva , Ramón Lillo , José Marco , Javier de Rivera , and Pilar Zorrilla ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . The Wolfman is really cool ! He looks great and he sound like the Looney Tunes character the Tazmainian devil ! There are some really hilarious scenes in this film ! The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Paul Naschy / Jacinto Molina , Perla Cristal , Verónica Luján , Mark Stevens , Francisco Amorós , Fabián Conde , Miguel de la Riva , Ramón Lillo , José Marco , Javier de Rivera , Pilar Zorrilla , the rest of the cast in the film , Werewold films , Horror , Sci-Fi , Thrillers , Dramas , and interesting classic films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : I got this film on a special DVD that has Doctor Blood's Coffin , The Brainiac , and The Fury of the Wolfman from Vintage Home Entertainment ! See if you can find this winner with three bizarre but classic films on one DVD at Amazon . com today ! If you like Werewolf films I strongly recommend these : Werewolf of London ( 1935 ) , The Wolf Man ( 1941 ) , Frankenstein Meets the Wolf Man ( 1943 ) , House of Frankenstein ( 1944 ) , Abbott an d Costell Meets Frankenstein ( 1948 ) , The Curse of the Werewolf ( 1961 ) , An American Werewolf in London ( 1981 ) , Silver Bullet ( 1985 ) , Werewolf ( 1987 ) , The Monster Squad ( 1987 ) , My Mom's a Werewolf ( 1989 ) , Project : Metalbeast ( 1995 ) , Bad Moon ( 1996 ) , Werewolf ( 1996 ) , Dog Soldiers ( 2002 ) , Underworld ( 2003 ) , and Van Helsing ( 2004 ) !
The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is a hilarious Three Stooges short with Shemp ! Kenneth MacDonald and Ben Welden are in this one with Shemp and are very good . There are many funny things here and if you are a Three Stooges fan then I recommend this one !
Alien is one of the greatest sci-fi films in my opinion and it has three sequels . With a great story , good acting , and a lot of mystery I believe this is the ultimate Alien movie . Sigourney Weaver's first Alien film and I don't think it'll be her last . Alien has great music by Jerry Goldsmith ! If you are interested in seeing the Alien films for the first time I recommend see this one first and then you can see how it all began . This is truly a great film !
This is one of the great movies of the 80s in MY collection that I think about all the time . The Running Man is one of Arnold's best and most different films even to this day and when I first saw The Running Man I was so excited to see a movie like this . I just adore all of the fights and this is truly a special movie . It also has Jesse Ventura , the legendary Professor Toru Tanaka , Sven-Ole Thorsen , the beautiful Maria Conchita Alonso , Yaphet Kotto , Kurt Fuller , Richard Dawson , and Thomas Rosales Jr . who seems to always like death in his movies because he has been killed in such films as Universal Solder , The Lost World , Robo Cop 2 , Predator 2 , and among others . All Arnold fans should love this film from the beginning to the end because its action packed , star filled , and its one its one of Arnold's best to date !
The third and final film in the Poltergeist series is a good sequel in My opinion ! The Poltergeist curse as it is called by some makes the films sad but the series is very entertaining and spooky ! I would say this third one is the least scary but it has it moments ! Tom Skerritt and Nancy Allen were really good as Heather O'Rourke's Uncle and Aunt . Zelda Rubenstein was good like before ! Nathan Davis played Kane well but some may think he isn't as scary as Julian Beck's Kane which in My opinion Beck's Kane was so evil and creepy but there is nothing wrong with Davis ' Kane either ! The music is very good . I think Poltergeist III is a good film just different than the prequels . If you have seen the other two Poltergeist movies then I recommend you see the third one for a good scary time ! Movie Nuttball's Note : This is strictly My opinion . I believe that the deaths of the actors that performed in the Poltergeist movie did have something to do with the films but what I don't know . I think the movies where deep in stories as they were different than others and why the things that happened to few actors that died I don't know either . As great as this series is maybe they should have skipped the trilogy ? I can't say for sure . May Heather O'Rourke , Will Sampson , Julian Beck , and Dominique Dunne Rest in Peace !
The Day After Tomorrow is an excellent film that boasts a excellent cast which includes Dennis Quaid , Jake Gyllenhaal , Emmy Rossum , Dash Mihok , Jay O . Sanders , Frank Harris , Sela Ward , Ian Holm , Mark Thompson , and Glen Plummer . The acting by all of these is very good . The special effects are superb and tons of weather action and it all looks realistic . The film is very exciting and the music by Harald Kloser is great . Roland Emmerich has directed another major film this excellent ! This really the ultimate disaster film . Once again this is a great film and its arguably one of the greatest movies ever in My opinion ! Strongly recommended ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : If love Roland Emmerich then I recommend that you see the following films : Making Contact ( a very different yet great movie ) , Universal Soldier ( an awesome movie , one of the best ! ) , Stargate ( another excellent film ! ) , Godzilla 1998 ( Don't get Me wrong , its a great movie but I still feel that it is nothing like the classic Godzilla movies so I only recommend you see it if you like American monster films and / or Roland Emmerich ) , and The Patriot , ( 2000 , this is a fine film ! .
Incredible film ! The Invisible Man has a lot of violence and really the movie is ahead of its time . The special effects are great and Claude Rains was very good . This is a great and welcomed edition of the Universal Studios Monsters films . In my opinion this is totally different than Hollow Man . I enjoyed both very much !
Minor SpoilersGroundhog Day is one of MY favorites movies because its always funny and I like the cast and and the direction is very good by the co-writer of Ghostbusters Harold Ramis . I just love it each and every time Bill Murray relives Groundhog Day . He is so funny in it and I really like that blizzard that they wern't suppose to get . To ME every thing is good in Groundhog Day like the incredible story , music , direction , and many other things . If you love Bill Murray , Ghostbusters , Scrooged , or just to see a great funny but serious movie then I strongly suggest you see Groundhog Day ! This is truly a special movie !
This is really an action packed movie that stars Charlie Sheen ! It has really good acting in it and I was really surprised by the acting by Nastassja Kinski , James Gandolfini , and Christopher McDonald ! Gandolfini and McDonald were great villains ! Good action , the film is never boring and has great music by Joel McNeely ! If you like the cast that's in this film and love action movies with a good score then check out Terminal Velocity !
The Klansman is a great movie with a good cast including Lee Marvin , Richard Burton , Cameron Mitchell , O . J . Simpson , Lola Falana , David Huddleston , Luciana Paluzzi , Linda Evans , Ed Call John Alderson , John Pearce , David Ladd , Vic Perrin , Spence Wil-Dee ! The acting by all of these actors are very good . There are many great scenes in the film and all of the scenes are filmed really well ! Some of the scenes I like are when the KKK make their appearances and those are really excellent scenes ! When the KKK are battling is something else and it was filmed remarkably well ! The action is awesome ! The music is very good . Really this is a fantastic film and in My opinion the actors and actresses have some of their greatest performances in this film ! If you like any of the actors and actresses I mentioned above and if you like the movie To Kill a Mockingbird ( that stars Gregory Peck ) then I strongly recommend The Klansman !
One of the most explosive and epic action sequels is Speed 2 : Cuise Control ! It stars Sandra Bullock , Willem Dafoe , Jason Patric , Bo Svenson , Temuera Morrison , Brian McCardie , Christine Firkins , Michael G . Hagerty , Colleen Camp , Joe Morton , and Glenn Plummer ! Bullock is good . Jason Patric was good . I like how his character is . Willem Dafoe is excellent ! He's cool , he's mean , and he means business ! Dafoe was perfect in My opinion ! Morrison was also very good . Plummer was also is funny and Morton and Svenson also performed good . The action is really great and you never know what to expect . The music by Mark Mancina is good and the direction by Jan de Bont is very good . I think that Speed 2 : Cruise Control is an excellent sequel which is always exciting ! If you like the cast mentioned above and want to see Willem Dafoe in a great performance then I strongly recommend that you watch or even buy Speed 2 : Cuise Control today !
The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is a very good Three Stooges short with Joe ! Emil Sitka , Gene Roth , Philip Van Zandt , Dan Blocker , Diana Darrin , Harriette Tarler , Arline Hunter , and Joe Palma are all in this one ! This is a funny one and its really cool and is a good one to watch and is one of most different Three Stooges shorts that was filmed . Recommended !
The Lethal Weapon series is an explosive and exciting one that is always exciting with a lot of action and great acting from the stars . There's Lethal Weapon 1 , Lethal Weapon 2 , Lethal Weapon 3 , and Lethal Weapon 4 all starring great actors Mel Gibson and Danny Glover ! Also Joe Pesci and Rene Russo are in the later editions ! Steve Kahan , Paul Tuerpe , and Mary Ellen Trainor are in all four as well . Shane Black did a great job with the writing ! I also like how the series has the same composers Michael Kamen and Eric Clapton , producer , Joel Silver , and director Richard Donner has directed all four ! Lethal Weapon 3 ! It stars Mel Gibson , Danny Glover , Joe Pesci , Rene Russo , Stuart Wilson , Sven-Ole Thorsen , Nick Chinlund , and Mark Pellegrino ! Look for Jan de Bont , Mic Rogers , and Danny Wynands ! Wilson was a good choice as the villain ! There are some really neat action scenes and Gibson , Glover , Russo , and Pesci all put on excellent performances ! I think that Gibson and Russo make the perfect couple ! Great music by Michael Kamen and Eric Clapton ! I think Lethal Weapon 3 is great and its arguably My favorites of the series . Looking for action and love Mel Gibson , Danny Glover and the rest of the cast ? Watch Lethal Weapon 3 today ! I strongly recommend it !
Thinner is a very good horror film that has a good cast which includes Robert John Burke , Joe Mantegna , Lucinda Jenney , Michael Constantine , Kari Wuhrer , John Horton , Daniel von Bargen , and Stephen King ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Burke is really excellent in this film . I thought that he performed good . Mantegna and Constantine also have great performances ! The thrills is really good and the horror is also good with some gore . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good by Daniel Licht . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you are a fan of Robert John Burke , Joe Mantegna , Lucinda Jenney , Michael Constantine , Kari Wuhrer , the rest of the cast in the film , Horror , and Thrillers , and Stephen King then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Rear Window is a great film that has a great cast including James Stewart , Grace Kelly , Wendell Corey , Thelma Ritter , Raymond Burr , Judith Evelyn , Ross Bagdasarian , Georgine Darcy , Sara Berner , Frank Cady , Jesslyn Fax , Rand Harper , Irene Winston , and Havis Davenport ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . James Stewart , Grace Kelly , Wendell Corey , Thelma Ritter , and Raymond Burr really excellent and hilarious in this film . I thought that their performances was great . The thrills and mystery is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed and directed great by Alfred Hitchcock . The music is great by Frans Waxman ! The film is really magical and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a classic and thrilling film . If you like James Stewart , Grace Kelly , Wendell Corey , Thelma Ritter , Raymond Burr , Judith Evelyn , Ross Bagdasarian , the rest of the cast in the film , Waxman's great score and Hitchcock's great directing , Mystery , Crime , Action , Adventure , Family , Thrillers , Comedy , Romance , Dramas , and interesting classic films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
This Abbott and Costello movie is pretty good . Abbott and Costello was good as always ! It has excellent acting by the late great Boris Karloff ! The movie has the same music as Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein film . It entertaining and if you like Abbott and Costello and Universal Monsters then see Abbott and Costello Meet Dr . Jekyll and Mr . Hyde !
This is one of the best sequels in the Universal Monsters series ! The monsters look great ! Boris Karloff is once again great as Frankenstein's monster ! His performance is excellent ! Bela Lugosi performs excellently as Ygor ! The makeup by both of these actors is really tremendous ! The music is great ! The acting by all of the actors in this film are really good . In My opinion this is a great sequel to the original ! In My opinion I think that its great to have these two characters to be in the same film ! If you like Boris Karloff , Bela Lugosi , the classic Universal Monsters , great black and white movies , and horror films then I strongly recommend that you check out this film today !
The Phone Booth is a very clever and unusual movie . Decent acting from the cast including a great performance from Colin Farrell ! Forest Whitaker was very good . Kiefer Sutherland was excellent ! The performances from Radha Mitchell , Katie Holmes , and Paula Jai Parker were good . I like how the film had the Hulk like split screens . I also like that fact that it focused on the victim and the killer almost the entire hour and twenty-one minutes ! The end is just unbelievable ! Joel Schumacher is a very good director in My opinion and this movie deserves a lot of attention in My opinion . If you want a short film that keeps you going until the end and an ending that is very surprising then check out the Phone Booth !
Ticker may not be the greatest film and the best Steven Seagal film and it might not have the biggest budget but in My opinion it doesn't deserve to be on the IMDb bottom 100 : # 63 . It has a great cast with Seagal and they are Dennis Hopper , Tom Sizmore , Peter Greene , Jamie Pressly , Nas , TLC member Chilli , and in a very short part Ice-T ! The action is pretty good . Seagal doesn't fight much but the film is never boring either . I really like Dennis Hopper in this with his Irish accent and his goatee ! Sizemore was very good . I also liked Peter Greene in the film as well . This is the second film he has been in with Steven Seagal ! If you haven't seen Ticker and love Steven Seagal and the cast mention above then I recommend that you check out Ticker soon !
Rear Window the remake is a good film that has a good cast which includes Christopher Reeve , Daryl Hannah , Robert Forster , Ruben Santiago-Hudson , Anne Twomey , Ritchie Coaster , Allison Mackie , Ali Marsh , Julie Barker , Maggie Kiley , and Peter Giles . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Lowe is really excellent in this film . I thought that he performed good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Christopher Reeve , Daryl Hannah , Robert Forster , Ruben Santiago-Hudson , Anne Twomey , Ritchie Coaster , the rest of the cast in the film , Remakes , Thrillers , Dramas , Crime Myster , and interesting Action films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
The Mothman Prophecies is a great spooky film . The cast is very good . Richard Gere , Will Patton , Laura Linney , Debra Messing , and Alan bates all acted greatly in this film . In fact , this may arguably be the best film these actors has ever been in . Their characters are very likable . The music is tremendous . There are so many countless great scenes in this picture but one that is incredible is when Will Patton is in his truck and he is confronted by The Mothman ! This scene with the great showing of it , the color , and the music made it extraordinary ! The film is so interesting . Mothman Prophecies is great film . Its one of the best that I have seen ! I strongly recommend this film ! Movie Nuttball's NOTE : I believe in The Mothman as I am a believer of most of unidentified creatures in Cryptozoology , mythical and mysterious creatures in the world such as Bigfoot , The Lochness Monster , The Jersey Devil , The Goatman , The Chupacabra , and among many others . I also believe in the unexplained phenomena and mysteries such as aliens and spirits . Whether you are a believer in these things or not , I believe they are very real . We are not alone in the universe and we certainly do not know everything that is on our Earth ! These are My thoughts ! Thanks for reading !
The Grudge is a very good and scary film that has a great cast including Sarah Michelle Gellar , Jason Behr , William Mapother , Clea DuVall , KaDee Strickland , Grace Zabriskie , Bill Pullman , Rosa Blasi , Ted Raimi , Ryo Ishibashi , Yoko Maki , Yuya Ozeki , Takako Fuji , and Takashi Matsuyama ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . The action and thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by Christopher Young . Great direction by Takashi Shimizu . The film is really good and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a scary and thrilling film . If you like Sarah Michelle Gellar , Jason Behr , William Mapother , Clea DuVall , KaDee Strickland , Grace Zabriskie , Bill Pullman , Rosa Blasi , Ted Raimi , the rest of the cast in the film , Horror , Mystery , Thrillers , Comedy , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
I am a big fan of mummy movies especially the new MuMmy films . I adore the first MuMmy and I just love The MuMmy Returns ! I think the films are great , funny , and just spectacular ! In My opinion they are some of the most accurate Egyptian movies out there . The movies are packed with tons of awesome action , tremendous special effects , great acting by all of the actors and actresses who I believe were born to play their roles in both films , great writing and directing by Stephen Sommers , and two of the most astounding scores ever by Jerry Goldsmith and Alan Silvestri ! I love the history of ancient Egypt and I think that it is the most extraordinary history next to the time of the Dinosaurs and Prehistoric life ! There are so many mysteries of Egypt that no one knows and some of it I believe is so incredible . One day we may find out how the wonders of Egypt were created and why the greatness and beauty of the designs look like the way they do . I believe the entire history means something special . Any way below is an In-depth look at most of the characters in The MuMmy Returns ! THE HEROES : Brendan Fraser as Richard O'Connell - This big strong man is a former foreign legion leader and is now married to Evelyn Carnahan who saved his life from being hung by the late Warden Gad Hassan ( Omid Djalili ) and now has a young boy . He is a loving father and husband and will do anything for them . He is a great person and has become an avid adventurer thanks to a little help . Years ago after his future wife accidentally resurrected the high priest they won a battle that seemed unwinnable . Now the powerful mummy has been unearthed once again . Now the charming couple with the help of Evy's brother Jonathan , son Alex , and old friends Ardeth Bey , and Izzy must fight this incredible being once more . Rachel Weisz as Evelyn Carnahan O'Connell - Evy , as she called is having visions and after several of them she realizes that she was once a princess in ancient Egypt . She also realizes that it was no mistake meeting and marrying Rick . She loves her husband and son very much and like him she too will do anything for them . She will a have busy long while with old friends and foes . John Hannah as Jonathan Carnahan - The loving brother of Evy . Though it seems like he is always prone to getting into some kind of trouble he does have some courage but whenever there is a time to find anything valuable he will take it especially gold ! Oded Fehr as Ardeth Bay - This Medjai warrior is the leader of over ten tribes of thousands Medjai swordsmen and Bey himself is an excellent swordsman . Lock-Nah is part of the occult that is with Imhotep and will Ardeth finally settle the score with his arch-nemesis ? His people have been the protector of the City of the Dead for over three millennia so no evil escapes . Thanks to spoilers nine years ago and a second resurrection of the creature they now have failed and must fight a battle that is impossible to win ! Freddie Boath as Alexander O'Connell - Alex is a smart young man who has smarts just like his parents . He loves Egypt and adventure . When he accidentally puts on the Bracelet of Anubis he will have a long adventure that will bring fourth another unforgettable journey ! Shaun Parkes as Izzy Buttons - Izzy and Rick O'Connell have had many adventures together . Now they along with Rick's lovely wife Evy , her good hearted but silly brother , and the brave Ardeth Bey will have the biggest adventure ever ! THE VILLAINS : Arnold Vosloo as Lord Imhotep - The high priest was once resurrected and regenerated completely after sucking the life out of gun fighting Americans Mr . Henderson ( Stephen Dunham ) , Mr . Daniels ( Corey Johnson ) , Mr . Burns ( Tuc Watkins ) , and Egyptologist Dr . Allen Chamberlain ( Jonathan Hyde ) nearly a decade ago . His huge dust storm that he created killed Captain Winston Havlock ( Bernard Fox ) . He was also served by the late Beni Gabor ( Kevin J . O'Connor ) who betrayed Rick O'Connell . The creature as Ardeth Bey calls this misunderstood phenom was defeated by the O'Connells but now is brought back to life by Baltus Hafez and his secret occult . The reincarnated Anck Su Namun is in cahoots with this very occult and she is the one that led the current curator of the British Museum and his men to the area where the mummy was left buried . Soon they will be reunited and their love will an eternal love . It is the year of the scorpion and the Scorpion King is now superior and for someone to rule Anubis ' army they must kill this incredible beast . Imhotep's power is much greater then ever before and he is the only one in the entire world that can defeat him . Patricia Velasquez as Meela Nais - This bad beauty is the love of Imhotep . Her and Baltus Hafez's secret occult succeed at finding the mummy and will set fourth another campaign of destruction . Meela locks the door of one of the train cars and traps Red , Spivey , and Jaques and like the Americans they too get drained by Imhotep . Once fully regenerated he is more powerful than ever and soon he and his lover will be reunited . Alun Armstrong as Baltus Hafez - Since the demise of Dr . Terrence Bey ( Erick Avari ) things have run amok in England . Baltus Hafez is now the current curator of the British Museum and is also the leader of the secret occult who has a very important mission . This red turban occult is armed with guns and ready for anything . He and Meela join forces to bring Imhotep back from the underworld . They know it is the year of the scorpion and they also know that the high priest is the only one powerful enough to destroy the Scorpion King ! Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje as Lock-Nah - This big and muscular master swordsman is the Curator's first hand man . Lock-Nah has had a feud with Medjai leader Ardeth Bey for many years and now is the time for them to settle it but who will prevail ? Bruce Byron as Red - Red is an intelligent killer and will stop at nothing at doing his job ! Joe Dixon as Jacques - This muscular man along with Spivey and Red is nobody to mess around with . He is as superstitious and as he is smart ! Tom Fisher as Spivey - Though maybe careless he is a killer along with Red and Jacques . ANCIENT EGYPT CHARACTERSThe Rock as Mathayus the Scorpion King - After defeating Lord Memnon Mathayus became the first Pharaoh of Egypt . Mathayus was a great and intelligent fighter and he knew many fighting tactics . With his large muscular physique and brute strength he could defeat just about anyone with a weapon or in hand to hand combat . He was a master swordsman and archer . Just not a king but he was also an adored leader in battle . He led his Akkadian army of over twenty-thousand warriors against the Sumerian enemy which they too had an army of soldiers in the thousands . This battle between these two unstoppable legions lasted almost a decade . The Akkadians were eventually defeated . Mathayus and what was left of his fallen comrades walked the desert until they fell to their doom . Mathayus , on a sand dune got on his knees and begged the lord of the dead Anubis that if the dark lord would grant him an army to defeat the Sumerians he would give the dog faced one his soul . Anubis agreed and it was right then Mathayus and Anubis made a pact . Mathayus led the nine foot tall Anubis warriors and defeated the enemy . The underworld God then took Mathayus ' soul . Though the Scorpion King never met the commanding personality called Imhotep due to them being in two different eras but thousands of years later it would be the year of the scorpion and Mathayus would be more powerful than ever only in a different body form and by a strange coincidence the high priest would return and he too would be super human . The two historic icons would have a meeting of Armageddon ! Arnold Vosloo as Imhotep - This man was a high priest , medicine man , and a philosopher . He was an intelligent individual . This handsome man had a relationship in secret with the Pharaoh's wife Anck Su Namun and later murdered her father with the help of his dream lover . After she killed herself he went to the City of the Dead to bring her back but failed and he suffered the most horrible curse and centuries later he would bring unbelievable catastrophes to man kind ! Aharon Ipalé as Pharaoh Seti I - The father of Princess Nefertiti and husband of Anck Su Namun . Seti I didn't know that his wife had a secret relationship with his high priest Imhotep and when he found out it cost him his life . Rachel Weisz as Princess Nefertiti - The daughter of Pharaoh Seti I was a skilled fighter . Though she was beaten in a battle against Anck Su Namun she was chosen by her father to guard the bracelet of Anubis and she witnessed the slaying of her dear father . Patricia Velasquez as Anck Su Namun - The wife of Pharaoh Seti I was a beautiful but an evil woman . She defeated the Pharaoh's daughter and became his protector . She along with her other lover Imhotep killed Seti I and later done her own self in after Imhotep was taken away . Movie Nuttball's NOTE : If you love mummy films I recommend the following : The Mummy ( 1932 ) , The Mummy ( 1959 ) , The Monster Squad ( 1987 ) The Mummy Lives ( 1993 ) , Tale of the Mummy ( 1998 ) , The MuMmy ( 1999 ) , The Scorpion King ( 2002 ) , The MuMmy : The Animated Series ( 2001 ) , and The MuMmy : QUEST FOR THE LOST SCROLLS ( The MuMmy : The Animated Series ( 2001 ) VHS movie ) , and Bubba Ho-Tep ( 2002 ) !
The debut of Steven Seagal in Above the Law is great , action packed film ! It has a good cast and very good direction by one of My favorite directors Andrew Davis ! Look for some of the same guys that was in Davis ' other films such as The Fugitive and Chain Reaction ! If you like action and Steven Seagal and haven't seen Above the Law then your in for a good time of non stop action !
The Swimfan is dandy ! It is a different teen movie ! The acting was pretty good by the cast including Dan Hedaya and a very good score by John Debney ! This film in My opinion doesn't deserve the bad comments it has received because it is entertaining ! If you want a different teen movie then look no further because the Swimfan is your movie !
This is one of the all time greats ! This is awesome for Universal monster fans ! Lon Chaney was great , Bela Lugosi was as scary as ever , and Glenn Strange was awesome as Frankenstein's Monster ! Even years after the Wolf Man and Dracula Chaney and Lugosi performed as them flawlessly ! Great music and chills ! Perfect for Halloween time ! I recommend Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein !
Open Water is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Blanchard Ryan , Daniel Travis , Saul Stein , Estelle Lau , Michael E . Williamson , Cristina Zenarro , John Charles , and Steve Lemme . The acting by all of these actors is very good . Ryan and Travis really good in this film . I thought that they performed good . The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good by Graeme Revell . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Blanchard Ryan , Daniel Travis , the rest of the cast in the film , Thrillers , Dramas , Horror , True Stories , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
I am not sure if there is two versions of the film but I want to say that the original uncut version is good . Though I could do with out the nudity but for horror fans this is a great one to see with a awesome female monster ! The truth is I actually felt sorry for her at the end . Great 80s horror film that is scary and should satisfy most horror fans !
Mrs . Doubtfire is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Robin Williams , Sally Field , Pierce Brosnan , Harvey Fierstein , Polly Holliday , Lisa Jakub , Matthew Lawrence , Mara Wilson , Robert Prosky , Rick Overton , Martin Mull , Ralph Peduto , Scott Beach , Molly McClure , Andrew L . Prosky , and Dr . Toad ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . Robins is really excellent in this film . I thought that he performed good . The comedy is really good and some of it is surprising . The movie is filmed very good . The music is good . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and hilarious film . If you like Robin Williams , Sally Field , Pierce Brosnan , Harvey Fierstein , Polly Holliday , Lisa Jakub , Matthew Lawrence , Mara Wilson , Robert Prosky , Rick Overton , the rest of the cast in the film , Comedies , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is one of My favorite Three Stooges shorts ! Gene Roth is excellent in it ! The scenes with the Stooges especially with Shemp are really funny ! The fish scene is quite funny especially how Moe fooled the woman . There is another Three Stooges short with alternate scenes called Dunked in the Deep . This is really an underrated Stooges short !
The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This is a very funny and arguably a classic Three Stooges short with Shemp ! Appearing in this short are Christine McIntyre , Kathleen O'Malley , Nanette Bordeaux , Emil Sitka , Pat Moran , Wally Rose , and Joe Palma . McIntyre and Bordeaux are excellent in this on . I recommend this Three Stooges short !
I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today !
The sequel to Jurassic Park is very good . The Dinosaurs still looked incredible ! Jeff Goldblum , Julianne Moore , Richard Attenborough , Pete Postlethwaite , Thomas Rosales Jr . and Vince Vaughn played their parts good ! The first time I saw this and when the end came I had tears in My eyes . The T-Rex in the city part had Me worried about how it was going to end but I was satisfied . If you like Dinosaurs then check out The Lost World : The Jurassic Park !
This film titled Shakedown is a good one ! Ron Perlman stars along with Wolf Larson , Erika Eleniak , and Fred Dryer . Perlman is is great in this film . His performance as the bad guy in this film is really good and he looks very neat ! I thought the training camp scenes with him were great ! All of the other actors are good in this film as well . The action is really good . Fans of shoot em up films will like the action here ! The earthquake scenes are also very good and I was in awe when i saw some of the scenes ! One thing I noticed in the film is strange . Its when Perlman is talking to Brandon Karrer's character . I noticed that when the musical score was playing that part there was the very same piece of music that is in Hollow Man . The 10th track is titled Find Him on the Hollow Man Score CD . If you own the CD and / or are familiar with the film then you will know what I mean . Watch Shakedown and compare it ! Anyway Shakedown is a good film and is very exciting . If you like Ron Perlman and the other actors I mentioned above and want to see a good disaster action film then I strongly recommend this film !
Domestic Disturbance is a great great thriller and is in My opinion one of John Travolta's best movies to date ! Vince Vaughn was very good ! Steve Buscemi added great color to the film ! Teri Polo and Chris Ellis was good . The music by Mark Mancina is very good ! Domestic Disturbance is a great movie and if you love the cast mentioned and great thrillers then I strongly recommend you see Domestic Disturbance !
Minor SpoilersThis Dracula in MY opinion is really ahead of it's time . It is really like a new film dispite it's year it came out . Frank Langella is just perfect as the Count . He does everything so superb with his eyes dancing , the way he moves his fingers , he is a big man and that makes his presence very haunting . His performance is flawless ! There has been many versions of Dracula including the legendary Bela Lugosi but Langella is arguably the best one of them all ! This film also co-stars legendary actors Laurence Olivier and Donald Pleasence . The scenery is just beautiful with fog . The score by John Williams is arguably his best ! If you are for into love stories this Dracula film has a great one although at times it can be sad and especialy at the end . I recommend all Dracula and Frank Langella fans see this soon and be sure to watch it after sunset : )
The Three Stooges has always been some of the many actors that I have loved . I love just about every one of the shorts that they have made . I love all six of the Stooges ( Curly , Shemp , Moe , Larry , Joe , and Curly Joe ) ! All of the shorts are hilarious and also star many other great actors and actresses which a lot of them was in many of the shorts ! In My opinion The Three Stooges is some of the greatest actors ever and is the all time funniest comedy team ! This Three Stooges short is an excellent one and is actually quite violent for its time . Kenneth MacDonald and Christine McIntyre are good together in this one and also in their separate scenes . Cy Schindell was also good . The Stooges are as funny as ever ! There is another Three Stooges short very similar like this one called Hot Ice which it has an alternate ending .
Universal Soldier is a superb action film that stars Jean-Claude Van Damme and Dolph Lundgren plus Ally Walker , Ed O'Ross , Ralph Moeller , Tiny Lister jr . ( Zeus ) , Jerry Orbach , and none other than Thomas Rosales jr . and yes you guest it , He gets killed in this film too ! Universal Soldier is quite an epic film and is arguably Van Damme's best ! I laugh every time when ever Lundgren speaks because his lines are dang funny and he says them well ! I like Ally Walker as she is a very good actress and a beautiful woman ! This is the best of the Universal Soldier films and is a great experience to watch for action fans !
This is a classic animated film from the cartoon series ! Most of the major characters get alot of screen time plus do extra characters aswell ! The film's focus is on the superstar characters vacation and each one has his / her very unique summer fun ! Its very funny from beginning to end ! It has excellent color , great music and believe it or not I have seen this more than any movie . Its that great and in MY opinion its perfect !
The Core is a very good movie with a good but different cast . The disaster scenes are unbelievable ! The music is very good by Christopher Young ! The whale scenes were awesome ! It was neat to watch that scene when the space shuttle is going to crash into Los Angeles . It was so cool that there was the baseball game between the Colorado Rockies against the Los Angeles Dodgers and the player highlight was none other than slugger Shawn Green ! The match up was Mike Hampton ( who is currently an Atlanta Brave ) pitching to Shawn Green ! It was a treat ! As for the movie , I don't want to say to much but its entertaining and will keep you going and if you want the ultimate disaster film then look no further than the Core !
Alien 3 , Sigourney Weaver is in trouble once again . Alien is good film is arguably the best of the series and I think they should have left it alone or changed the story of Alien Resurrection because in my opinion AR was horrible . It ruined the Alien name in my opinion . Hopefully when Alien vs . Predator comes it'll be the greatest Alien movie of them all ! I can't wait for it !
This Stooge short is very spooky with the storms , wind , and everything ! Christine McIntyre is very good in this and as always she is very beautiful and she is My favorite actress in the Stooges episodes . Stanley Price and Philip Van Zandt put on good performances . This is a great one to watch during Halloween time !
Headhunter is is good horror movie that stars Kay Lenz and Wayne Crawford ! The killings are gruesome ! It has good music and the Headhunter demon is very neat ! it wasn't suppose to be funny but I thought the scene with the preacher was funny and it seemed like his voice was dubbed ! I was funny when he said " I'm never coming back to this ( curses ) river again ! I feel this movie needs more attention that it has received ! I don't want to spoil it for you in case you haven't seen the movie and if you haven't rent it because its a good horror movie !
Daffy Duck's Quackbusters is a cute and funny movie ! It consist of several older cartoons . The short animated feature before the movie is really good . There's just about everything in this movie and its great for kinds and adults . Its perfect to watch around the Halloween season ! The box it comes in is really coo1 ! f you haven't already seen Daffy's movie then check it out ! You'll quack up !
I thought that the characters were really funny and all had great personalities . The animation in My opinion was crisp , clean , and really clear . Not to mention beautiful ! Most of the characters in this show are hilarious Looney Tunes characters that we all love . in My opinion these characters are the funnies and talented ever seen . In fact , The things that goes on in this series ' cartoons are in My opinion nuts which that is what makes them hilarious ! There are so many to like and laugh at and the silly things they do ! If you like the original Looney Tunes and animated films then I strongly recommend that you watch this movie today !
Cool as Ice is a great film that has a great cast including Vanilla Ice , Kristin Minter , Deezer D , John Haymes Newton , Naomi Campbell , Kevin Hicks , Allison Dean , Sydney Lassick , Dody Goodman , Candy Clark , Michael Gross , Victor DiMattia , Brooke Alexander , and Jack McGee . The acting by all of these actors is very good . The action and comedy is great . The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by Stanley Clarke . The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Vanilla Ice , Kristin Minter , John Haymes Newton , Naomi Campbell , Candy Clark , Michael Gross , Jack McGee , the rest of the cast in the film , Comedy , Action , Romance , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
Another good Stooge short ! Christine McIntyre is so lovely and evil and the same time in this one ! She is such a great actress ! The Stooges are very good and especially Shemp and Larry ! This to is a good one to watch around Autumn time !
Last man Standing is a great film that has a good cast which includes Bruce Willis , Bruce Dern , William Sanderson , Christopher Walken , David Patrick Kelly , Karina Lombard , Ned Eisenberg , Alexandra Powers , Michael Imperioli , Ken Jenkins , R . D . Call , Ted Markland , Leslie Mann , Patrick Kilpatrick , Luis Contreras , Raynor Scheine , Tiny Ron , John Paxton , Jaime Méndez , and Thomas Rosales ! The acting by all of these actors is very good . The thrills is really good and the action is incredible ! The movie is filmed very good . The music is great by Ry Cooder . Great directing Walter Hill ! The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end . This is a very good and thrilling film . If you like Bruce Willis , Bruce Dern , William Sanderson , Christopher Walken , David Patrick Kelly , Karina Lombard , Ned Eisenberg , Alexandra Powers , Tiny Ron , John Paxton , the rest of the cast in the film , Action , Thrillers , Crime , Dramas , and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today !
