lame-o . i think this bomb was supposed to be a comedy . but that assumes laughter would be involved , and you know what they say when you assume . bottom line , not funny , not even mildly amusing . it is however , stupid . but it isn't a total loss . i mean , after this experience , i now have a new appreciation for the route canal . honestly , if you're 3 years old and under , i suppose you may find something funny in this thing , but i doubt it . of course if you're 3 years old , the clowns may be a bit too scary for you . so , really that leaves nobody who should find this bore fest funny . if you're really that bored , paint something and watch the paint dry . you get just as many laughs out of it . save yourself-just avoid this turkey at all costs .
sometimes you go into a film with very low expectations , and occasionally you are pleasantly surprised . Dominion : Prequel to the Exorcist is not that movie . i was sure this movie would be a piece of crap , except that i would rather have watched a piece of crap for 2 hours . it would have been much more entertaining . so why did i watch it ? well , it was on cable , i had nothing better to do , and i like to give every movie the benefit of the doubt . but the most important reason i sat through this thing : i ran out of pins to stick in my eyes . there is very little good about this film , other than the end credits . Stellan Skarsgard is a very talented actor , but his talents are wasted on this dud . you expect to see a movie with a demon , based on the title . the demon only appears well after half of the movie has elapsed , and it does not inspire fear at all , but is laughable . the movie is also disjointed and has many scenes that have no relevance . then again the movie has no relevance either . it does at times become a sermon , which is very annoying . special mention must go to the people in charge of the cgi effects . they have managed to creature the worst cgi animals i have ever seen . hyenas , several cattle and even a snake were very obviously all cgi . completely fake looking . unless you want to lose 2 hours of your life , don't even go near this thing . a well deserved
how low can you go ? not much lower than this , the 4th and final ( hopefully ) installment int the dreadfully awful " House " series . each previous entry outdid the last for sheer crap . the last installment , made it about 30 minutes , when we realized we couldn't go any further . we never laughed once , nor jumped out of our seats once . these movies are billed as horror / comedy , so shouldn't they contain elements of horror and comedy ? the fact this series was ever released onto an unsuspecting public is horrifying indeed . i don't know if i've ever been this bored in my entire life . i mean , what the hell were these people ( anyone involved in this crap fest ) smoking ? some movies are so bad , they'r good . i wish this movie was that good . after torturing ourselves for way too long , we went outside and watched the grass grow to relieve the boredom .
how to start . how about abysmal , boring , a complete train wreck ? that barely touches the surface when describing this mess . this movie is dreary , and depressing , to say the least . painfully torturous to watch . but for some reason , i Sat through it all . the big problem was the writing which was pedantic at best . then there is the acting ; sub par from some usually reliable actors . one big problem was that they tried to make it funny . i haven't seen the original yet , but i do know it was played as a drama , not a comedy . and i'm guessing it works much more effectively . i also suspect the casting decisions were smarter for the original . the actors were clearly miscast for this mess . they did not look comfortable at all . plainly stated , this movie could not have been very faithful to its source material and that is its failing . But in that case it would have been the exact same movie as the original . what i'm really saying is that this movie was not necessary . i'm sure the movie going public wasn't clamoring for it . bottom there are many crappy movies out there to avoid , and this is one of them .
i must be seeing things . i swear this movie has a rating of 7 . 9 . but that can't be right . that would mean it is actually a good movie . so i guess the 7 . 9 is out of a possible 100 . seriously , The French Connection is one long bore . Gene Hackman is a gifted actor , but even he can't save this mess . William ( i have yet to make a decent film ) Friedkin shows once again how to make any action sequence seem slower than molasses . i know people rave about this guy , but i have to wonder if they just mimic what they may have heard someone else say . i blame the first person who ever saw this movie and described the experience in a positive light . honestly , if i had known what i was in for , i would gladly have hacked off all my limbs and poured salt in the wounds instead . that would have made for a much more pleasurable experience . and just in case you don't know what the movie is about , here's a brief synopsis : cop movie with bad dialogue , punctuated by boring action sequences , followed by more bad dialogue and on and on . the writers should not escape notice for their part in this disaster . Clearly , the script was lost somewhere along the way . Right after the beginning credits rolled . up until that point , it held promise . if you enjoy being bored to tears for an extended length of time , i recommend a double bill-this movie and another bore fest-To Live and Die in L . A .
wow . what a bore . the jokes were tired and lame . my friend and i barely chuckled . we had to stop it just after an hour . we just couldn't go on . i remember this movie being funny , the last time i watched it . but that was over twenty years ago . it is true , the movie is old and obviously dated , but i was hoping for a few laughs . i felt like going outside and watching the grass grow , just to relieve the boredom . all i can say is , this movie might be funny if you are seeing for the first time , but i doubt it . you should have a backup plan , like sticking pins in your eyes . you'll be a lot more entertained . this is one truly dreadful movie , i guess maybe because audiences are more sophisticated today , and the humour is much simpler in this movie than it is today . a very low just based on its age
oh , my word . i don't know what i just witnessed , but i know it wasn't good . this is not a good movie , at all . i'm not sure if i've ever been this bored in my life . it's supposed to be horror movie of sorts . the only problem is , they forgot to put in anything that would be scary . it's also done on the cheap , and looks it . the dialogue gives new meaning to the word abysmal . this thing may have been 95 minutes long , but it might as well have been 95 days , that's how slow it was . Tony Curtis plays a prominent role , but looks out of place in this movie . the only saving grace ( if there is in one ) is the actress who played the lead female character . she was more convincing than anyone else was . for that , i'll give The Mummy Lives a .
many people love this movie , some even calling it a work of art . however , i must respectfully disagree . i found the movie uninspiring , at best , at mostly one long bore . if you like your movies heavy on sap , you will like this movie . this movie at times felt like one long " i'm okay , your okay , we're all okay " inspirational speech . if i want motivational advice , i'll go see Anthony Robbins or some other guru . all kidding aside other than the film's heavy handedness , there are a few good thing about it . the acting was good , the special effects were decent . the best thing about the movie , however is its 1960's and 70's soundtrack . despite it good points , the movie is not worth recommending .
this is an episode of the New Scooby Doo movies from 1972 . it has Scooby and the gang meeting up with the Harlem Globe Trotters and running into a mystery , ( naturally ) with ghosts , and a sea serpent . this episode is very slow and and the story is kinda lame . there's a few good lines courtesy of the Globe Trotters , but otherwise it's pretty boring . and that laugh track drove me nuts . by the way , not to give anything away , but the episode takes place in America , not Scotland , so the words Loch Ness in the title don't mean anything . anyway , you'd think this might be an interesting story , since it features the Harlem Globe Trotters , but it isn't . they didn't even have the real voices of the Globe Trotters , for whatever reason . the most i can give this episode is a
i actually commented on the sequel to this movie , thinking i would never bother to write a comment on this one . the sequel is actually not bad , but the original is not so good . i found it boring and mean spirited even for a so called horror movie . it doesn't really make a lot of sense either . and i found it depressing as anything . plus , the ending was just ridiculous . i know the sequel didn't necessarily make a lot of sense . but it had other positives going for it , like excitement , and a really nifty looking creature . anyway , i pretty much hated the original , and although it's not the worst movie i have seen , it is pretty bad . my advice , skip this movie and check out the sequel instead . for me , Jeepers Creepers is a
i had high hopes for this movie before watching it . but , maybe i shouldn't have . after all , it does star Tom Arnold . some of the films he is in are OK , especially where he is not the main character . but this one , not so much . it's billed as a comedy , but that entails laughter . it's based on the 1962 series of the same name , supposedly . if that's case , the makers of the TV show should sue the makers and actors involved in this movie for defamation . i like Debra Messing , but she picked the wrong movie to be a part of . Tim Curry also stars , playing a variation of every bad guy he has ever played . the plot is silly , to be kind . the back cover promises madcap adventure and and zaniness . maybe it's a typo . it's no wonder this movie tanked at the box office . for me , McHale's Navy is a
independence day looked like it could be a good , even great movie . it has great actors , and loads of action . it also has some humour courtesy will smith and jeff goldblum . goldblum is the perfect straight man for smith's witty quips and one liners and even ads a bit of his own brand of comedy to the mix . these two play off each other very well , and there is undeniable comedic chemistry between the two . the supporting cast is also very strong . and then there is the premise . aliens invade the world and the military must save the day . not a bad premise , although not original . there must be something new added to the mix or this becomes just another alien invasion movie . the question is , is there anything original in this movie ? true , the comedic element is a step in the right direction . but is in enough own its own ? not quite . there are problems which overshadow the positive aspects of the film , one of them being the special effects , which admittedly are well done . however , they are overpowering in this movie . the viewer is bombarded with explosion after explosion . independence day becomes a movie about the special effects , so the characters take a back seat for most of the movie . true , there are some touching dramatic moments in the middle to latter stages of the film , but the characters are not given enough screen time to be developed , so there is less of the human feel than there might otherwise be . another problem is the film goes more than a little overboard with the flag waving patriotism . there is nothing wrong with patriotism , unless it is taken overboard . there is an inspirational speech given by the the American president , which seems like it is patterned after a speech by winston churchill during the second world war . however , in this case it comes of as maudlin and absurd . bill pullman , fine actor he may be , is no winston churchill , and does not have the charisma or screen presence to carry this speech off . it is a real eyes glazed over and rolled back in the head moment . not believable . which lead us to the dialogue . aside from the president's speech there are are other examples of cringe worthy dialogue . the actors cannot therefore take total responsibility for this . the writers should shoulder some of the blame . finally there is the discovery which leads to the eventual defeat of the aliens . in my my mind the odds of things happening this way are astronomical at best . so , basically the movie ( although entertaining ) fails for the most , and is moderately successful in other parts . end result : out of 10
i found this Robin Williams vehicle mildly amusing at best . i guess you would call it a political satire of sorts . it's about a political talk show host / comedian who decides to run for president and unexpectedly wins . i found most of the humour dry myself , and Robin Williams is much more restrained and sedate than usual . i would say the movie is more of a drama than a comedy , with a bit of mystery and suspense . i think the dramatic parts worked better than the comedy parts , and the mystery and suspense aspect ( though that's a small part of the movie ) worked the best . still , i wouldn't rate this movie very high . for me , it was an OK waste of 2 hours , but nothing special . my best advice would be to catch it on TV / cable or rent it cheap first , before making a decision on whether to purchase . my vote for Man of The Year is a
i wasn't too impressed with this animated spin off of the Toy Story films . i just expected better . the story was pretty weak , but at least there were a few amusing moments . i found it too preachy myself . i like the message it has , about friendship and teamwork , but i just thought it was a bit too unsubtle . kids might like it , considering there was a fair amount of action . there's nothing inappropriate that i saw , so it's probably suitable for most ages . in fact , the movie is pretty tame , with pretty much no violence . anyway , this isn't horrible by any means , it just isn't anything special . for me , Buzz Lightyear of Star Command : The Adventure Begins is a
i may be in the minority her , but i found this animated movie disappointing . it's basically about the origin of The Justice League but i didn't feel it was worthy of an origin story . i also thought it was slow , an i didn't like the story . there isn't a lot of action in this one , and there's no real threat to the world . there is a threat of sorts , but i think it was lame . there isn't much in the way of character development either . i do think the voice talent was right on in this one , though . i felt the characters and their voices really suited each other . i have no idea if this origin story reflects the actual origin from the comic book , since i haven't read the comic . i just know that the movie was lacklustre . for me . Justice League league : The New Frontier is a
At first , i didn't like this movie . i just didn't see the point . i mean there was next to no plot . lots of nudity , ( always a good thing ) drunk people doing really silly things . and of course a psycho killer stalking the staff of the island resort where the movie is set . there are lots of crude and raunchy situations , which is not always a bad thing . the movie is basically a parody of your typical slasher flick . the style of the movie ( if you can call it that ) reminded me of the very early Friday the 13th movies and also April fool's Day , though obviously a very different ending . as a parody , the movie does work . i did not find it funny or even humorous in the slightest , although i did find the absurdity of it somewhat amusing . there is not much in the way of acting ability involved or necessary here . however , i do have to single someone out here . that would be Brittany Daniel , who plays Jenny , one of the island staff . This girl definitely has some acting chops and depth . the camera loves her . I know this type of movie is not normally a barometer of acting ability . this case is different , however . the film is worth watching just for Brittany's performance . All she needs is a good script , and she could be a great character actress , similar to Anna Faris . I hope we see in a serious role sometime . anyway , back to the movie . at some point , i did become engrossed in the film , and was curious as to who the killer was . and believe me , there were a lot of suspects . this movie was sort of like a train wreck . i just couldn't stop watching . slightly entertaining , at times , but just barely . there were only 2 reasons to watch this movie . Brittany Daniel , and to find out who the killer was . BTW , for a movie that is just as raunchy and crude , and also hysterically funny , check out Repli-Kate . as for Club Dread - out of 10
i'm afraid i have to disagree with the high rating this film has ( ) i found it tortuously slow and i couldn't finish watching , though i tried hard . so many people rave about this film , and i'm at a loss to explain . yes , it is very stylish . it has a very atmospheric dark mood to it . it's also pretty creative , i guess , or it was for that time . but the problem i have with the movie is the action is much too sublime for my tates . i need a bit more happening in the movie i watch . or at least more compelling dialogue . i didn't think the screenplay was all that great either . so when you you add all this up , you're left with one big yawn fest . this is just my opinion , of course , and i wouldn't say it's a bad movie . i do think it's overrated though . . Ridley Scott is apparently going to release a definitive version of the film i the not too distant future , so that may be a better version . as for this film as it stands , i can only give " Blade Runner " a , mainly due to its style .
this is one movie i can't say i liked or disliked . it was all story , not much anything else , which isn't necessarily bad . it was mostly as slow as molasses flowing uphill in January , yet just interesting enough to keep watching . it was also pretty glum , in my opinion . of course the typical stereotypes of the era are here in full force . not a horrible movie by any standard , but not great by any standard either . it's one of those movies where i could take it or leave it . after it ended , i was pretty much indifferent o the whole thing . it wouldn't matter to me whether i saw it again or not . but maybe i'm being too hard on it . maybe it is what it was supposed to be , a simple crime drama . anyway , for me , The laughing Policeman is a
a friend of mine had told me this movie was horrible . but , i decided to give it a try any way . it starts off pretty awful , then slowly gets watchable . but then it turns not so good again . not as awful as it was at the beginning , but not really very good either . the problem i found with the movie is that a lot of the time , it's muddled and close to incoherent . and when i could follow it , it wasn't really anything spectacular . plus there are a lot of things that don't make sense . the concept of light versus darkness is not really original , but this movie tweaks the concept slightly , putting its own little spin on it . unfortunately , it's not enough to elevate the movie . if you're an action buff , you might find this movie boring , as the action is fairly sparse . for me , the movie never quite got exciting enough to be anything more than average . and the ending is even less exciting than the rest of the movie . i don't quite agree with me friend that this movie was awful , it just wasn't really good either . i'd have to give Night Watch a
Admiral Frank Beardsly ( Dennis Quaid ) marries his high school sweet heart , Helen North ( Rene Russo ) . thing is , he has 8 kids , and she has 10 . his kids are strait laced by the book , owing to growing up with an admiral for a father . her kids are free spirited , with much more freedom of expression due to their mothers influence . so , the families merge and with the kids being total opposites , you would think this is a recipe for disaster . well , it should have been . but for some reason , it just doesn't seem to work . i think i laughed about 3 times , and that was courtesy of the pig . the rest of the time , i just waited , hoping for something funny to come along . and the typical Hollywood ending didn't help much . now , this is not a horrible movie , in fact it is entertaining at times , but i expected to laugh more , and based on that , i give " Yours , Mine and Ours " .
this the first of a two part episode . i can't say i was overly impressed with this episode . for one thing , i didn't think the voices fit , but maybe that just takes some getting used to . after all , this is the first full episode of the Justice League o have seen . however , i also didn't think the story was that great . i found it ordinary . this episode only features The Flash and Green Lantern . i will say though , that the episode was very fast paced . it was over before i knew it . i also liked the touches of humour . i didn't really like the animation that much , but again , that could be something that takes getting used to . i find it hard to rate this particular episode . there are some things i didn't like about it , yet i didn't find it awful , or boring . despite the problems i had with it , it certainly passes the time . i give it a
this movie isn't ' total crap , but it's not great either . but you cant really expect much from these types of movies . there's almost no suspense and not very much excitement in this movie . it just sort of plods along to the end . it's entertaining , if nothing else . i mean , you get some horrid dialogue , sometimes delivered just as horridly . the acting isn't great , and some of the characters are as dumb as could be . i guess it's sort of in the category of so bad it's good . i thought the spiders were pretty good actors , at least . i've watched quite a few of these movies and this one is no better or worse than any other one of this type . i find this type of movie a good way to waste 90 minutes or so . besides , none of these movies come close to being the worst movie i have seen , so that's something .
i don't know what to make of this Spaghetti western starring Lee Van Cleef and Jack Palance , and directed by Gianfranco Parolini , who was also known as Frank Kramer . it's very similar in style to The Man with no name trilogy by Sergio Leone . i didn't find it all that great . it plods along slowly , until the last 20 minutes or so , when it becomes somewhat interesting . it's an Italian production , obviously , and the dubbing is not that great . also , also the the acting was pretty bad , mostly by the extras , who were probably not actual actors , just people hired for the movie . i also thought the movie was disjointed at times , and didn't always make a lot of sense . but maybe i'm just missing something . anyway , as a piece of entertainment , it's mildly OK , but nothing spectacular . for me , God's Gun is a
i didn't think this this sequel to The Man From Snowy River was that great . i thought it was too drawn out . plus , it was fairly heavy on the romance angle , which isn't my cup of tea . Tom Burlinson returns as Jim Craig , the title character in the first movie . Sigrid Thornton returns as his love interest . Kurt Douglas played her father , Harrison , in the original . Brian Denehey plays that role in this movie . this is not the worst movie i have seen , but it wasn't as good as i'd hoped . still , just like the first one , there is some very beautiful scenery , and a great musical score . Burlinson and Thornton are both decent actors , at least in this movie . Dennehy is also good . for me , Return to Snowy River is a
this original version of Prom Night is much different than the remake . for one thing , there is actually some suspense in this one . plus the musical score is quite eerie and effective for awhile . at times though , the score just keeps going and going where it gets to be annoying . of course the score always telegraphs the impending death scene . there are also some scenes with the killer chasing the victim , or victims , around , which come off as clumsy and comical . and this being an 80's horror movie , it has that staple of most 80's horror movies - - bad acting . but it also has bad music ( not including the score ) and bad dance moves . however , the movie is mildly entertaining , and it certainly has a dark enough tone . i don't consider a classic , though . for me , Prom Night is a
this is another another episode of The New Scooby-Doo movies . Once again the gang meet up with the Harlem Globe trotters and end up in the middle of a mystery . this episode is not too bad . it's actually got some pretty funny moments . it's paced pretty good too . it moves at a good clip . the story wasn't too bad either . . the Globe Trotters had quite a few funny lines and i don't even recall hearing the annoying laugh track this time around . things do get pretty repetitive though . this isn't the worst Scooby Doo adventure I've seen , but it's not the best either . still , it is entertaining and even funny at times . it's probably average at best . for me , The Mystery of Haunted island is a
this is the prequel ( and less famous cousin ) to The Bells of St . Mary's . it's basically about a priest named Father O'Malley who is assigned to a new Parish which is struggling financially , in hopes to turn its fortunes around . of course , there's more to that to the story , but i won't give it away here . Bing Crosby plays O'Malley , who is filled with the eternal hope and optimism of youth , and has a way with people . and he also sings . Crosby's voice is smooth as silk to begin with , and once he sings , it's pretty hard not to be affected . some of the songs tend to be bit long and a bit maudlin , and things move slowly at times . overall , though this a pleasant 125 minute diversion . and i found it very touching . i even teared up a couple times . for me , Going my Way is a
i guess this movie is OK . it's about a woman who meets the man of her dreams . they get married and everything seems perfect . four years later , things appear great . then , things start to unravel , slowly at first . hubby becomes manipulative and controlling , and then verbally and physically abusive . wife escapes his clutches , moves to new town , changes identity , new job , etc . then hubby tracks wife , swears revenge for her leaving , vows to kill her . that's the gist of the story , although there's a bit more going on , but i won't give it away . Julia Roberts plays the wife and Patrick Bergin plays the psycho husband . both are good in their respective roles , but the movie itself is lacking any real intensity and even though the wife is in danger , i just never really felt her jeopardy . in fact i found the movie boring and slow . i think that had more to do with the writing than the acting . this movie is standard for this genre , not that great , but there are worse . the performances of the two leads are enough to elevate the movie . so instead of , i give " Sleeping with the Enemy "
as made for TV movies go , this one is not bad . not great , but not bad . to be honest , i don't mind most TV movies . true , they are very predictable , and most so called plot twists can be figured out by a 3 year old . having said , they can be entertaining . that pretty much describes " Thrill of the Kill " . here's the basic plot outline . Kelly Holden ( Shiri Appleby-Swim Fan , The TV series Roswel ) can not let go of her sister's murder , which happened a year ago . She believes she can find out who the killer is . She enlists the help of murder mystery novelist Graydon Jennings ( Chris Pottter-Kung Fu : the Legend Continues , Silk Stalkings ( 10 episodes ) who happens to be in her town for a book signing . Because all of his novels are written from the point of view of the killer , she believes he may have some valuable insight . Naturally , there are more than a few suspects , but it is pretty easy to figure out the killer , way before the movie ends . Both Appleby and Potter are decent actors who do well with what they have . the movie is an entertaining 88 min diversion , which is probably all it sets out to be . Many people are critical of TV movies , sometimes referred to as the " movie of the weak " . they are criticized for having basically the same plot , just different actors . this is true , but it is also true of much of the crap that is churned out for the big screen by Hollywood . there is certainly very little creativity there . the only difference may be bigger budget , big name actors and sometimes special effects , all designed to woo the viewer into thinking they're seeing something new . in other words , disguising the fact that they are watching the same old thing each time ( yes , there are exceptions ) . add to that the fact that these big screen movies are actually trying to be creative or at least think they are . now , with the so called movies of the week , the filmmakers and actors know what their product is and don't try to make it anything more than it is . so , the above criticisms of TV movies are not valid . generally a movie of this sort deserves a unless it is woefully worse than any other movie . since Thrill of the Kill is no worse than other TV movie and as good as some of the drivel that the big Machine spews out , this one also gets a
i didn't mind this movie . it's pretty lite fare , but enjoyable . the movie is based on a novel by Clive Cussler and centers around thrill seeking adventurer Dirk Pitt ( Matthew McConaughey ) and his travelling companion ( Steve Zahn ) . the duo find themselves in over their heads and trying to avoid being killed by enemies they have made on their latest treasure hunt . they end up teaming with a humanitarian aid doctor , played by Penelope cruse . McConaughey and Zahn make a good pair , and work well off each other . they each have some funny lines . cruse was OK , though i am not a fan of hers . the movie is fast paced and has some thrills . it's funny at times , but it is also unrealistic to the point of absurdity . my eyes got a workout from rolling back in my head so much . also the movie feels incomplete somehow . there was great potential and i think they could have made a great movie . nevertheless , for mindless entertainment , you could do worse . for me , Sahara is a
this movie is about a psychopath who is executed by electric chair , but comes back to life . he leaves a trail of bodies in the hospital where he has been brought . this movie has a lot of kills , almost all of which are very bloody . but i didn't think any of the kills were any different than in most movies of this genre . the gut who played the psychopath was kinda creepy . the movie has some eerie moments , but nothing out of the ordinary , that i could see . if you are a gore hound , this might your movie . the movie is entertaining , but not really memorable . for me it doesn't have anything that stand out from other blood soaked flicks . the acting is okay for the genre . i give " Heart Stopper " based on all the blood .
considering the hype for this movie , i thought it would be better than it was . it wasn't a horrible movie , but i don't think it lived up to the Superman name . Brandon Routh as Superman , looked a lot like Christopher Reeve , maybe a bit too much . his mannerisms were also too much like Reeve , as if he were trying to emulate him , when instead he should have been trying to put his own stamp on the character . Kate Bosworth was okay as Loise lane , but Kevin Spacey was an inspired choice as Lex Luthor . i also liked Frank Langella as Perry White . however , i could have done without James Marsden as Richard White , especially since his role was so small it was pointless . the other problem i had with the movie is that it tended to lag at times , causing my attention to wander . this movie just didn't have the impact of a movie like spider man or even any of the x-men films . it just didn't have as much substance as it could have . if you've yet to see this movie , keep your expectations low and maybe you won't be overly disappointed .
i finally had a chance to see this movie . it is hailed by many as a classic . while i can kind of see how that might be the case , i feel a bit letdown . when this movie came out , it was brutally shocking and innovative , but not so much today . it isn't a poorly made movie . in fact it is quite well made . the fact that it was filmed in black and white did add to the dark atmosphere and creepiness . the music worked well with the film , for the most . however at times it seemed to over power the film . the acting is pretty good . Duane Jones plays the character of Ben , the no nonsense , take charge character in the film . his portrayal is very effective and authentic . the movie also had a documentary fell to it , which elevated it . there are some weak points in the film . one is that the " Zombies " move so slow , and by slow i mean molasses uphill in January " slow " . the other is the apparent cause of the zombie-ism . it just seemed too far-fetched . despite all this , the film does move well and is worth watching , which is more than i can say for the horrible 1990 version . i'd have to say a strong for this one
To have and to Hold has shades of Fatal Attraction , but is nowhere near as intense or complex . Justine Bateman Plays Meg , a woman who believes her husband , Tom ( Sebastian Spence ) is having an affair . he was , but has since broken it off . of course , the woman he was seeing cannot let it go , and keeps phoning or showing up where he is . this woman is not nearly as psycho as the psycho in Fatal Attraction . However her actions do lead to violence and murder . there are a few plot twists in this movie , but nothing that can't be figured out . Bateman and Spence are fine in the lead roles . this movie is a bit more morbid and depressing at times than many TV movies , but it still passes the time , and is not boring . To Have and to Hold gets
this is not what you would term a horror movie . it's basically a black comedy , and i found it pretty effective as such . it doesn't take itself seriously at all , which is why i think it works . it's outrageously over the top at times , and there are some very good lines in this movie . the acting is not what i would call great , but it works with the film . as long as you approach it being tongue in cheek , and enjoy the campiness you should have fun with it . if you take it seriously , you probably won't like it . i enjoyed this movie more than the two previous installments , but that's just me . my vote for Prom Night III : The Last Kiss is a
while i don't think this is a great movie , i do think it is better than the the last one , Jack Ryan film , Patriot Games . in Clear and Present Danger , Harrison Ford once again plays Jack Ryan . this one has a bit more intrigue than Patriot Games , and i also like the story more . it is more developed . to me , this one has a bigger scope . there is bit more urgency as well . having said that , i still think this movie is boring and slow , more often than not . Like Patriot Games , it's certainly not awful , but again i think maybe something got lost in the translation from Tom Clancy's novel . it's also almost 2 and a half hours long , and i think they could have trimmed some of it . still , it has it's good moments . for me , Clear and Present Danger is a
to me , this sequel is way better than the original . it's much funnier , though it is still as raunchy , maybe more so . it could be offensive to some . spoiler aheadthere's even a scene of bestiality , as much as they could show about 70 minutes in , lasting about 7 minutesend of spoiler . that was a bit too disturbing for me , and i don't think there was really any call for it . but besides that unfortunate aspect , the movie is pretty good . there's actually a real story here this time , and i really cared about the characters . i thought the ending was good too . not your conventional ending . then again , this isn't a conventional movie . normally , this movie would be a 7 , but i have to knock a point off for the bestiality scone . therefore , Clerks II is a
is The Rage : Carrie 2 a worth successor to the original Carrie ? hard to say . it has its moments , or rather " moment " . the problem is , that moment does not occur until the end of the movie . much of the movie comes off looking like your typical teen movie . by that i mean it has all the stereotypical caricatures you expect in a teen movie . which is great , unless you are expecting something more . the acting is okay , given the dialogue . however , there is no suspense in this film and the music does not compare to the original . the plot follows the original Carrie somewhat , although there is less of a relationship between the awkward outcast and her mother , in fact almost none . there is however , one little twist to the story , which i liked . the outcast this time is named Rachel . however unlike Carrie , Rachel is not some much taunted by her classmates as she is shunned , as if she doesn't exist . it is not until later in the film , through a series of events , which i won't go into here , that Rachel becomes the target of cruel abuse and ridicule . what Rachel goes through is pretty mean , but is it comparable what Carrie endured ? the answer is no . in the original it is strongly implied that Carrie was a victim through much of her life . Rachel , on the other hand is largely simply ignored for much of her life . for a brief moment in time , Rachel becomes a victim of a cruel prank . Rachel of course also has the ability to move objects with her mind . she exacts revenge on her tormentors in a spectacular fashion . there are some gruesome scenes here , lowering this film to a slasher flick towards the end . however , the ending of this movie is not anti climatic , as was the original . instead it almost suffers from overkill . but is it as good as or comparable to the original ? almost . out of 10
i thought this was a pretty good movie . it wasn't insanely funny or anything , but it had some amusing moments and was certainly entertaining . what i liked about this movie is is the fact that , although it's an underdog story , it is not preachy and schmaltzy . there's very little rah , rah , rah , everyone's a winner clap trap . it just goes to show that a movie can tell an under dog story , without hitting you over the head with it , and making you nauseous . i also liked the unique mix of characters in the movie , with all their quirks . they are really an oddball assortment . i'm not really a baseball fan , but i liked the movie just as a movie , and not so much as a baseball movie . for me , Major League " is a
i remember watching this movie when it first came out , and thinking it was a scream . but , after just watching it again today , i have a different opinion . sure , there are a few very funny parts , but for the most part , i just found the movie silly . it definitely is not for anyone easily offended , that's for sure . this certainly isn't the worst movie i've ever seen , and as a spoof , it's OK . it certainly does lampoon a few horror movie and even some non horror movie , with varying degrees of success . ironically it almost works better as a horror movie than a spoof , in my mind . it is certainly watchable and not boring . it just isn't as funny as i originally remembered it . for me , Scary movie is about a
this is a pretty good western . but it's not just a western . it's also a mystery . actually it's probably more of a mystery than a western . it's short clocking in at around 65 minutes , but it's a pretty good movie . it stars Randolph Scott , Anne Sheridan , Kathleen Burke , Florence Roberts , Howard Wilson , Charles ' Chic ' Sale , Mrs . Leslie carter , George F . Marion , among others . i thought it was well done . it had a nice atmosphere , and wasn't wholly predictable . the acting was good by all concerned , and the story was interesting , but similar to another western i remember seeing . though i can't recall weather this movie came out before that one or not . by similar story , i don't mean the general outline and formula that most westerns follow . i mean that some of the story details and specifics are similar . regardless , i liked it . for me , The Fighting Westerner is a
it took me awhile to get around to watching this movie , which is considered a classic by a lot of people . it was a bit too sedate for my tastes , although it wasn't a horrible movie and it probably bears viewing at least twice . it's the first of three movies in the Man With no Name trilogy , directed by Sergio Leone and starring Clint Eastwood as the man with no name . he's also the quiet man with no name . the character doesn't say much unless he needs to . he's brooding and mysterious , and doesn't give too much away about himself . he's also calm and cool , at least on the outside , showing little or no outward emotion . Eastwood is the perfect actor to play this character . though he was in the series Rawhide , it was apparently this series that rocketed him to fame . although i thought there were some slow moment here and there , i didn't hate the film , and i can understand why it has the following and reputation it does . for me , Fistful of Dollars is a
Bad Dreams is about a girl named Cynthia ( Jeniffer Rubin ) who survives a mass suicide , but is in a coma for 13 years . when she awakes from the coma , she begins seeing the leader of the cult . it seems he is still waiting for her to join him on the other side , and he will do whatever it takes to get her to join him . Richard Lynch plays the cult leader . i won't tell you exactly what happens but what results is a lot of blood and guts . if you're squeamish , you might want to avoid this one . if you've seen a lot of horror movies , then there will probably be nothing new to you in the gore dept . by the way , Susan Ruttan ( L . A . ) plays one of the patients in the hospital . anyway , i thought the movie was decent enough . it wasn't fast paced or anything , but it wasn't really slow either . it was somewhere in between . if you're into horror and you want pass a couple hours , you could do worse , especially if you catch it on premium cable , like i did .
this is an odd movie , to say the least . it's billed as a horror movie , though there isn't really much horror . there is a bit of suspense and tension . and the disgust factor is pretty high here . this movie isn't for the faint of heart or weak of stomach . i guess you'd call it a black comedy and i like the setting , even though it isn't wholly original . i also like the mix of odd ball characters . the music was very appropriate for the movie , for the most part , although i thought it was too loud at times and overpowered the movie . there are also some funny bits , many of which are intentional . however , there are also some unintentional funny moments . there are also times when the film degenerates into complete and utter chaos , with characters running around in what seems like an aimless fashion . the acting was decent for the most part , but at times there was some overacting going on . when all is said and done , i think Mortuary deserves a
this fantasy adventure movie is not as good as i'd hoped , but it's still pretty good . it does plod along though for the fist 60 minutes or so , then it pickup for about 20 minutes . from there it slows down , but not as slow as it had been previously . the last 30 minutes are quite good , in my opinion . things really pick up here , with some great action and excitement . this movie has some original ideas in it , but it also borrows from other movies . there are some pretty big name actors in this one . and all put in terrific performances . Robert De Niro in particular , gets to have the most fun with his role , i think . he really lets loose . anyway , this movie definitely has its good moments . for me , Stardust is a
hmmm . once again i'm amazed . i can't understand the low rating ( just over ) this movie has . i thought there were a few very funny moments in the movie , much more than " Over the Hedge " which has a rating of over . this movie is also touching in parts and i thought they achieved a good balance of humour and drama . while i wouldn't say it is hysterically funny , there are , like i said , some very funny moments . this movie is also a fun movie to watch . it is exciting , with plenty of action . this to me is a much better family movie than its rating reflects . id have to say it tries very hard to achieve its goal of being an animated comedy ( and succeeds often enough ) rather than just an animated film . " Barnyard " gets a .
Outland takes place on one of Jupiter's moons . it stars Sean Connery as the newly arrived marshal for a remote mining colony located on the moon . he soon discovers some criminal activity and realizes that he may be in over his head as he tries to bring the criminals to justice . that's all i'll say regarding the plot , because i don't want to give anything away . the movie reminded me of Alien in its style , and in its bleak tone . i don't think it was as good as Alien though . i thought Connery was good as the marshal . i also liked Francis Sternhagen as the Dr . for the colony . i thought her character was interesting . James B . Sikking , John Ratzenberger and Peter Boyle , also appear in the movie , but their characters are peripheral at best , and undeveloped . as for the movie itself , it's not fast paced at all , but it is interesting and intriguing , just enough to see it through to the end .
after watching this version of Superman II , i can honestly say , i didn't think it was any better or worse than the Richard Lester version . there are a few differences , which show that Donner had a bit different vision for the film , but overall , the film are pretty similar . you may notice a continuity problem because , Superman and Superman II , were originally filmed as one movie by Donner . but after Donner was let go , they decided to make tow separate film and retool the second one . either way , in my opinion , neither of the films are close to capturing the magic of the first one . still , it was nice to see the movie how Donner had originally intended it . for me , Superman II : The Richard Donner cut is a
this movie is basically about a man who abandons a life of comfort and gives away all his money to go live in the wild . along his journey , he meets some interesting characters and learns things about himself . it's another " based on a true story " movie . i liked some things about this movie , and didn't like some other things . i liked all the interesting people he met . i like the fact that he had the courage to live like he wanted to , not how society dictated . you might think he was crazy to live like he did , or you might think he embraced life . he did do some dangerous things , that's for sure . i liked the folk music soundtrack , and i thought he voice over narration from Jena Malone ( as his sister ) very effective . i didn't like the preachiness of the movie . and i also thought at 148 minutes it was too long . it's not what i would call fast paced . i also found it a bit depressing at times . generally though i found it interesting enough . for me , Into The Wild is a
the rating for this movie on this site is , which i would have to agree with . to me , this is a better movie than the first one . it's got much more action , it's more exciting , and faster paced . it's also funnier . the characters are better defined , and the storyline is better . i also think this movie had a better villain than the first . this time , along with Danny Glover and Mel Gibson , Joe Pesci is along for the ride , and provides some laughs . also , there is more banter between Gibson and Glover . the movie is just more compelling all around . the first one was a bit slow at times , but not so with this one . for me , Lethal Weapon 2 is a
this is a pretty decent cg animated movie from Nickelodeon . it's funny at times , has quite a bit of action and a mostly interest sustaining story . it's obviously geared towards kids , but adults will laugh at some of the jokes . it does have a few slow moments , but mostly it's pretty well paced . some of the character are a bit creepy looking , especially the teacher . but there's nothing that could be considered offensive . it's also very colourful , so the kids will love that aspect of it . most adults will be able watch it without falling asleep , but if not , the kids are perfectly safe watching it on their own . for me , Jimmy Neutron : Boy Genius is a
in my mind , this sequel to the original " When a Stranger Calls " ( 1979 ) is actually a better movie . i thought the story was better , with a better , much creepier and more intelligent villain . Carol Kane reprises her role from the original , and i actually thought she did a convincing job in this 1 . i think that's because she plays an adult , and not a teenager . there are some interesting twists and the villain has more dimension . the overall look and feel of the film is much eerier than the original . to me , there is more of a sense of danger and distress . i have to admit the hairs on my neck stood up more than a few times . there is 1 real nail biting scene which kept me on the edge of my seat . for other recommendations , check out the review i did on the original . as for " When a Stranger Calls Back " , i give it
i thought is movie was pretty decent . in fact , better than i had expected . i don't think i'm giving anything away here by saying that the title refers to a major event that is seen from the point of view of several characters in the film . that's what sets this movie apart from others in the genre of action / thriller / drama . the one complaint i do have is that i felt the acting was mostly a bit flat , especially from Dennis Quaid , and to a lesser extent , Matthew Fox . that's unfortunate , since they are the two main characters . other than that , though , there are some pretty exciting moments , and a twist ending i didn't see coming . for me , Vantage point is a solid
i really enjoyed this movie . i thought the acting was very good , and the storyline well developed . i'm sure the movie was inspired by past literary works and movies , but i think it also inspired other movies and novels . so , obviously it's not wholly original , but it does have its own original elements to it . it's a cautionary tale for sure and it's just as relevant today , probably more so . the only negative thing i can say about it is that it can be a bit slow , and the first half has an almost clinical feel to it . by this i mean at times it's a bit dry and almost too scientific . overall , though i think it was a well done movie . i give Embryo a
surprisingly , very surprisingly , i didn't mind this movie at all . it was certainly head and shoulders above number two , and quite a bit better than the first one . this one had a somewhat developed storyline , with pretty decent acting . the villainous is stronger and much more developed in this one . she is certainly more sinister , if that's the right word . but i also noticed some humour in this one , which the first two didn't have , in my recollection . there is of course , no lack of nudity in this one , but i think it served a bit more of a purpose . it still at times seemed like a soft core porn flick , but at least it had other dimensions to it . and as an added bonus , ( especially if you're a guy ) it had Jamie Pressly in a prominent role . anyway , for an entertaining 90 minutes , i think you could do a lot worse than the third installment in the Poison Ivy series . my vote for Poison Ivy : The New Seduction :
This film is a fairly decent suspense / horror flick . it certainly has positive points and some negative . let's start with the positive . first off the premise in inventive , zombie scarecrow in a corn field , killing people ( in this case a small group of soldiers who have stolen over 3 million dollars from their military base and taken refuge in a house surrounded by a cornfield . ) the music was excellent for this film , really upping the ante for eeriness . the prosthetics and makeup effects were surprisingly well done . the death scenes were realistic and there was some gore , but not overdone . the closeup shots of the scarecrows breathing in and out while on their crosses added a bit to the creepiness factor . and i liked the end sequence , again closeup shots of the scarecrows , again ganging on their crosses . now for the negatives . one , the acting wasn't entirely convincing , though I've seen worse . the film was fairly effective for the first 2 acts , but it does descend into camp territory in the last act . this sort of diminishes its effect somewhat . and the other problem with the movie ( and this really bothered me ) was the stupidity of the dog in one of the latter scenes . the girl is flying the plane away , and she gets attacked by a scarecrow and the dog just sit there watching it happen . talk about stupid . anyway , when you add it all up , id have to say the positive aspects slightly outweighed the negatives . the film was entertaining and had some tense moments . as a result , this film gets a
out of all four movies in the series , this is probably the loudest and most chaotic , but that doesn't mean it was a bad movie . i think the storyline was a bit thin and not really all that original , but just like in part three , the action , and the chemistry of the stars makes up for that . and this movie also has more laughs than the previous installments , many courtesy of both Joe Pesci and Chris Rock . Rene Russo is back , along with Mel and Danny . Jet Li joins the proceedings in this one , and brings some spectacular fight scenes courtesy of his martial arts skill . i don't know if this is the best of the series , but i thought it was as good as number three , which i really liked . for me , Lethal Weapon 4 is a
i thought this was the best of the Resident Evil franchise . the action was more intense , the fight scenes were away more spectacular and i also really liked the music . obviously , it's not original , bearing many similarities to the first two . and it does borrow heavily from other movies . but still , it is an entertaining romp . i think it is much more gory and graphic than the first two . this is just an observation . it didn't really bother me . this is the first resident Evil movie i have seen on the big screen , and if you have a chance to watch it in the theatre , i think it's worth it . it won't win any awards for deep characterizations or storyline , but it really isn't that kind of movie . it knows what it is and doesn't try to be anything else . i think it does what it sets out to do , and that is to entertain . for me , Resident Evil : Extinction is a definite
good job . that's how i would describe this animated Scooby-Doo adventure . this is so far the best of the animated Scooby movies i have seen . i liked the story . i thought it had some depth to to it . the movie is also well paced . it doesn't get boring for a minute . it also has an interesting group of characters ( besides Scooby and Shaggy and the gang , of course ) plus , the movie was a real blast . i has a lot of fun watching it . i also liked the great Scottish music . it was very catchy and infectious . naturally , we know that Scooby and the Gamg will solve the mystery , but it's still fun getting to that point . the animation is also pretty good for this movie . i would love it if they did a 3D animation Scooby adventure , but we'll just have to wait and see . for me , Scooby-Doo and the Loch Ness monster is a
as far as i know , this movie represents a big departure for Jean Claude Van Damme . to me , it marks the first time he has put in a good acting performance . this movie is more of a drama than anything . there are some fight scenes , but they are much more realistic and gritty than his past films , at the one i have seen . the movie also contains some very brutal moments , some implied , others shown . Van Damme's character is shown as very human in this movie . there was also a point to the film , something sorely lacking in previous efforts . it was entertaining , but also very hard to watch at times . if you are expecting over the top fights and stunts , you won't find it here . instead you will find what seems to me to be a fairly accurate portrayal of life in prison , and the horrors that occur there . for me " In Hell " is a strong based largely on its realism and Van Damme ' heart wrenching performance .
sure , it may seem cheesy by todays ' standards , but it's good clean fun for the whole family , for the most part . really young children might be a bit scared from a few scenes , but other than that , it's fun for everyone . i chuckled quite a bit t some of the comedic bits , and i also thought the story was interesting . it's not just about the Shaggy Dog . there's another story in there as well . some of the facial expressions and reactions may seem a bit hokey and overdone , but so what . that was how they acted back then . if i recall correctly , this was the first motion picture made by Disney . i wouldn't say the comedic parts are laugh out loud , rolling in the aisles funny . , but they were certainly amusing . you could do a lot worse with 102 minutes or so . my vote for The Shaggy Dog :
okay , the basic plot of the movie . guy ( Luke Wilson ) asks girl ( Uma Thurman ) on date . things go not too bad at first . guy discover girl has a secret super identity . also discovers she is crazy , neurotic , jealous , possessive-just plain nuts . so , guy breaks up with girl . she get angry and decides to get even . and since she has super powers , she can really get even . i'll leave it at that . i had higher hopes for this one . it isn't bad Per Se-it just had so much potential . it is billed as a comedy / romance / sc / fi . okay , there is some comedy , in fact a few very funny scenes , but most of the comedy consisted of the light chuckle , sort of amusing variety . now , romance . there is some romance involved and it is a bit schmaltzy at times , almost too much . there is a little bit of sc / fi , but that is the least developed area in the movie . there are some pretty decent special effects . the acting is good . Luke Wilson gives off a sort of " aw shucks " , ma'am " kind of vibe , which is amusing . Uma Thurman is credible in the lead role , and looks hot as always . Anna Farris is cast in a slightly more serious , less ditsy role than usual , and pulls it off nicely . there is no doubt she can act . she has been in some dramatic movies and fared well . but the stand out in this movie is Wanda Sykes , who provides most of the very funny scenes . she has a small , but brilliant role . i hope we see a lot more of her in the future . i should also mention the music . not good for this movie . we are treated to lots of sweeping majestic , almost inspirational sort of arias ( let's raise everyone's spirits ) . it is really just too much . and one last little observation . much of the sc / fi aspect is a rip-off of superman . this probably an homage , more than anything . not really a criticism , just an observation . but still worth mentioning . anyway , to sum up , not a bad movie , definitely watchable , just don't expect to be laughing hysterically all that frequently . this movie gets a strong
Rocky 4 is a better movie than Rocky 3 . there is more depth to the story . The villain is a mush greater threat and there is more at stake . the is a second antagonist which Rocky must fight , but you will have to watch the movie to understand . the setting for the movie is also a positive . it is set in Russia in 1985 . the movie also has a moral which the three previous ones do not . this movie focuses much more om the training for the final fight than actual fight itself . the fight scenes are well done , but there is less realism . by that , i mean no man could tale any where near the punishment endured by Rocky and remain alive for the duration . other than that , the movie is well done . though not as good as Rocky2 , it is a close second to the original . A fine addition to the series .
this is two stories in one . one is The Hulk against Wolverine , and the other is Hulk vs Thor . the first disc is Hulk vs Wolverine . i thought his feature was OK , but not great . the animation is great and there are some great characters besides the Hulk and Wolverine . we also have lady DeathStrike , which i love , as well Omega Red , Deadpool , and Sabretooth , all great villains . the action sequences are decent enough , though not stellar . i thought the story lacked a bit , and i was hoping for something more epic . as for Hulk vs Thor , to me , this is the better of the two . i liked the story better , the characters are more defined , the battle scenes between Hulk and Thor are epic , and the animation is outstanding . based on this feature alone , i think it's worth getting the package . right now , both stories are only sold together . down the road , they may be sold separately , in which case i would say , Hulk vs Thor is well worth the purchase , while i'd be a bit iffy on Hulk Vs Wolverine . right now , i would say , the package is worth buying for vs Thor alone .
even thought this movie was made in 1938 , the picture and sound quality are excellent . there are also subtitles , which was good . the movie itself is funny , fast paced , and well acted . Bonita Granville plays the title character , and brings some sassiness to the role . i also liked the supporting cast , particularly her Sidekick Ted . i thought he had some funny lines . the chief of police was also a funny character . i thought the writing was good and i liked the story . even though the movie is 66 minutes , it didn't feel rushed or incomplete . it was well paced . this is the first of four movies in which Bonita Granville portrays Nancy , and if this any indication , i can't wait to watch the other three . for me Nancy Drew - - Detective is an
but it's also thought provoking . it makes you wonder what you might do if a similar scenario were to occur . how would you react ? would you resist , or would you quietly accept your fate . i liked the movie , myself . i'm not usually a fan of Nicole Kidman , but i liked her in this movie . i wish Daniel Craig had had a more significant role . he really didn't have a lot to do . there are a lot of intense moments in the film , lots of action . in fact , the film focuses more on action than the psychology of the events taking place . had it been the other way around , this would have been a very different movie . i still liked it . i'm not sure why it did so poorly at the box office . it's very relevant in today's climate . for me , The Invasion is an
you know , i really liked this movie . i thought it was suspenseful and exciting , with some twists i didn't see coming . i also didn't see the ending coming either , which , for me , is a good thing in a movie . there are a number of suspects in the movie and it really keeps you guessing . i also like Kim Delaney a lot . i think she's a pretty decent actress . i'm still not sure why she was let go from CSI : Miami , but that's another story . she plays the lead in this movie , a thriller writer named Kate Saunders . Kate begins receiving these strange e-mails from someone calling himself Thrillkill . Thrillkill has apparently been inspired by a villain in one of Kate's novels . his messages even claim he was created by Kate . Thrillkil begins killing women in exactly the same way as the villain in Kate's novels . i won't say anymore about the plot . lets just say what follows is suspense and excitement , and some twists . i liked " Closer and Closer " quite a bit . for me , it's a strong
this is one stylish take on the Dracula mythos . it certainly looks great . Gerard Butler is great as the tile character . this next sentence could be deemed a major spoileras far as i know this is the first movie about Dracula which puts a biblical slant on his origin . if you're Christian , especially Catholic , there's a lot in this movie that might offend you . in fact , the movie pretty much bashes ( subtly , if that's possible ) all things Catholic . for myself , i wasn't offended by it at all . i liked the new slant on an old idea . this is quite a dark movie , but it does have splashes of macabre humour throughout . the music was also great . all in all , it's lots of fun
this movie basically about a moral and ethical dilemma facing a popular news anchor . martin Sheen Plays news anchor Frank Kenley , newly hired by a news station flailing in low ratings . Kenley is brought on board because he is respected int thee field , and it is hoped he will bring the stations ratings up . things go well , until Frank is faced with moral dilemma , whether to go public with some information that may damage a certain individual'd reputation , or withhold the information , and not letting the public know the story , possibly endangering others in the process . Kendry is faced with 2 obstacles - rookie reporter / co anchor Christine Arnold ( Sheree . J . Wilson ) whose enthusiasm and inexperience only make things worse-and his boss Eric Ross ( Peter Riegert ) who has no moral centre and will do whatever it takes to increase ratings , no matter who gets hurt . this is a made for TV movie ( 1985 ) but it is pretty well done . good acting all around and an important issue : morals and ethics . this can be applied to life in general , not just in the news room and you can't help but think about it after the credits roll . i've said this before , i don't normally go in for issue and moral type movies , but this movie is also entertaining , and well done .
this movie is similar plot wise to two other films in the genre . very similar to 2003's Darkness Falls and to a lesser extent 2002's They . however , i felt that Boogeyman had a well developed back story , which the other are lacking , in my opinion . i also felt there was more depth to this story and a dark sinister feel . there are seems to me to be a subplot which suggests there's more going on . but i could be out to lunch here . it wouldn't be the first time . i found the creature was much more evil by what's implied , more than what's shown . i sorta wish they had developed this area even a bit more . but at least they give subtle clues to the monster's origin . as for the ending , i thought it was decent enough for the genre , although nothing is really resolved . but i thought there were other reasons this film works . the first is the casting of Emily Deschanel , who plays the role of Kate , former childhood friend of Tim , the lead character . i felt she really had some screen presence presence , plus some good emotional depth and range . i realize this genre of film isn't the best indicator of acting ability , but i noticed it anyway another reason i thought this movie stood out is the performance of young Skye McCole Bartusiak . i will refer to her simply as Skye from hereon due to her long name . Skye plays a pivotal role in the film , which i will not give away . the astonishing thing about her performance is her young age . i thought she had great depth and range for someone so young . n my mind , the film is elevated by these two performances . as an aside , Emily can now be seen in the forensic themed TV show Bones as one of the the lead characters . any way back to the movie . my overall overall impression is that the movie is better than average for its genre-very spooky at times to-be sure . and even without some great acting , i think this is still an effective movie . anyway , for me , this movie is much more than a standard horror film . but that's just me . i think Boogeyman is a
this sequel to " The Fly " isn't all that bad , all things considered . it is however , more disgusting , believe it or not . a lot of the really gross stuff was overkill and gratuitous , i thought . in the original , the gross scenes were sort of necessary to the story . not so in this movie . also found the movie to have some slow spots at times , which in my mind , took away from the flow of the story . as well , this movie had a slicker more polished look than the original , which i think kind of takes away from the effect . the acting is not bad , and i liked the direction the story went . i really liked the ironic ending . i won't give it away , but let's just say that one S . OB really got what he deserved . i actually almost cheered at this . if you watch the movie , you'll know why . a word of caution : this movie is definitely not for the squeamish . for me , overall , i'd say i liked this movie as well as the first one . therefore , i give " The Fly 2 "
" jeepers creepers 2 " is what jeepers creepers 1 should have been-a good movie . there are plenty of hair raising moments in the movie , and enough action to keep the movie going . the acting was good , for the most part and the look of the " creeper " was well done . jonathan breck was great as the title character . ( the creeper ) this a case where the sequel far surpasses the original in all respects . whereas the original was lame i . e boring and stupid , with no scares to mention , number two was neither lame , boring or stupid , but a genuinely creepy movie . the original also tended to be downright disgusting at times , where this movie relied more on suspense rather than some lame attempt at shock value . if a movie is well made , there is no need to gross out the audience . also , this movie will stick with you long after you watch it and for all the right reasons . the only thing that really lingers from the original is how sick it was-and not in a good way . as well , you can easily watch this movie without first subjecting yourself to the original . it stands on it own as an original movie . rent ( or buy ) this movie , you won't regret it . avoid the original . it should never have been made , and the fact that it was is the only scary thing about it
this movie is a different beast than the first one . oh , sure , it has some of the same characters and is also a spy movie / secret agent film . whereas the first one was so convoluted , you needed a map to follow it , this sequel doesn't suffer from that same deficiency . it's much easier to follow alright . the reason being that they sacrificed story and character for nothing but wall to wall action . now , i'm all for action , but not at the expense of everything else . when this was over , i felt liked i'd been in the Iron Man Triathlon . not only that , but there is next to now believability in this , at least in the stunt dept . the could have made the costumer's job a lot easier by having the characters all wear a red cape and blue underwear . at least there would have been some believability . also , it seems everything in the movie blew up somewhere along the way . i think the script blew up as well . certainly this movie was more exciting than the first one , but there be some balance . i'll give " Mission Impossible 2 a
as a made for TV movie , this is actually quite good . the acting , especially by Kristy Swanson is above par . she makes a credible protagonist . the movie has plenty of suspense and is less predictable than most . the story concerns a woman ( Swanson ) who , despite years of therapy is still haunted with nightmares / memories of a traumatic childhood event . it turns out there is a mystery behind it all , and Alexandra must discover the truth before it's too late . there are a few suspects who could be the villain ( along with a few scenarios ) and , though i did eventually figure out the mystery and the villain , it took longer than i thought it would . even so , i wasn't completely sure until almost the end . to me , this is a sign of a good mystery movie . i'd recommend this movie to anyone , who wants a movie with some intelligence behind it . i give " Forbidden Secrets " a strong
while i don't like this entry of the Law and Order franchise as much as Special Victims Unit , i still think it is pretty good . i like it more than the original series . this entry is much more thought provoking than the other two . it's more into the psychology of things , which can be very compelling sometimes . we sort of gain some insight into criminal behaviour , at least from the perspective of the show . the characters are fairly interesting , but not as interesting as SVU . i haven't seen the show for awhile , but from what i have seen , the show doesn't delve too deeply in to the lives of the main characters . it sort of lends and air of mystery to things . when all is said and one , Law and Order : CI is a fairly well written , interesting show . for me , it's an
this is quite an entertaining movie . it has lots of elements that work , including action , excitement , danger , fun , and even some comedy . combine that with an intelligent script and good acting , and you have all the ingredients needed for a successful movie . the chemistry between the actors , especially , but not limited to , Kevin Bacon and Fred Ward is one reason this movie works . Bacon and Ward provide much of the laughs . Having Micheal Gross and Reba MaCyntire along for the ride is a masterstroke , as well . the sense of urgency and danger also help . really , there's a lot to like about this picture . for me , Tremors is a strong
i enjoyed this movie quite a bit . the 1st half or so is very dramatic , while the 2nd half is action packed and suspenseful . there are a lot chase scenes and things blowing up . the action is frenetic . i also liked the subject matter dealing with clones and the whole ethical / moral ramifications aspect . i thought it was very thought provoking . plus , it was fun . movies like this don't win too many awards , but that is not the intent . and , yes , there may be elements of implausibility , but if you go to the movies to escape the doldrums and routine of ordinary life , then whether something is realistic or not , is not likely a huge concern for you . i know for me , it's not . of course there are always exception . sometimes believability is thrown completely out the window over and over and over , to the point where almost nothing about the movie has any degree of realism . that bothers me . as for " The Island " i think it contained enough realism for this kind of movie . i liked it , and though i wouldn't say it's a masterpiece , i'd give it a strong
i thought his was a great movie all around . Alec Baldwin was a great choice to play the The Shadow / Lamont Cranston . Penelope Ann Miller is also good as his sometimes sidekick Margo Lane . and Peter Boyle is hilarious as Moe Shrevnitz , the Shadow's personal taxi driver . the movie moves along at a good pace and i never found it boring . i'm not sure , but i think it sticks pretty close to its source material . Russel Mulcahy ( Resident Evil : Extinction ) directed the movie . for me , this movie is just all around fun from start to finish . but i also liked the look of the film . i think they put a lot of effort into recreating the 1930's look and atmosphere , and for the life of me , i can't figure out why it wasn't very well received . anyway , for me The Shadow is a strong
i found this movie to be better than the first one . there's still lots of action , but it's even funnier than the first . there's some really good fight scenes , and Jackie Chan's moves are even more outrageous this time around . the banter between Chan and Tucker is much funnier and more natural . once again , although there is some violence it's not excessive or gratuitous . i think there is also less coarse language than the first , and like the first , there is no nudity , but there is a bit of suggestiveness . overall , i though this movie was a great ride from start to finish . it's even faster paced than the original , and Tucker and Chan have even better general and comedic chemistry . for me , Rush Hour 2 is an
Burt Reynolds Plays Paul Crewe , a former pro quarterback , whose life takes a turn for the worse as he find himself in jail . The warden ( Eddie Albert ) has a sadistic mean streak . he petitions Crewe to form a football team from the inmates to play against the guards ( a semi pro team ) in four weeks as a warm up match before the semi pro season begins . the warden assumes an easy brutal victory against the inmates . But Crewe and his ragtag bunch have other ideas . this movie has everything , lots of one liners , some very funny situations . even some drama , and action . oh , yeah , there's football too . i would classify this movie as as dramedy , a drama / comedy hybrid , with some action . i laughed quite a bit . the football scenes , especially the hits , are very authentic and there is a lot of violence , though nothing very graphic . overall , the Longest Yard is a very good movie , that is more than a football movie . even if you don't like football , you should still enjoy this film . a strong
i thought this was a good documentary . it was well done all around . i liked the fax that the filmmakers interviewed interesting people that were relevant to the event depicted in the documentary . i've found that that isn't always the case . the documentary is basically about the 1970 Marshall College Football team , almost all of who perished in a plane crash on their way back home . as well as the team , the coaching staff and several community leaders also lost their lives . the documentary also gives some background in to the team before the crash . it shows how the town lived and breathed the team . and of course it details the aftermath of the crash and the effect it had on those who , for whatever reason , were not on board the plane that fateful day as well as family members and friends left behind . these people are interviewed , and you can tell the impact the tragedy had and still does to this day . the documentary is very touching , without being maudlin , and is done in a way that is not horribly depressing . it is sad for sure and tragic , but the filmmakers also focus on the good that came from the tragedy . , which i will leave up to you to watch . . also , they talk about the team today . overall , a fascinating documentary which inspired the movie We are Marshall . anyway , i hope people read this comment and check the documentary out .
from the same world as Jumanji , Zathura is exciting and thrilling . it gets going fairly quickly and doesn't let up until the end . there is not as much comedy in this one , but i think it's more exciting . the special effects are much better here . of course this movie is a decade older , so that makes sense . Kristen Stewart is barely in the movie and Tim Robbins has what amounts to a cameo . Dax Shepherd is quite entertaining here . there are lot of plot holes here , for sure , but once you get caught up in the story , that probably won't matter . this is a movie the whole family can enjoy , although there are a few mild sear words . for me , Zathura is an
" Death Wish 3 " brings back Charles Bronson as one time vigilante Paul Kersey , now retired . yeah , right . before long Kersey is back to his old ways . but this time , its not just a few muggers at a time , its a gang who have taken over a run down part of the city ( New York again , by the way . ) this time its war , so Kersy Hauls out the big guns ( literally ) for this . the body count int his one rivals anything Stallone or Schwarzenegger have come up with . this movie is actually somewhat fun to watch , particularly for a few one liners and of course bad guys die , or get severely injured in creative ways , which is always a good thing . the violence is not as personal in this one , its , obviously on a much grander scale , sort of like bombing your victims from afar , rather than one on one combat . this movie is lighter in tone than the 1st 2 , making it easier to watch . there's not much import to this film , its more escapism than anything . its also cheesy at times and pseudo-inspirational , but hose scenes fall flat . they should have left the original " Death Wish " on its own without sequels , but since they didn't , they should have stopped here . 8 / 10
this is a TV movie based on the murder of Martha Moxley in Greenwich in the mid 1970's . based how much on truth it's hard to tell . this much is certain . it is based on the book written by Mark Fuhrman . anyway , the movie depicts the crime in flashbacks and its aftermath , including the arrest of a suspect , some 25 years after , who was never considered a suspect at the time . in the movie , Fuhram of course is largely responsible for the arrest and closure of the case for Martha's surviving family , in particular her mother . the narrative of the film is by the ghost of Martha Moxley , talking in the first person . this is a very effective device in this movie . to me , it adds more impact to the movie , and puts a human face on the murder victim ( if only an actress playing the part ) Maggie grace plays Martha , and i was really impressed with her . there is no way for certain to know Mark Fuhrman's motive in investigating the crime . it could have been out of a sense of justice and maybe he really cared . or maybe he just saw dollar signs from a future bestselling book . either way , it makes for an interesting movie . it's well acted and fairly fast paced . i don't think there was a lot of extra , unnecessary stuff in the movie , just what was needed to tell the story . one could argue that they left out things that would have shed a bit more light on the proceedings , and one would be right . also , one may argue that the ending was abrupt and again one would be right . but , as i said , for me , i think they told the story with at least most of the essentials . anything else would have likely required a miniseries . as an aside , there is a miniseries entitled " A Season in Purgatory " which came out 6 years ealier ( 1996 ) which this movie has some parallels to , even if only faint . however , if you like this movie , " Then you may be interested in " A Season in Purgatory " . it is my belief that " a Season in Purgatory " is in fact a fictionalized account of the same crime . anyway , for me , Murder in Greenwich " is an
i liked this western quite a bit . it is made in 1939 , and some may find the pace a bit sedate , but that didn't bother me . i liked the story and the cast of characters . the main character is Wyatt Earp ( Randolph Scott ) newly deputized as marshal to try to bring some law into the town of Tombstone . The character Of Doc Halliday ( Ceasar Romero ) also plays a prominent role . there were a few scenes which were meant to be funny , and they probably were back in 1939 , but they fell a bit flat for me . it's the movie that inspired the John Ford classic My Darling Clementine ( 1946 ) . the 1957 movie Gunfight at the OK Corral is also apparently inspired by this movie . one thing i should mention is that the sound and the picture were crystal clear , so kudos for Fox for the technical work that went into the DVD . anyway , when all is said and done , i thought this was a pretty good movie . easily an
at first i didn't like this movie . i mean , it is a slow paced movie . despite the fact that Laurence Olivier and Gregory Peck are in it , i couldn't muster much enthusiasm for it , in the beginning . it does pick up enough in the second act to maintain more interest , so , i did watch the whole movie . the story takes place in 1977 or 78 . the basic premise is that Ezra Lieberman ( Olivier ) a Nazi Hunter ( and presumably concentration camp survivor ) has discovered a plot to make perfect clones of Hitler-94 to be exact . Barry Kohler ( a young Steve Guttenberg ) a young Jewish man has provided Lieberman with some of the intelligence on the plot . The evil mastermind behind the scheme is none other than Dr . Joseph Mengle , ( Gregory Peck ) a sadistic Nazi who tortured many Jews during the war . it is during the last act , where Peck gives a tour deforce performance , that really elevates this movie . however , the movie is something that should be watched because of the message it has . namely , the horrible cost that would be incurred if some madman decided to clone a nut job like Hitler . this movie is actually ahead of its time , but is really relevant in modern times , given the controversy over cloning . normally , i don't go for this message type of movie , but in this case i'll make an exception . the whole concept is disturbing to say , the least , especially when you consider all the nut jobs running around in the world . i'd recommend this movie to anyone .
this third movie in the Indiana Jones series is much liter in tone than the second one , The Temple 0f Doom . there is also more action , a lot more . and there are also number of comic moments , courtesy of the banter between Indiana ( Harrison Ford ) and his Father , Henry ( Sean Connery ) the two have great general and comedic chemistry and both have some good lines . this movie is clever and witty . Connery is a nice addition to the series . i think it's as good , or near as good as Raiders of the Lost Ark , the first one in the series . i liked how the movie ended on a high note . this would have been a fitting end to the series , if they hadn't made a fourth installment , which i have yet to see . as for The Last Crusade , i think it rates a
this is one intense nail biting movie . basically , Jeffrey Taylor ( Kurt Russel ) and his wife Amy ( Kathleen Quinlan ) are driving on a lonely stretch of highway , when there vehicle inexplicably breaks down . they flag down a passing trucker who says he will take Amy to the nearest town for help while Jeff stays with the vehicle . flash forward sometime later and Amy has not returned . i leave it at that . if you wanna know more , then you'll have to watch the movie . what follows is nail biting suspense and tension and lots of action . you'll have to employ some suspension of disbelief ( though much less than many films ) once you do that , you should enjoy this movie . i was on the edge of my seat quite a bit . for me , " Breakdown is a
i thought this was a really good movie . it's a sort of ghost story / end of the world prophecy combination . it has some similarities to both " The Ring " and " The Grudge " . i didn't really care for those 2 movies . i just didn't feel they worked for me . this 1 however , worked really well for me . there are many very suspenseful and eerie moments . the hair on my neck stood up a lot in this movie . i thought the acting was pretty good . i also liked that fact that they kept you guessing about things until the end . i did , anyway , and i wasn't sure how it would end . i like unpredictability in these kinds of movies . the ending is sort of open ended , so you can come to your own conclusions . i think this is 1 of the better movies of this genre , that i have seen . i'm sure there are lot's of plot holes and inconsistencies , if you really look for them . but i just wanted to be entertained and hopefully creeped out for a couple hours , and i was . besides , i / m sure every movie has flaws of some kind . it just depends what your reasons for watching are . if you did enjoy " The Grudge " and " The Ring " , you may enjoy this movie as much or maybe more . for me , " 11 : 11 : Hell's Gate is a
i'm really surprised by the low rating this movie currently has ( ) . i really liked it . that's saying a lot because i generally don't like Sarah Michelle Gellar . however , i didn't mind her in this movie . this movie kept me at unease throughout , not knowing what might happen next . the movie is filled with an air of dread . i also liked the look of the movie . very dark and atmospheric with muted colours . i found that very effective . the story itself is unique and is not predictable . i thought i had it figured out a few times , only to find out i was wrong . near the end , i came close to figuring it out , but it turned out i wasn't quite right . any movie that can keep you guessing to the end is doing something right , in my mind . there is lots of suspense in this movie , but no gore , which is very refreshing . this is one of the better suspense / thriller movies i have seen in a long time . i had low expectation going into this movie , and those expectation were shattered . if you're looking for a suspense movie with clever writing and good characters , check this movie out . for me , " The Return " is a
this little movie is another example that you don't need a big budget with big special effects . all you need is a compelling story . and some humour , courtesy of some wacky characters and situations , doesn't hurt . this movie has all of that . it is hysterically funny at times , and always entertaining . this is a UK / France / USA production , although how equal each countries participation is , could be up for debate . i say this because the Brits are very good at making this type of movie work , without being depressing understand that to be funny , a movie actually needs comedy . most small American made films are usually depressing ( at least the one i've had the misfortune of sitting through ) maybe that's a requirement . As for the French , i haven't seen to many of their films , if any . the point is , this is a very good film in all aspects . sometimes i laughed so hard , i cried . and yes , the title is actually relevant to the movie , though i won't say how . check this little gem out . you won't be disappointed .
this is a really good movie about boxer Rocky Marciano . it chronicles his rise to greatness in the sport . but more than that , it chronicles his and his family's struggle to overcome adversity and prejudice . the film shows Marciano as a ( at most times ) humble man who longs to escape the dead end path he is on , with a bleak future and a menial job in which he is fated to merely eke out an existence . the movie is low key and doesn't not put boxing on a pedestal , but rather shows that that their are people behind those gloves and bruises . it also shows the despicable people behind the scenes ( slimy managers and promoters , etc ) and the udder depths they will stoop to in order to keep their fighters under their thumbs . Jon Favreau puts in a terrific performance as the title character , while both Judd Hirsch and Tony Lo Bianca both portray ( very convincingly ) a scumbag manager and an even scummier promoter , respectively George C . Scott plays Marciano's father , whose fate in life Marciano hopes to escape from . this is obviously not a documentary , so there is probably some liberty taken by the filmmakers . but i'm sure a lot of the movie was accurate , especially about the scumbags behind the scenes . in fact , we have one high profile one in the real life boxing world , though haven't heard too much from him lately . we all know who he is and that he's nothing but a waste of skin . anyway , i feel this is a movie that most people , even non boxing fans will enjoy and relate to . for me " Rocky Marciano " is a
Frasier is about 2 psychiatrist brothers , Frasier Crane ( Kelsey Grammar ) and Niles Crane ( David Hyde Pierce ) . but these 2 are not your average psychiatrists . they are upper crust snobs , especially Niles . the show is a spin off of cheers . Frasier has moved from Boston to Seattle and is the host of this own very popular radio program However , many times it is his producer Roz Doyle ( Perri Gilpin ) who dispenses more realistic down to earth advice than Frasier would . She also gets Frasier out of a lot of jams . there are few eccentrics at the radio station , each with their own quirks and oddities . on the home front Frasier livers with his dad , Marty Crane ( John Mahoney ) who has just recently moved in for reasons i won't disclose . of course , things do not always run smoothly between the 2 . the show uses dry , witty sarcasm as humour ( in an upper crust sort of way ) which most people will get . there are also many misunderstandings , leading to some very amusing situations . there is one running gag to do with Niles , which is also quite amusing . Frasier is not the " howling with laughter " kind of show , though it does have those moments . it is more subtle and high brow than many comedies . it is however , immensely entertaining . unfortunately though most of the episodes worked , on occasion there were some that fell flat throughout its 11 year run . as a result , i would have to give Frasier a rather than 10 .
This third ( and presumably final , but who knows ? ) voyage for the crew of The Next Generation , is , in my mind , arguably the best of the Star Trek Series . the only movie that may rival it is First Contact . as for Nemesis , it has everything it requires to be a great film . first there's a decent dose of humour . there are definitely some spectacular space action sequences . the villain is once again , a strong character . there's a bit of romance ( but not too much ) and the movie is quite touching at times . but it never becomes sappy or maudlin . the suspense level is pretty high in this one . the tension reaches nail biting proportions at times . but there is one difference in this Trek movie , as compared to the other ones . that is its dark ( or darker ) tone . there's a much more sinister feel to this one . the film manages to blend all these elements seamlessly . the ending is surprising , and appropriate , i feel . for me , this movie is a
this ' Brit Com ' gets an easy from me . the Brits really know how to make a great sitcom . the writing easily rivals that of any North American show of this genre or any genre . the show is more risqu than many shows we have here , though things have changed in the that regard in the last few years . this is due mainly to the proliferation of specially channels . anyway , back to " Coupling " . the writing is superb as are the performances . i would probably say that this show is equal to " Friends " in quality writing and performances , but that is just my opinion . if you have fairly conservative tastes , this show is not for you , as it could be considered offensive or worse . everybody has their own opinions . for me , nothing beats " Coupling " for pure hysterics and misunderstandings . as i said , an easy for me
Friends is quite possibly the funniest and best written sit com of the modern era . this show is fantastic . great characters , great dialogue , hysterical comedy . i actually wasn't into Friends for the longest time . then , i saw an episode on TV and was hooked . i have since bought all ten seasons on DVD . besides just being funny , the show has an edge to it . sometimes it is even racy , but subtly so , because on occasion the characters would say or do something that made me think , hmmm , the censors must have missed that one . the show revolves around the lives of six twenty somethings living in New York City Their favorite hang out is a coffee shop called Central Perk ( a great play on words ) each of the friends has their own different personalities and quirks , which all mesh together perfectly . the show rarely delved into any serious drama , but it didn't need to . It's strength is clearly comedy . creators Marta Kauffman and David Crane hit gold with this series . Kauffman also wrote a majority of the episodes and Crane wrote a number as well . the show remained consistently high quality throughout its 10 year run , and the last season was more serious than the previous . if you want a show which will have you p - - - ing your pants and bawling with laughter , this is your show .
this has got to be one of the funniest movies i have ever seen . i think or at least hope ) it was intentional . think of every horror movie you can think of and mix them all together ( minus the horror aspect of course ) . add in every conceivable clich you can imagine along with the most inane dialogue ever written . then populate your film with every possible backwoods , redneck stereo type you can find . next add in your stock victim characters doing all the stupid things the horror genre is known for . and of course the two most important ingredients : absolutely atrocious acting and no discernible plot . put all this together and you have what has to be on of the funniest comedies ever made . actually it's billed as a horror comedy , but one out of two ain't bad . i nearly wet myself throughout the whole movie . this is an absolute gem . if the filmmakers intentionally set out to make their film this funny , they are truly brilliant . if not , there is no hope for any of them . I will mention that the last act was definitely played for laughs . it is the rest of it that is hard to pin down . if you're feeling depressed or even a little down , watch this cinematic masterpiece , and you'll be holding you guts from laughter . forget Prozac , use this movie instead . if you have to dig down to the bowels of the earth to find this movie , do it .
where to start ? this is one terrific movie . it's funny , has good characters and dialogue . it's also action packed . true , many of the fighting scenes seems a bit corny , but that's probably how they fought back then . back then , they really had to act , unlike today , where some special effect can distract the viewer , so the actor isn't the main focus . also , this was 1938 , and talking pictures hadn't brr around that long . many actors were used to the style of acting in the silent films and just carried that over to the talkies . as for the DVD itself , it has been beautifully restored . the picture is cleans sharp and crisp . anyway , for me " The Adventures of Robin hood is a
Stagecoach is a classic John Wayne western . the basic plot of the story is this : a motley group of 9 people end up on a Stagecoach together , which must somehow make it through Hostile Apach Indian territory . for a movie made in 1939 , this movie is very good . actually , it's very good even by today's standards . there are lots of thrilling action sequences , as well as some quiet dramatic moments . the acting is top notch , as is the direction . the movie is visually very striking , no small feat , considering it is in black and white . even the dramatic sequences are somehow compelling . Even if you don't like John Wayne , or westerns in general , you will like this film . i highly recommend it .
i thought this show was hysterical . yes , it is offensive , crude and vulgar , but so what . the show does seem to make fun of white people ( which i happen to be ) but that's exactly what it is - - fun . people need to get over themselves and stop being so uptight . besides , a lot of the jokes pretty much reflect how many white people behave . if you can't take a joke , then turn off all your TVs and hide yourself in a cave . i don't think the jokes are cruel or mean , either . anyway , i laughed my butt of so much i had tears running down my eyes . David Alan Grier is the star of the show and plays most of the characters . i think he's very funny . i'm gonna try and catch this show every time it's on . it's the only show on The Comedy Network ( here in Canada ) which i have actually found worth watching .
