Barry , ( Jonathan Brandis ) an asthmatic daydreaming loser who wants to learn karate to protect himself from the school beating ( just like his fantasy man , Chuck Norris ) , that he in all likelihood brings upon himself by being an unlikable spaz . Chuck's brother Aaron , is a horrible director and this film made want to curl up in a fetal position and just cry for inflicting my eyes with this horrid excuse for a movie . The great Mako is wasted here and can ANYone tell me why Joe Piscopo keeps getting jobs when everything he does is horrible ? ? this film is among the crappiest movies I've ever seen and they should just burn any existing copies . I wouldn't be surprised if this and " Ladybugs " in all likelihood contributed to the main actor's suicide .
The film starts with a mail woman ( Kitten Natavidad of Russ Meyers fame , who thankfully isn't nearly as worn-down and haggard looking as she is in " The Double-D Avenger ) , spying on the amazing Ginger Lynn being screwed by Harry Reems who won't stop saying dumb s # @ t , so the scene is not erotic . The couple is mailed two tickets for an island stay in a mansion where an unknown person is killing off the guests in this porn who ( cares ) done it . For a film that was filmed during porn's " Golden Age " ( albiet towards the end ) this film is still a disappointment . Plus , seeing Lisa De Leeuw with the foreknowledge that she died from AIDS is very depressing . Furthermore seeing a man masturbate using a turkey is not appealing in the least . My Porn
In a far away Galaxy is a planet called Ceta . It's native people worship cats . But the dog people wage war upon these feline loving people and they have no choice but to go to Earth and grind people up for food . This is one of the stupidest f # @ k ! ng ideas for a movie I've seen . Leave it to Ted Mikels to make a movie more incompetent than the already low standard he set in previous films . It's like he enjoying playing in a celluloid game of Limbo . How low can he go ? The only losers in the scenario are US the viewer . Mr . Mikels and his silly little handlebar mustache actually has people who STILL buy this crap . DVD Extras : Commentary by Ted Mikels ; the Story behind the Making of ( 9 and a half minutes ) ; 17 minutes , 15 seconds of Behind the scenes footage ; Ted Mikels filmography ; and Trailers for " The Worm Eaters " " Girl in Gold Boots " , " the Doll Squad " , " Ten Violent Women " ( featuring nudity ) , " Blood Orgy of the She Devils " , & " the Corpse Grinders "
A girl dreams of becoming a star . . blah blah blah . You know what ? If you've seen the first " Hollywood Dreams " , you can skip this one as it's more of the same . And if you haven't seen the first one then I ENVY you . Count your blessings . It's hours of my life , I can not get back . The acting doesn't even reach ' Porn caliber ' . Most of the girls don't either for that matter . Remember I watch this crap , so YOU don't have to ! ! Where i saw it : Showtime-on-demand
After Billy ( Costas Mandylor of the Saw films ) is sent to prison for killing Sean Walker's ( Blue Lagoon's Christopher Atkins ) partner ( among other things ) , Sean quits the police fore and moves his family to an isolated ranch where he takes work as a farmhand with his dad . Ten years later , Billy is back on the streets after escaping and looking to settle the score with Sean by hitting him where he hurts most , his family , including his wife the left him ( Angie Everhart ) and their homely sex-crazed , bi-curious daughter . ( don't get too excited as that aspect of the story goes nowhere ) This film is a heavily-clichéd , extremely badly acted , horribly written ' action revenge ' picture . This not only pales greatly in comparison to Mel Gibson's similarly name " Payback " , but also is the worst film with the name that I've seen yet ( to this date i've seen 5 of those named films as well as a TV film , all much better then this one ) Don't bother renting this one unless you have a stalkerish fascination with Angie Everhart Eye candy : An extra gets topless ; Nicole LeVoy shows T & A ( there's also nudity in the trailers for " Natasha " & " Distortion " ) DVD Extras : Trailers for " Kush " , " Good girl , Bad girl " , " Natasha " , " Army of the Dead " , " This thing of ours " , & " Distortion "
Opening on an erotic belly dance , Hata Mari ( Jennifer Welles , who won a best actress award for this which I NEVER understood why ) kills an American spy with her long fingernail ( hm . . . I wonder if the writers ' of HBO's " Oz " saw this ) . She later adopts Sammy ( Rocky Millstone , who proves why he never got a major acting part since , or before this . His timing and delivery is atrocious , EVEN by porn standards ) to act as bait for Daddy Sawbucks , in this ultra-lame , VERY dated parody of " Little Orphan Annie " The awful theme song sounds like something the Patridge Family would by singing . If you have to watch a porno with Little Orphan in the title , go with " Little Ophan Dusty " or the movies of Little Oral Annie and steer clear of this one .
Hey , guys , let's do a sequel to an above-average sci-fi film . But this time why don't we completely throw everything that made the original good out the window . Let's get that screenwriter of " Halloween : Resurrection " to do this . Sure that movie was horrid too , but it made money . Ka-Ching ! ! Yes , I'm writing this in a joking tone , but I'm not that far off from the truth . The fact of the matter is Cube did NOT need a continuation . The original writer did NOT want to ever say where the mysterious Cube ever came from . This film lacks any logic or coherence . Skip it . Lions Gate DVD Extras : Commentary by Producer ErnieBarbaresh and Editor Mark Sanders ; Making Of Cube 2 : Hypercube documentary ; 7 Deleted Scenes ; Storyboards ; Stills Gallery ; Theatrical and Iternational Trailer ; and trailer for " Cube "
Brothers Sam and Max inherit a mortuary from their late uncle with the added stipulation that they must pass the Mortuary Academy which is run by Paul and Mary ( Paul Bartel and Mary Woronov from " Eating Raoul " ) . who don't want the brothers owning the mortuary and do everything in their power to stop them . This movie has numerous actors that fans will remember ( Pual Bartel , Mary Woronov , Tracey Walter , Wolfman Jack , and Vance Colvig Jr ) All those name faces from B-movie greats can't mask that this film stinks more then a year old corpse . Bad taste CAN be funny . IF done right , pretty much every subject can bring about a laugh or three , but that requires talent , something this movie seems to be lacking . Furthermore , to mention this film in the same sentence as the classic " Porky's " or " Revenge of the Nerds " is damn near blasphemy . Eye Candy : Cheryl Starbuck is topless
This low-budget " From Dusk till Dawn " & ' Vamp " generic copy , starts off well enough with two clueless clowns ( Devon Sawa & Steven Schub ) going to a strip club that's filled with ghouls ( obvious ' buffy the vampire slayer ' rejects ) . But as it goes on , the films goes downhill fast . Sawa's reluctant ' hero ' grates on the nerves badly and Kelly Hu further proves that she should be seen and not heard . In fact any scene without Ken Foree in it is pretty much completely unbearable . This is a ' horror-comedy ' that sadly can't produce either horror nor comedy . Eye Candy : Dawn Olivieri and an unknown extra get topless
While at the funeral of his father , Danny ( Writer / director Brett Kelly ) is attacked by something unseen . Refusing to go to a hospital despite the gash on his head , he instead finds himself at home later that night soaking in the bathtub . Meanwhile a dog & her owner are killed by something unseen . Danny , who had fallen asleep , awakens in reddened water . During the following nights his life continue's to spiral downwards . Just what is Danny becoming ? Could a hint could be found in the title of the film ? This movie chooses to focus on a supposed ' mystery ' of who the mystery killer could be , something anyone who was even halfway paying attention could easily deduce very early on in the film . With that supposed mystery aspect dead in the water , we instead are forced to really on the caliber of the acting to carry the film . The thing is the film is full of wooden actors spouting horribly stilted dialog . Combine this with shoddy minimalistic special effects , down right boring storyline , and a sappy still music montage about halfway through the film to pad out it's already anorexic running time of little over an hour ( which is still under an without the end credits ) and you get a rather bad film that isn't worth your time . However , it's still better than the writer / director / actor's later film " the Bonesetter Returns " Eye Candy : Elizabeth Woods provides a minimal amount of T & A Where I saw it : Instant Netflix viewing
An indestructible seemingly-super human Israili agent ( Adam Sandler ) fakes his own death at the hands of an equally indestructible seemingly-super human Palestinian agent ( John Turturro ) in order to go to America to become a hairdresser and make everyone ' silky smooth ' . The only job he can find is in a Palestinian hair salon which is being threatened by evil American businessman , Walbridge ( Michael Buffer ) who wants it ( along with the rest of the neighborhood ) out of the way to make room for a mega-shopping center . Firstly , congratulations MUST go to Dennis Dugan who has made not only one of the worst films of 2008 with this lame , unfunny and tedious bit of cheesy fluff , but has been making one of the worst movies of the years 2006 ( The Benchwarmers ) & 2007 ( I Now Pronounce You Chuck & Larry ) . Back to the movie at hand , I found the ' film ' to be overly long , tedious to watch and jaw-droppingly unfunny and like most films of this ilk way too infatuated in cramming as many nonsense cameos into the flick as possible . The story is embarrassingly bad and moronic . You don't watch the Zohan .
Christopher Guest need not worry , his supreme hold on the Mockumentary sub-genre is not in trouble of being upstaged in the least especially not by this extremely unfunny jab at RPG-gamers . The jokes are beyond lame . Not enough substance to last the typical length of a ( particularly rancid ) SNL skit , much less the 87 atrocious minutes I waisted watching this drivel . The great William Katt ( Greatest American Hero , House ) deserves much MUCH better . One thing and one thing alone makes the fact that I saw this worth it in my mind and that's posting about it on here so hopefully just hopefully I'll save someone such a bad experience . DVD Extras : 2 Audio commentaries ; 7 interviews with various cast members ; 4 deleted scenes ; & theatrical trailer DVD-Rom extras : 2 Wallpapers Easter egg : Highlight the eye in the picture on the main menu for a short scene
Inside Out contains 9 stories most of them deathly dull . 1 : ' Brush Strokes ' Drama-Jack , a painter , chooses to paint a nude Terry ( Barbara Alyn Woods from the Honey , I shrunk the kids TV show ) 2 : ' Shrink Rap ' : Drama - Beth Hogan tells her Psychiatrist about a rape fantasy she has . 3 : ' Doubletalk ' : Comedy-Girl ( Marta Kober ) and Guy on a date , go back to his place where they speak their thoughts 4 : ' Leda ' : Scifi-In an outer space prison ship Bethany ( Sherri Rose ) , cheats on her computer lover5 : ' My Secret Moments ' : Comedy-Chana Jael Chisa masturbates . . secretly6 : ' Life is for the Taking ' : Scifi - Charlie , a prison inmate tries asto-projection to see if his wife , Linda is being faithful . ( best of the segments , not saying much though ) 7 : ' the Diaries ' : Drama-A guy gets off on seeing his wife with other men in secret . 8 : ' Love the One You're with ' : comedy - couple speak in generalities ( The worst of the segments , and that's saying A lot ) 9 : ' My better Half ' : Comedy-A guy sleeps with his own feminine side . Eye Candy : Marie Chambers , Chana Jael Chiesa , Marta Kober , Sherrie Rose , Cec Verrell , Kimberly Ryusaki , Neith Hunter , Rachel Ryan and Barbara Alyn Woods each show various amounts of skin
Nick Browning ( Levi Oliver ) is a disgraced ex-cop whose daughter has gone missing , his one and only goal being finding her for him and his estranged wife . After butting heads with his former colleague Fred Mears ( Rowdy Roddy Piper ) , he soon finds himself deeply involved in a conspiracy involving some people in high places . This movie is Slow-moving with an over emphasis on ' slow ' . Playing out like some high-school level ' charecter study ' but with the same level of acting one would expect from that . The ' action ' in the last half hour or so is far too little , far too late to save this movie . If i could sum up it and relate it to other EXTREMMELY better movie I'd say it's akin to " Cop Land " meets " Walking Tall " but that would sully the name of those two great films . Just awful . Eye Candy : Gratuitous breast shot from an extra at about the 39 minute mark in a vain attempt to wake the viewer up ( it doesn't work ) DVD Extras : Promo trailer for this film ; and Trailers for " Revamped " , " Grayson Arms " , & " Study Hell "
Kitty Kellermann ( Ingrid Thulin ) runs a bordello for the Nazis in WW2 where numerous atrocities are committed . An army official has bugged the place hoping to usurp power from Hitler . It has amputee sex , midget sex , and hunchback coupling . Bothed home made abortions and it's not a straight out exploitation film , nope not when Tinto " over-rated hack " Brass is concerned . Nope this is an art-house flick through and through . It's also excruciatingly long , impossably tedious and mundane , hopelessly dreary , and given to subject matter , deathly dull . Of course a few years later , Tinto would prove that he could fail on a much bigger global scale with " Caligola " DVD Extras : Disc 1 ) Tinto Brass Bio ; International and US theatrical Trailers Disc 2 ) Interviews with Tinto Brass , and Production Designer Ken Adam ; 3 radio spots ; Poster & stills gallery ; Production & Costume designs DVD-Rom : Complete book " the Story of Madame Kitty "
Mexican drug-lord Santiango ( Armando Leduc ) escapes from prison looking for the 15 million dollars he asked his girl to hold on to for him , but she skipped town . Enter Travis ( Ameer Baraka ) , a cop , who protects the girl from the evil drug-lord . Travis's partner Ray ( Kris Kristofferson ) is close to retirement and hopes to enjoy it with his young wife . Poor New Orleans , first Katrina and now this . There's just too many disasters a town can take . From the heavily clichéd storyline to the horrible acting to the swiss cheese filled movie logic , this film is simply amateur hour and is quite a chore to watch indeed . Only for MAJOR DMX fans ( he's not a lead despite getting top billing ) all others steer clear of this disaster . DVD Extras : none at all
The best extra on the Little Nicky DVD because it has the least to do with that horribly bad movie . Not to say that this featurette about heavy metal is good . As it barely touches the surface and is too dam vanilla to be worth more than one viewing . I'm just saying that it's better than the steaming pile of turd that the movie was . Giving a cursory glance at what heavy metal means to people who don't really know what they're talking about , but some band members of metal bands chime in as well . But it doesn't tell ANYthing that even casual fans wouldn't know . This 18 minute short can be found on New Line's Platinum Series DVD of " Little Nicky "
A school advisory board gather to decide the fate of one of it's girl students who was found having sex with her bus driver in this German soft-core porn . Filmed as a faux-documentary ( with some real life and some faked interviews interspersed between the little stories of various girls gone ' wild ' ) , the main purpose is to titillate more than educate , and it does it's job adequately if not particularly well . This was the first in a LONG line ( 11 sequels ! ! ) of " Schoolgirl Reports " , and while it was enjoyable enough , I didn't see anything that special as to warrant one sequel much less that many . Just chalk it up to a case of " oh those wacky Germans " . For a better film along the same lines , in my opinion , you should catch 1978's " Fantasm "
After his father has his head blown off and his fiancé dry-humped as well as killed before his eyes as he was tied up , beat to a pulp and forced to watch , Alex ( World Champion kick-boxer Curtis Bush ) is nursed back to health by a Vietnam Vet , who has his own beef with the mafioso , who trains him to become a lean-mean revenge taking machine as the avenging vigilante , ' the Dark Angel ' Clearly this film's of the ' so bad , it's good ' variety and is so unintentionally laughably inept in pretty much every aspect of the movie ( except the fight scenes that are at least passable ) that one can't help but crack a smile at the sheer awfulness of it all . Eye Candy : Kim Reynolds shows off her T & A ( and ' blink & you'll miss it ' muff ) My Grade : as a real film I'd rate it as a 1 , but i'll add an extra star or two ( or three ) just for the ( brain dead ) entertainment factor alone . Shock-o-Rama DVD Extras : 3 unintentionally humorous news clips about Curtis Bush ; Trailers for " Bacterium " , " Chainsaw Sally " , " Dark Chamber " , " Drainiac " , " Millennium Crisis " , " Bite Me ! " , " Creature from the Hillbilly Lagoon " , " Feeding the masses " , " Prison-a-go go " , " Screaming Dead " , " Shock-o-rama " , " Sinful " , & " Skin Crawl " ; the DVD also contains a second movie " Canvas of Blood "
We follows the misadventures of a ' gambling bug ' who causes people and animals to gamble the lives away . Now THIS is the Robert McKimson that I know , totally and grossly incompetent and unfunny , I was getting worried when I was amused by the last two shorts that I've seen of his . This is a tired ham-fisted morality tale that has very few laughs makes this one of the worst Looney Tunes shorts that I've ever witnessed . It's just simply dreadful in every sense of the word . This animated short can be found on disc 4 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 1 . My Grade :
This lightweight bit of silly feminist twaddle has Laurene Landon as a female Conan the Barbarian-type woman who really hates males ( even berating her dog for being a guy ) who goes on a quest of vengeance after her village is devested by pig-headed males ( figutively , of course ) . This film is way to silly to ever take even remotely seriously and it's all the better because of it . Be it Landon's awful reading of the script , midgets who lack depth perception , Hundra riding naked through the shoreline for no reason whatsoever , the general inaneness of the story , or a combination of those elements , the flick is quite watchable IF you have a high tolerance for films of this nature . Don't go into it expecting Conan , don't expect even Red Sonia . Set your expectations very low though and you might be pleasantly surprised . And I'm talking " Babarian Queen " low . The movie also seems to go on to long and could've used some tighter editing . Subversive Cinema's DVD Extras ( R1 ) : 47 and a half minute Making of ' Hunting Hundra ' ; Cast biographies ; Theatrical trailer ( with nudity ) ; and Trailers for " Future Kill " ( with nudity ) , " Sensetive new age Killer " ( with brief nudity ) , " Dust Devil " , " Wild Blue Yunder " , & " Land of Look Behind " Easter Egg : got to the special features section , then on to ' Credits ' , while in that menu press right for a 2 minute and 50 second easter egg video clip of Laurene Landon talking about working with Robert Aldrich and confusing him with Robert Altman ( she hasn't aged well at all )
This ' true ' crime picture is par for the course of the current crop of movies of the ilk , in that it's ripe with inaccuracies and seems to play it for more entertainment value more then anything else . That being said , the film is hardly the absolute worse of the sub-genre and Mark Holton does a serviceable if not particularly great acting job as the infamous John Wayne Gacy . But the characterization of any kind and seems shallow . There's nothing deep about this film and by being so banal it can be said that it trivializes the subject matter . Do yourself a favor and read a few books on Gacy instead , or if you want a great serial killer film then rent " Henry : Portrait of a Serial Killer " post haste . Where I saw It : Encore Drama
Poor Mike Strauber returns home one day to find his wife , Sharon sleeping around . This sends him on a downward spiral into nutzoid land and landing him into a mental hospital . But do to budget cuts and over-crowding he's sent home again . Where he challenges everyone to games of Truth or Dare . So refreshing to clear my mind of good well-made and intelligent movies every now are then and see a film ( and I use the term quite loosely ) that not only knows that it's crap , but relishes in the fact with insane dialog , moronic acting , and heaps & heaps of plentiful , if not particularly believable , gore effects . Some laugh out loud moments to be had , but all of those come in the second half of the film and you'll have to suffer through the first 45 or so minutes . Eye Candy : Mary Fanaro as Sharon gets topless DVD Extras : Commentary by Director Tim Ritter ; a 17 & a half minute respective Making of ; Film facts ; 2 Promo trailers , and Trailers for " Truth or Dare2 " and & part 3
Gina McVey ( Lena Headly from the Sarah Connor Chronicles ) sees her mirror image one day after a mirror breaks during a dinner being held for friends . Curiosity causes her to follow this ' other self ' which leads to a downward spiral of madness and despair in Sean Ellis's contribution to ( the increasingly misnamed ) ' 8 Films to Die For ' festival . One thing that struck me right off the bat was the surprising lack of nudity for much of the film ( yes there's a little bit in the second half of the film ) which is simply notable for the mere reason that Ellis's " Cashback " ( a superior film in every way compared to this one , by the way ) had tons of it and the actresses in this one take multiple baths & showers usually with no nudity on display . As a matter of fact if one got rid of the scenes of baths / showers & a certain car accident that we see play out over and over again , the film would've been maybe 45 minutes long . The other thing that I realized as the minutes drug slowly past is that this film was deathly drawn out . I can appreciate a slow-burning movie if it were tense & drew me in . This film did neither & only made me wish that I was watching Drew Barrymore's similarly themed " Doppleganger " instead . ( and trust me , I'm no big fan of that one either ) . This was the first of the third batch ' 8 Films to Die For " that I watched . Needless to say , it wasn't off to a good start . Eye Candy : Michelle Duncan & Lena Headly each show tits and ass ; while Elle Crocker body doubles for Michelle during a full frontal shot Lionsgate DVD Extras : Miss Horrorfest Web-isodes ( running 58 lame minutes in total ) ; a combo trailer for the 8 films to die for 3 ; and trailers for " A Haunting in Connecticut " , " Crank 2 " , " Punisher : War Zone " , " the Transporter 3 " , " Weapons " , " Midnight Meat Train " , & " Saw 5 "
With the big budget Fantast Four film opening this upcoming July , I've decideded that nows the time to take a look at this unreleased Roger Cormen ' gem ' from more than a decade ago . After getting hit by cosmic rays and having their space shuttle blown us 4 friends are turned fantastic . Well maybe not that fantastic giving the budget , but you can't call the film " hammily acted below mediocre Four " can you ? After undergoing some tests , they're off to fight the fabulous flamboyantly gay Dr . Doom . This is in the same league as " Superman 4 " , " Batman and Robin " , and " The Star Wars Holiday Special " in it's sheer awfulness . I kinda hope it was released way back when , if only because it would have made a great MST3K episode .
Jo Champa overacts , what with her constant blubbering , while William Forsythe underacts , what with his hoarse whisper talk , creepy looks & what not , in this by-the-numbers action flick about a hit-man who has a change of heart & protects the woman whom he was supposed to kill . He then has to protect her from other hitmen . Forsythe as an action hero is NO Brian Bosworth , he's no Don ' the Dragon ' Wilson , hell he isn't even a Brick Bronsky ! ! Where i saw it : TMC Extra
Tracy Lords is a detective whom , along with a nerded-out Tom Bryron has to discover the secret of Stacey Donovan's husband . The humor is as juvenile as Tracy is , the only thing that made me crack a smile was her reading a book called ' the G Spot ' , she of course had a part in the MUCH better " The Grafenberg Spot " of the same year . Plus I just plainly never liked Jesse Eastern , nor Heather Wayne , something about their looks put me off . And some of the close-ups to some of the girls genitals lets you know they've been in the industry for a tad too long . All I can say is loose lips sink ships , if you get my drift . My Porn
Unlike most of the reviewers of this particular movie , I'm really not the much of a Cynthia Rothrock fan , to say the least . However when I saw that the movie had Fred Williamson and Robert Forster ( both great actors ) , I just had to watch the film . Williamson is a Dakota Smith , an alcoholic cop who is demoted to scrubbing toilets with a toothbrush and even worse having to team up with Cynthia at the behest of the captain ( Robert Forster ) . Forster is always watchable , it's just a crying shame that the movie itself is so damn trite and clichéd . It also features one of the least terrifying villains ever to be committed to celluloid . Williamson would return to the Dakota character in a few more films , the next one being " Down N Dirty " Eye Candy : Nina Richardson shows some T & A ; Mary Kapper goes topless Where I saw it : Showtime Extreme
This mini-documentary did nothing for me . You have a guy , David , who is talking of Edith eccentricities of those glasses , while wearing what looks like something Seinfeld was tricked into wearing on the Tonight Show in one of the better Seinfeld episode . I mean please , paging Mr . Blackwell , you're needed at the front desk . Anywho , it's relatively short , but I still wouldn't recommend it . I've seen much better . It just makes me long that Paramount did a better job on the Special Edition . It IS a great movie . the extra should compliment that . Alas , they didn't . This short featurette can be found as an extra on the Special Edition of " sunset Blvd . "
Having some free time on my hands I decided to watch some short films on Atomfilms . " Prison Warz " is just Kung-Fu set to techno music . If you've been following my reviews , you'd know that I made a rule after suffering through " Party Animalz " not to trust films with the letter Z where S should be . Yup , that rule is in affect for this short as well . On the entertainment scale it's a tad above seeing the video of the fat wanna be " Star Wars " kid doing his fake light-saber thing . Just not nearly as gut-splitting hilarious . I'd pay to see that kid in a Gonnies sequel . I wouldn't pay to see these fools in anything .
Having some free time on my hands I decided to watch some short films on Atomfilms . " 1465 Westerly " is a VERY short 2 minute ghost story . I never felt like it was a real full story in anyway and seemed like a movie snippet . As such I couldn't really get into it at all . I WILL tell you one thing though and that is that Brittney O'Bannon looked very hot in the short and it's a shame that we haven't heard more of her in the intervening 2 years . Someone give that hotty a job toot sweet . Sad that's the only good thing I can honestly say about the short , but what you gonna do , you know ? I guess I'm just a natural optimist .
Reed Diamond plays a man suffering from amnesia who's been in a mental asylum for over a decade after he was found wondering the back roads with blood on his hands . The doctors want to test out an experimental new drug that'll return his lost memories if it works . But when the drugs give him hallucinations of a demon , he chooses to escape instead . While outside he befriends a young boy whose stepfather ( Greg Grunberg ) mistreats his mother , won't let her near the darkroom in his basement & acts suspicious in general . While the general ' mystery ' of the film is a tad easy to identify way before it's revealed , I found Mr . Diamond's acting to be enthralling enough to keep my attention throughout . ( In the interest of full disclosure , I've been a huge fan of his since Homicide and his brief , but extremely pivotal , role in The Shield up through Journeyman & Dollhouse ) Not a great film nor a good one , but serviceable enough . Although I did like it better than the previous films that I've seen from Director / writer Michael Hurst ( Room 6 , Pumkinhead 4 , Mansquito ) Eye Candy : one fleeting pair of boobs in a hallucination
Mark Hammill plays Donald Swan , an elderly comic nerd who attends a con cause he loves Commender Courage ( a made-up creation for the movie ) . If Hamill just made a straight up documentary , this film wouldn't be half as bad . As it is , the jokes are stale , and the guest stars including Kevin Smith , Bruce Campbell , Ray Harryhausen , Stan Lee , and others are pretty much wasted . Which is a damn shame , well not so much in the case of Kevin Smith as he's pretty much a one-trick pony ( as evidence of him trying to get away for said one-trick and making a movie that bombed horribly ) . The extra " behind the voices " featurette on the second disc is better because it's REAL ( why the hell did Miramax see fit to give this sad movie a deluxe set boggles the mind , by the way ) . Mr . Hammill says this move is a ' love letter to the fans ' , proving the saying " you only hurt the one's you love " all the more apt . DVD Extras : Disc 1 ) List of Cameos ; Art gallery ; 13 deleted scenes ; Cast and crew bios ; Trailers for " Spy Kids 3D " and " My Boss's Daughter " Disc 2 ) " Behind the Voices " 51-minute panel ; Faux Extended Interviews with Kevin Smith , Stan Lee , Bruce Campbell , Hugh Hefner , Mark Evanier ; Scott Shaw , Billy Mumy , Peter David , and Paul Dini ; and some other stuff
Dolph Ludgren is Frank Gannon , a cop who was in the D . A . U ( Direct Action Unit ) a special unit of elite cops focusing on gang violence , drugs , and prostitution . Billie Ross ( Polly Shannon ) is a female detective trainee who Gannon is assigned to show the ropes to . Other cops are after him after he goes to the feds and rolls over on his fellow boys in blue . One of my friends in the UK sent this to me saying that he liked it and he think I would too . Plus he knows I like seeing movies before they're released in the states . What I saw was a fairly standard cop action drama flick . But a better than average as far as Dolph Lungren is concerned . Not a surprise that it went straight to video in the least , as it adds nothing new to the genre at all and the whole film is strictly routine .
Jennifer Cassi ( Gina Philips from " Dead and Breakfast " ) returns back to the house she grew up in which she recently inherited from her deceased sister , unbeknownst to her grandmother ( Fay Dunaway ) who's still living in it . Jennifer decides to sell it as she's in dire need of the money much to Granny's chagrin . She also begins to have troublesome recurring nightmares of a mysterious raven . There was really no one to relate to in this film . Jennifer seemed cold , distant , unsentimental , and narcissistic , whereas the grandmother seemed spiteful , sad , and also narcissistic . The film is good and well-made , but with no one to empathize with I found it hard to care about what happened to them .
Another musical short that is more cute than humorous is this short about some swinging cats singing in music class . One cat just doesn't get it and is ridiculed unmercifully because of it . Of course he gets it together by the end , but it still made me feel sorry for him when he lacked rhythm . This short wasn't as good as " I Love to Singa " ( which was over praised to begin with ) But it's cute enough to at least watch one time , perhaps even twice ( but not in a row ) and the tunes doesn't seem to make one openly cringe . This animated short can be seen on Disc 4 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 2 .
Melissa's sixteenth birthday is right around the corner and she's just discovering her sexuality with boys . But it turns out that all the guys that she spends time with all wind up murdered in this generic ' 80's slasher film . It's up to the local town sheriff Dan Burke ( Bo Hopkins , The Wild Bunch ) and his annoying mystery-loving goody two-shoes daughter , Marci ( Dana Kimmell , Friday the 13th part 3 ) , to get to the bottom of these killings . This film focuses more on the mystery and melodrama aspects of the movie and less on the killings themselves and thus is able to differentiate itself from a lot of it's ' 80's Slasher brethren . It doesn't hurt that Alesia has a great body ( I feel the need to stress the obvious with stating that the actress is over 18 and thus convey that i'm not overly perverted ) . On the downside , the movie is hampered with a few plot points that are underdeveloped and unnecessary , a grating theme some that is used a bit too often , and an ending that is a tad anti-climatic . But the good outweigh the bad ( barely ) . Give this a rent , but I wouldn't buy it . Eye Candy : Aleisa Shirley shows her tits , bush and ass Code Red DVD Extras : An intro by star Aleisa Shirley and Director of Intruder , Scott Spiegel ; Both Director's cut & theatrical version of the film ; Audio conversation with star Shirley and Director Jim Sotos ; interview with Shirley , Sotos & Bo Hopkins ; still gallery ; theatrical trailer for this film ; and trailers for Nightmare , Stunt Rock , Rituals , & Balalaika Conspiracy
Vince Vaughn leads a group of assorted misfits into a dodgeball tournament to save his gym from being bought by Ben Stiller's gym franchise . Well leads is to strong a word , as Vince just seems to go with the flow throughout the film . Are we that needy for good comedies that we elevate a below-average one into the status of ' mordern day classic ' ? ? Apparently so as many of the people I know sung it's high praises when this came out . The truth is , this is nowhere near as funny as either " Old School " OR " Bad Santa " and the only laughs to be had come from not Stiller nor Vaughn , but from Rip Torn who steals every single scene he has in the movie as wheelchair-bound Patrick O'houlihan . Without him " Dodgeball " would have been out in the preliminaries . DVD Extras : Commentary with Rawson Thurber , Ben Stiller , and Vince Vaughn ; 7 deleted scenes ; Training for Dodgeball featurette ; Anatomy of a hit featurette ; Justin Long : A study in ham and chess featurette ; go for the gold featurette ; gag reel ; 2 theatrical trailers ; Trailers for season 1 of " Arrested Development " and " the Ringer
Two sisters , Grace and Violet ( Sienna Guillory and Alicia Silverstone respectively ) who are fairly reclusive take in a drunken thieving sort ( Joe Anderson ) to stay with them awhile . Unbeknownst to him , they have plans for him , plans that might unravel when it seems Violet may be getting closer to him , much to Grace's chagrin . This is a fairly well-acted ( for the first half at least until Sienna starts to madly overact ) women's Lifetime-esquire melodrama under the guise of a thriller . A tad too estrogen driven for most , yet solid enough . Nothing I'd personally watch again though . Eye Candy : Sienna Guillory gets topless
Bobcat Goldthwait should be commended for attempting to do something different with this surprisingly heartfelt film , a cautionary tale about the pitfalls of being honest about everything . Melinda Hamilton stars as Amy , a girl who has had oral sex with a canine in the past on a lark . She struggles with telling her fiancé , John . Of course the truth does rear it's shaggy ugly head . The film deals with the fallout of said escapade . The movie is well-acted by all , save for perhaps Jack Plotnick as Dougie , who never really felt like he mashed well with the picture . And the film while solid enough seems to miss it's mark a few times . Every single person in the film struggles with massive hypocrisy and all our a tad hard to relate to . Bobcat should be commended for doing something different , as I said before , but different does not always equal good and this pales ever so slightly not to Goldthwaits own directorial debut , the criminally misunderstood " Shakes the Clown "
In the 1950's , young Julian witnesses his brother being murdered by a surgeon ( with the sounds of the Chordettes ' " Lollipop " none the less ) . Now all grown up he turns to stalking patients , of the hospital where he got canned for carrying on unlicensed experiments on regeneration , and killing them for fluid he needs to carry on his aforementioned experimentation . It's up to his ex , Theresa and her new ' flavor of the week ' Ben , to stop the carnage . Even with such heavyweight talents as Peter Boyle ( as a hardened cop ) and Malcolm McDowell ( as an ape-experimenting doctor ) in this film , it still can't overcome it's clichéd premise and story . Most of the acting is serviceable but somehow lacking , the killer is not all that memorable nor terrifying , and the tension was non-existent . I've seen a lot worse but this movie is still just too mundane to recommend to anyone . Screenplay writer Patrick Cirillo wound go on to pen the much better " Tears of the Sun " Eye Candy for the guys : Juliette Jeffers gets topless ; Isabel Glasser shows everything Eye Candy for the girls : James Remar's penis & ass
Drunk and adventurous young woman ( in some kisses too young , a 17 year old got this title discontinued and now out of print ) flash the video camera tits , ass , and bush at Spring Break in Panama Cite beach Florida . Some are hesitant to do it for one set of beads , no problem though as TWO sets of beads are quite enough for these greedy , greedy people . I do applaud the makers letting the not so hot girls in as well ( even if there had no choice and had to pad the running time some how ) The DVD came with both Volumes 1 and 2 . I liked volume 2 better as it's set in Mardi Gras and I liked seeing places that I know in the background ( Ie . I've been there , hey look The Dungoen " . It's not really a fair representation of Mardi Gras tho , as most of the people on camera are white and in real life they do A lot more for beads , I could tell you some stories there . Also there are a lot my bead teases ( girls who pretend they're gonna flash and don't ) those assholes . I'm gonna rate this middle of the road . You get what you expect . It is what it is .
A warped and demented mother's boy , Howard ( Robert Gribbin ) makes a habit of raping & killing various women hitchhikers . When the bodies mount up it's up to Captian Shaw of the Crescent P . D . ( played by Russell Johnson , better known as the Proffesor from Gilligan's Island ) to try to catch this deviant . The film is a tad on the tedious side ( Howard picks up hitchhiker , rapes , kills , back to momma's for dinner , has flask backs to the murders , rinse & repeat ) Of course interspersed with the Professor hamming it up . Their IS however one scene that deviates from the standard path that the movie sets up , it has a stereotypical flamboyant gay guy ( aptly listed in the credits as ' gay boy ' ) whom Howard picks up and is obviously used for misplaced comedic effect . Oh and a pregnancy sub-plot that comes out of nowhere and feels like it should be in a different movie completely , in this one it just felt like painful melodramatic filler . Given the subject matter and the fact that this is a low-budget exploitation movie , it's pretty tame going . For all it's faults ( and there are a great many of them ) the film isn't as bad as it is made out to be and i've seen worse . Russell Johnson himself makes the film watchable . If you lack a pretty high tolerance for these kind of low-budget films though I'd recommend that you steer clear . Something Weird DVD Extras : 3 shorts : " the Hitch-Hiker " , " Dangerous Strangers " & " the Cautious Twins " ; A 27 minute tour of Box office International with Harry Novak circa 1992 ; Gallery of exploitation art with accompanying soundtrack ( 5 minutes , 19 seconds ) ; Theatrical trailer ; and 2 trailers for the other film on the DVD " Kidnapped Coeds " ( one under it's alternative title of " Kidnapped Lover " ) Eye Candy : Jacqueline Poseley gets topless ; Jane Ratliff shows brief nipple
A VERY un-Tom and Jerry short . Jerry narrates this tale that revolves around Tom the cat falling in love and losing her to his rival , Butch . Tom is best friends with Jerry here which irked me a bit . The cartoon is also presented in Cinemascope . Overall I found this Tom and Jerry cartoon sad and depressing . The should have just put " Puss gets the boot " on the DVD instead and I would've been happy . This experimental animated short can be found on disc 2 of Warner Brother's 2-DVD Spotlight Collection set . It's the last one on the set and I'm hoping that Warner Brothers chooses to release a second Volume soon .
When Ben Kohler ( Sam Robards ) gets an experimental brain transplant / chip implant after being shot in the head from point-blank due to a common mugging , he begins to see visions of what a murderer is seeing , but the murder can do the same thing to Ben . Turns out the doctor ( Jacob's Ladder's Elizabeth Peña ) who spearheaded the surgery isn't telling everything to a much bewildered Ben . Not particularly bad , but not that good either . The acting was alright , but the story has been told better in other films and TV shows . No variations on the theme to speak of in this episode .
Sylvester cat is in a forest park . He finds an egg that he decides to sit on an hatch , but the egg contains one Tweety bird . And the chase is on once more . The poor cat also has to deal with the park ranger . I inward cringe whenever Tweety opens his mouth or especially sings , I have no clue why , I just really don't like the voice . The cartoon is alright I guess , but NOT because of Tweety , but rather in spite of him . And I have to get through a few more Tweety cartoons . Joy rolls eyes This animated short can be seen on Disc 3 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 2 and also features an optional Music & effects only track .
Uranis pictures is going out of business and is in dire need of a hit , so they come up with an idea to make a combination of Jaws and Deep Throat called Deep Jaws , a film about insastable mermaids . That's it plot-wise , the humor is all right , but there's only so many jokes one can listen to playing on the name of the studio and Richard Nation's character of Junior is particularly unbearable . All the girls in the film are hot enough , save for one that seems to have abnormal nipples . Also while it's always cool to see the late great B-movie mainstay Geore ' buck ' Flowers , he doesn't really have anything to do in this film . Something Weird DVD Extras : 15 minute Gallery of Exploitation art with accompanying music ; Trailers for " the All-American Girl " , " Teaser " , " the Damish Connection " , " Terror at orgy Castle " , & " Evil Come , Evil go " ; and Theatrical trailers for this film and " The Dicktator " ( which is also on the DVD ) Eye Candy : Every female in this movie bares it all , with the exception of Roxanne Brewer , ' lady diana ' , and Candy Samples who only get topless ( but with as much top heavy talent as those girls possess it's still ALL good )
This unofficial movie that hoped to capitalize on the original Mr . Vampire film , it came out before the official sequel , is good enough up to a point . Said point being when Pauline Wong as the second corpse that is reanimated starts mimicking every move of a certain character that she becomes bonded to . At this scene the movie starts to degenerate immensely . If you wish to delve into movies dealing with Gyonshi , or the term for the great idea of the hopping vampire , don't start with this one go back to the amazingly great " Mr . Vampire " , SKIP the kid oriented Part 2 , watch the delightful parts 3 and 4 , and IF you're feeling more adventurous THEN give this move a go and watch the strangest crossover EVER when the hopping vampires meet N ! xau in " The gods must be crazy " parts 3 through 5 DVD Extras : Commentary by Ric Meyers ; a compilation ' Martial Arts Theater ' trailer ; and Trailers for " Running out of Time " , " Dragon Inn " , " Armageddon " , " the Duel " , " Body Weapon " , " Fist Power " , and " Deadful Melody "
For fans of Doug Benson's comedy , be it stand-up or " Best Week Ever " , you'll get more out of this documentary on him as he goes 30 days with weed and 30 days without then other viewers . If one goes into the film expecting an intelligent documentary on the pros Vs . cons of weed you'll be vastly disappointed . One only needs to know that this was made ' in cahoots ' ( the film's words not mine ) with 420 Partners Llc to know which side of the fence this film firmly sits on and thus skews the ' infomation ' in that direction and to suit it's need . Propaganda in a way , not to say it's not ( vaquely ) entertaining in bits and pieces , it is . Just go into the film knowing that it's slanted and you'll be fine .
Kristine DeBell , future co-star of mainstream classics like " Meatballs " and " The Big Brawl " started her career with this musical / porn / comedy take off on the Alice in Wonderland story . Personally I despise musicals ( with the exceptions of " South Park : Bigger Longer and Uncut " , as well as " Labynth " and " Oh brother , where art thou ? " ) , but porn just doesn't vibe well with musical numbers . Still for what it's worth , it's better than the other porns based on fairy tails of the same era ( Ie . " Goldilocks and the Three Bares " , " Sinderella and the Golden Bra " , " The Erotic adventures of Pinocchio " , etc . . . etc ) Might seem tame for those pervs raised on that crappy video-shot no story porn , but it's good for a chuckle or two . My Porn
Del Toro is Aaron Hallam , a Kosovo vet , who loses it killing civilians upon his return stateside . He is soon caught . Tommy Lee Jones is L . T . Bonham , the man who trained Hallam is tasked with capturing him after he escapes from custody . Thus begins a cat and mouse game akin to " First Blood " in spirit if not in brilliance of execution . I guess that this movie was OK , but not really that memorable . Some tense scenes are overshadowed by glaring plot holes and a strong case of Deja vu . Friedkin's previous " Rules of Engagement " was MUCH better . DVD Extras : Commentary by William Friedkin ; 4 featurettes ( Pursuing , Filming , Tracking the Hunted , and the Cutting Edge ) ; 6 Deleted scenes ; Theatrical Trailer ; and Trailers for " Timeline " , " The Core " , and " The Indiana Jones Boxset "
Forced into early retirement due to injuries sustained by Hannibal Lecter ( Anthony Hopkins in his third go around with the role ) when he started to get suspicious of Lecter , now Will Graham is called back in to do what he can to catch a vicious serial killed dubbed ' The Tooth Fairy ' , but he finds that in order to solve this one he must seek help from the good Doctor who had put him out of commission all those years before . This being a remake ( no matter how needless it was ) . It put me in the uncomfortable position of comparing Anthony Hokins and Brian Cox from the original ) I had been able to go years without having to decide who I liked more . I told myself that they each took a different angle to the role and " Silence of the Lamb's and " Hannible " were different animals entirely to " Manhunter " . However now I feel that I have to take a side once and for all . You hold this against " Manhunter " and Brian Cox's brilliant performance wins hands down ( Hopkins being a rather close second ) . With that out of the way , so this Lecter isn't as good . Hopefully the story is enthralling . Well no , not really the story never really gets off the ground . And although the acting is great by all involved , it just felt like the characters were doing what was needed and nothing more to get from point A to B to C . The film IS a big step up from the horrid " Hannibal " , just not anything I'd watch again soon . Perhaps Brett Ratner wasn't the right man for the job . Eye Candy : Marguerite MacIntyre gets topless ( now that's what I call DEAD sexy ) My Grade C+2-disc Special Edition DVD Extras : Commentary with director Brett Ratner and writer Ted Tally ; Musical score commentary with composer Danny Elfman ; 2 featurettes ( Inside The Mind Of A Serial Killer & Anthony Hopkins : Lector And Me ; a 14 minute Making Of ; 7 deleted , 4 alternate & 3 extended scenes with optional commentary ; " Hannibal Lector's FBI Case File And Life History " notes ; Production notes ; Cast & crew biographies ; and trailer for " The Hulk " Disc 2 ) A 40 minute Making Of Red Dragon documentary ; Featurettes on Visual Effects , Screen And Film Tests , Makeup Application , The Burning Wheelchair , & The Leeds ' House Crime Scene ; Untitled short film by Brett Ratner ; Storyboards to final scene comparisons ; Teaser & Theatrical trailers
Christian Bale is Jim Davis , a crazy-eyed Gulf War vet wanna-be Mexican gangster thug living in South Cental partying it up with his best friend Mike ( Freddy Rodriguez ) while Mike's put-upon girlfriend . , Sylvia ( Desperate Housewife's Eva Longoria ) thinks they're looking for jobs . This tale of two friends who don't want to grow up is a slow burner if I ever saw one . Worth watching at least once due to Bale's mesmerizing performance , but from the first minute of the film when we learn of his past in Iraq , we know where the film's headed as well as the fates of it's characters ( war vets are almost always crazy , in the eyes of Hollywood ) , And as such all the tension that could've been in the film is thus removed , leaving the movie to live or die strictly on the power of the respective actors alone . I'll admit before going into the film I was a tad skeptical that Bale could pull of the ' ghetto talk ' his character spouts out for the duration of the film , but he pulls it off quite well . It IS a very well acted film , but at 2 hours the film seems to be content just puttering along at points . And it has a decidedly anti-military feel to it that may put off a lot of people . Those expecting another " Training Day " would be well advised to look elsewhere . DVD extras : Commentary by David Ayers ; 7 deleted scenes ; 5 TV spots for the film ; the movie's theatrical trailer ; and Trailers for the remake of " Black Christmas " , & " School for Scoundrels " , " ( also one of the fu & % ing lame Truth ads that are such a waste of time )
This 7 minute featurette on the sound effects of " Men in Black 2 " can be found on the second disc of the 2-DVD special edition of the aforementioned movie . I was very interested in meeting the Foleys and the interesting ways they make the sound effects . It just seems like a very cool job , but i'm sure like every other job out there that it gets old after doing it for years and years . And they probably believe the their jobs are so very important . Poor deluded fools hahaha ! ! But I digress it does make for a pretty fun and informative featurette and hands down the best extra to be found on the second disc of this DVD set .
Led to believe that Ron Jeremy , Stan Lee & Debbie Rochon were in this ( they're in the Troma re-edit , but not the version that I saw via Netflix on the xbox 360 ) , I decided to give this one a go . It's about Elle ( Cecilia Bergqvist ) and how she gets taken hostage one day by a failed bank robber who holes up in her house while the police ( one of which is Troma's Lloyd Kaufman , always energetic ) . have the place surrounded . he hostage is far from helpless though and has a few plans up her sleeve to turn the tables . Part cop drama / part slasher / part zombie movie , this film is all over the place and as such never truly decides what it wants to be . It's a schizophrenic experience , yet not one without merit ( little as it may be ) There are some parts that shine , but the film as a whole lacks a cohesiveness to make it a good film sadly . Eye Candy : Cecilia Bergqvist gets topless at length multiple times
In order to retrieve a cursed pen that has the power to make the written word into a reality , Ryan and Micki disguise themselves as monks and infiltrate the monastery where the pen and it's owner resides . This was one of the worser episodes of the show . It hasn't yet hit it's stride that it would in just a few episodes . Why Micki would be so skeptical about people who can tell the future , after she just battled a demonic doll is beyond me , as is how any red-blooded male would be fooled into thinking she was a guy . But those qualms aside the idea of the cursed item for this episode was intriguing even if there wasn't too much use made of it . Again I feel the need to reiterate that while Friday the 13 : the series was a very cool show , it didn't really hit the ground running that well , but in subsequent episodes it'll start to really shine . So stick with it .
John ( Jon Favreau ) , a failing out of work actor , hesitantly agrees to transport a mysterious blue suitcase , contents unknown , into the remote desert and deliver it to a mysterious person only known as Cowboy in order to wipe his tremendous debt that he's in . By taking the job he doesn't realize that he's in far the weirdest events n his life ( including but not limited to , a femme fatale , her crazy jealous boyfriend , Kelsey Grammar as a FBI guy investigating a beheading , and more ) in this quirky little subtle comedy that's reminiscent of David Lynch's " Twin Peaks " with a bit of " X-files " thrown in , but not as dark as the former , nor as complex and involved as the latter . Any film that Jon Favreau seems to star in I enjoy ( well except for a small handful that I actively detest , but none because of him ) and while this film is not as great as his other dark comedies that he's starred in ( Very Bad Things and Made ) , it's still perfectly serviceable , with fine performances and is a pretty good first time effort by Director Steve Anderson . Even if it loses some steam towards the end ( and I still can't divorce Kelsey Grammar with his " Frasier " character , no matter how hard I try )
Princess Layme ( Robin Cannes ) hires two bounty hunters to rescue her sister , Princess Orgasma ( Laurie Smith ) from evil Lord Balthazar , but will they be able to withstand the endless sex ' torture ' in this porno parody of " Star Wars " ? Written by Arthur King who also wrote the awful " Ten Little Maidens " , so I was pleasantly surprised that it didn't suck total ass even . Most of the humor works , but the constant flashing to mundane things during the sex scenes ( volcano eruptions , space , etc . . ) But you know what ? It's STILL better than those crappy Lucas-penned " Star Wars " prequels .
There's a plot in there somewhere about two assassins and a girl they both have feelings for . One of them wants to take the number one assassin title from the other . But really this film is just a exercise in style over substance . The thing is the style IS great and it's very fun to watch . Well at least it attempts to get serious . A few nice set-pieces though . DVD Extras : 25 minute Making of ; 23 minute behind the Scenes ; Bios for Andy Lau , Takashi Sorimachi , and Johnnie To ; Theatrical Trailer ; and Trailers for " The Believer " , " the Last Minute " and " Scratch "
A group of juvenile hoodlums overseen by prison guard Jed ( Sean Pertwee , " Dog Soldiers " ) have to fend for there lives after being sent from prison to a secluded island after the death of one of their fellow prisoners . Once there they meet up with a female guard watching over her own female group An unknown person is killing them off one by one ( ok perhaps unknown isn't the right word as it's utterly transparent who the killer is ) While the movie might be filled with the usual stereotypes ( the a-hole , the nerdy guy , the slut , etcetera ) , the plot far from original , and the ' mystery ' of the killer extremely easy to deduce , it's still a fun enough ride thanks to above adequate acting and some rather nifty bits of gore . And while this film ultimately fails to live up to the immense promise that the director showed as in his superior " Deathwatch " , it's still worthy of a watch on a rainy day . Certainly a notch above recent slasher / horror fare . DVD Extras : a conversation with Director Michael Bassett ( 4 minutes , 10 seconds ) ; mini-interviews with 7 members of the cast with a play all option ( 10 minutes in total ) ; a brief 9 minute on the set featurette ; trailer for this film ; and trailers for " Journey to the End of Night " & " A Guide to Recognizing your saints "
Freddie ( Larry Barnhouse ) is a high-school student in the 50's who's perpetually a miss with the ladies . He has all the wrong moves , particularly in regards to his dream girl , Mary Lou ( the always watchable porn great Rene Bond ) To make matter's worse he's a virgin . But his friends ( or as close as he gets to having friends ) attempt to ' help ' him ( ie . steal his money ) with his problem with some ' spanish fly ' . Will this help him win the girl of his fantasies ? ? This is a pretty good Rene Bond vehicle with a surprising lack of money shots . So it's kinda tame for a hardcore film , but thanks to the plot & of course Rene , it remains worth your time . The Goods : 6 sex scenes ( 5 m / f , 1 m / m / f that one's interspersed with plot scenes , going back to the sex every now and then )
From writer William Dancer ( the " Little Girls Blue " films ) and Director Hans Christian , comes this just plain fun ( almost innocent ) porn about students taking final exams before graduation at a private school for girls . These girls will do anything to pass including writing the answers on their tits , seducing the teachers , and getting the janitor ( Tom Byron ) to steal the answers in exchange for the promise of sex . Even with the goof of the highly visible boom mike , them pretending that one of the girls with smallish tits is generously well-endowed , and none of the girls being particularly attractive , this film is still strangely watchable and has an aura of good feeling around it . Which was a nice change of pace as movies of the same ilk at the time were getting heavier theme wise .
Anyone who has seen their fair share of Westerns will know everything that's going to happen in the game plot-wise and even when it's gong to happen . However the game's still fun to play ( while it lasts , as it's on the short side . It's also the smallest ' sandbox ' type game I've played . ' sandbox ' being a go almost anywhere right from the start type of game akin to GTA , True Crime , Saint's Row , Etc . . . etc . . While the longevity and small nature of the game might be detrimental to this game , the great musical score and brilliant voice acting make it worth playing . The 360 version , of which i rented , is much more of a direct port and certainly didn't take hold of the massive potential that the system is clearly capable of . And the achievements which require you to play through the entire game no less then 4 times ( ? ? ! ! ? ) can grow quite tiresome indeed . But since I did get it's still pretty doable . Positives : Voice acting , story , musical scoreNegatives : short , small area to explore My current 360 Gamerscore : 32822 out of a possible 49760
In order to combat over-population , a serum is made to make men sterile for a few years , it works more potently than expected causing the population of guys to remain impotent for life . Now the government must find those precious few of the male species that still have some swimmers in their spunk in this early 70's skin flick . Jokes are made pertaining to the scandals of the time which cause to date this film a tad . But for the most part movie was . . . OK I'm not going to call it good as that's not the right word . The movie is not that awful . Beware it . s chock full of negative stereotypes . A PC film , this one definitely is not . Well at least it has more of a plot than " Deep Jaws " did . Plus ANY film with either Rene Bond or Uschi Digard is never a total loss and this one has BOTH . Something Weird DVD Extras : 15 minute Gallery of Exploitation art with accompanying music ; Trailers for " the All-American Girl " , " Teaser " , " the Damish Connection " , " Terror at orgy Castle " , & " Evil Come , Evil go " ; and Theatrical trailers for this as well as " Deep Jaws ( which is also on the same DVD ) Eye Candy : Pretty much every actress in this film shows everything
Elmer Fudd chases Bugs Bunny into a theater were both of them are forced to act . This isn't my favorite Looney Tunes short by far . It all seems a little off to me somehow and there's no doubt it could have been funnier then it was . More over the ending is a tad on the weak side and I really didn't like Fudd that much in this one , which is a shame as I usually do like him ( well more so than I did here ) . Bugs Bunny isn't really up to par in this short either , for that matter . This animated short can be seen on Disc 4 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 2 .
The film begins with Bruce Wayne ( Christian Bale ) locked inside a Chinese prison . He thinks back on his childhood when he first fell into a bat cave , thus showing us how he got his fear of bats , as well as starting to explain why he choose his symbol of a bat for his eventual costume as a crime fighting vigilant . After his parents are murdered , he first wants to assassinate the guy responsible , Joe Chill . But then just forsakes his birth right and material wealth to find himself . Finding himself involving him leaving as a thief ( but it's OK because he only steals his own stuff I guess , oh except food ) and vagabond which leads him into the aforementioned prison . Ra's Al-Ghul wants Bruce to be part of a clandestine vigilante gang . He trains with them , yet bulks at being a killer of evil man . So he goes back to Gotham to be it's protector . He also has to deal with the Scarecrow . This is the best Batman film since the Tim Burton original , not to say it is without fault as that's not the case . Bale does a MUCH better Bruce Wayne than a Batman , which is merely serviceable , Katie Holmes is pretty much the weak link in this film , and the new Batmobile is . . . well the less said about that the better . It's also slightly longer than it should be and could've used a little trimming . It was entertaining yes , but it's also HIGHLY over-rated right now and doesn't really have any business in the Top 250 , much less the top 100 movies of all time .
Insurance agent , Jun-oh ( jeong-min Hwang ) goes to a house to talk to an insurance client , where he finds the hanging body of the client's son dead of an apparent suicide . But he soon feels that the young lad didn't kill himself , but was killed to get at a sizable insurance payout . When no one else seems to believe him or even care , Jun decides to get to the truth by himself by digging into the past of the troubled family . Let it be noted that I have yet to see " Kuroi ie " the 1999 Japanese adaptation of the same Yûsuke Kishi novel that this film was also based on , so I can't offer up any comparisons . That being said , I found the South Korean version of the story to be captivating enough to keep my attention throughout and marginally well acted . The film plays it's horror out mostly psychologically until it's last 40 minutes when the film goes all out Slasher and the gore becomes much more visceral . I enjoyed and recommend it . My grade : Region 1 DVD Extras : A 21 minute Making of ; Production design featurette ( 7 minute ) ; and 10 deleted scenes
Gary Busey plays Reverand Nolan Powers , a preacher who preaches mainly from his radio show on WGOD . Nolan has a bit of a secret revolving his runaway younger brother whom his mother always loved more then him . Movies and TV shows featuring a less than holy religious feature are pretty much a dime a dozen . However , that being said , this episode is pretty well acted especially by Busey who really seems to dig in to the role . Making it one of the better episodes . The ending is suitably spooky . This is one of the episodes that can be found on disc 2 of Volume 1 of the US release .
Richard Shepard ( Micheal O'Keefe ) crashes at his friend's place after his wife kicks him out . His friend has to leave for New York , but Rich is not alone as he finds a mysterious dog that does his murderous bidding . He also goes bat-spit insane for no apparent reason . I enjoyed this episode even if the ' suprise ' reveal was a foregone conclusion and could be figured out rather early on . Still the acting is good and it's fun enough to be one of the better episodes of the series . This is one of the episodes that can be found on Volume 1 of the US release of the Hitchhiker . It also has optional commentary by Director Phillip Noyce & Lewis Chesler ( who produced 2 episodes of the series , but neither one of them is this , so I don't really get his inclusion ) Eye Candy : Jennifer Cooke gets topless
Aging hard-drinking has-been minor league baseball star Morris Buttermaker ( Walter Matthau ) is hired to coach a ragtag team of misfits known as the Bears in little league . Actually winning a game seems all in vain , until Buttermaker brings in two ringers , Amanda Whurlizer ( Tatum O'Neal ) and Kelly Leak ( Jackie Haley ) . This film is not the modern day classic that a lot of people seem to think it is , but it's enjoyable cute enough . The best part of the film is Chris Barnes as the foul-mouthed Tanner . This is one of the very few films that I have no gripes with being remade , and actually look forward to Richard Linklater's Billy Bob Thornton version ( provided the keep the more un-PC moments intact )
Spike the dog is guarding a watering hole , but he appears to be sleeping on the job . So Tom the cat uses the chance to sneak in hoping to get a little fishing in , using Jerry the mouse as bait of course . But thanks to an over eager fish who wants the mouse badly things don't go as planned . As the fish inadvertently wakes Butch up to get the drop on Tom . I mentioned in an earlier review how I didn't really like the Buzzard / Vulture in Flirty Birdy , well the same can be said about the fish in this one . It's an OK short , but not one of the better ones . This cartoon can be found on disc one of the Spotlight collection DVD of " Tom & Jerry "
The film starts off with a morgue attendant sewing the eyes of a recent corpse shut , when he leaves the copses eyes pop back open . Flash forward two years and Sun-ae returns to South Korea after being abroad in America for two years appearing to be afraid of a ghost , Kyung-ah whom committed suicide , that she believes is following her around and the spirit wants revenge on something that wronged her . Now someone is murdering her friends . The movie alternates between flashbacks and modern day to create quite a good deal of tension throughout . The acting is good and although I pretty much knew where the plot was going fairly often on , I still enjoyed it . Now I'm looking forward to the directors next film , " Phone " which I heard nothing but good things about . Media Blasters DVD Extras : Making of ; Nightmare on Television Promo ; Theatrical Trailer ; and trailers for " Attack the Gas Station " , " Terror Taxi " , " Choking Hazard " , " Rojo Sangre " , " Hiruko the Goblin " , " One Missed Call " , & " Samurai Resurrection " Notes : Comes with a holographic slip cover
Chris ( Desmond Harrington ) is late for a job interview , the highway is backed up so he decides to see if he can find another route . A dead deer cause him to take his eyes of the backroad & hits another car that has Eliza Dushku & friends it it . Now they're lost in the woods of West Virginia with a deranged family after them . This one surprised me as i wasn't expecting much . But it has good scares & keeps you tense thoughout most of the film . DVD Extras : Commentary with Rob Schmidt , Desmond & Eliza ; 2 deleted scenes & a deleted scene dailies ; " Fresh meat the wounds of Wrong turn " docu ; poster concepts ; theatrical trailer ; Making of wrong turn featurette ; Stan Winston featurette ; Eliza : Babe in the words
The last of the cartoons featuring the three bears features Junyer celebrating Father's day much to the chagrin and broken bones of Pa . I have to say that the three bear characters were far from my favorites , but this last one was the best that they ever got . Which granted was a little above average , but that should count for something , right ? This animated short can be seen on Disc 2 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 2 . It also features an optional commentary by Micheal Barrier that is pretty informative , as well as a music and effect only track .
Based on a novel be Patty herself , this film is very suspect on the actual truth , but Director Paul Schrader does a pretty good job at making the film of Hearst's kidnapping by and subsequently joining with the moronic Symbionese Liberation Army compelling throughout the duration of the film . Opting for a seemingly objective approach despite the source material . Nothing new revolving the case will be gleamed for watching this though , and one will take from it the exact same view as what one goes into it with . Personally , I don't or can't sympathize with spoiled rich girl turned violent revolutionary turned praised celebrity Hearst , but I know that there are many that do . Natasha Richardson as Patty gives a serviceable , if nothing special , job . And Ving Rhames gives a good job himself as the cliché spewing leader of the pitifully sad SLA . This movie is also widely known to be the last of Paul Schrader's films to be any good at all , so there's always that . Eye Candy : Natasha Richardson gets topless
The eleventh pairing of Wile E . Coyote and the Road Runner has the ever-determined coyote using the same unreliable methods against the ever-elusive bird , who seems a bit sadistic in this one . The bee gags is funny and even the now predictable gags still bought a smile to my face . And I , as always with these cartoons , found it highly enjoyable , but perhaps I'm a bit biased as Wile E . Coyote is one of my absolute favorite cartoon personalities of all time . This animated short can be seen on Disc 2 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 2 . This cartoon also has an optional music only track .
Witch Hazel is simply delighted to be the ugliest witch ever as told to her by her magic mirror . That is until Bugs Bunny shows up trick-or-treating . The mirror mistaking the rabbit's mask for his real face soon rescinds the title that he gave Hazel as ugliest and bestows it on Bugs . Which of course infuriates Hazel to no end . This is another great Looney Tunes short , and while I was never the biggest fan of Witch Hazel , this is one of the best cartoons with her in it . This animated short can be seen on Disc 1 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 2 . It also features an optional commentary by legendary voice actress June Foray who seems to remember quite a lot . Plus , the short has a musical score and effects only track as well .
After being sent to prison for no less then 10 nor more then 40 years for being busted with drugs and refusing to give up her accomplishes , Jackie ( Erica Gavin of Russ Meyer's " Vixen " and " Beyond the Valley of the Dolls " , in her last film role ) has to get accustomed to life in the big ' doll ' house , or at least try to , in this early film by Jonathan Demme . Due to it's tawdry nature and sheer watchability , I would also rank this as one of his best films , right below " Silence of the Lambs " and " Stop Making Sense " , but so far above any of his other movies . This minor classic is just campy , sleazy , and fun enough to be an amazingly good guilty pleasure and thankfully never once goes overboard into all out parody of the Women In Prison genre . It ALMOST washed out the rancid bad taste of the ludicrously preachy " Philidelphia " from my mouth . However , the film is not without it's downfalls ( the ' un'talent show is a HUGE chore to sit through and goes on far too long , Barbera Steele is sadly wasted , among other small things ) But don't let those gripes stop you from watching an otherwise enjoyable movie . DVD Extras : 5 minute Roger Corman interview ; Cast & crew Bios ; Original Trailer ; and Trailers for " Candy Stripe Nurses " ( with nudity ) , " Big Bad Mama 2 " , " Big Doll House " ( with nudity ) , & " Crazy Mama " Eye Candy : Juanita Brown , Cheryl " Rainbeaux " Smith , Erica Gavin , Roberta Collins , Ella Reid , Lynda Gold , and some others all show skin
Nate ( Richard O'Neal ) goes off on a cattle drive , not before having sex with his wife , Sarah ( Barbara Bourbon ) , of course . After 3 escaped convicts rape her , steal her three nubile daughters and then flee , leaving her strung up by her hands , she of course wants revenge . So when a rag-tag posse chasing the convicts rescue her , she insists on traveling with them . This is a curious film , as a porno / western hybrid , it's the first of it's kind that I've seen . Some may be put off by the highly exploitative showing of rape and incest . But I found myself actually drawn into and interested in what would happen next . The film is a further example of how porn films now shot on video , just don't seem to cut it ( barring , of course , the way above average output of Directors Micheal Zen , Brad Armstrong , and few others ) My Porn
This 69 minute documentary on the making of " the Italian Job " can be found on the Special Collecter's Edition of the aforementioned movie . It's split in 3 parts or you can watch them in a ' play all ' option . The first part " The Great Idea " focuses on the fruition of the story for the movie , the second " The Self-Preservation Society " deals with the supporting cast , and the last segment " Get a Bloomin ' move on " focusing on the cars and music . All these segments feature informative interviews and learning more about the already great movie , made me appreciated the film all the more . Easily among the best documentaries that I've seen . And while it's certainly not in the top echelon ( " Full Tilt Boogie " , " Apocalypse Soon " , " Heart of Darkness " , Etcatra ) It's still worthwhile viewing .
It's been almost two years since Peter Parker ( Tobey McGuire ) became Spiderman and he can't seem to to hold a job , his college grades are falling , and his even him tenacious friendship with Mary Jane is eroding . What's a costumed web-slinging wall crawler to do ? Why , through in the proverbial towel , of course . Peter gets fed up at the constant hassles of him life and decides Spiderman no more . But when Dr . Otto Octavius suffers a freak accident that fuses the mechanical tentacles that he invented to his body and destroyed the inhabiter chip that kept him as the one in charge , changing him into a super-villain whom the Daily Bugle deems Doctor Otopus , the only one that can stop his rampage is Spiderman , but does Parker have the hero spirit still in him ? This film had me feeling divisive . On one hand , Alfred Molina's performance as Dr . Octavious and later Doc Ock is phenomenal , and I have very happy that the campy tendencies of Willem Dafoe as Green Goblin in the first one were nowhere to be found in Molina's portrayal , the action was suitably thrilling ( maybe more so than the first ) , and Bruce Campbell's role of ' snooty usher ' warmed the cockles of my heart . On the other hand , Kirsten Dunst STILL doesn't jibe for me as Mary Jane Watson , even less so in this sequel as she looks sickly hideous , AND annoying . And more people saw Spiderman unmasked than was really feasibly acceptable . But all in all , I did enjoy this film way more than I have gripes about it and I think it was infinitely better than the huge let-down of X-men 2 . 2-Disc Collecter's Edition DVD Extras : Disc 1 ) Commentary by director Sam Raimi , producer Avi Arad , co-producer Grant Curtis and star Tobey Maguire ; Second Commentary by Special FX supervisor John Dykstra and his effects team ; subtitle trivia track ; 4 web episodes ; " Ordinary " music video by Train ; Blooper reel ; Theatrical trailer ; Trailers for " Hitch " , " Spider-man " , " Christmas with the Cranks " , " Spanglish " , " Seinfeld on DVD " , " the Forgotten " , " White Chicks " , and " Hellboy " Disc 2 ) 12-part " Making the Amazing " documentary ; 3 featurettes ( Hero in Crisis , Eight Arms to Hold You , and The Women of Spider-Man ) ; multi-angle ' Pier Sequence ' deconstruction ; artwork gallery ; " Spider-Man 2 " video game preview3 Easter Eggs : Disc 1 ) In the Commentaries menu , there's a hidden spider icon , find it for an introduction by Sam Raimi made for a preview audience in Japan Disc 2 ) go to the Making the Amazing menu and highlight one of Doc Ock's tentacles for a special guest wearing Doc Ock's suit ; Go to the Gallery menu and highlight the invisible Spidey Sences over Spidey's head for Doc Ock singing ' If I were a Rich Man " from " Fiddler on the Roof "
Jennifer Connelly is Sarah , an immature spoiled narcissistic bratty teen whom after wishing her baby brother , Toby , away to the Goblin King ( a great David Bowie , who's a highlight of the film ) and has to traverse a complex labyrinth to get him back learning to be a lot less selfish in the process . Bowie's songs highlight and punctuate a magical film that is sure to appeal to both the young and young at heart . Better then Jim Hanson's other more mature film of the 80's " The Dark Crystal " , because it's a tad more humane and more easily to relate to , but both these films are fun to watch . Loving this film from when I was a kid myself might have shading my opinion of it a bit , yet re-watching it just now , I still find it very enjoyable . Collector's Edition DVD Extras : " Inside the Labyrinth " 56 minute making-of featurette ; Four photo galleries ; posters gallery ; Filmographies ; Storyboards ; Theatrical trailer ; and trailer for " The Dark Crystal box set " Random Notes : Comes packed with animation cell / scene composite card and postcards
Poor Lionel is tried of taking crap from the workers in the building that employs his Custodial services , so he goes on a rampage mutilating anyone who looks at him the wrong way . Mr . Growboi s a fellow janitor who looks to Lional as a son and helps him cover his bloody tracks . However Mr . Growbo isn't someone you should spurn . With horror comedies , they either work or they suck . No middle ground here . Fortunately this one works , coming off as a moderately well acted version of a Troma film ( Lloyd Kaufman even has a cameo ) . It's gory , has gratuitous toplessness , and is frequently quite fun . The character of Lional kinda reminded me of a cross between Peter Jackson circa " Bad Taste " and Orville Ketchum from " Hard to Die " and " Sorority House Massacre 2 " . My hats off to Andy Signore , TJ Nordaker , and everyone else involved in the production . You guys know how to bring a tear to the eye of a drunken jaded exploitative horror fan . Eye Candy : Rachael Ann Bennett , Crystal LeBard , Stephanie Medina , and Tusdi Rodriguez get topless DVD Extras : Commentary by Andy Signore , John Carreon , and TJ Nordaker ; a 58 minute Making of ; " th Office is Closed " short film ; Lackadaisical Music video ; Photo gallery ; Deleted scenes ; and the trailer 2 Easter Egg : Bruce Cronander improvising & missing his cue ; more nudity set to music
A man claiming to be a police detective ( Raymond Karl ) is on the search for a killer whom he believes to be in an apartment building in this 6 minute and 23 second short . He enters Trista Dylan's apartment . I thought I had the ending guessed , but I was wrong , so I enjoyed this short . Plus it doesn't hurt in the least that Trista is very easy on the eyes . I enjoyed that as well . She should star in a feature film , yea I know that she was in " A Little Bit of Lipstick " , but I mean she should be the main player in a movie . She's one to keep on the lookout for . My Short
When Debby Hunt begins cheating on her novelist husband Jeffrey ( Willem Dafoe ) with his publicist Tony of all people , he decides to fake his own death in order to achieve immortality in the literary world and attempt to reconcile his ailing relationship . This doesn't sit well at all with the two adulterous lovers who vow to kill him for real . I enjoyed this episode a lot and had fun with the twists and turns of the story to say any more would spoil a delightful little tale , so i won't . But suffice it to say , if only all or even half of the series was as good as this one was then the show would have been a bonifide classic as opposed to the mild cult classic success that it currently enjoys . This is one of the episodes that can be found on Volume 1 of the US release of the Hitchhiker . It also has optional commentary by Director Carl Schenkel who has pretty much nothing at all to say making it one of the worst commentary tracks that I've ever heard in my life . Eye Candy : Dayle Haddon shows T & A , as well as a rather quick full frontal
A killer is killing coeds and Jane ( Suzy Kendall ) gets stuck in a rented house with him in this VERY unjustly under-rated thriller giallo . The last third of the film when Suzy is trying to hide from the killer is worth the price of admission alone , not to say what comes before that isn't good as well . This Sergio Martino directed film could hang out with the films of Bava and Argento any day . A must for anyone who really loves the genre . My Grade : DVD Extras : International and American Trailers ( one of the few times , i actually like the American trailer better ) Eye Candy : Patrizia Adiutori , Cristina Airoldi , Carla Brait , and Angela Covello all show much flesh
This 39 minute and 40 second documentary can be found on the disc 2 of the Two-Disc Special Edition DVD of Purple Rain , it features interviews with pretty much everyone involved in the movie except Prince himself ( Although not surprisingly , as he hates Warner Brothers ) . Anyway the topics of what the non-actors went through to get the film on the screen , the cultural impact of the movie , the casting , and just the basic genesis of the great film . The featurette was extremely intriguing and highly watchable for any true fan of what is one of the best musical movies ever . ( Not an out right just because of Prince not being involved )
Two hit men ( Riki Takeuchi and Sho Aikawa ) cross paths while pulling off a job . They decide to run a playground and reminisce about their shared childhood . Quite a bit lighter in tone than the original " Dead or Alive " which the sequel has ( apart from the same two lead actors ) nothing in common with . When I say ' lighter in tone ' , I of course mean for a Takashi Miike film . This movie is more about the wonders and joys of children growing up , not yet jaded by how the world really is . Fans of Miike's bizarreness won't be disappointed with it either . I myself like this film more then the first one and is superbly acted . DVD Extras : Theatrical Trailer ; and Trailers for " Dead or Alive " " Dead or Alive Final " , " Sharkskin and Peach Hip Girl " and " Junk Food "
While her husband is away on business , Elain Stone ( Honey Wilder ) attempts to fire Margo and Carl ( Carmel and John Leslie , respectively ) her perverted live-in help , who end up seducing her into a three-way within minutes . While step-daughter , Connie ( Adult film mainstay and Farrah Fawcett look-a-like , Rhonda Jo Petty ) , goes out looking for lust . Oh who am I kidding ? This one doesn't have a plot to summarize , but the sex scenes are pretty hot and look for a young leaner Ron Jeremy , before he became a fatter caricature of himself . Plus Miss Petty is always hot .
Attorney General Hedley Lemar , convinces the simple-minded governor to send Rock Ridge , a dying old western town , a new mayor . The catch being that the new mayor is Bart ( GASP ! ) a Negro ( Cleavon Little , in the role of his lifetime ) . Obviously these racist cracker townsfolk won't stand for this dark uppity day . However Bart , along with his new deputy , a drunken sharpshooter , the Waco Kid ( Gene Wilder , excellent as always ) proves to be a thorn in Hedley's side . This , along with " Young Frankenstein " are the two most crowning achievements of not only Mel Brook's films , but comedy cinema on a whole . Most of the jokes work and the laughs just keep coming no matter how many times you watch it . All the character in addition to the main two are all memorable as well , from Alex Karras as the over-grown , dim-witted Mongo , to Harvey Korman as Hedy . . um . . I mean Hedley , and everyone in between . The non-ending ending , I'm not so much a fan of , bu the rest is gold . 30th Anniversary DVD Extras : ' scene specific ' Commentary by Mel Brooks ( which is really the same POS half-ass one as in earlier versions of this movie ) ; 28 minute & 20 second ' Back in the Saddle ' retrospective ; a small piece on Madeline Khan ; ' Black Bart ' failed pilot ; 9 minutes & 41 seconds of deleted scenes ; and Theatrical Trailer
After rescuing an orphaned young girl in an air-plain crash and a visit from a DEA agent , Dave Robicheaux ( Alec Baldwin ) gets drawn into a rather unfortunate series of events . This film has about as much of a running time as " State of Grace " , but at the same time feels a bit longer , as this movie doesn't flow quite as well as the aforementioned one . It could've definitely stood to have been trimmed up a tad . Yet the acting is adequate enough , there's a great chase sequence and Terri Hatcher has one of the more memorable entrances to say the least . Where I Saw it : Starz Mystery Eye Candy : Terri Hatcher pulls off The full Monty on a balcony
Jerry the mouse , here known as Johann Mouse lives in the house of Viennese composer Johann Strauss . Every time Johann plays his music , the mouse can't help but waltz to the tune . So when the master is away the cat learns to play music . But the servants hear Tom playing and soon enough Tom and the mouse are playing for the Emporer . This short won an Oscar for best cartoon short subject in 1953 and it's easy to see why , because while it's not hilarious , it is amusing , charming , and will bring a smile to your face . This amusing animated short can be found on disc 2 of Warner Brother's 2-DVD Spotlight Collection set .
After Flower Bell Lee ( Mae West ) is run out of town when she's found out for her hanky-panky with the Masked Bandit , she meets con-man Cuthbert Twillie ( W . C . Fields ) on the train that she's departing the town . during an Indian raid . She marries him when she spies a bag full of money on his person . Fields is great as always , even if this is nowhere near his best movie . The story doesn't really go anywhere , but W . C . and to a slightly lesser extent West make it highly watchable none the less . This movie can be found in the W . C . Fields comedy collection , along with , " The Bank Dick " , " You can't Cheat an Honest Man " , " It's a Gift " , " International House " , and " W . C . Fields : Behind the Laughter " DVD Extras : Theatrical Trailer
Time hopping and " Godfather " homages are the order of the day in this prequel to the masterpiece of Infernal Affairs 1 . Helping to flesh out the back story of Ming , Yan , Inspector Wong and future Triad boss Sam . Sam's rise to power is damn good , and Francis NG really came into his own with this film and proved he definitely has the chops as a rival Triad boss whom both sides want taken down . Also it's interesting to see how the rising of the ' bad guys ' corresponds with the downfalls and hardships of the ' good guys ' . Lines are blurred further then they were in the first film . But this film is very impenetrable if one hasn't seen the first film ( and if you haven't , shame on you go buy / rent it NOW ) , hell it's still a tad confusing even if you did . And the original's fast pace is replaced by more of a methodical slow-burn ( not to be mistaken for boring as this film is definitely not that ) . Despite the differences , this film remains the same awesome quality as the original and comes highly recommended
Billy Bob Thorton ( who also wrote and direct ) plays Karl Childers , a mentally slow retard who recently gets out of the nut-house after living most his life there , on account of murdering his cheating mother and her lover . On the outside he befriends a boy and his single mother and winds up living in their garage despite the grievances of the mother's drunk hateful boyfriend . The late John Ritter is also on hand as a friend of the family who's kinda funny . Not funny ha-ha , funny queer . The movie moves along slower than Karl himself . But the brilliance of this film isn't the destination , which is predictable , if inevitable . But rather to marvel at the superb acting that is on display throughout . This director's Cut is among the better ones , adding in footage that actually makes the film that much more powerful . Miramax Collector's Edition DVD Extras : Disc 1 ) Commentary by Billy Bob Thornton ; and Trailers for " Bride and Prejudice " , " Dear Frankie " , and a compilation trailer of various Miramax films . Disc 2 ) " Mr . Thornton Goes To Hollywood " documentary ; " Bravo Profiles : Billy Bob Thornton " ; A 65 minute Roundtable Discussion with Billy Bob Thornton , Dwight Yoakam , Mickey Jones , and producer David Bushell ; " A Conversation with Billy Bob Thornton and Robert Duvall " ; " A Conversation with Robert Duvall " ; " A Conversation with Billy Bob Thornton and composer Daniel Lanois " ; " The Return of Karl " short ; Behind the scenes footage ; deleted scene , with introduction by Billy Bob Thornton ; and 3 Sling Blade newspaper reviews
Before Amber Lynn as Jane Bond took on the sexual shenanigans of Golden Rod , she met up with the sexy Asian villianess Octopussy ( hey they didn't even have to change the original Ian Fleming name for this one ) . Octo , or Miss P to her fiends , I would guess ) is played delightfully by Kristara Barrington and plans to use a sex ray to take over the world . As much as I adored the sequel to this , I must admit , this film is even better . A very fun story , some amazingly hot sex ( Amber Lynn is always hot ) , a catchy theme song , and the fact that the movie never wears out it's welcome make this a Bonerfied lost classic . The only fault I can conceivably think that it has , was that it had Mauvis in it , I find her pretty UN-sexy to say the least , but her participation is kept at a minimum so don't let that dissuade you from this hidden treasure of a film .
The original & arguably the best of all vigilante films ! ! Charles Bronson is a knee jerk lib , until a trio of scumbags ( including a young Jeff Goldblum ) rape his daughter and murder his wife , then he becomes a vigilante . I have a confession to make , I never saw any of the Death Wish movies before . I've been meaning to for a while now , but nope , never got around to it till today . With that out of the way . Death Wish 1 is a pretty good flick . Well it starts off good at least & was enjoyable through most of it , but the ending was a tad too silly . My Grade : A-Where i saw it : 5 Star Max
The third film I got to watch at the philly film fest was this outstanding drama from Japan . After breaking out of prison nine escaped convicts plan to find the " key to the universe " that a tenth convict who didn't break out told them about . Along the way we get to know each of these men fairly well . Each has their own dreams . For much of the movie it seems to be mostly a comedy , but a shift takes place that the film ends up a tragedy . All of the actors give great performances . I can't say much more without spoiling the film , but suffice it to say that you end up feeling for some of these individuals . At 2 hours , this film is a tad to long , but good none the less . I have no qualms recommending it with the warning that it does have a bit unsettling violence for the tender-hearted . Toshiaki Toyoda hit a home-run this time out , and it makes me want to search out his prior films as well as look forward eagerly to his future ones .
Tom the cat is giving Jerry the mouse more trouble then usual , so he sends a telegram to his cousin Muscles to come help him as soon as possible . What a great violent ( even for a Tom and Jerry cartoon ) short . Definitely one of the classics in my mind . It was nominated for an Oscar as best animated short in 1951 , but just like " Sunset Blvd . " ( the best picture nominee of the year ) , it was cheated out of winning by a less superior product . Stupid Academy Awards . This hilarious classic cartoon can be found on disc two of the Spotlight collection DVD of " Tom & Jerry "
Being an avid reader of " Punisher " , I was waiting to see this film for quite some time . Opting to see it over going to the second half of " Kill Bill " ( which I'll wait for video as I don't like being out 15 bucks to see ONE film , but that's a story for a different day ) . Thomas Jane does do a pretty good job at playing Frank Castle ( an ex-FBI agent who is out for revenge when everyone of his relatives die ) , . MUCH better then Dolph . And Travolta wasn't THAT hammy , but having such high expectations , I couldn't help but be let down a bit . Now , I'm not one of those nuts who whine when any little thing is changed from the comic book character & Frank's background being different didn't bother me . I was off-put by Castle's wisecracks , some of them cringe worthy . The sequel still holds big possibility , and I'd still implore you to see this one , so another one can be made . Just don't expect anything more than a slightly above average action flick & you'll be fine . I DID love the fight with the Russian though and it's easily the highlight of the film . My Action Movie
