" Baby Geniuses " catches a rare glimpse of Christopher Lloyd in a bad acting rut . I never would think it possible after watching " Back to the Future " or " Taxi , " but ' tis true . " Baby Geniuses " is one to miss . If you liked this movie , you'll lo-o-ove " Kazaam " ! stars - John Ulmer
This show is literally depressing to watch . I've seen two or three episodes now , and wish I hadn't . After they were over , I was disgusted . Essentially this is just a TV show where a camera crew follow around the " Playboy Bunnies " in the Playboy Mansion . If you don't know what Playboy is , who Hugh Hefner is , what Playboy Bunnies are , or anything about porn , chances are you will have no interest in this whatsoever . I know all of the above and it still made me feel sick . Obviously a certain portion of this is scripted for dramatic effect and viewer appeal but , I think , probably very little . These bleach-blonde bimbos are incredibly stupid , selfish and appalling . Yeah , they're hot . But when they open their mouths , you feel like vomiting . It's kind of sad to see Heff ( at age 79 ) courting these girls . The Head Bunny , a . k . a . " Heff's Girlfriend , " is probably no older than 30 . All the girls kiss him and he fondles them . . . twenty years ago Heff was a god . Now , he looks like one of those disgusting old pervs in shopping centers who stare at young girls all day . He's the type of guy you want to call the cops on . And he's loose in his own mansion surrounded by dozens of beautiful women . Likewise , they are taking advantage of him - they know he'll die soon and they're really milking his old-age for all its worth . They get free rooms as well as free food and the best thing of all : they get paid for being sexy and rich ! The richer and more beautiful they are , the more they get paid . The more they show , the more they get paid . Apparently , all they have going for them is their looks - they are dumber than I don't know what . They are so stupid some of the episodes are painful to watch . They made me feel sick in my stomach - the Bunnies are gorgeous ? Sure . But good god , they're ridiculously dense . In my opinion , the only " plus " about this show is that we get a rare glimpse inside the Playboy Mansion . . . but ol ' Heff will be dead in a few years , and supposedly according to his own wishes the mansion will soon thereafter become open to the public . Now THAT will be fun .
The entire concept of a huge fat talking dinosaur visiting children during schooltime hours to give them a way to pass the time is the typical American response to short attention spans . Apparently recess isn't good enough for kids from the States so they have to be entertained by a purple rubber suit . Nevertheless it spawned hundreds of millions in revenue and for a few years ( mainly the early-to - mid-nineties ) Barney the Dinosaur ( TM ) ( C ) ( R ) was THE children's representative . The show was a runaway success and the merchandise sold stupendously well . Unfortunately ( or rather fortunately ) by the time this film rolled around in 1998 Barney had already hit the slippery slide downwards and the movie generally flopped in theaters . The hype was low and the response was decent , if that . I remember reading some OK reviews of the film back in ' 98 but I rest assured that those critics were merely smoking crack . This is one of the most terrible films ever made and even as kids ' entertainment it is intellectually insulting . The acting is atrocious ( it's got the kid from Jurassic Park 3 in it when he had even less acting skills ) and the whole idea of some big , fat , annoying guy in a dinosaur costume playing with kids for two hours strikes me as a bit Michael Jackson-ish . Victor Salva probably went to see this a few times when it came out , too .
I don't think anyone can say that Steven Soderbergh hasn't broadened his range of directorial efforts . We've had horror ( " Out of Sight " ) , drama ( " Erin Brockovich " ) , gritty realism ( " Traffic " ) , comedy ( " Ocean's Eleven " ) , and now romance in " Solaris , " a film that blew me out of the water - in terms of I was so surprised it sucked . I think this may be the very first film that Steven Soderbergh made that is bad - followed by that stinky " Collinwood " movie . It is a nod towards Stanley Kubrick , but most of the film - especially sequences like the docking ship - just seem like hopeless rip-offs . James Cameron was originally going to write and direct this film , but then Soderbergh jumped on board so Cameron produced it . I wish they had let him write and direct it . Not only would it have been much more . . . hmm . . . how should I put it . . . INTERESTING , it would also be about ten times more meaningful than this sorry mess . The film ( based upon a novel and previous film titled " Solaryis " ) takes place sometime in the future , when a pshrink named Chris Klein ( George Clooney ) is sent to a space station on the planet Solaris to rescue a crew of space explorers . Once there , he realizes why no one wants to leave . Chris ' dead wife comes back to him in the space station - she looks real , she feels real , she acts real - but she is undoubtedly an image from his memory , extracted by the mysterious planet . Soon he realizes that he cannot take her back to earth , and he must cope with the fact that she must be destroyed . But she seems so real he refuses to do so . Oh my , the suspense , the suspense . What an intriguing idea we have , completely wasted with an incompetent script and style of direction . The characters act weird throughout . For example , when Chris first arrives at the space station and finds people dead , he also finds a survivor named Snow . Chris doesn't seem to ask many questions . He asks what happened , and the Snow character ( who is also very weird ) doesn't answer correctly . Chris just kind of walks away , and finds another survivor . Once again , he gets no answers . So what does he do ? He goes to sleep . Everyone in this movie just acts weird . I can't describe it in words - they just don't act right . Even the humans . This may very well be George Clooney's most washed-out performance to date . And the actor who played Snow , Jeremy Davies , is one of the worst actors I have ever seen . He plays the exact same characters ( notice the similarities to his character in " The Million Dollar Hotel " to his character in " Solaris " ) . In fact , " Solaris " is a lot like " The Million Dollar Hotel . " I hated that movie with a personal vengeance . On the DVD commentary track for " Solaris , " James Cameron said , " If I had made it there would be a lot more car chases , more gunfights . " Quite honestly , I wish there were . Cameron would have made this film interesting , with or without violence and extravagant special effects , even . Soderbergh simply makes a melodramatic snoozer that is as boring as it is odd and ridiculous . stars - John Ulmer
The Addams Family came out in 91 , and it was a huge hit . Then the sequel came out 2 years later in 93 , also being a hit . Now number 3 is out , the Addams Family Reunion , a horrribly stupid bad acted ( except for Tim Curry and Daryl Hannah ) movie . The plot was stupid , the characters were ALL different . Now I know they had to get rid of the kids from the first two , because as you can see Wednesday who was played by Christina Ricci in the first two is now an adult , making movies like Sleeping Hollow . But they could of casted better Wednesdays and Pugsleys for the Reunion , I mean these kids could not act at all and everything thy did was stupid . Uncle Fester who in the first 2 was played by Christopher LLoyd ( and brilliantly may I add ) , now they have some hyper active freak who goes around yelling and screaming like a two year old doing stupid pranks . . . It was then that it hit me , this new movie was not intended to be a sequel to the previous two . It was supposed to be a movie about the new Fox show " THE NEW ADDAMS FAMILY " , and no way related to the old Addams family . This movie was a huge flop and dissapointment and no wonder they decided to put it on video . If they had released it in the theater it would of made absolutely nothing and they would've gone broke . stars , it was horribly stupid , and I mean HORRIBLY stupid of a movie to make . . . .
Facts about National Lampoon Goes to the Movies , a . k . a . National Lampoon's Movie Madness : 1 . The movie is poor , even by Lampoon's typical standards . 2 . It's not funny . 3 . No one goes to see a movie . So , after I finished watching it , I began wondering why on earth it's called ' National Lampoon Goes to the Movies , ' and why it was ever conceived , much less actually made . It would be like calling Austin Powers ' An American Guy Goes to the Movies . ' How lame . He isn't American , and he doesn't go to movies . None of the characters in Lampoon's so-called ' satire ' are funny , and none go see movies , which causes a bit of a problem . I had hoped it would be something in the vein of Mystery Science Theater 3000 , but it isn't . This was National Lampoon's first film after Animal House , although you couldn't tell it from the quality of film . Poorly developed , rough and amateurish by any standard , it induces headaches ? not a good sign for an 89-minute movie that seems double the length . I've noticed a pattern . Really bad movies are typically renamed ? and this little disaster falls under that category . It has two separate titles - - probably to help try and promote it to people too stupid to remember how bad a panning it received from home video critics in . ' Hmm , Movie Madness ? I've never heard of this movie before ! Let's rent it ! ' And then , the realization : ' Hey , wait a minute , this is just National Lampoon Goes to the Movies ! ' It was shelved by MGM / UA , never to be released into theaters or DVD ; it occasionally pops up on television a few times per decade , which is just about the only place you'll manage to find it . It's split up into three stories ? a parody of self-enlargement videos , butter and corporate ruthlessness , and police brutality / cop-buddy films ( I guess ) . The first segment stars Peter Riegert ( Animal House ) as a frustrated guy who divorces his wife and does some other stuff . I'm not sure what because it was so boring my mind started to drift . Until the sex scene popped up . Part II is about an exotic dancer raped by a stick of butter ( don't ask ) who decides to become Queen of the Margarine so she can cut off the supply of dairy products . Ouch ! This contains the only funny line in the movie : ' Only I can make love with my son ! ' If you think that doesn't sound very funny , you're right ? it's not . And just imagine ? it's the highlight of this film ! Part III is about a cop who chases down a serial killer ( Christopher Lloyd ) only to lose his nerve and shoot the guy . It does contain one funny scene but it's extremely over-acted ? only Lloyd really exhibits any humor , playing his character dry and compassionate , yet strangely surreal . The part where he's choking his victim and the meek cop stands by watching it all unfold , at least , evoked a chuckle or two . It's a shame to watch such a cast of semi-famous names resort to low standards . The writers of each segment clearly believe that they're being very ironic and clever by spoofing so-called stereotypes ? the fault being that the movie becomes one huge contradiction , favoring the standard T & A instead of plot ; crude humor instead of witty dialogue ; desperate performances instead of inspired ones . It's easy to see that none of the actors were enthralled with the material , muttering their lines , often so embarrassed they can seldom make eye contact with the camera . The movie isn't funny , as I said before . I laughed once , at only one line , and even then it was a halfhearted one . Two chuckles , a smile , and a very weak laugh . Compared to Movie Madness , a number of other decent comedies seem like regular laugh tracks . I like National Lampoon's Vacation series ( or , at least three of four installments ) , and their classic Animal House , but their recent slew of direct-to-video bombs such as Golf Punks ( with that great comic genius Tom Arnold ) provide a good example of why their magazine went out of print more than a decade ago . It gets really old , really fast . Sad to see a new film , called Gold Diggers , is being released with their ' stamp of approval . ' It's like condemning a film before it even hits theaters ? maybe they should start not advertising their name all over the place ? Distributor : ' This movie is bad . It gets the National Lampoon stamp of approval . That'll teach you not to make something so awful next time . ' Forget the death penalty . Just stick a bunch of criminals in a room and make them watch this over and over every day for a month . It's so bad that I can't even begin to explain its putrid vileness . I give up .
The film opens with this hot chick stripping down completely nude and starting to take a bath . I thought , " Oh boy , here we go . " A few seconds later she hears something outside . She says , " Who's there ? " and runs outside the room ( scantily clad , mind you ) to see who it is . She's chased outside by a homicidal maniac and runs through the woods , her robe falling off and revealing more pointless nudity . Finally she lures the monster into a circle of gunfire from a SWAT team who finally manage to kill Jason ( apparently repetitive gunshots make him implode on impact ) . Then this balding man pats the half-naked girl - - who is now revealed to be a brainy cop - - on the back and says something like , " Good work , Sergeant , we'll get a promotion for you ! " Meanwhile she's standing around naked with only a robe . For a moment I thought to myself , " This is either going to be the worst movie ever made , or a clever parody of its predecessors . " I mean , either the whole nudity part with the female cop was just there for the sake of nudity , or it was a parody of the fact that every " Friday the 13th " movie has at least one scene of gratuitous female flesh . Unfortunately my first assumption was correct . This is an awful movie . It only gets worse and worse as time goes on . It's entertaining , sure , in a so-bad-it's-hilarious kind of way . The characters are all clichéd to the point of nausea and the killing scenes are so standard it's like doing a paint-by-numbers , it's already mapped out for you ahead of time . This isn't the worst film ever but it's certainly a very bad , cheesy , poorly acted , amateurish title in the " Jason " series and the fact that it was indeed NOT the last " Friday the 13th " film is rather ironic in itself .
" Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man " is total crap at its best ( or worst ) . This movie is garbage ? excessive and stupid . It's also extremely homoerotic , packed to the gills with fetishistic male machismo , sweaty muscular men , and Don Johnson constantly wearing an open shirt . ( By the way , he's nicknamed Cowboy . Hmm . ) In the opening sequence , Harley Davidson ( Mickey Rourke ) is cruising along on his bike . He stops for gas , and when he enters the station , there's a hold-up going on . He strides up to the front and asks for ten bucks ' worth of gas . The robber shouts something at Rourke to the effect of , " You idiot , I'll kill you ! " Rourke keeps his cool , whips the gun out of the dude's hand and smashes his face in . The other robber , a knife-wielding weirdo straight out of a Joel Schumacher movie , screams : " I'm gonna cut you long , hard and deep ! " Now , is this what one heterosexual male would say to another man ? No way . Need I mention he takes a swipe at Rourke like a pansy ? The movie is one of those absurd , bright , eccentric late ' 80s / early ' 90s hybrids , where the neon glow of the past decade carried on into the hard , visceral dimension of 1990s cinema ? resulting in , for lack of a better word , schlock . During the aforementioned holdup , the camera pans down to the hostages of the store ? two black guys , both looking very stereotypical , and one looking a bit like Steve Urkel ( complete with the glasses ) . It's just awful , awful stuff ; and the vibrant colors of the clothing , backgrounds and foregrounds are dizzying and nausea-inducing . The dialogue is atrocious . Example : Harley : Where are you headed ? Beautiful Hitchhiker : Nowhere in particular . Harley : Well , let me take you there . It's spoken so poorly , it becomes the punch line of an unintentional joke . Avoid this movie at all costs ; unless you enjoy movies that are so bad they're good . In that regard , " Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man " is a classic . Graded as a regular movie , it's complete garbage . P . S . I'm a huge fan of Mickey Rourke so I secretly think this movie rules to a degree of coolness because he's such a bad @ $$ in it . But it's still stupid and insulting .
Some SpoilersTo set the record straight , I tend to overrate films from Adam Sandler , Rob Schneider , and the rest of the " SNL " - gone-film crew . Why ? I am not sure . Was I the only one who found " Happy Gilmore " hilarious ? Apparently so . Am I the only one who thought " Big Daddy " was crude but had a heart at its core ? It would appear so . But sometimes , on very rare occasions , the comedies just don't cut it for me . I thought " Billy Madison " was mediocre , with sporadically funny gags throughout . And I went into ex - " SNL " - comedian Rob Schneider's newest flick , " The Hot Chick , " expecting to give the film a " 3 " out of 5 . Or at least a " 2 . 5 . " But as the film proceeded , my expectations quickly dropped . Along with my final rating for the film . Filmed about ten years too late for its own good , " The Hot Chick " is your average comedy about body switcheroos , in honor of " Freaky Friday " and " Vice Versa . " Actually , it's not your average comedy . It's a below-average comedy . To call it average is too high an honor . The film stars Rob Schneider as a dirty thief who finds a mysterious earring one day after a robbery . At home he tries it on ( for purposes untold ) , to find himself switching bodies with the girl , named Jessica , who lost them , or , I should say , lost " it , " as she still holds the other earring . On her ear . Jessica stole them earlier that day from a store specializing in odd things , co-run by druggie Adam Sandler , who likes to tell people where you can hide " weed . " Funny . Believe it or not , it's one of the only gags I laughed at . Not the weed gag . I laughed at Adam Sandler dressed up as a weirdo . Ha . Unbelievably funny . Not . The problem with " The Hot Chick " is that not only does it aim way below the belt for humor , but the humor is nonexistent . Even the one scene I laughed hard at was disgusting , in which Rob Schneider ( who is really a woman inside a man at this point ) , takes lessons on how to urinate from an elderly black man in a restroom . The scene was quite amusing before they had to go into detail . Just when you think the film cannot dig any deeper below the belt , it manages to , and you feel like vomiting . But , as I said before , " The Hot Chick " has other problems , also . One of the problems is the missed comedy moments . So many things could have been poked fun of . Back-and-forth shots of Schneider in a woman's body and the woman in Schneider's body would have been funny , but we feel cheated as we are just shown Jessica in Schneider's body doing stupid , repetitive things in every scene . She's in the bedroom of her friend's house most of the movie . But I ask myself , how funny would it have been had Jessica , in a man's body , gone out and done tons of things . Sure , she does some things , like trying to get a free drink by doing something provocative for an employee - while she's in Schneider's body - but I felt most every joke was a lesser laugh than it could have been , and there should have been a lot more things overall that could have been done given the circumstances . Let's face it : Jessica's friend asking to see her friend's newly aquired . . . err . . . " you know what " isn't funny the first time , much less the fourth time . It's stupid . But that's what we get throughout the film , instead of intelligent , witty jokes . And the characters ! They're all cardboard-cut-outs , living in a fantasy world . The comedy doesn't have any real characters doing funny stuff ; the things they say and do seem straight out of someone trying to entertain friends , not world-wide audiences . It's as if the characters are disconnected ; just there to do crude things ( like the romantic tension between a high school girl , who knew Jessica before she turned into Rob Schneider . The girl who knew Jessica before she transformed then falls in love with Schneider . . . who is really Jessica . . . and kisses him . . . or her . . . confused yet ? ) . They're a bunch of disconnected , wandering jokes that aren't even funny . I can see how some of the things may have looked funny on paper , but the truth is , the script , co-written by Schneider , doesn't successfully make the transition from paper to film . Take , for instance , a scene where Rob Schneider's character is sprayed by pepper-spray in the face , and then proceeds to stumble down a set of stairs . Welcome to close ups of Schneider's face smacking the steps . And just when you think the gag - which was terrible in the first place - has been stretched to its limit , Schneider falls down another set of stairs . Unbelievable . I tried to be fair to this film . I really did . I sat down with an open mind , as I tend to enjoy these types of comedies . But what I got was a bunch of dull characters doing dull , unfunny things , that seem contrived from the beginning . Perhaps if there had been a bit more thought put into the script this film would have turned out funny , but instead , I left saying , " This is soooooo ten years ago ! " stars - John Ulmer
TV version of " Twister " springs a few leaks but manages to remain watchable . My sister bought this at a Wal-Mart a few years back when it was released , I saw it back then and thought it was okay . Later " Twister " with Bill Pullman and Helen Hunt comes out ( or was it before ? I think it was ' 97 ) and did a better job overall . But " Twister " was more silly fun ; this is realistic with a message . It all depends on what you want from a movie with twisters : Twisters , or a low-budget character study ? John Schneider and Devon Sawa ( he's the reason my sister bought it ) star , and Devon Sawa , who went on to " Wild America , " " Final Destination " and " Slackers " got his big break here . So in a way , I was one of the first people to see him really take off . I don't know if it's an honor or a shame , I haven't seen how he acts in recent films . " Night of the Twisters " all depends on personal taste , like I said , it all depends on what you want from a movie with twisters : Twisters , or a low-budget character study . " Night of the Twister " has the latter . So you decide . I give it a . . . - John Ulmer
When this was being advertised on TBS back in 2001 , every single ad featured Mel Gibson and Jet Li's names . They were only producers , but you wouldn't know it by the extent to which their names were featured . I thought the film looked good back then - some kind of " Matrix " / " Highlander " clone , maybe , but it still looked kinda interesting . Well , I was wrong . From the opening - with this angelic warrior being pursued by , and then fighting , Billy Zane - the film only becomes worse and worse . It copies " The Matrix " mercilessly - from the wannabe philosophy that stems throughout every scene to the slow-motion sword fights . Billy Zane gives an embarrassingly dull performance and the rest of the cast - mostly B-movie actors or TV actors - don't help any . The plot is silly to begin with . The Shadow Warriors are trying to bring an end to the world - replace " Shadow Warriors " with any other bad guy name from another psycho-baddie movie and you've got the exact same plot . Billy Zane assembles together a group of warriors to help defend earth against the Shadow Warriors . The ending of the film is so laughable it's almost painful to watch . I would never sit through this again and certainly would never recommend it to anyone else . " Invincible " to criticism it is not .
There's more to this movie than t & a . It was really made famous during its release because Tom and Nicole split . I doubt this was coincidental - they knew that splitting would cause more controversy over an already-controversial film . I'm not saying that they only split up because they wanted more attention for their film , but I have a feeling that they would have split up much sooner if not for the film . ( Rumor has it they were bickering during filming and had to have instructions on how to create sexual tension , although Cruise - always quick to put down lurking insinuations of his sexuality - denied this . ) It is the late , great Stanley Kubrick's last film , and one of his worst , but it is unfairly regarded as an X-rated R-rated movie ( so to speak ) when it really is a piece of tame masterwork . It's not as great as A CLOCKWORK ORANGE ( 1973 ) , 2001 ( 1968 ) or my personal favorite of Kubrick's , THE SHINING ( 1980 ) , but it's better than FULL METAL JACKET ( 1987 ) and beautifully filmed . The plot : Cruise and Kidman are married in the film . She admits to him one night after getting stoned that she almost slept with a military figure years ago , so her husband haves a minor breakdown and slips into a bizarre sexual odyssey . The movie is packed with nudity and sex and even the advertising had an aroma of sleaze surrounding it , but it really is an important piece of work , and significant in the fact that it was Kubrick's final farewell to cinema . I wouldn't say it's underrated but I think that it's misinterpreted - it's far more than just a sleazy sex story with two huge sex symbols . Sure , watching Nicole shed her clothes off is great , but to say that's the ONLY point of the film is absurd . Quoting the tagline for AMERICAN BEAUTY : " Look closer . . . "
Having taken a slight interest in the story of Aileen Wuornos , I was appalled by " Monster " because it does no justice to her story . To be fair , Charlize Theron gives a good performance as Wuornos , but after seeing Nick Broomfield's " The Selling of a Serial Killer " ( 1992 ) I realized just how biased and dishonest the film adaptation " Monster " is . Patty Jenkins does have a clear agenda to push which is this : Aileen wasn't a bad person , it was men that made her that way because she was abused by them . It's true , yes , but that doesn't negate what she did - - she still murdered innocent people and " Monster " really tries to gloss over some of this . Second of all , my big problem with the film is that it spends so much unnecessary time on the relationship between Aileen and her lover , played by Christina Ricci . It's true , they were involved together , but the movie stops midway to focus on the trials and tribulations - - trying to add depth to the characters - - and fails ( or at least it did for me ) because I soon lost interest in the " love story . " In fact this is yet another case of the film glossing over events - - most of the stuff involving the two in this movie is completely made up . I would have preferred a less biased viewpoint on the matter . Although Broomfield's documentary is also very biased ( on Channel 4 he even provided a post-chapter where he explains Aileen was just troubled and not aware of what she was doing ) it is far more truthful to Aileen's story . Her story is a true American tragedy and to see it glossed over by Hollywood like this , added on top of lies and a biased agenda , is really a shame . A lot of people are going to disagree with me on this but I can't hide my dislike for " Monster " and the disappointment I suffered after seeing it .
I'm a big fan of Arnie . I've never liked any of the " Conan " films . I think they're both campy , stilted , poorly acted , silly , unimaginative , dire , boring . I don't like swords-and-sworcery flicks , either , so maybe that has something to do with my dislike for the movies . Arnie returned in 1984 after the success of the first film to play Conan again . The sad fact ? The first film was at least rated R - this is friggin ' PG ! Which means no blood , no guts , no sex , no unnecessary brutal shots of decapitation and gruesome murders . ( Kidding about the last two . Or am I ? ) Arnie didn't like this film when it was released and supposedly didn't even want to film it . It didn't flop , surprisingly - overseas it did better than in the States ( as many of Arnie's films that performed badly in the US did - including " End of Days " ) but it probably deserved to . It's even worse than the first film , which I for one thought was quite boring to begin with .
I guess before production started on this it was Joel Schumacher's goal to cast the most unsuitable actors in the roles of the singers . Gerard Butler , as the titular Phantom , couldn't sing if his life depended on it - every time he hits a high note ( or any note , for that matter ) his voice sounds like a whale bellowing under the ocean , or a 90-year-old letting some wind loose . It's pretty upsetting . Emmy Rossum is better but she's no kid wonder , either . Speaking of kid wonders - did anyone else get weird pedophilic vibes from the Phantom's relationship with Rossum ? I mean , she looks like she just got out of high school . Oh wait , that's because she did . Schumacher probably purposely cast bad singers to make it " more realistic " and " different " from the stage show . Well guess what Joel , you succeeded - this movie stinks . He's got his " Batman and Robin " - esquire awkward camera angles going on , and he even crams modern special effects into it - in a " Phantom of the Opera " film ! Can you believe it ! The man is mad ! Apart from the poor direction , awful singing and bad acting ( when people are actually talking and not singing , that is ) there's the fact that the film is just plain boring . If you want to see " Phantom of the Opera , " here's some advice - go to London , watch the musical . It's great . Or , if you're too lazy , buy a recording of the musical . Just don't buy this . On an aside note , the last time Joel Schumacher made a good film was in 1993 with " Falling Down . " I'm still waiting for something as good as that . He needs to tackle outrageous material , because that's what he is - an outrageous director . When he gets his hands on normal stuff - Batman or , say , the Phantom of the Opera - his insanity spreads into the material itself . Then we have Bat-nipples and singing whales , and we don't want that .
I really wanted to see this film - I thought the plot was really unique and intriguing . A cop ( Andy Garcia ) has a son who is dying and needs bone marrow replacement in order to live . The only match is a convicted serial killer , who escapes from jail . To save his son he has to track down the killer . Michael Keaton plays the convict in one of many disappointing aspects of the film . Keaton is a great actor at times but here he is pretty much boring . It's over-the-top to the point where you just stop caring . Garcia is better but tries too hard for a film that isn't up to par . Barbet Schroeder ( at one time such a promising director with films like " Barfly " that amounted to pretty much nothing in the American market ) directs well enough - I honestly thought the script was the culprit here . . . it's just a big mess . The film ultimately wastes a lot of good material , good actors and a good director - all because of a faulty script . What should have been a tense and thought-provoking film is just a Hollywood action dud .
" Lock , Stock and Two Smoking Barrels " ( 1998 ) has become something of a cult classic ( particularly in the UK ) and has a devout fan following . In the wake of the Quentin Tarantino self-knowing genre imitators this is one of the few to stand apart from the rest and make a name for itself . Unfortunately that's all it really is - - a Tarantino imitator . It's entirely coincidental that it's had any more of an impact than , say , " The Way of the Gun , " or other failed Tarantino spawns . There have been some people on the IMDb message boards saying , " . . . Tarantino just rips people off so how can this be a rip off of Tarantino ? " Tarantino does indeed rip off , or " borrow , " other filmmakers . But his visual style is a distinct one - - his raw , edgy , down-to-earth directorial style with the dark shades and grungy grain - - and " Lock Stock " copies this way too often . Guy Ritchie got his start in TV commercials and that's very clear . I suppose most Americans wouldn't be able to tell since the commercials in America are so stupid and banal . In the UK , commercials ( particularly those such as the Stella Artois ads ) tell stories and have a clear visual edge that is lacking in the US . Ritchie's style is identical to the sensuous and dark adverts being broadcast in the UK . The camera angles , styles and hand-cam shots are all straight from TV ; the gambling sequence where a character's head is blurred and spun around , or when the camera bursts out of a cook's boiling pot of water , are straight from the tube ; Ritchie's background is instantly recognizable . In my opinion , it's not a good style for film ; it's like a mix between Soderbergh and Tarantino , and I don't like it much . ( Although admittedly it's great for adverts . ) This picture is alive , sure , because of the TV-style flair . But that doesn't mean it's any good . To be totally honest I found it to be a huge bore and a wannabe Tarantino flick crossed with Irvine Welsh . I couldn't care less about any of the characters . I liked Jason Statham the most , but the others are introduced so poorly , and examined so recklessly , that I quickly lost track of their traits and felt as if I was - - yet again - - watching some extended TV commercial : style over substance . The dialogue is OK , I guess , and in fact the actors all bring it alive because they do very much sound like Eastern Londoners . ( Can't say how many people I've met who talk just like this ! ) That would be the highest praise I can give it . " Trainspotting " is the best UK film of the 1990s , in my opinion , and " Lock , Stock and Two Smoking Barrels " is a pale imitation of both this and the Quentin Tarantino generation . Its dialogue , directorial style and hip self-conscious vibe have all been over-used to such an extent that it just comes across as pretentious , showy and artificial - - not fun , just dumb .
I don't like Jimmy Fallon so it is hard for me to " review " this program properly . Last time I submitted a review it mysteriously disappeared a few months later so I better be careful what I say this time . Overall I don't feel this awards show is particularly good . I'm not into MTV to begin with and seeing Eminem and Ja Rule and co . perform doesn't do anything for me . The highlights here were Bruce Springsteen and , of course , what everyone remembers it for today - the comeback of Guns N ' Roses . ( Well , surprise appearance , anyway . ) They kept hying the " surprise " the whole way through the show and they kept playing GN'R music so it was fairly obvious I suppose that GN'R were going to be there . When Axl and his new band come out at first and he starts growling into the microphone it really is blood-chilling . . . but then he starts singing and it goes downhill pretty fast . I actually thought it was a good performance in terms of energy but I admit his vocals weren't up to par . We'll have to wait and see what comes of GN'R - it's been three years since the ' 02 VMAs and we never got a " round two . " If you like the artists involved with this , give it a shot . The only reason I'd ever watch it again is for the GN'R performance .
I didn't think this looked very promising from the trailers I saw , but it had the vocal talents of Robert De Niro , Angelina Jolie , Will Smith , and Martin Scorsese , so I figured it had to be pretty good , right ? Surely they all saw something in the material ? Perhaps Jack Black would be funny as the cowardly shark ? Nope . It's just poor animation in a poor film with poor humor and so-so vocal talents . First of all Will Smith is too self-aware . He seems to " know " he's providing his vocal talents so everything is sickeningly over-the-top and staged . De Niro's good but rarely in the film to be honest . Jolie is OK , Scorsese and Black are pretty funny and Zellweger seems to be most at ease with voice recording . Whereas the animation in " Shrek " was rather good ( in a purposely fake way ) the animation in " Shark Tale " is sloppy and disappointing . Also , I hate to sound racist but this really just seems like a version of " Finding Nemo " targeted towards the African-American demographic . Oscar the Fish ( Smith ) and his grandfather ( complete with a stereotypical afro ) run a " wash " and so we get a soundtrack with songs like " Car Wash . " How original . The humor isn't consistently funny , there are a few good gags but they've all been done before ( such as Katie Couric being replaced with Katie " Current " - didn't they do this in " Shrek 2 " with another news reporter ? ? ) . The fact that all the ads boast FROM THE CREATORS OF SHREK ! says something for the quality of this film . It relies upon the reputation of its big brother for success . " Shrek " walked the thin line of brilliant satire and muddled adult animation . ( I . e . adult-oriented jokes . ) " Shark Tale " seems to stray from the path and somewhere along the way becomes _ too _ adult in nature , creating a rather uncomfortable undercurrent dealing with murder and Mafia and violence and even sex , depending on how far you want to take the implications of the sensuous , seductive fish voiced by Jolie . I'm not going to say it's a bad film because it's adult . I'm just saying that's one of its fault . Overall , it's just not very interesting , funny , well-acted or impressive , in terms of both animation and story . I wasn't disappointed as I didn't expect very much . I'm hoping Dreamworks stops making animated CGI films - they've proved countless times with projects such as " Ice Age " and the overrated ( albeit enjoyable ) " Shrek " that Pixar is far superior . I really loved " Shrek 2 " ( more so than the original - by a long shot ) and that gave me some hope in this project , but after seeing it I felt assured that the best parts were included on the trailer - and since the trailer was rather unimpressive to begin with , that just goes to show how mediocre this film really is . A milestone : the first CGI film to gain a majority of negative reviews from critics nationwide .
StripteaseDire , but strangely fascinating , Demi Moore vehicle about a single mother who turns to a life of stripping in order to gain custody of her daughter . ( Robert Patrick is the drug-stealing ex-husband who gains custody of the child . ) Ving Rhames is a bodyguard and Burt Reynolds has a nice co-star role as a sleazy political candidate . This movie was extremely bashed when it came out , but it's better than " Showgirls , " and sort of watchable . If you don't expect much of a story , then this is for you . . . be warned , however , that there is a lot of stripteasing in this film . /
Arnold peaked at the end of the ' 90s , I guess . He's battled Terminators , Greek gods , bears , alligators , planes , and macho men in fish net clothing . The only choice left is , of course , Satan . So they put together a movie about Satan and gave Arnie the lead . I think everyone working on this thought it would be much better than it actually is . The script was in development for years and Arnie fought to get it made . It's kind of unfortunate because Arnold gives a fairly decent performance in a film muddled with clichés . Of course , it's hard enough to buy a guy with a body like Arnold being a slob who drinks beer and pizza smoothees for breakfast . Getting someone like Jim Belushi might have seemed more realistic . Apart from the physicality , Arnold's performance is fine . He cries . He does the emotion scenes well enough - at least well enough to find bearable . It's the direction that ruins this movie . Peter Hyams is a terrible director and has ruined some very unique films in the past ( his most notorious butchering in my opinion was of a 1983 Michael Douglas film called " The Star Chamber " - great premise , awful directing ) . " End of Days " is like " Exorcist " meets every supernatural thriller ever made . On top of that , Gabriel Byrne should be more menacing . Robin Tunney should be less butch-looking . The direction shouldn't feel like some low-grade TV commercial - all style , no substance . Is the movie terrible ? No . It's not as bad as everyone made it out to be . But it's pretty much the definition of " mediocre . " Do I own it on DVD ? Hell yeah . It's an Arnold movie - it's an automatic must-buy . But if you're not a fan of Arnie , I wouldn't recommend it - at all . It pretty much feels like any average made-for-TV scary-flick - with even worse direction . The only other good aspect of this film was that it brought Axl Rose out of seclusion to record his first original song in seven years with a new incarnation of Guns N ' Roses . The song , " Oh My God , " didn't do too well with the critics . A bit of a shame , really . I dug it . It also fits the industrial , edgy tone of the film .
This was an odd directorial choice for the Farrelly Brothers ( " Dumb and Dumber , " " There's Something About Mary " ) . It's an animated film ( in parts ) about the internal workings of a man's body . The man is played by Bill Murray during the " live action " sequences . These are intercut with animated sequences that involve cells and amoebas and organs and so on and so forth voiced by the likes of William Shatner , Chris Rock , Laurence Fishburne , David Hyde Pierce ( Niles from " Frasier " ) , Kid Rock and Ron Howard . The cells are all animated cartoon characters who look , talk and act like humans . They live in the vast metropolis of " Frank " ( Murray's character ) . When he feels sick , the metropolis begins to wither away . Chris Rock voices one of Frank's defending cells who teams up with a special medical pill ( swallowed by Frank ) to take on Thrax ( Fishburne ) , the maniacal germ causing Frank to feel sick . If you think this sounds really weird , you're right . It is . But it's also very clever and unique . The problem is that the animation is poor , the vocal talents are a bit too self-conscious and the animation is almost too realistic at time - it originally got a PG-13 rating . It's pretty seedy stuff . The live action sequences are okay but Murray looks kind of out of it . Overall I was disappointed because I expected something funnier and cleverer , when in fact the movie dies out really quick and resorts to lame jokes like popping whiteheads on people .
I like " Happy Gilmore . " It's Sandler's best comedy . " Billy Madison " is pretty lame , " Big Daddy " is amusing , " Little Nicky " is a terrible mess and " Mr . Deeds " ( a remake of the Jimmy Stewart film ) is proof that you should let a sleeping dog lie - this is like watching " Big Daddy " all over again ! It's directed the same way , musically scored the same way , and even the general sense of humor is exactly the same ! Take Longfellow Deeds ( Adam Sandler ) and replace him with Sonny from " Big Daddy " and you wouldn't know the difference . The problem is it just isn't very funny or amusing . Winona Ryder falling in love with Sandler ? Talk about no chemistry or believability . It's totally forced . The whole villainous scheme to rob Longfellow of his inheritance never really works and comes across as forced , also . If you're a huge Sandler fan , you may feel you " need " to see or own this to complete the collection - but most die-hard Sandlerites I've talked to think this is one of his worst films and it's easy to see why . It's just lame , not very funny and rather dull .
Robert Altman is one of my favorite directors of all time and his " Player " ( 1992 ) starring Tim Robbins is a great dark satire of the film industry . He's a great genre-swapper and so I expected quite a bit from " Gosford Park , " which I pictured as an Agatha Christie-style period piece . The movie stars Weese Ritherspoon's husband , Ryan Phillipe , from " Cruel Intentions . " That should say something about its acting right off the bat - - mediocre , to say the least . There are a few fine performances , but the bad ones drag them all down . The " mystery " elements of the story are very poor . Instead of building up an atmospheric thriller Altman examines the characters like he's doing " Nashville Redux " or something - - no offense but I didn't go see this to see a realistic depiction of different classes of society in a mansion , I went to go see a murder mystery as was promised on the ads and in that respect I was sorely disappointed . Overall I'd have to say this is one of Altman's weakest and most pretentious films - - it's a huge disappointment and a rather banal example of Altman's typically reliable directorial style . Non-fans of Altman might like it , but I suspect most of his die-hard followers will find it a dubious title in his resume .
" The Witches of Eastwick " is about three women in a town called Eastwick and how Satan visits them and alters their sex lives . It's kind of a weird movie . Actually , come to think of it , really weird . But when the women include Michelle Pfeiffer and Cher and the devil is Jack Nicholson himself , you know you're at least in for something moderately entertaining - if not particularly special . And that's basically what " The Witches of Eastwick " is . . . moderately entertaining fluff . Women will probably get more of a kick out of it than men because of its sexual awakening jokes and everything . Men will get a kick out of Nicholson hamming it up ( almost as much as Pacino would a decade later in " The Devil's Advocate " ) . If you like the actors , give it a go . Otherwise , stay far away .
Seems as though it were crafted by a real geek . Sorry , Quentin . TRUE ROMANCE ( 1993 ) out of Much of Tony Scott's " True Romance " seems as though it were crafted by a real geek . The film's hero , Clarence , is a quintessential loser - - every year on his birthday he goes to see a movie and all 364 other days are spent working at a comic book store . Mere coincidence , then , that its writer is Quentin Tarantino ? ( A man who used to work as a video store clerk and watch " three to four movies a day " before hitting the big time as a director with 1992's " Reservoir Dogs . " ) Most of " True Romance " doesn't seem very real at all . It's a harsh movie , but that doesn't bother me at all . It's when the character - - a self-confessed geek - - picks up a gun and goes on a killing spree at a brothel in order to free his call girl wife that the film seems to exaggerate just a bit . ( Travis Bickle ? Yes . A geeky nerd ? No . ) It seems like the sort of dream that Quentin Tarantino may have had years ago . In the real world , this all just seems a bit odd . But the characters aren't living in our world . They're in Quentin's . I originally read the script for " True Romance " and thought it was splendid - - but soon found that Tony Scott's direction betrayed the darkness of the screenplay , creating a sort of half-good / half-bad movie that leaves the audience wanting more . Sure , " True Romance " has its good parts , but the people who tell you it's the best film ever are part of the " True Romance " cult . It's nothing more than a good movie with a fine script and bad direction . Scott ( " Top Gun " ) has made some fine movies , but in terms of actual direction , this is one of his lesser ones . Why ? Well , for starters , the story is rather dark and grimy and bleak . Scott forces his audience into liking these characters so much that he betrays the grim tone for a happy look . The problem ? Well , the characters are rather corrupt and the story is rather dark and the outcome is potentially unmerited . Scott changed the ending to the film , making it happier , which Quentin Tarantino admits works for the story . But , as he says on the DVD commentary , had he filmed the movie , it would have been a lot different . And when Quentin says that , I think he means better . Don't blame the cast . These are top-notch actors in Oscar-worthy roles . But somehow , given their characteristics , they never come across as anything more than caricatures - - exaggerated molds of real people . Clarence is played by Christian Slater , and he meets and falls in love with Alabama ( Patricia Arquette ) , soon finding out she's a hooker . Their romance is something I would expect a soap opera writer to craft - - they meet , he falls for her , she falls for him ( hooker with a heart of gold ! ) , they sleep together ( in a scene reminiscent of that criticized love sequence from " Top Gun " ) , and he risks everything to free her . In less than twenty-four hours . Is something a bit odd here ? It's like a geek's wet dream . The supporting cast is to die for : Dennis Hopper , Gary Oldman , Val Kilmer , Christopher Walken , Michael Rapaport , James Gandolfini , Chris Penn , Tom Sizemore and Brad Pitt . They all do well in their roles , but seem to be boasted on the posters for promotional value . Hopper and Oldman have the most scenes , but die early on . Kilmer's face is never seen , and his body only appears in two sequences . Walken is in a single scene during the entire film , and Gandolfini is introduced ( and executed ) quite late into the movie . Bummer . It's basically the adventures of Clarence and Alabama . Nothing wrong with that , except that their story copies from everything in sight - - most notably , " Bonnie and Clyde . " To be fair , I understand what Quentin meant to do with his tale , and his original ending ( although depressing ) was much more suitable given the content of the movie . Quentin tried to add a dark streak to the clichéd romance-on-the-run genre , and Scott mistakenly made yet another happy-go-lucky ( although very violent ) road romance with two very simplistic , innocent , fake characters overcoming obstacles to succeed in the end . This is the stuff Charlie Kaufman hates . The whole way through the movie , I felt as though I were staring at comical shadows of potentially real people , waiting to break through their boundaries and convince us all that they are more than just clichés . This script was sold early on in Quentin's career so that he could film " Reservoir Dogs " with the income . He was reportedly never very happy with the outcome of " True Romance , " a film he had hoped to direct , and I don't blame him . From the very opening credits , I could tell this film was taking the wrong path given its source material . Maybe I shouldn't have read the script first . Maybe I had preconceptions . But it's still not a very well made movie . Blame Scott . How some people love this movie is still beyond me .
I originally saw " Gladiator " ( 2000 ) in the year of its release , and after seeing the movie again last night , my position on the film has not changed . I did not like it three years ago , and I still do not like it . Back then I was not reviewing on a professional basis - - in fact , I had just started submitting comment / recommendation reviews on the Internet Movie Database . I gave " Gladiator " a bad comment and moved on . Now I can criticize it a bit deeper . " Gladiator " stars Russell Crowe as Maximus , a Roman soldier who conquers in practically any and every battle . Caesar ( Richard Harris ) likes Maximus , and so he decides to give the throne to him after he dies and not to his immoral and irresponsible son ( Joaquin Phoenix , who played Merrill in " Signs , " a much better movie ) . However , when Caesar's plans are revealed to his son , he murders his father and takes his place as Caesar , commanding Maximus to be taken out into the woods to be murdered . However , Maximus , being the great soldier that he is , escapes and flees back home to his wife and child - - only to find them burned alive and hanging dead outside the house . Maximus eventually comes into custody and is thrown in a gladiatorial arena , where he becomes the main star , killing and conquering in every battle . Soon he is like a modern day baseball player - - fans line up outside the Colosseum just to see him before the battles begin . Soon the new Caesar finds out who the great gladiator really is , and so turmoil begins . The new Caesar's sister ( Connie Nielsen ) once loved Maximus , so that is thrown in for good measure , too . While we're at it , let's throw in some futuristic battleships , robots and space aliens that Maximus can fight in the sequel , when he comes back from the dead . ( And I'm not kidding about the following - - a prequel is planned . ) The movie is slow , and when it picks up speed it goes nowhere . It seems like a rip-off of " Braveheart " from beginning to end - - a soldier's family is murdered and he takes revenge on the man / nation who killed them by fighting . Granted , he has no choice but to fight in " Gladiator , " but still . . . The movie was directed by Ridley Scott , the Englishman who directed " Alien , " " Blade Runner " and , among more recent films , " Matchstick Men . " He's a talented director with an eye for atmosphere , but his films don't always work because sometimes his atmosphere gets the better of him - - like in " Gladiator . " The surroundings are dull , bleak and heartless . " Braveheart " had some ounce of beautiful settings , and Mel Gibson used long , wide lens shots of Scotland . Here we just get what we are presented with . And when the camera does pull back to give us the full picture , it's usually packed with very bad CGI effects of Colosseums and such . And Russell Crowe . How did he ever win ( and I do mean it when I say " win " ) an Oscar for this mess ? He delivers every line with the same monotone deadness in his voice as thirty minutes earlier in the film . He is and remains one of my least favorite actors , both on and off the screen . And if he wants to beat me up for saying mean things about him ( as he usually does to people ) , he can just come over to my house and try . The greasy-haired baboon . The dialogue in the movie . Oh my ! Things are said that you expect to read in a letter from a six-year-old to his / her parents . ( I was just waiting to hear , " My family is dead . I am sad . " ) To be honest , there were a few good moments in " Gladiator . " It has some impressive fight scenes , including one with two men fighting while tigers leap out of cages built underneath the sand of the arena floor and lunge for the battling duo . I must say that I came close to recommending the movie at certain times . But then it would slow down its pace again and turn into some sort of large-budget cornball . I understand that many people love this movie . Give me " Braveheart " any day . stars . - John Ulmer
" Fatal Attraction " was a cultural phenomenon when it came out back in 1987 and spawned a whole sub-genre of films like " Swimf @ n " : mainly movies that dealt with psycho killers taking revenge on their loved ones who have dumped them . Glenn Close is the psycho in this film . She has an affair with ' 80s yuppie Michael Douglas , who's a married man with a daughter at home . He eventually tries to end the steamy affair - much to the chagrin of Close . She decides to begin maniacally stalking him and his family - threatening to kidnap and kill his daughter and his wife . The movie's time has come and gone . It's outdated , not thrilling anymore . Due to all the films it spawned , it's predictable and boring . It's better than a lot of them , but still not a good film .
Tim Burton is very much a " cult " director in the sense that he has a huge circle of fans - a lot of them having emerged onto the Internet over the years - and outside of these fans there are a lot of critics who despise him for some reason . I lean towards the circle but I'd never say I'm a fan of his , and " Sleepy Hollow " is a good example of why Burton still has flaws as a filmmaker . His penchant for the outlandishly dark and eccentric storytelling is visually superb - this movie LOOKS great - but the narrative is weak , and the movie is so exaggerated in places that it's hard to take seriously . I'm mainly referencing scenes such as the one inside the church when a man has a tombstone cross thrust through his heart from hundreds of feet away , and is then dragged outside across the ground of the cemetery . I mean , it's just a bit too much . Burton takes a lot of creative liberties with the story - some of which work , and others of which do not . The best aspect is Johnny Depp who turns in a brilliantly bizarre performance as Ichabod Crane , the Inspector sent to investigate recent murders only to find the place haunted by a demonic being . The twist Burton adds to this story towards the end was too much for me - I thought , like many of Burton's film endings , the finale went way over-the-top . It turns into a fairly standard cinematic action romp with the eighteenth century equivalent of a modern car race taking place on a horse buggy , and a stupid explosion inside a windmill that just screams " HOLLYWOOD ! " I recommend this is you are a Burton or Depp fan - if not , you probably won't enjoy it much . The sets are wonderful and the performance by Depp is a highlight , but other than that , there's not a lot going on here .
Ace Ventura does have some laughs . The acting is a little over the top sometimes , but in a way it makes the movie work . Just watching Carrey walk is so overacted . He purposely throws his legs into the air . And while things like this may seem stupid , it kind of fits the Ventura character . I enjoyed this movie enough to recommend it , so there . I recommend it . Now go see it and have a few laughs . stars . JOHN ULMER
Far from Home - The Adventures of Yellow DogDespite a rather ridiculous title ( " The Adventures of Yellow Dog " ? ) , this winning tale of a 14-year-old boy's bond with a yellow lab will warm your heart . Okay , I'm lying - - but it will entertain the kiddies . It's a children's version of " Cast Away " after Jesse Bradford is stranded in a Canadian wilderness with his pet dog , left with only a few items for survival . Really , it's not as bad as it sounds . 1995 , PG ( violence ) . /
Whereas his contemporary , Adam Sandler , had made a career out of enjoying himself in stupid comedies like this , Norm MacDonald approaches his film debut - " Dirty Work " - with a dry sense of irony and self-awareness : he knows the film sucks . He knows the plot is nonsense . He knows the love interest is a throwaway mandatory subplot . He knows the dialogue is terrible , terrible stuff . And he knows he can't act . He doesn't care . And so in a way this is a very subversive genre film , because it takes the then-popular SNL-actor-adaptation formula of flicks such as " Happy Gilmore " and " Billy Madison " ( which , at the time , before " Superstar " and " Night at the Roxbury " ended the fashion , was a guaranteed-profit machine ) and just basically makes fun of it for 82 minutes . Yes , Sandler and other SNL actors make brief cameos but this is better than most of the typical SNL films . ( Off the top of my head , I think only " Happy Gilmore " really works as well , and not for the same reasons . ) Maybe I'm prejudiced in the film's favor because I love Norm MacDonald . I think he's one of the most hilarious men to ever grace the earth . But he's funnier with on-the-spot , unrehearsed stuff . ( As evidenced by his appearance on Conan a few years ago , which Conan in retrospect claimed was the funniest interview he'd ever done . ) He often appears on talk shows acting completely drunk , stoned , and out of his mind . At first it appears that he's just rambling , but it's a carefully practiced style of comedy and you either love it or hate it . I love it . His acerbic wit propels " Dirty Work . " It's just fun watching him , even though once the film's over it's very clear why he never made it as a major film star : he doesn't have the same qualities as Sandler . He isn't content with making garbage and trying to pass it off as good comedy . He hates the formula and , in fact , commercials for " Dirty Work " were banned by NBC after Norm was deemed " not funny " by the vice president of NBC at the time ( who fired Norm from the Weekend Updates ) . Don't misunderstand me . This movie's not that great . And Norm is out of place - visibly so . But this is what makes it work . The prison sex scene is treated so nonchalantly and with such self-mockery that you just know these guys were making fun of this movie the whole time . Artie Lange , Don Rickles , Jack Warden , and Chevy Chase in one of his few truly funny film roles . And it's directed by Bob Saget for goodness sake . Sarcastic , self-loathing , acerbic , witty , brutal , and consumed by hatred . Not your typical Saturday Night Live movie . And I'm glad it didn't turn a profit because I'd hate to have to see Norm MacDonald stuck pretending to enjoy doing this for a living . Watching him show up on the " Daily Show " stirring controversy is a lot more fun and more in-tune with what he's all about . He's misunderstood but the public have a pretty good record of popularizing talentless people .
I knew nothing of this film before I saw it . It was a free " On Demand " film from Comcast . I didn't even know Johnny Depp was in it . I thought the plot description ( which was vague ) sounded like every other girl-crazy sex comedy released after " Animal House , " and I got what I expected . To be fair this is entertaining . No , it's not a great movie . It's not very well made . It's crude . It's sexist . It's all about sex . But that's exactly what it's supposed to be . Graded by the standards of its genre , it works . It's about two kids ( one of whom is played by Johnny Depp ) who gain access to a private resort in the middle of the Caribbean ( presumably ) . There's no backdrop . We don't even know how they got in to the resort . And they look about 16 , so it's odd to see them going after women in their 30s and 40s ( sometimes succeeding ) . Depp wasn't famous yet ( correct me if I'm wrong but this was his first starring role in a film to speak of ? ) and this certainly didn't help boost his career ( he took a considerably smaller role in Oliver Stone's " Platoon " the year after ) but he displays charisma and good charm that would carry on into his later movies . The film's take-it-as-it-is attitude makes it entertaining . It's a simple sex comedy with crude laughs and running gags , a lot of which aren't very funny , a few of which are , almost all of which are at the least amusing . Worth catching if you see it on cable some time .
I saw this film on AMC and part way through it , I felt as if I had seen it before . Then I realized I was thinking of the 1990 Penny Marshall film " Awakenings , " starring Robin Williams and Robert De Niro . " At First Sight " is a true story about a blind man who temporarily regains his sight , then goes blind again . " Awakenings " was about a comatose man who woke up temporarily , then slid back into a comatose . Oh , and by the way , they're both written by the same guy . For what it's worth , " Love At First Sight " is actually a pretty likable and overall watchable film . It's not great or anything unpredictable ( how convenient - the female love interest ) but Kilmer gives a remarkable performance ( all considered ) and there are a few moments in hte film that are a BIT out of the ordinary . Worth watching , but don't go out of your way or anything .
" RV " is not a great film but when I read the plot synopsis last year , saw the trailer and realized it was another Robin Williams family movie , I'd be lying if I said I wasn't disgusted . It looked like another " Daddy Day Care " - a once-hilarious and provocative comedian grows up , loses his youthful rawness and starts making lame family comedies . It looked like a pathetic rip-off of " Vacation " minus the adult humor . However , I started watching " RV " and it was actually more entertaining than I expected . Maybe it's because it has a good comedy director at its helm , but it's not as stupid or slapstick as I expected - barely any poop / fart jokes and the family tension actually seems REALISTIC rather than forced , hip and unfunny . You know those awful family comedies where the teens can't get along with the parents and the film deliberately goes out of its way to kind of show that ? Well , " RV " really doesn't , which I admired . It develops the children's personalities much better than most family comedies . Williams constrained himself and doesn't come across as a pathetic camera-mugger . Apart from an opening impersonation way too reminiscent of his stereotypical comedy acts that he was once respected for , the movie develops nicely . I spotted two cast members from " Arrested Development " which was nice . There's actually a good dose of adult humor in this film too - some pretty overt sex jokes that I was surprised to hear and the bit with the actor who plays Gob from Arrested Development ( I really should know his name but I can't remember off-hand ) had me laughing out loud , which I didn't expect at all . Jeff Daniels is just a great actor and his presence here also really helped elevate this - overall I was just pleasantly surprised because it was one of the better family comedies I've seen recently , with good acting and realistic family interaction and a good sense of humor that , despite advertising to the contrary , is NOT over-the-top and goofy in most places . I think the really low rating on this site is partly due to cynical moviegoers who read the synopsis like I did and perhaps vote without even seeing it . Compared to " Daddy Day Care " this is comedic genius .
I've been watching " The Birds " since I was too young to even remember , and when I was moving across countries once I even caught the sequel on television ( which is just gruesome and lacking the suspense of this ) . However " The Birds " has always seemed slightly uneven to me , as if the premise itself is so absurd that I have a hard time taking the film entirely seriously . In my opinion the best Hitchcock films are " North by Northwest , " " The 39 Steps , " " The Lady Vanishes , " " The Man Who Knew Too Much , " " Vertigo , " " Rear Window " and of course my favorite horror film of all-time , " Psycho . " " The Birds " is a good film and very well-made but because its content is so silly in nature you may find yourself having a hard time taking it all as seriously as Hitch expects us to . So overall , it is a fine movie , but not one of the Master of Suspense's greatest .
I only saw this film because of Kevin Bacon and Jennifer Aniston both being in it . Not a huge fan of either of them , but nevertheless I thought it might be interesting to see Aniston ( during the peak of " Friends ' " popularity ) crossing over into mainstream film . For the most part , it works . She's basically playing Rachel , her character from the TV show , again . Aniston's character is a shy , awkward business woman who isn't promoted due to the fact that she is considered " unstable " - no husband , family , etc . So she hires a fake boyfriend , Nick ( Jay Mohr ) , to pose as her lover . She ends up winning the affections of a man she has a crush on in her office ( Bacon ) , but then Nick begins to actually fall in love with her . The title derives from the fact that she works at a picture agency , and that's where a lot of the film's scenes take place . It gets a little weary after a while , and is very predictable - but if you're a fan of the actors , it's reasonable to say you'll find something to enjoy here .
DreamWorks Animation division is not exactly the best when it comes to animated motion pictures - from their early days of CGI productions they have repeatedly tried to mimic the success of Pixar . Of course , sometimes it was entirely coincidental ( " Antz " was already gearing up for production when " A Bug's Life " was in its early stages ) - but there's no doubting that they have tried to replicate the adult-humor of features such as " Toy Story . " It's worked once or twice . The edge of " Shrek " - and especially its pop-culture-reference-laden sequel - turned out to be entertaining and witty . But for every " Shrek " there's a " Shark Tale " ( still one of the most painful animated films I've ever had to sit through ) . " Madagascar " follows suit of " Shark Tale , " similarly featuring terrible animation that looks cheap and unappealing - but it's a lot better than " Shark Tale " because it's at least reasonably entertaining . Ben Stiller , Chris Rock , David Schwimmer and Jada Pinkett Smith voice four animals living in a New York City zoo . Stiller is a proud but timid lion , Rock is a curious zebra , Schwimmer is a hypochondriac giraffe who wears tissue boxes on his hooves ( a reference to Howard Hughes in his later life , of course ) , and Smith is a street-wise hippo . Marty the zebra dares to venture outside the zoo one day by escaping rather carelessly , and ends up getting himself and his pals transported to a new zoo after their journey through New York City scares a few people . Marty just wants to see his home land , but soon they're being shipped in crates barely small enough to fit their bodies . However , due to a series of strange circumstances involving scheming penguins , the ocean liner's path is diverted and the four animals find themselves stranded on the island of Madagascar , where they are faced with a wild environment in which they must defend for themselves against other animals and a weird pack of natives who worship them as gods . The movie's animation , as I mentioned above , is slipshod and amateurish . It looks as if Dreamworks had no care at all to spend time on the quality of their work here . The vocal talents are a bit self-conscious , too . Stiller - as much as I like him in regular comedies like " Starsky and Hutch " - is a bit too self-aware and I never felt like any of the characters were really characters - the entire time I just kept imagining Stiller and Rock in a studio recording their parts . Schwimmer and Smith both fail to leave an impression due to the restrictions of the script - Schwimmer's giraffe is just an ultra-nervous weirdo who's , quite frankly , rather annoying - and Smith doesn't really do much of anything except pop up now and again . It's really Stiller and Rock who are the two main vocal talents here - their characters are given the most room to grow in the script - but they're just average at best . Overall this really is just an " average " movie - it's not outstanding but it serves its purpose as amiable family entertainment . It doesn't contain the clever satirical wit of a Pixar film and neither does it appeal to adults and children equally in the same way most Pixar features do - but it's a lot , lot better than " Shark Tale . "
If you liked Sleepless in Seattle , you'll probably like YOU'VE GOT MAIL . Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan are back in a new romantic comedy with a new plot , but basically it's Sleepless in Seattle all over again . So again , if you liked SLEEPLESS you'll probably like MAIL . stars-JOHN ULMER
Momma used to say if you haven't seen this movie , skip the second paragraph , ' cause it's got some of ' dem magic spoilers Maybe my inner cynic finally got to me . I've seen " Forrest Gump " about seven or eight times altogether , and these last few viewing experiences left me with a bitter taste in my mouth . A few years ago I praised this film for being delightful , warm , inspiring , epic , etc . It was one of my top-ten favorite films . I loved it . I watched it again last night and was struck by how smug , contrived and self-conscious it is . It's almost sickeningly sweet - it's a fantasy ( as I've always said ) and all the characters live their lives to suit the story . I loved the poetic justice before - now it's kind of insulting . The character of Jenny is , story-wise , a nice addition because all fairy tales have the hero and his girl . The setup is firm because it presents her as the only girl of Forrest's life , the one person who accepts him for who he is - as she grows up and changes he's always there for her . The ending is a nice full circle . But the fact that the film kills her off is too righteous . It's like , " Hey , she did the sex , she did the drugs - SHE DIES ! Who cares if she had a change of heart ? She's a filthy skank ! " Forrest's " Momma " is a right-wing Christian fanatical who has an obsessive hold over Forrest . She's a bit like the mother in " Bubble Boy , " except in this films she's presented as a hero . And finally we come to Tom Hanks as Forrest Gump . Last year I thought it was one of the all-time best performances in any film . Now , I can barely stand listening to him . It's all so smug and annoyingly sweet . " Would you like a choc'-uh-lut ? " You feel like slapping the guy . Then taking his darn " walkin ' shoes " and throwing them in a pool of gasoline and lighting them on fire . Along with his box of chocolates . Forrest's smug attitude is a bit too self-knowing for my tastes . It's like he's saying a big screw-you to all the people who disagree . He's Uncle Sam's Favorite American - the dumb guy who was too stoo-pid to say no to the government , and in return was awarded with millions of dollars and a happy , content life . All the Vietnam protesters were pigs , praise America . As far as " retard " characters go , Dustin Hoffman is still my favorite . Leonardo DiCaprio in " What's Eating Gilbert Grape ? " is really good , too . But Hanks ' performance is just a bit too self-confident and mugging - it's too damn innocent and naive . As I said , this used to be one of my very favorite movies . I loved it . It used to move me to tears at times . ( Well , almost , anyway . ) But I guess I've given my inner cynic too much room to grow - now I see it as a smug , annoying little journey through America's pop culture - with a message at its core that says , " Don't mess with America - or you'll get the Gump . " America has enough blind love going already .
Will Ferrell and Molly Shannon were like two peas in a pod on " Saturday Night Live . " They had good chemistry and when they combined forces they could induce plenty of laughs . Of course , Will Ferrell is equally funny without Molly Shannon . " The Best of Molly Shannon " proves it is exactly the opposite for her . Yeah , she's a funny lady , but she pales in comparison to such " SNL " comediennes as Gilda Radner , Jane Curtain , and even Chery Oteri , who is very goofy . Molly Shannon's " Best Of " collection is fine , I suppose , but I didn't laugh that much - - and not nearly as often as I did with Will Ferrell's " Best Of " DVD . Here she plays her most famous ( and mostly original ) characters : Salley O'Malley , Mary Katherine Gallagher , Courtney Love and Anna Nicole Smith ( in a disgusting but funny segment with Ben Affleck ) , among others . But they're never exactly laugh-out-loud funny ; I smiled a few times . I enjoyed some of the gags . But I was only really laughing when Will Ferrell was interacting with Molly . Whether or not they are good films is definitely arguable , but there's a reason that Will Ferrell has been cast in virtually every mainstream Molly Shannon film . They go together . She cameos in his movies , he cameos and / or stars in hers . Remember " Superstar " ? Remember " A Night at the Roxbury " ? Maybe they're not good , but at least Lorne Michaels was smart enough to realize that the two have some sort of chemistry . I noticed that Molly Shannon likes to move around a lot . I watched the Conan O'Brian interview with her ( included on the DVD ) , and she absolutely could not sit still at all , just like her " Joyologist " character , who , in the DVD's outtakes , flipped over her chair from moving around so much . She's good as Courtney Love , and Molly Shannon is undoubtedly a good comedic actress , but to say that she deserves her own collection of best moments at this point in time is a bit presumptuous , especially considering the fact that classic " SNL " actors have yet to appear in any sort of " Best Of " DVD collections . ( Or am I just not finding them on Amazon and in the stores ? ) Besides , most of the compiles sketches aren't even that great - - or is it just that Molly Shannon herself isn't that great ? I hope it's the former . If you're a fan of Molly Shannon and / or " Saturday Night Live , " I would definitely pick up this DVD . I bought it for fourteen dollars , and I've got to say that I'll probably return to it once and a while for some good grins . But not nearly as often as I am already returning to " The Best of Will Ferrell , " which still stands as the best " Saturday Night Live " DVD I own at the current time ( only three , but I'm getting there ) . " Saturday Night Live : The Best of Molly Shannon " runs 76 minutes . It contains outtakes , a deleted dress rehearsal scene , a picture gallery , two TV interviews with Conan , and so on . It is not rated , but contains some language and sexual content / partial nudity . The feature's guest stars include , among others : Val Kilmer , Matthew Broderick , Gabriel Byrne , Tina Turner , Alex Baldwin , et al . It is now available on video and DVD .
An average every-day Joe ( Tim Robbins ) arrives home from work one day to find his wife in bed with his boss . Shocked and upset , he travels to a local ghetto - where a thug ( Martin Lawrence ) tries to carjack him . However , he no longer has any concern for his own well being and calls the carjacker's bluff - traveling from California to Arizona , eventually stopping at a gas station . The two bond over time and devise a scheme to rob money from a safe belonging to Robbins ' boss . The movie's main interest to me is that it had been directed by Steve Oedekerk . ( If I spelled his name wrong , I apologize , because I always seem to . ) Oedekerk is a very funny guy and has written and directed some unique comedies - unfortunately most of his mainstream stuff has been unsuccessful so far . " Ace Ventura II " wasn't a failure but " Kung Pow : Enter the Fist " was a complete flop ( I for one enjoyed it ) . Despite his faults , Oedekerk is consistently different - " Kung Pow " was unique and ambitious . " Nothing to Lose " doesn't really come across as one of his movies , but nevertheless it is quite entertaining and does what it intends to do . Some scenes are a bit too long or just not very funny , and Lawrence and Robbins don't have " Lethal Weapon " style chemistry . But it's good enough for the movie , and their performances overall are fine . Although it borrows some ideas and themes from older films like " Fun with Dick and Jane " as far as the vault robbing goes and ( dare I mention it in one of my reviews yet AGAIN ) " Planes , Trains & Automobiles " so far as the road travel blunders go , it's a good movie that just doesn't try hard to be anything it isn't - it fits nicely into its groove and entertains while causing a few chuckles .
Home Alone 2 ? Some Minor SpoilersHe's up past his bedtime in the city that never sleeps . After the tragic events of the first ' Home Alone ' film , a now ten-years-old Kevin McCallister is having a bit of a problem . He's been left by his family . Again . Only this time , he's not at home . He's home alone ? in New York City ! And ? wait for it ? there are some reminiscent faces in this sequel that may be more than reminiscent ? criminals Harry and Marv are in NYC too , and they have payback for young Kevin ? The original cast and crew are reunited for an all-too-familiar sequel in this star-studded comic fantasy . Macaulay Culkin is ( supposedly ) ten or twelve in this sequel . I can't remember . Anywho , he looks almost exactly the same as he did in the last film . Maybe that's because ' Home Alone 2 ' was filmed barely a year after the first was released , giving Culkin little room to grow . ' H : 2 ' is basically the height of Culkin's career before he went on to star in flops such as ' The Good Son ' ( not only a box office flop , but an awful , dull movie ) . John Heard and Catherine O'Hara are back as well , as Peter and Kate McCallister . Thank goodness they got them back for the sequel , otherwise , this would have been a bad movie . But the actors that I am very surprised they got back for this sequel , and both really made this movie , are Joe Pesci and Daniel Stern as Harry and Marv respectively . After Pesci and Stern's characters escape from jail , they come to New York and spot Kevin walking down the street , and instantly plan on getting revenge , all the while planning a heist of a toy store on Christmas Eve ! That's where Kevin steps in and creates some all too familiar ( literally the exact same as the first ) booby traps to stop the thieves ? This movie takes some fresh scenes ? Kevin checking into an expensive hotel with his father's credit car ? but never enough . Almost all the scenes are re-hashed from the original , leaving little room for new material . They even go for a sentimental bird-lady scene , much like the one with the shovel man from the first movie ? Nevertheless , the sequel still has some good moments . Hotel owner Tim Curry walking into the hotel room and seeing the outline of a man in the shower comes to mind ( Kevin has an inflatable clown his Aunt bought him in the shower to fool Curry ) , and I only wish they had come up with some more original booby traps at the end . That's the downfall of this film . With a few more cameos than the first film ( Herbert Hoover ) , ' Home Alone 2 : Lost In New York ' is worth seeing , even if originality isn't its main trait . I also wish they could have brought back John Candy as a small cameo ( reprising his role as Gus Polinski : Polka Band Chief ) for the film , but they didn't . Oh well . There are some other good stars in this film , anyway ? ' Saturday Night Live ' skit man Rob Schneider co-stars . stars ( as opposed to 4 . 5 for the first film ) John Ulmer
" Me , Myself and Irene " is the Farrelly Brothers ' painfully unfunny and inconsistent follow-up to their smash hit " There's Something About Mary . " They seemed to be on a roll - - " Dumb and Dumber " was a hoot , " Kingpin " was a blast , and " Mary " was outrageous . Now they've sunk into what they so marginally avoided in their previous films - - downright crudeness and stupidity . This isn't to say that their previous efforts were lacking crudeness . But what made the films funny were the characters and their good intentions ( or bad intentions in the case of Pat Healy ) . " There's Something About Mary " is a strong R-rated film , no doubt , and the hair gel scene would turn off almost every viewer , I think , if not for the innocence of the characters and our attachment to them - - by the time we come around the scene we already cared for them . The characters in " Me , Myself and Irene " are given little background , and when they do it comes off as a very superficial life . It starts with an 18-year veteran of the Rhode Island police named Charlie ( Jim Carrey ) . After his wedding , Charlie gets attacked by a vicious midget - - who also happens to be black . The little man is overly-sensitive and very insecure , and so he goes after Charlie with his belt . Yeah , it's sort of funny , but not as funny as it could have been . Anyway , we find out the midget man is a member of MENSA . Charlie's new wife is the head of MENSA or something . Love at first sight . Charlie's wife gives birth to three black children . Charlie realizes that they are black ( " They have a tan all year long , " says a neighbor ) but , being the sensitive and insecure person he is , he simply ignores the fact and tucks it way back in his head . Eventually his wife leaves him for the midget . Years later , Charlie's kids are older . They're foul-mouthed but incredibly smart . Me thinks making them talk very educated would have actually made it a great bit funnier than having their every other word be the almighty F-word , but I won't complain . He finally snaps under pressure and a new personality erupts - - Hank . Hank defecates on the neighbor's lawn , sticks a little girl's head in a pool of water and almost drowns her , crashes a car through the front of a building , and so on and so forth . Enter Renee Zellweger as Irene , a runaway golf course attendant being chased by criminals who thinks she knows too much about something . The cops are in on it and so Charlie and Irene run away . Only problem ? Hank is about to appear again and wreak havoc . The film resorts to low-brow humor , but it's just plain mean , and not all that funny . " Mary " was sweet and funny and crude and funny and mean and funny . " Me , Myself and Irene " is just plain mean and mean and crude and crude and a bit funny . I laughed a few times but they weren't big laughs . This is a very dark comedy that perhaps portrays the Farrelly Brothers ' taste for darkness , but forgets to portray their humor . There's a scene with Charlie trying to kill a cow that's funny , but what's with the ongoing jokes about " Whitey " the albino ? I don't really mind the political incorrectness - - it's just not funny ! They eventually use Whitey as a cheap plot device who becomes their friends , as if they felt sorry for making fun of him . Isn't one of the pinnacles of the Farrelly's humor political incorrectness with no reservations ? This movie resorts to something I thought I'd never see in a Farrelly Brothers movie - - conventional plot devices . The plot behind the mess is just distracting from the rest of the movie . Everything from Whitey the albino to Dickie the gangster is all so typical . And the film's real problem is that it thinks Hank is funny . Every time it starts to lose steam it pulls out Charlie's alter ego and tries to use it as a last-ditch effort for laughs . Hank is not funny . Now , the possibilities of what Hank could DO are very funny - - but the Farrellys only use him as a device for a few laughs , sex jokes , and physical fights between Charlie ( both fighting through Carrey's body ) that is funny but underplayed . I would have paid eight bucks just to see Carrey fighting himself because he is good at physical comedy - - but the movie seems to drag on with the idea of split personality disorder without ever making good use of it . I wondered how much funnier it would have been if the Carrey character , Charlie , had two alter egos who fought inside him . Then there would be almost constant changes . But Hank appears only when the film starts to run out of steam . And sadly , this film is always out of steam . Note : The Farrellys have inserted various cameos in this film . Owen , a mentally retarded man who knew the Farrellys as boys ( and yes , the inspiration for Owen in " Mary " ) can be seen in the background , as well as John J . Strauss , co-writer of " Mary , " and Lin Shaye , who played Magda in " Mary , " and Pat Healy , the name of Matt Dillon's character , is in the background ; and finally , the ending where Charlie is looking for his thumb in the water is the original ending of " There's Something About Mary , " with Ted ( Ben Stiller ) getting hit by a bus . The script called for Mary and passersby to start searching for vital parts of his anatomy ( including one major part ) , but they had neither the time nor budget to do this . When " Irene " came around , they knew it was their chance . It didn't quite work as planned . .
" The Wedding Singer " is a mix between just about any romantic comedy from the eighties that you can find , and an Adam Sandler film . I think that's really enough said . But if you want more detailed details , here ya go . . . Adam Sandler plays Robbie Hart , a failing wedding singer who has just been dumped by his fiance . So as he loses his only job and his to-be wife , Sandler starts to fall in love with the sweet Julia Sullivan ( Drew Barrymore ) , whom is engaged herself to another man . Now Robbie must prove that the man she is about to marry is really a playboy who wants one thing , before it's too late . " The Wedding Singer " is a pleasant enough comedy to enjoy one night , if not a great one . The laughs aren't constant , but there are some . It doesn't rank as high in the laugh category as Sandler's earlier film , " Happy Gilmore , " but it provides just enough sweetness and guffaws to recommend . The movie is filmed with a very eighties-feel , and that is mixed with the humor of Adam Sandler , so it's pretty easy to imagine what the film is going to be like . I recommend you sit down some night , grab a tub of popcorn , and just enjoy this movie for what it is : an instantly forgettable comedy that serves its purpose : a nice night in . stars - John Ulmer
Kevin Smith isn't typically known for mature work ? the majority of his films are funny , but crude . " Chasing Amy , " his follow-up to the 1995 box office failure " Mallrats , " is certainly the most adult film he has made , in terms of general context . Overall , however , I was left with mixed feelings . Holden ( Ben Affleck ) is the co-creator of a popular comic strip named " Bluntman and Chronic . " One day at a New York City Comicon Convention , a friend of Holden's introduces him to Alyssa ( Joey Lauren Adams ) , a free-spirited , adventurous girl whom Holden instantly takes a liking to . As they spend more time together , Holden finds himself falling in love . But there's just one problem : Alyssa is a lesbian . Holden's best friend and co-writer / artist , Banky ( Jason Lee ) , resents Alyssa ? both because he is homophobic and afraid of losing Holden . He doesn't trust Alyssa , and digs up dirt on her that extends into her high school days , when , apparently , she was not just into chicks . " Chasing Amy " has moments of rare greatness ? the dialogue , first of all , is excellent . So is the acting . Joey Lauren Adams has been severely underused since " Chasing Amy , " starring in undeveloped romantic roles in comedies such as " Big Daddy . " Her character Alyssa in Smith's film is three-dimensional , and her outburst towards the end of the picture is heartfelt and honest . Jason Lee is hilarious in a very believable way ( never stretching Banky into a far-fetched comedic personality ) and even Ben Affleck manages to remain tolerable . ( Which is always unusual . ) I think the problem with " Chasing Amy " is that it simply tries too hard , and lacks a point . Smith attempted to prove to his critics that he was capable of making a realistic , sophisticated and complex motion picture and tackles some very , very touchy subjects in the process , without ever coming to any solid conclusion . Credit must be given where it is due ? Smith is an expert at snappy one-liners and good dialogue . But no matter how clever , insightful and emotionally developed Smith's everyday jargon may very well be , at heart he is still a philistine . One need only listen to five minutes of one of his DVD commentary tracks to realize this . That core immaturity doesn't translate well to the screen in a picture that wants to be taken as something more . It's like a child trying to imitate an adult ? the gestures might be there , but the experience and cultivation is not . Another major weakness of " Chasing Amy " is that it is too blunt , I think . Example ? It's heavily implied that Banky is a repressed closet homosexual . It makes sense , and a deleted scene from another of Smith's later films confirms it . But I felt it should never have been addressed at all in " Chasing Amy " ? great films imply , they don't stress . A character from " Chasing Amy " explains to Holden what we're all thinking ? maybe Banky has feelings for Holden that he isn't ready to acknowledge . This is too much . It's too clear , and not subtle enough . It should have been left up to the audience to use their own perceptions . By the time this " explanation " occurs in the movie , I had already assumed Banky was gay ; Smith's desire to put it into words seemed anti-climactic and ruined the speculation . That best sums up the entire film , really - - " Chasing Amy " has its good parts , but the finished product is messy and contradictory and just too damned wordy . It tries at every turn to be insightful , honest , mature and even epic . The problem with all this is that Smith lacks a point ? he wants to say there's nothing wrong with being gay , and love is love no matter whether you're male or female , but it's clear that deep inside he is a bit like Banky ? homophobic and immature . His decision to turn Alyssa into a " mistake , " a woman who has been fooled into lesbianism , who is " saved " by Holden , doesn't make sense . I'm not criticizing the film's motive ? if it had one , I'd judge it based on how well it elucidates it . My own point is that Smith doesn't have one ? he's wishy-washy , one moment preaching to his audience about the dangers of homophobia , the next moment turning his lesbian into the very stereotype all lesbians must hate : the woman who is afraid of men and deep down inside her heart is actually is attracted to them . I was left wondering what Smith was trying to get across to his audience . For what it's worth , my favorite scene from " Chasing Amy " is when Jay and Silent Bob ( Jason Mewes and Smith himself ) show up . Silent Bob's monologue is honest and tender without coming across as being too showy or gushy . Had the entire film matched this one scene , it would be a great deal better .
" Strange Brew " is a spin-off of the Bob and Doug McKenzie shorts on Canada's export " SCTV " ( which started in the early ' 80s on US television and won some awards ) . This movie is very much low budget and doesn't concern itself with continuity or much of a plot either - - it's a retread of " Hamlet " ( that's right ! ) and one William Shakespeare even gets a co-writing credit . Anyway , the film is not by any means a masterpiece but it's amusing in a so-bad-it's-good kind of way . ( And incidentally this was purposefully bad , and Rick Moranis and Dave Thomas - - who directed and wrote it - - make no effort to conceal this . ) The best part is actually the beginning when Bob and Doug reveal their movie about a man who survives the holocaust and wonders the earth in search of beer . I've rarely laughed so hard . " Pss , act ! " is one of the funniest lines in cinema history . After that it goes downhill but remains entertaining . . . Bob and Doug become embroiled in a plot by mad scientist Mad Von Sydow , who wants to take over the world and all the other stuff mad scientists like to do . I've never seen such a pieced-together , fragmented movie in all my life . A number of scenes pay nothing to the film whatsoever . One hockey game sequence goes on for about seven minutes and doesn't really have anything to do with . . . well . . . anything ! On top of that , characters come and go and disappear without mention again - - towards the end of the film , one of the bad guys gets his comeuppance , but the film doesn't even reveal how ! Also the woman playing the ex-brewster's daughter is supposed to be about 21 but she's clearly in her mid to late thirties . . . and at one point her birthdate is revealed in the film , and according to the date of the film , it places her at a much older age . . . so evidently Moranis and Thomas didn't really care at all about trying to convince audiences of anything with this film . And it's better that way . This is a really smug and self-knowing comedy , but in a good way . It's light-hearted and doesn't take itself seriously . Even during the end credits , Bob and Doug give their film a review and mention its plot weaknesses , but claim it's just good family fun and worth five bucks , and I agree . On an aside note I will have to say that the film's best sequences are those in which Bob and Doug are actually hosting their show , and sometimes I wonder if that would have made a better 90 minutes than attempting to come up with a half-a$$ed plot . But oh well , it's still pretty funny and amusing as it is .
Dolly Parton leaves the country and heads out to the Big Apple , finding work at a radio station , much to the chagrin of James Woods ' co-worker . A cheesy romance story ( " I know the saying ' take your work to bed , ' but I didn't think it was so literal ! " ) , some OK jokes and a few fun performances make this film adequate viewing for a late night on Friday . stars . - John Ulmer
Conspiracies . Films tend to be made about conspiracies and mysteries . Everyone has conspiracy theories that they put in movies ( " JFK , " " Conspiracy Theory " ) . " The Game " is a different kind of conspiracy . It is about an entire organization holding something against one man . Only a few people know about this organization and what it does in the movie , it seems . But if only a handful of people know about the organization , how could it possibly get booming business ? That's one of the many , many plot holes that " The Game " seems to have . It just has too many plot holes to save itself . It has a pretty good plot , good acting , good directing . . . even a good script . . . but the plot holes in the script cause the problems . Michael Douglas plays a rich businessman , whose birthday is coming up soon . Sean Penn , his younger brother , tells Douglas that he ( Penn ) has bought a present for Douglas called " The Game . " Douglas goes to the location of The Game Headquarters ( it has a name but I can't remember right now ) , and there he finds out that The Game Headquarters must test Douglas ' health before they activate it ( The Game ) . They ask him questions , do health tests . . . all of this going to use later . . . and then Douglas goes to dinner . At dinner , one thing leads to another and pretty soon things start happening . A hysterical Penn tells Douglas that he didn't have enough money to pay for The Game , and now The Game is coming after him . So now Douglas is caught up in this conspiracy which he may never get out of alive . Because now they're coming after him . Blackmail is only the beginning of what they'll do to Douglas . First of all , " The Game " has a nice setup . I really enjoyed the beginning . It holds a great sense of suspense , and seems to be filmed effectively , in a very suspenseful way . It has all the markings of a Hitchcockian thriller . Unfortunately , Hitchcock would have ironed out the plot holes before he filmed the movie , because despite being a suspenseful film , the plot holes are unbearable , kind of negating all the suspense and belief in the film . SPOILERSFirst of all , how does The Game know that Douglas is going to do everything he does ? They're betting an awful lot that he will jump off the building at JUST the right spot to crash through JUST the right glass ( if you've seen the film you'll know what I mean ) . I can't exactly go into the entire film - - it would spoil the entire thing - - but the plot holes in the movie are just too obvious . They are literally betting on every step Douglas will take , and while they have people to help him make decisions along the way , there are times that he is by himself . . . how do they know , in a moment of despair , he will not try to put a gun to his head ? At the end ( major spoiler ahead ) , Douglas stands on the edge of a skyscraper with a gun . They make it look as though Douglas has just shot his brother ( by accident ) . Douglas , on the verge of a mental breakdown , walks to the edge of the skyscraper and jumps . Here are two things . 1 . How did they know Douglas wouldn't just lift the gun to his head and blow it off ? Why jump off the building ? Yeah , I know , that's what his father did and therefore Douglas would do the same - - but what if he hadn't ? If I were Douglas ' character , just because my father jumps off a building doesn't mean that that would be my decision of effective suicide . 2 . What if Douglas had jumped off the wrong point of the building ? What if he all of a sudden , before anyone could do anything , he decided to run off the other end of the building ? And even if he jumped off the building at the right point , what if a ) the wind ( there could be some strong gusts from that high up ) blew him away from his destination , and b ) from that speed , even fake glass would cut him up IF he reached his destination . That's one of the things that got me , but really , the whole sake of the film lies on what Douglas will do . What if Douglas shot himself early on ? What if the shock of thinking he killed his brother gave him a heart attack ? What if he didn't get out of the underwater taxi and drowned ? What if ? If I were The Game , I wouldn't bet that much on a suicidal man .
I made a blind buy on this one . Why ? I like Tarantino . I like Rodriguez . I enjoy their films . I thought , Why not ? I hadn't heard good things about it , but it looked like it might be good or really bad . The first forty minutes didn't help my initial fears . The first sequence is awful . It's called " The Missing Ingrediant . " It's about witches who check into a hotel room and are missing an ingredient ( male sperm ) to complete one of their potions . Ha-ha . Valerina Golino and Madonna are in this one . The second ( " The Wrong Man " ) is better , but still too messy , crude and weird . The bellboy Ted ( Tim Roth ) is taken hostage in one of the hotel rooms for a seedy sexual game between a man and his wife ( Jennifer Beals ) . The joke wears out fast . The third , " Misbehavors , " directed by Robert Rodriguez , is great fun . It's inspired physical humor in the vein of Chaplin and Keaton . It starts out with Antonio Banderas leaving his kids under the care of Ted the bellhop and they , well , misbehave . It escalates into a frenzy of disaster . Very funny , and Banderas and Roth are great together . The final skit , by Tarantino , " The Man from Hollywood , " is sick but typical Tarantino - all dialogue , references to other actors and films , etc . Lots of profanity , as well . QT casts himself as a director who entices Ted into his suite . There , he finds Bruce Willis and some others ready to chop a guy's finger off as part of a drunken bet . They pay Ted to do the evil deed , but he doesn't know if he has the guts to do it . ( The bet , by the way , inspired by a Hitchcock film with Steve McQueen and Peter Lorre . ) Overall this isn't great and I hated the first half . But the last half makes up for the rest and really flies by fast - I loved Rodriguez's sequence , if the rest of the film had been of that caliber , it would have been a great physical comedy . QT's " wordy " conclusion to the nonsense is kind of apt and the movie ends on a good note . It's also worth noting that Roth's performance in the first half is unbearable , and wonderful in the second half . Very strange , how good directors can transform an actor's performance . Or maybe he was just saving the best for last .
A clever satire of the spin-world ( thanks largely to its cast and a witty script by Jason Reitman ) , Thank You For Smoking comes on like Wag the Dog via The Insider ? it's a painfully honest insight into the tobacco industry , led by the narration of Nick Naylor ( Aaron Eckhart ) , the Big Tobacco corporation's chief spokesman . His narcissistic self-infatuation ( " Charles Manson kills people ; I talk . " ) and sleazy tactics land him in trouble when he finds himself bribing a lung cancer victim in front of his pre-teen son , who is not yet old enough to smoke but is being influenced by his money-driven father . Nick has a lot on his mind . He's got pressure from an anti-smoking Senator ( played brilliantly by William H . Macy ) , his boss , his ex-wife , fanatical groups on homicidal missions , a double-crossing reporter ( Katie Holmes ) and a Hollywood producer ( Rob Lowe ) trying to cast the perfect Hollywood glamorization of smoking ( Brad Pitt and Catherine Zeta-Jones are offered as the leads ) . The movie , directed by the son of Ivan Reitman ( the " Ghosbusters " director / producer extraordinaire ) , balances absurdity with realism ; moments of the film come across as poignant reflection while following scenes are completely the opposite . This balance is thrown off a bit sometimes ? David Koechner's portrayal of an NRA lobbyist is great but feels out of place , as if it belongs in a comedy in the vein of " Anchorman . " And ultimately this uneven mix of the deadly serious ( literally ) with off-the-wall gags does catch up with the film ; it eventually falls back upon its very strong script , which supports it ( a lesser film might be affected more drastically with a weaker screenplay ) , but some scenes probably should have been toned down a bit to comply with the subtler and more realistic scenes . For what it's worth , the wacky scenes are extremely hilarious , but they seem to contradict other portions of the material . Jason is a better director than his father , though , and shows a lot of potential here : I'd say the direction is almost deserving of a more serious film . I'd love to see what he could do with a drama in the future . The movie also boasts an excellent lead performance by Aaron Eckhart , who oozes with sleaze , greed , corruption and a hidden sense of morals . He knows what he is doing is wrong , but he's not a stereotypical Hollywood motion picture " good guy " ? even the closing of the picture , without spoiling it , isn't the moralistic cop-out I had expected ; the movie isn't a black-and-white painting of the smoking controversy ; it doesn't take sides on either side of the debate . This is really being marketed incorrectly as the next " 40-Year-Old Virgin " right now , but the film ? for the most part , anyway ? really isn't as hilarious as it is thought-provoking and engaging . Apart from a few aforementioned moments of utter absurdity , the majority of the film's duration involves some pretty serious topics , and it handles them well . It's not a bust-your-gut-funny movie , and it's perhaps not as strong as some reviews would lead you to believe , but it's one of the better satires in recent memory and certainly one of the more effective since Wag the Dog .
Christmas movies are fun . I like Christmas movies because they're generally nice , lightweight , enjoyable pieces of fluff with important moralistic messages ( " It's a Wonderful Life , " " Scrooge " ) or sometimes they're just fun to watch ( " Gremlins , " " Home Alone " ) . " Scrooged " isn't lightweight , cheery , or happy . It's dark , brooding , sort of evil , and it's the only Christmas movie I can think of that seems as if Tim Burton directed it . Am I insulting the film ? Heavens , no . I love it . In fact , I'm complimenting it . Instead of repeating old traditions , it's trying something new , and the secret to the film is the way it actually pulls it all off . The plot : Frank Cross is the youngest television station president in recorded history because he knows the people . At least he thinks he does . In reality , he's just a greedy tycoon who gives people bath towels for Christmas - - including his own brother . Cross is a modern day Scrooge , and the movie " Scrooged " is a modern reworking of the classic Charles Dickens story . Frank Cross is played by Bill Murray absolutely perfectly . He's cynical , dry , and sarcastic , and doesn't give a darn about anyone else other than himself . So the night before Christmas Eve , Frank is visited by an old business partner - - who has been dead for seven years . ( " I wouldn't have guessed more than three , tops , " says Frank in his usual sarcastic tone . ) His old associate warns Frank to change his ways or he'll end up like himself - - angry , bitter . . . and dead . Frank doesn't pay any attention to his " hallucination , " and continues being his usual self during the festive Christmas holiday - - by ripping off old ladies ' cabs and firing Elliot ( Bobcat Goldthwait ) on Christmas Eve . ( Elliot is sort of today's version of Bob Cratchitt . ) Frank is putting on a Christmas Eve production of Charles Dickens ' immortal classic " Scrooge " ( what happened to " A Christmas Carol , " I wonder ? ) , and in the film's funniest scene , introduces his ad for the program . ( It later scares an old woman to death and Frank takes it as a wonderful sign - - controversy is as good as advertising ! ) The three ghosts do indeed come and haunt Frank . Except Frank is more cynical than Ebenezer Scrooge ever was , and convincing him that Christmas is a season of giving will be hard . ( Frank : " I get it , you're here to show me my past and I'm supposed to get all dully eyed and mushy . Well forget it pal , you got the wrong guy . " ) Frank is revisited by an old flame ( Karen Allen ) and his heart starts to beat once again after years of silence . Frank slowly but surely starts to learn to appreciate Christmas once again , following all of Scrooge's examples . His intern's son , who witnessed his father's murder and hasn't spoken since , is a sort of Tiny Tim , and " Scrooged " does indeed follow all of the elements of Charles Dickens ' classic . Only it updates the tale , throws in a bunch of cameos , and great acting on Murray's behalf . Frank revisits scenes from his childhood and adulthood first hand with the wacky ghosts as companions . They can't see or hear Frank - - his cab driver ghost tells him that he's in the middle of a rerun . Frank remembers how his father brought him meat for Christmas , how he broke up with his girlfriend over a matter of greed vs . happiness , and how his life was a complete waste . ( Ghost : " Let's face it , Frank , garden slugs got more out of life than you . " Frank : " Yeah ? Name one ! " ) It was a matter of time before " A Christmas Carol , " or " Scrooge , " got a modernized treatment . And it comes out fresh and ingenious , dark and hilarious . The movie owes its entire success to the casting of Bill Murray , whose cynical ways shone through in such early films as " Stripes " and " Ghostbusters , " and here compliment the film the way no other actor's talent could . Take , for example , the way he can remain unmoved but , at the same time , flippant and sarcastic , towards his boss when he tells Frank that cats and dogs are starting to watch television , and that he thinks Frank should target some advertising at the canine and feline demographic . Frank just stares at his boss as if he's crazy and whispers , " Call the cops . " The movie was directed by Richard Donner ( " Lethal Weapon " ) , and is one of the films I watch as an annual tradition around Christmas . It's dark and often quite disturbing , and its eerie music adds to the mix . But it helps the film because it makes us see through Frank's eyes . And the outcome is , quite frankly , an instant Christmas classic . This is a film I'll be watching for years , and so far , it's only been getting better every time .
" There is a picture of my movie on a milk carton . Have you seen this movie ? It's missing ? I don't know what happened to it ? it's a funny movie . . . a strange movie . But it's literally one of those productions where you go . . . phht , gone . Not even straight to DVD , just gone . " - Robin WilliamsSome movies just don't stand a chance . Orson Welles and Sergio Leone both suffered the frustrations of seeing beloved productions sabotaged in front of their eyes . ( Well , in Welles ' case , " The Magnificent Ambersons " was chopped by fifty minutes while he was out of the country , but I imagine he ultimately would have felt the same as Leone , whose " Once Upon a Time in America " was butchered by Warner Bros . ' editor and mangled into a two-hour mess . ) But occasionally something even worse happens ? the film just totally disappears . Jerry Lewis was passionate about " The Day the Clown Cried " until he saw the final cut ? which was presumably bad enough that it caused him to vow never to let anyone see it . He is in possession of the only negative in existence ? which is tucked away in a vault inside his home . He wouldn't even let his daughter watch it . For all the people involved in the production of the film , it must have felt like a rug had been pulled from under their feet . Work under grueling conditions and persevere for countless hours on a crowded movie set ? only to realize your efforts will never be seen by anyone ? " The Big White " is such a film ? after generating less-than-enthusiastic reviews at a handful of North American and European screenings , its worldwide distributor , Capitol Films , pulled the plug and decided not to release it into theaters at the risk of losing money on advertising . The film died a silent death and disappeared for two years , before finally surfacing on DVD in Canada and Asian markets thanks to Alliance-Atlantis films . It has subsequently gained a small cult following and sales overseas have been better than expected . Comparisons to " Fargo " ( and there have been many ) are valid . Screenwriter Collin Friesen mimics the Coen Brothers ' penchant for wickedly dark humor , and even places his film in a snowy setting in the Yukon ( the film was shot on location as well as in Winnipeg ) . Even the plot is similar : a down-on-his-luck businessman ( played by Robin Williams ) cannot afford to help his troubled wife ( Holly Hunter ) , who seems to suffer from some type of " stress " - induced tourette's syndrome , and decides to cash in on the long absence of his brother ( Woody Harrelson ) by passing him off as legally dead and gaining a $1 , 000 , 000 life insurance payment . Unfortunately , Canadian law demands that a person be missing for more than ten years to be declared legally dead . So when Williams finds a dead body in a dumpster outside his office ( the temporary storage place for two bumbling hit men who never suspect anyone will find the body ) , he passes it off as his brother and collects a check . But a claims inspector ( Giovanni Ribisi ) is suspicious of the sudden appearance of this long-lost brother , and as he begins to investigate realizes what is really going on . Meanwhile , Williams ' wife is kidnapped by the two hit men who want back their dead body , and brother Woody Harrelson returns after reading about his " death " in a paper ? demanding a portion of the paycheck . The finale is violent and unexpected , but the build-up is , at times , deliberately pretentious and decidedly " low-budget " ? and if you've seen any independent film of the last ten years or so , you'll understand what this means . Long , artsy shots of nothingness ; excessively quirky characters ; brutal humor ; vicious sarcasm . But it's a fun movie . It's no " Fargo " but director Mark Mylod keeps it moving along at a steady pace . Williams phones in another twisted performance , but it's Giovanni and his girlfriend in the movie , played by Alison Lohman , who really stand out ? along with Hunter as Williams ' oddball wife . Although her profane outbursts become annoying after a while , for the most part Hunter manages to balance the humor and pathos correctly . For fans of dark humor or independent features this is one worth checking out . It will appeal to some viewers very much , and others will probably loathe it . I found it to be agreeably distracting and thought its saving graces were standout performances by its cast . Apart from this , however , you'd be better off watching " Fargo " again .
I didn't expect much from " Beavis and Butt-Head Do America , " not least of all because what little I had seen of the television show totally failed to capture my interest and the title of the movie was a not-so-subtle sexual reference . ( There is also a special from 1995 named " Beavis and Butt-Head Do Christmas . " Har-har . ) However , I was pleasantly surprised by the fact that the film is quite entertaining . It's very short so there's not much to complain about in terms of length - it flies by quite quickly . The plot is amusing and there are lots of celebrity cameos - David Letterman , Bruce Willis , Demi Moore , and so on and so forth . The movie is very unassuming and is just plain entertaining . It's not the sort of film that is easy to hate , it's just very basic and amusing . Mike Judge since went on to greener pastures with the cult success of " Office Space " on video and seemed to abandon the concept of a " Beavis " sequel around 1999 ( there was one planned for a while ) . However recently I read that he's planning a comeback for the intellectually-devoid duo and I for one actually wouldn't be too hesitant about seeing another if it's done this well .
" Arthur 2 : On the Rocks " is the story of how Arthur ( Dudley Moore ) , the drunken title character , loses his $750 , 000 , 000 fortune and sobers up so he can adopt a baby . It starts out very good and right on target , but towards the last 45 minutes the film loses not only all credibility , but also all sense of cohesiveness . It's as if the writer wrote himself into a wall and tried to cut through it with a spoon . I'm not sure if that analogy was any good , but it's a bit better than the end of the movie . Of course , I haven't seen the original Oscar-winning " Arthur " ( 1981 ) , which may be a part of the reason I enjoyed the first half of " Arthur 2 " ( 1988 ) . I still remember when I first saw " The Fly " - - I had read all the positive reviews , I was really pumped up and after the credits started to roll I just sort of sat back and let out a sigh . But I had already seen its sequel , aptly named " The Fly II , " and I had enjoyed it . Why ? Because prior expectations can truly ruin a great movie . If I had gone into " The Fly " expecting nothing , I probably would have come out of it satisfied . But , in hindsight , I expected too much . And I hadn't expected anything going into " The Fly II , " which may amount to why I prefer it to the first film , despite its goofy nature and campy effects . Maybe that's why " Arthur 2 : On the Rocks " didn't seem so bad when I watched it . I didn't find a single positive review of the film on the Internet . IMDb's average user rating is currently 3 . 6 , and a year ago it was lower . Rotten Tomatoes ' rating is 0 % , with not a single positive thing to say . And I can understand why people might not like this movie , but if they think it's one of the worst films of all time . . . they've got another thing coming . Arthur and his wife , Linda ( Liza Minneli ) , are living freely . They own five homes in and around New York City , and Arthur's only worry in life is that he may get some . Linda , on the other hand , has a single worry : she can't have children , and she wants some . So they visit an adoption agency downtown , run by Mrs . Canby ( Kathy Bates ) , who promises she'll do her best to fix them up with a kid . Joy ! But then Burt Johnson ( Stephen Elliot ) buys out Arthur's family company , promising to sell out if Arthur is cut off from the family fortune - - all 750 , 000 , 000 dollars . Johnson's scheming is because he wants his daughter , Susan ( Cynthia Sikes ) , to be happy - - and she still wants to marry Arthur . If Arthur divorces his true love , Linda , and marries Johnson's snobby daughter , he can get his money back . But soon Arthur learns that money isn't the most important thing in life . This is an interesting premise , of course , but the fact that the entire character of Arthur is one built upon the sole theory that there's nothing to worry about in life is contradictory . If " Arthur " were a television show , it would have been a decent half hour of laughs to see him hit the streets in an attempt to sober up . But as a 107-minute film , " Arthur 2's " premise just isn't " Arthur , " as far as I can tell . At the end , Arthur cleans up and gets sober , and - - without spoiling how - - wins the day ( like there were any doubts as to whether that would happen ) . But the lasting image of a sober Arthur is far from the central idea of the character in the first place . And I must complain about something else I noticed - - something more disturbing than anything else in the film . At the very end , Kathy Bates delivers an adopted baby to the couple as they reunite on the street , only for Linda to announce on the spot that she's pregnant . Wouldn't Mrs . Canby ( Bates ) take the baby back and give her ( the baby , that is ) to a couple that can't have children ? No , she just smiles and stands back from the scene . This is an example of poor scriptwriting . " Arthur 2 : On the Rocks " is a hilarious film in its first half , and a bumbling message-driven snoozer in its second . If only all comedies could sustain laughs at a steady pace throughout . I can't necessarily say that " Arthur 2 " is a very bad movie , but I can't necessarily say I can recommend it , either . stars . - John Ulmer
I saw this a few weeks back on Comcast's " On Demand . " On Demand usually offers independent films , old films or recent films that flopped . " Richard Pryor Live on the Sunset Strip " is somewhere in between - it is older ( released in 1982 ) but probably also flopped . It's not a very good indication of Richard Pryor's comedy - I've heard much funnier stuff coming out of his mouth in the past . The whole project feels too " large budget " - from the grand opening to the camera work inside the place . It's all too glossy , polished and over-produced - sticking a camera on stage and just WATCHING Richard Pryor for an hour and a half would have been funnier . On the other hand , this is still very funny . Pryor's funny no matter what - as a result I've rated this a seven ( out of ten ) but I can't help but imagine it could have been much , much better . Worth checking out if you're a Pryor fan - otherwise , start out with some of his albums if you're not familiar with his comedy .
This documentary - filmed exclusively for the 2004 DVD release of " Bubba Ho-tep " ( which , incidentally , is still available to purchase a year after its initial release despite having been a " limited edition " ) is an insightful look into the making of the cult hit . The documentary's best parts are when it exposes the truth behind decisions , such as when star Bruce Campbell contacted director Don Coscarelli because of his concern about the penis gags in the script - he wanted to make sure nothing would be shown in detail . Director Coscarelli tells of how he originally stumbled upon the short story in a collection by one of his favorite authors , and how he immediately thought it would be a great movie . The making-of included on the DVD isn't great , but - like the movie - is entertaining and different . If you rent or buy the disc , make sure to watch this along with the " King " commentary on the film itself , which is very funny .
James L . Brook is one of those directors who always seems to take a quirky look at life . He isn't only the producer for " The Simpsons , " he has some classic comedies under his belt - - " Broadcast News " is one of them . Although it doesn't match his later effort " As Good As It Gets , " " Broadcast News " is still a very clever , funny and witty movie about a television broadcasting station and all the problems they suffer . There's a great comedic sequence of physical humor where Joan Cusack is running around the building trying to rush a news tape to the editing room in a matter of mere minutes before it is to be broadcast live on TV . This isn't only very truthful in terms of how hectic broadcasting stations are operated , but also a skillful and honest portrayal of human beings . A low-key , subtle movie with good acting ( especially from Hurt , who I don't always like so much ) and apt direction .
This is a fine film . Entertaining , well-acted , but not flawless . It tries a bit too hard to be an Oscar contender when in all actuality it's not high-caliber material . Its average on IMDb is closer to the score I'd give it than some of the critics who seemed to praise it when it came out . And although Angelina Jolie gives her best performance , it's still not Oscar-quality , and it's always going to be hard to buy an insane mental patient with huge fake lips and breasts . But oh well , that's Hollywood . Winona Ryder fits the part well . She's always given off dark vibes in all her films , ranging from " Beetlejuice " to " Edward Scissorhands , " and gives the impression that she's fascinated by death . So , a bit of wise casting there . I am not by any means a fan of Ryder's work ( even here she is grating ) , but at least in " Girl , Interrupted , " that's sort of the point . Overall this is a good movie if you're looking for entertainment ( based on ) a true story . It's not a great movie and I don't think it deserved any Oscars but the acting is still rather good and it holds your interest .
I'm a huge fan of Robert De Niro . I've made an effort to hunt down all of his older films ( like Greetings and the awful " Sam's Song " a . k . a . " The Swap " ) and have done pretty well so far - I saw " Born to Win " at a grocery store for six bucks on DVD and since I'd seen it listed on IMDb as one of his early films ( and after making sure it wasn't one of the countless " other titles " for " Sam's Song " ) I purchased it . Much to my surprise ( well , not really , I kinda suspected as much ) the cover was totally deceiving . It features Robert De Niro's face ( from another film , mind you ) , his hand holding a gun . It says , " ROBERT DE NIRO " and " George Segal " in smaller print underneath his name . The tagline on the DVD is something like , " A junkie goes against a cop trying to bring down Mr . Big . " Now , mind you , no one in this film is named Mr . Big , and the junkie ( Segal ) doesn't " go against " the cop . De Niro the Cop is only in TWO scenes ( count ' em , two ) and has maybe a page's worth of dialogue , if that . The film relies on Segal and he really delivers a fine performance . The entire cast is good - Hector Elizondo and Karen Black in supporting roles , as well as a younger Burt Young ( pre - " Rocky " ) . This isn't a great film and it isn't superbly directed . It's a bit hard to watch at times due to a grainy transfer and bad audio . But it's reminiscent of Al Pacino's " Panic in Needle Park " so far as it presents a realistic , gritty , depressing vision of junkies operating on the streets , and how miserable your life can become by resorting to drugs ( mainly heroin ) . A good , rewarding picture - but don't be fooled by the title , nor Leonard Maltin's description of it as a " very funny " comedy .
" Blast From the Past " - Some SpoilersSitting down to watch " Blast From the Past " one night , I didn't expect much . I hadn't read many reviews on the film , but it was my impression it had flopped at the box office and wasn't supposed to be very good . But I was extremely startled upon the first five minutes of watching the film to find it not only funny , but sweet , too . The film starts in the sixties , when husband and mad inventor Christopher Walken and normal wife Sissy Spacek are in their house cleaning up after a dinner party . Walken has created a bomb shelter in case the " Commies " drop a nuke ; he panics when he hears of possible bombs , and sticks himself and his wife in the underground bomb shelter . Unfortunately , the auto-locks on the underground shelter lock themselves after a jet-fighter from the sky lands on their home outside . Walken and the bomb shelter believe this to be a nuclear bomb , and so they are trapped down in the shelter for about thirty years because Walken programmed the locks not to release for thirty years . . . Soon they have a child , and after thirty years , the child has grown into Brendan Fraser : an innocent , sixties-type man with sixties clothes , sixties haircut , sixties expressions . . . because he grew up in the bomb shelter , he's practically been living in the sixties for three decades . So when the locks finally unlock , Walken goes above ground to find the modern world - - he believes it to be a post-apocalyptic modern-day earth . He rushes back underground and reports of how the world is to his unhappy wife . They decide to live underground forever . Unfortunately , they are almost out of food and supplies , because Walken only filled the shelter with enough material to last them thirty years . So Fraser volunteers to go up , get some supplies , then come back down . And so the simple plot begins ; the fish out of the water meets the modern-day girl ( Alicia Silverstone , in this case ) who shows him around the modern day earth . It's been done before : " Crocodile Dundee " rings a bell . But , like " Crocodile Dundee , " " Blast From the Past " ranks as one of the best of its kind . It has some great gags . And unlike some comedies where the gags are funny in the beginning but run out of steam towards the end , " Blast From the Past " is consistently sweet and funny ; perhaps the best romantic comedy in a while ( close to the greatness of 1997's " As Good As it Gets " ) . " Blast From the Past " runs like a film from the sixties - - the humor is classy , not crude . There aren't as many sex gags as there could have been , and I'm thankful for that . " Kids in the Hall " star Dave Foley plays a gay man who Fraser mistakes to be happy , but that's just about the most sexually-suggestive the film gets . Fraser blends the perfect sense of innocent and childish-sweetness to make his character very likable . Alicia Silverstone adds the right touch of modern-day toughness to her role as a woman doesn't know what to expect when she meets a man that truly has good intentions and is not a creep . Christopher Walken is one of my favorite supporting actors , and he does just as good as always here , as does Sissy Spacek . So , yes , it's been done before , but in recent times , not nearly as sweet or funny as " Blast From the Past . " stars - John Ulmer
" Carlin on Campus " is dated in some ways - more so than other Carlin shows . The opening , with Carlin speaking to the audience in a classroom , strikes of being totally unfunny and out of place . But once he starts the stand-up and begins delving into the typical absurdities of life , he's on a role . Bits like " A Place to Put Your Stuff " has become classic Carlin , although granted this show has less classic routines than most of his shows and albums . If you're a fan of Carlin suffice to say you will get a kick out of this . If you're new to Carlin I recommend starting with either " Complaints and Grievances " or " Back in Town , " which are both very funny .
Quentin Tarantino's " Pulp Fiction " is the quintessential example of great movie making , assorted using various constructive techniques that elevate the film to the highest possible level , stretching the boundaries and pushing upwards . Like all great directors , Q . T . lets the film and its subsidiaries stand on their own . A lesser director might employ cheap gimmicks and plot devices to move the story onwards at a brisk pace , but " Pulp Fiction " is a dark action , comedy , and / or drama that clocks in at two hours and thirty-four minutes . And not a single minute is wasted on material we think could have been shortened or cut . It's one of those rare motion pictures that leaves you wanting more , which only welcomes another immediate viewing to let everything sink in a second , third , or even fourth time . A lesser director than Tarantino might also force his characters into saying things they would not normally say , or into actions they would not normally act out in real life . Instead , Tarantino does something brilliant and seldom executed : He actually lets his characters evolve on-screen , and actually engage in every day conversations . Most critics interpret this as Quentin stopping to insert unnecessary ( albeit entertaining ) dialogue segments . They're wrong . The dialogue is strong , but it's there for a purpose . The difference is that dialogue in a movie such as " The Presidio " isn't real at all . The characters enter , move the plot forwards through speaking or acting , then proceed to repeat this in following instances , as if they're following the back of a mouth wash bottle ( " rinse , spit , repeat " ) . Quentin does something else , by eavesdropping on his characters when their dialogue does mean something . No doubt Jules and Vincent have much to say about many things , but most of the time it is not relevant to the story . One must keep in mind that we actually hear little about Jules and Vincent , and even less talk between them . But when we do hear these things , it's strikingly true and purposeful . And this is what so many people miss when viewing " Pulp Fiction " - - the witty dialogue has become universally regarded as the strongest ever written , and while that may very well be correct , the idea that it is pointless is absurd . Quentin is subtle in the way he introduces his speeches ; when Jules ( Samuel L . Jackson ) and Vincent ( John Travolta ) spend some two or three minutes discussing how the French translate the term " Quarter Pounder with Cheese " due to the metric system , it is amazingly deliberate : Quentin later uses this same reference for Jules before he and Vincent assassinate a group of young crooks who have stolen a briefcase from Marsellus Wallace ( Ving Rhames ) , one of the town's major kingpins . There are essentially three stories in " Pulp Fiction , " intertwined between one another . It opens with Honey Bunny ( Amanda Plummer ) and her boyfriend ( Tim Roth ) hatching a plan to rob a restaurant . By their reasoning , no one ever bothers with restaurants , just banks , so why not take advantage of them " with their pants down " ? The stick-up proceeds , which is when the famous titles roar forward and we find ourselves following Jules and Vincent , who work for Marsellus , who has paid championship boxer Butch ( Bruce Willis ) to fall in his upcoming match . But Butch has a better plan : Bet loads of money on himself , beat the other guy to a bloody pulp , and run away with his money . He almost gets away with it when he accidentally crosses paths with Marsellus once more , resulting in a rape scene to rival that in " Deliverance . " Back to the dialogue . It is the driving force of the film , complementing the plot and allowing its characters to grow on us in ways we never imagined they would . It's the way in which the dialogue is deliberated that varies from most other examples of deliberation . For example , is it coincidence that we just so happen to overhear Jules and Vincent discussing the Big Mac and Quarter Pounder with Cheese ? No . But our instincts tell us that it seems very real , as if Tarantino went around filming real people , then edited together scenes where the dialogue could bear some sort of importance to the plot . There are different levels of dialogue - - plot-driven , and realistic - - but all dialogue is in service of its plot , just as all of what we say to our friends or family has a deeper meaning and will no doubt relate to the matter at hand . All dialogue relates to a larger scheme , and so does the dialogue in " Pulp Fiction . " It's just more casual and subtle than most movies . It's not pointless , but it's not deliberate , which is a fine line to try and balance on . Quentin does so successfully , crossing the finish line with enthusiasm , which is no doubt part of what elevates " Pulp Fiction " above so many other motion pictures of its genre . .
Ever felt the pressures of every-day life ? Ever gotten tired of your cubicle job ? Ever had an epiphany ? Ever stopped going to work ? " Office Space " is a genuinely superb and playful parody , that plays on so many every-day things that you start laughing like crazy . Who wouldn't like to take the office fax machine out to an open field and smash the bejeezes out of it ? Who wouldn't like to just stop coming to work and get promoted for doing so ? Who wouldn't like to ignore their boss ' calls ? Who wouldn't like to ignore their boss ? Peter ( Ron Livingston ) does all of this in " Office Space , " a hilarious real-life parody that deals with something not many films do : Work . In this case , Peter works at Inotech , or something ending in " tech , " where there is an odd assortment of characters , including his boss who talks just like your boss , with really weird expressions , and Milton , a stuttering , mumbling , glasses-wearing freak whose office cubicle gets moved so many times during the duration of the film , we eventually see his desk in the basement . ( Where his boss tells Milton to get down on his hands and knees and get rid of their roach infestation problem . ) One day Peter just decides that he no longer feels like going to work , and so he stops going , simple as that . Soon his pesky boss is calling him every few minutes , but Peter ignores the calls . Soon he goes in for an interview with casual clothes on , and the interviewers , so impressed by Peter's casualness , actually give him a raise . But Peter then finds out they are firing his friends / co-workers , so Peter and his two friends use a scheme to rob the Inotech company of " fractions of a penny . " Peter says he heard of this before , and his friend says , " Yeah , they did it in ' Superman III . ' " That's one of the things I love about this movie . The way the characters are so blunt . I love when Peter's friend says about how the penny-taking scheme was used in " Superman III , " because I don't believe I've ever heard a character in a film reference another film's identical plot so bluntly . Director Mike Judge really puts everything out there , he doesn't hold back . Other films might wink at " Superman III's " plot , but he actually references it , and like I said before , I don't think that I've ever seen this done before or since . " Office Space " is the victim of clever writing . It is based on animated shorts called " Milton , " and I can't say it's too surprising as all the characters in this film could easily be cartoon characters , especially Milton . Most of them have dorky glasses , moustaches , and greasy hair . They all look like weird hybrids that could only spawn in the office cubicles . The director , Mike Judge , creator of " Beavis and Butthead , " gets some clever things in this film . The best scene in the entire movie is when three office employees take a broken fax machine out into an open field and smash it up with a baseball bat . One of the employees gets vicious with the thing , smashing it with his foot and jumping on it . The other two men , including Peter , have to restrain him . Anyone who has a job should see " Office Space . " Anyone who likes funny stuff should see " Office Space . " And that's that . stars - John Ulmer
" American History X " is a bold and disturbing movie about family , racism and our own self-perceptions . Its main character is Derek ( Edward Norton ) , a neo-Nazi skinhead who is released from jail to find his younger brother ( Edward Furlong ) descending down the same corrupt path as he once walked . In jail Derek learns a few things about life , and racism , or more appropriately , himself , and after becoming a free man again takes it upon himself to set his brother on the straight and narrow path . " American History X " is not a pleasant motion picture . It begins in flashback , as Derek murders two black kids trying to break into his car . His brother , who idolizes Derek and later mimics his lifestyle , witnesses this event . It's a good message about negative influences , along with everything else . Much has been made of the film's controversy and lawsuits . Director Tony Kaye disowned the film after Norton ( allegedly ) re-edited footage to give himself more screen time . Kaye tried to have his name changed on the film credits , but by this time he had already taken out a complaint in several magazines , which are against the rules of the Director's Guild . He was therefore denied the opportunity to credit the work as " directed by Humpty Dumpty . " Then , musical band Anti-Hero complained to New Line Cinema ( the film's international distributor ) because one of the Nazi characters featured a tattoo of their band . They later wrote a song , called " NLC , " bashing the company . Despite the hard-edged controversy it's still a very good film , above all else extremely well-acted and featuring a gripping storyline ? even if the direction isn't always up to par . Edward Norton is simply superb in his role , showing extremely raw talent a mere two years after his film debut ( in the Richard Gere thriller " A Primal Fear " ) . Norton careens between the role of a raging , vicious supremacist and a kindler , gentler version of the same character ; a metamorphosis so convincing it's hard to believe it's just one actor . The rest of the cast is good as well ? Furlong gives the best performance of his career and Beverly D'Angelo and Stacy Keach have strong supporting roles . ( D'Angelo in particular , who portrays a sleazy alcoholic ? a stretch compared to her usual Normal Mom roles in the " Vacation " movies . ) " American History X " isn't exactly rewarding of all the praise it has been lavished since its release ( mainly from viewers rather than critics , who were less kind ) ? it isn't the best movie of its kind or even a flawless one . The black-and-white photography isn't on the same level , visually , as " Raging Bull " or " Schindler's List . " The preaching is a bit heavy-handed at times . But it still manages to convey an important lesson and boasts great acting complimented by an ( overall ) impressive , gut-wrenching screenplay . A must-see for all who can stomach its content .
There are moments in Peter Jackson's King Kong that are so powerful , remarkable and tender that , if compiled together , they would form perhaps the best film of the year . Then , there are the stilted , awkward segments intervening the better ones that make you wonder if Jackson's editor left the cutting room early on in post-production . Take , for example , a scene towards the climax of the picture , when the mighty ape Kong has placed the beautiful Ann ( Naomi Watts ) inside the safe structure of the Empire State Building . They stare longingly into each other's eyes for close to thirty seconds , before Kong disappears to the top of the skyscraper . Only a minute later , Ann has climbed up , too , and they stare into each other's eyes for another thirty seconds . Surely cutting one of these repetitive scenes would more artfully punctuate the beauty of the moment ? Showing it twice kind of negates the entire point of their exchange . The film also boasts some lapses in continuity and general plot progression ? Jackson intends on restoring a wealth of footage in an " extended " DVD edition next year , but he should have spent more time on the theatrical version . Jack Driscoll ( Adrien Brody ) is knocked unconscious at one point in the film ; the next time we see him , he's running through the streets of Manhattan . Characters from the Skull Island scenes also disappear once the film transports itself to New York City ? the most puzzling of whom happens to be the character of a rebellious teenage sailor . Jackson sets up his character arc , but never follows through . The last time we see him , he's floating in seaweed , gazing on as the other sailors capture King Kong . The essence of his inclusion in the film is totally lost , as is the case with most of the ship's crew in the movie . There's simply too much filler here ? characters , battles , and subplots . Whittling the film down to a couple hours would have made it more powerful , less sloppy and far more coherent . The film's technical qualities are also somewhat disappointing . The special effects , for the most part , are superb . But the editing is terrible . The slow-motion strobe effects get old real fast ? and don't really have a reason for existing . Such technical mediocrity was never present in 1930s movies , and certainly hasn't been used in mainstream motion pictures since it became a standard on the everyman's home video camera . It also seems to cut in at the worst times . Nevertheless , this is still a fine film , and contains some truly epic imagery . The performances , for the most part , are impressive ? Watts surpasses the late Fay Wray's original task of having screamed a lot when the camera was on her . Watts ' characterization of Ann is precious and believable , as the aspiring actress with moral values . Jack Black , as the ruthless movie director Carl Denham , is impressive in small doses . His first scene is appalling ? but from there onwards , it gets much better . As comic relief , he is a worthy addition ; it's when Black must handle the more serious moments that his dramatic inexperience shines through . Jackson's follow-up to his Lord of the Rings spectacles is a better film than any of the three ? more human , more entertaining , and more polished . Andy Serkis does a remarkable job of playing Kong ( through use of motion-capture technology ) and the CGI layering is , at times , leagues ahead of anything we've seen . But the film as a whole feels unfinished . There are times when the CGI looks ten years old , the editing is nonsensical and subplots , characters and action battles either go on too long or aren't fully developed . The 1933 Kong was a product of America's fascination with creature features , and it revolutionized the industry ( for better or for worse ) . Jackson's 2005 updating is a worthy attempt at recreating his favorite film , but it is not a flawless picture . It is arguable that three hours and seven minutes is a reflection of Jackson's inflated ego , but I don't think so . I think it's a reflection of Hollywood's standards . Combined , the three LotR movies have earned billions . Now , Jackson has free roam , and this power is part of the reason Kong fails at times . Having someone keep a leash on the director may have prevented him from making some of the mistakes he does with this movie . Hopefully the extended DVD will grant Jackson the opportunity to re-edit and sum up a few open ends next year , and fix a few technical problems also . Judged on its numerous merits , King Kong is one of the best films of 2005 . But the fact that this has been a disappointing year for movies may explain why .
This is included on the excellent AC / DC " Family Jewels " DVD collection . It was originally circulated on VHS but went out of print quite a few years back - - the Family Jewels is a great way for fans to relive this video , as well as many others , that have long since stopped appearing on television and video . " Fly on the Wall " was a 1986 AC / DC album that didn't make much of a fuss when it came out . The videos from that album take place in a small bar ( reminded me of the one in " Blues Brothers " ) wherein the videos themselves are placed between brief segments ( mostly humorous ) . It opens with two bouncers kicking out a paparazzi photographer , which causes a sleeping animated fly to awaken from his rest . Inside the bar , AC / DC begins to play the song " Fly on the Wall , " which is intercut with segments of the fly itself buzzing around . This type of back-and-forth segment-intercutting is done throughout the 26-minute video . It's quite odd and unique and I found it entertaining . A must-see for casual fans , a must-own for AC / DC fans ( I'm somewhere in between , myself - and I appreciated it very much ) .
Roslyn Taber ( Marilyn Monroe ) is newly divorced and happens to meet two men in town : Guido and Gay Langland ( Clark Gable ) . They're cowboys of sorts at their ranch ( ignore the fact that they are around each other constantly and one of them is named Gay - it's just coincidence ) , and invite Roslyn out for a day . Soon all of them are falling head over heels for Roslyn . Apart from the top-notch cast , director John Huston and scriptwriter Arthur Miller , " The Misfits " really stands on its own as a character study - and a rather deep one , too . I read a few IMDb reviewers ' comments that noted the story itself becomes rather muddled and unbelievable at times - I didn't really think so . I suppose the film does leave a few loose ends , but to be honest , I found this to be all the MORE realistic because this kind of stuff really happens to us all in one way or another - happy , completely finalised endings are rare in life . It can be a bit slow and plodding at times , but that also boils down to whether or not you are engaged by the characters themselves . Admittedly , certain aspects of the script are - perhaps - a bit alienating and we don't really " like " all the people in this movie - but then again , we didn't like Alex DeLarge , Travis Bickle , or other cinema antiheroes . And some of the people in " The Misfits " could certainly be described as antiheroes ( particularly for the time era the film was made ) - just look at its title ! The acting is very impressive - I'm not a big fan of Monroe in general but even I thought she did fairly well here and it certainly come across as one of her less glorious roles . Clark Gable offers a different type of performance - kind of subdued and disassociated ; he speaks about things such as extramarital affairs as if it's just common discussion , not showing any emotion . The rest of the cast ranges from good to great - I was a bit disappointed by Eli Wallach's performance and felt his character could have been expanded a bit , but it's a minor complaint . In the end , this will leave some viewers feeling alienated and cold - and understandably so . For those of us who can appreciate this rather than condemn it , you may find something of interest here ; but it's certainly going to depend , ultimately , on how you approach the material itself .
" Throw Momma From the Train " is a simple dark comedy with lots of laughs . Billy Crystal plays a frustrated writer on the verge of collapse ; Danny DeVito plays a man in one of Crystal's writing classes . Crystal's ex-wife is a hag to put it nicely , and Crystal hates her . DeVito , sensing this , offers Crystal a deal one night : DeVito will kill Crystal's wife , if Crystal kills DeVito's nag of a mother . Crystal does , of course , refuse , but later , corruption deep in his heart makes him say yes . And so as things play out we see what happens when you try to throw someone's momma from a moving train . This story is an interesting character study ; a story of evil , greed , revenge , ego , trust , doing what's right , but most of all corruption . We see Crystal's white-collar writer become ever-stressed with events colliding around him , and because of DeVito's constant nagging , he says " yes . " But we know deep down in his subconscious he wanted to say " yes , " and he's pleased that he said it to DeVito . This movie is a bit of a dark spoof on Hitchcock's immortal film " Strangers on a Train , " and it plays an homage to the film early on , when there is a theater playing " Strangers on a Train . " We see DeVito watching the movie , and a lightbulb in his head pops on . He gets an idea . Throw Momma from the train ! Billy Crystal gives another convincing and strangely comical performance as a hassled writer on the verge of collapse . He has been so beaten down by everything around him that his inner-emotions come out and he agrees to throw DeVito's momma from the train . Danny DeVito directed this film excellently . He uses just the right touch of comic darkness to create a world of corruption and sickness . Everything is demented , but not to an extreme like in some other dark comedies . It has just the right touch of darkness that shone through in " The War of the Roses . " Not only is " Throw Momma From the Train " a simple tale of corruption and morality , but is also an interesting character study . Definitely worth catching on TV . stars - John Ulmer
Based on the Stephen King novel " The Body , " " Stand By Me " is a good ( albeit overrated ) film about friendship . It's really made all the more touching due to the passing of River Phoenix in the early ' 90s , which ties in to the plot in a number of eerie ways . The film is strong in terms of acting , writing and even directing ( by Rob Reiner ) - unfortunately its flaws are that it's sometimes a bit too emotionally controlling and constrictive , laying on the cheese a bit heavy . But it is a fine film , worth watching now and again , " The Goonies " for adults . On another note , I just purchased the new Deluxe Edition DVD , which is really just the old Special Edition DVD re-packaged with a CD soundtrack . The " Deluxe " DVD itself was a disappointment as it even had glaring grammatical errors on the back cover . I felt a bit ripped off .
You just can't get away with this stuff anymore . In the first ten minutes , Burt Reynolds has beaten his girlfriend , stolen her car , gone on a massive police chase , dumped the sportscar off a bridge , then attacked two cops . Oh , and he's the hero of the movie , too . Nowadays the remake - - starring Adam Sandler - - is rated PG-13 and he's a total wimp . Back in the ' 70s you could get away with being vicious , sexist , homophobic and racist and live to tell about it . In 2005 , Adam Sandler says the F-word in one of his movies and parents are banning the film companies . Yup , this film is clearly racist , homophobic and misogynist . Women are treated as sexual objects throughout , from the opening to the part where a prison warden's intern requests sexual favors from Burt Reynolds in return for handing him a movie-reel he needs . African-Americans are portrayed as racist tough guys who are better than the whites at football , and they call whiteys " honkies " and other such words . In return all the whites are racist towards the blacks and it creates an interesting tension . The homophobia sneaks into play when it's suggested one of the inmates is in love with Burt Reynolds . Quite a funny scene , actually . " The Longest Yard " was one of Robert Aldrich's most successful films and many claimed it was him " selling out , " but viewed 30 years later this really does stand apart from many of the other sports-comedy films of the decade . What is so special about " The Longest Yard " is probably that it plays like a mix between " Cool Hand Luke , " " One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest " and " Smokey and the Bandit " - - it's got car chases , it's got sports , it's got funny stuff , BUT it also spends a lot of time developing its characters and creating some very dramatic sequences . This is well directed , gritty , and fun - - not as much a " comedy " as you might expect , it is actually more serious . By the end of the film we've come to root for a bunch of murderers and rapists and even Burt Reynolds , and let's face it - - when was the last time you saw Burt Reynolds in a movie and actually LIKED his character ? ! A classic of the genre .
First things first : " The Bourne Supremacy " film is almost nothing like the book . Ludlum die-hards should not expect a faithful adaptation . Most notably , a main character from the novel and its sequel " The Bourne Ultimatum " ( I will resist saying whom ) dies within the first fifteen minutes of this film . The geographical locations in the movie are far apart from those in the book , and the general plot is vastly different . However , as a standalone bearing only the Bourne name , this is a thrilling and competent espionage action movie . The original may have been more " classy " but this is more fun and more visceral - director Paul Greengrass ' sickeningly chaotic hand-cam captures the fractured mentality of Bourne , as well as his physical spontaneity . This is a very different film from its predecessor , but in many respects , it's also very much a superior one . Allowing the first film to establish the character , Matt Damon takes Bourne in new directions here - still running away from his past while trying to simultaneously figure out who he actually was . The plot goes something like this : an assassin tries to kill Bourne at his home in a small African village , and instead murders Marie . Bourne retaliates by trying to find out why Project Treadstone is still active , and soon realizes that he has been linked to two murders in Berlin that he didn't have any part of . With the CIA under the impression that Bourne has re-emerged as an assassin-for-hire , and unaware that he has actually been framed by the same person who tried to kill him in Africa , Bourne goes international - revisiting locales from his past while dealing with haunting memories and the pain of losing his lover . Damon's great here - physical , intense , deliberate . Everything the character calls for . The plot moves at a fast pace and isn't nearly as confusing as the first film's storyline was . ( The fact that the basis for the character has already been established is probably part of the reason for this . ) Greengrass ' direction turned me off a bit at first , but once the film settled in to a rhythm it definitely worked to the film's advantage . He's kind of like Michael Bay if Michael Bay woke up one day and learned how to competently stage action sequences . " Supremacy " is indeed a supreme film of its genre - it balances plot and action while introducing another element that was noticeably absent in the first film : a human soul . The movie veers down the " revenge thriller " route towards its finale , but it contains an emotional twist that not many revenge-thrillers are mature enough to carry out . " Identity " was a solid spy thriller but " Supremacy " just improves on every aspect of the previous film , and ends enticingly .
I saw the original " Saw " when it came out in UK theaters back in 2004 . I thought it was very good - thrilling , different and clever . The acting was pretty bad ( especially the ending with Elwes ' laughable facial contortions ) , but it was the jolt that horror sorely needed . It wasn't another slice-'em-dice'-em slasher flick - it was smarter . When I read that they were almost instantly putting " Saw II " into production based on the success of the original - and that pretty much no one from the original film was returning except for Tobin Bell ( who plays Jigsaw ) - I had very small hopes . I even said on the message board for the film at one point that it was going to ruin the impact of the original . Well , I was wrong . In many ways , " Saw II " is better than the original . The acting talents are far stronger - - Donnie Wahlberg ( Marky Mark's brother ) is so much better than Elwes was in the first film . Due credit to Elwes - - he's a fine actor usually , but in " Saw " he was embarrassing towards the end . Wahlberg is perfect for the film . Another nice twist in the plot is that it isn't totally repetitive as the trailers would lead you to believe . It does something I've never seen before - the killer is arrested within the first twenty minutes AND unmasked . Tobin Bell is on-screen throughout the entire film in plain view , having discussions with Wahlberg . The movie implements a lot of new twists such as the whole concept of " Rashomon " ing everything and going back and forth between different perspectives . The ending is brilliant because it's not just a throwaway shocker - it has a moral message that I never expected from this film . The movie's interweaving plots and self-referential layers ( such as a revisiting of the bathroom from the first movie ) provide lots of fun and Jigsaw's game with the detective in the film is thought-provoking - this film is so much smarter and better than I ever expected and I was really blown away by the fact that we still have the capability of making good sequels to good movies that offer something fresh , rather than simply retreading material from the original .
Dane Cook is quite funny - I have his " Harmful if Swallowed " and " Retaliation " albums , and even if he's not the most thought-provoking comedian , he is naturally humorous , and he makes me laugh . This Comedy Central presentation is quite short ( 23 minutes without commercials ) and as a result he isn't given much room to fully blossom like he does on his CDs ( Retaliation includes a 20-minute gag about going to Wallgreens ! ) but nevertheless it's a very funny stand-up act . Off the bat he practically attacks the audience with jokes and doesn't slow down at all . If you're new to Dane Cook then this is overall an excellent way to be introduced to him . After this I recommend checking out his other comedy albums .
I can't remember a really good film noir being made in quite some time . There may have been a handful of good ( or decent ) film noirs recently , but the bad outnumber them by about 100 to 1 . I went into Carl Franklin's " Out of Time " with a certain amount of interest - - I wasn't sure what to expect . I knew that it was a crime thriller / film noir about a guy who gets caught up in some type of crime , but other than that I really had no idea what the film was like . It hadn't gotten extremely good reviews ( although most of them were at least positive ) , and that lowered my expectations a bit . I had finally come to expect a fairly decent thriller with illogical plot holes and a boring pace . I was wrong . With a back-to-back viewing of David Spade's " Dickie Roberts : Former Child Star " and " Out of Time , " there was a nice contrast going , which may explain why I enjoyed the film so very much . But there's one thing for certain - - it's a lot cleverer than most films of its kind . Matt Whitlock ( Denzel Washington ) is running out of time . He's been framed for murder and has to cover his tracks before the clues start to pile up against him . And there are a lot of clues pointing not only in his direction , but directly at him . Matt is the police chief of a small town in Florida . Nobody suspects him . But he is sole beneficiary on the female victim's life insurance claim . And right before she died , Matt took over $400 , 000 worth of confiscated drug money and planned to run off with her . Nobody knew they were having an affair because she was a married woman and they were keeping their romantic adventures secret . She made Matt her beneficiary after being diagnosed with cancer - - but now she's been discovered dead in a fire with her husband , the money gone , and all the evidence points - - as I said before - - to him . Fortunately , the police officials haven't picked up any traces . Yet . So , in a frantic race for time , Matt has to cover up all his tracks before the find out . The doctor who diagnosed her cancer is gone . The money is gone . Matt's ex-wife ( Eva Mendes ) is bent on finding the killer , and sooner or later she'll figure out that Matt was having an affair , that he had a motive to kill ( over 1 , 000 , 000 dollars ) , etc . But will she find out the real truth : That he is innocent ? This stuff's been done before ; even I'll admit that . But this time it's great . Everything about this movie works , from the style ( with all the vivid brightness of Florida portrayed in films such as " Scarface " or " Get Shorty " ) to the acting ( Denzel strikes again ! ) to direction ( Carl Franlin brings a distinct style to the film ) . From the opening credits I had a big smile on my face . This was a pleasant twist on film noir . Admittedly the first half hour is rather slow . I almost came close to giving the film a negative review . But then the chain of events rolled in like a one-two punch ; fast , furious , and everything you could wish for in a mystery . And , unlike some films , when you stop to take a look at the plot twists in " Out of Time " . . . they actually make sense . Denzel Washington is one of the best actors in Hollywood ; he can lift any film out of mediocrity , including that underrated supernatural thriller " Fallen " with John Goodman . He is simply amazing , always able to bring a sense of realism to his roles , and he does this in " Out of Time " - - I never doubted his role for a minute . That's pretty rare . I would say that " Out of Time " is one of the best films of the year . It seems real , with likable characters portrayed by a strong cast , including John Billinglsey as Chae , Matt's best friend who shows up when he's needed the most . In retrospect , a lot of these characters seem pretty typical and routine . But when I was watching the film , it seemed extremely realistic and convincing . That's always a good sign . " Out of Time " is rated PG-13 for some sexuality , violence , and language . ( Re-rated from a mild R after a few scene cuts . ) stars . - John Ulmer
Will Smith and Tommy Lee Jones team up along side Vincent D ' Onfrio and Rip Torn for the 1997 hit MEN IN BLACK . Smith is agent J . Just recruited to a top secret government organization MIB that monitors extra-terrestrial life on Earth . Jones is K . The man who recruits J . and who is a long time member of the MIB . Together they must team up to stop a bug in a human's body ( Vincent D ' Onfrio ) under the guidance of Rip Torn . MIB never let's in on the laughs , and is nothing like your average comedy . It's worthy of the success it's had , but I hear the sequel stinks . Too bad . Maybe in MIIIB ( MIB 3 ) they should come up with some original plot lines and jokes like MIB 1 . Because even if the sequel's horrible , MIB is a great blend of comedy , action , and sc-fi . starsJOHN ULMER
The beginning of " 13 Rue Madeleine " is quite sloppy . The prologue opens with an unnecessary narration in which the audience is briefed on the methods of recruitment for O . S . S . agents in World War II . It plays less like a movie and more like a documentary ( a cheesy one , too ) . Once the plot kicks in , however , it is a great deal better . James Cagney stars as Bob Sharkey , one of the recruitment officers / trainers who is told there is a German mole in their operation . Sharkey plants traps for the mole and figures out who it is . . . but he has no idea that there are actually TWO moles in his recruitment operation . He ends up briefing the other mole and divulging secret plans for a " fake " mission set up to trap the other German . The two German spies exchange information regularly so the outed man is given the information and manages to avoid falling into the trap ; he actually outsmarts Sharkey and joins the rest of the O . S . S . agents on a real mission into France to find a V-2 rocket . Piecing together the clues , Sharkey goes behind enemy lines to find the moles - but is captured by Germans at 13 Rue Madeleine . This movie has so many twisty turns that it reminded me of " The Usual Suspects , " " Spy Game " and " Basic . " ( As far as modern films go . ) It's better than " Basic " and " Spy Game " put together , though . As an espionage thriller its dramatic irony is delectable ( I hate to use clichéd descriptions here but it's the only word that comes to mind ) . I really loved the setup ( after the sloppy opening narration which I hated ) and the way the plot moves - and the pace at which it unfolds - is excellent . A lot of modern thrillers are lazy and have cheap gimmick endings . " 13 Rue Madeleine " didn't insult my intelligence at all . The acting is very good and Cagney delivers another great performance . I know I'm using the word " great " quite often to describe various elements of this film , but that's the word that best sums it up : " Great . " Flawless ? No . But very entertaining , very smart , and very good .
" The Godfather Part III " isn't really a necessary sequel , and to be truthful it's not really one of the best sequels in recent memory , but is it a bad film ? No . In fact , had it not been for the extraordinary first two films , I firmly believe this movie would have been hailed as an epic ; but due to such a broad expanse of years from the second film ( 1974 ) to this one ( 1990 ) , audiences were given too much time to work up extreme expectations , especially with the major success of the first sequel . Many people just expected another equal sequel . It's just a good sequel . Al Pacino returns to his role of Don Michael Corleone , much older since we last saw him and with a daughter ( Sofia Coppola , Francis ' daughter ) . He is still split from his ( ex ) - wife , Kay ( Diane Keaton ) , and Tom Hagen ( Robert Duvall ) has since passed to the other side , though rumors have it his character was originally in Ford and Mario Puzo's script , only to be dumped when Duvall turned down the script because he believed Pacino was getting too much attention . ( Though I have my doubts over the accuracy of that rumor . ) Michael wants out of the Mafia . He wants to work legitimate . He's been trying to turn his business into legit dealings for a while now , and he realizes that the sins of his past will never completely go away . He decides to hand the reigns of power over to his ex-brother Fredo's son ( Andy Garcia ) , a young , eager soul with energy and excitement . But things do not go so well . Michael tries to be a mentor to his trainee but it is a difficult task . Michael goes through turbulent times , not to mention that he must deal with his daughter falling in love with the future head of the family ( they're cousins , which , when you think about it , is just plain nasty ) . Michael tries to get his son interested in becoming the head of the family , but he will have no part of it . He is bent on becoming an opera singer , to turn from his family's past and ignore his father's pleads . Michael is left with some difficult choices , and we see that all the power in the world can't control the inevitable . " The Godfather Part III " has its flaws . One of them is the casting of Michael's daughter with Coppola's daughter - she has , one might say , no acting ability whatsoever . Garcia is bright and talented , and fits the part he is playing . Pacino isn't quite as energetic and powerful as he was in the first two films , in fact he looks pretty tired here , but I believe that's the point . Some people really hate this film . I thought it was quite good . It's a good continuation , though I do not hesitate to admit it could have been much better . The film seems a bit corny at times , and there are some bad casting choices , one of which I have already mentioned above . But it is an entertaining film , one that no " Godfather " fan should go without seeing . It's a worthy ( hopefully ) last installment , one that gives more of the same but still manages to hold the audience's interest . There are rumors flying everywhere of yet another " Godfather " entry , but quite honestly I think it's a bad decision . They should leave the series as it is and move on to other projects . Puzo is dead . Coppola hasn't made a good film in years - heck , he hasn't even produced a good film in years . Al Pacino's character would be hard to bring back , and if you've seen this film you know what I'm talking about . A prequel would just be messy and unexplained , not to mention confusing . To follow Andy Garcia's character would seem pointless - some things should be left to our imagination . I doubt as to the importance of another sequel , as it would , at this point , just be a cash-in . The script by Coppola and Puzo is interesting , but it seems too try a bit too hard to be an epic at times . It just serves as a reminder that this film was not needed as an intallment in the series . " The Godfather Part " was great , " The Godfather Part II " was superb , " The Godfather Part III " is probably the best film of 1990 . Which , looking back at twenty years from now , probably won't amount to a hill of beans . But it's a start . stars - John Ulmer
Yep , all you " Pulp Fiction " junkies can rush out to the DVD stores - this is one of Quentin Tarantino's " top three " favorite films , along with " Taxi Driver " and " Blow Out . " Slightly irreverent top favorites , I'd say , except for " Driver . " This was basically loosely remade by John Carpenter in 1976 with ASSAULT ON PRECINCT 13 , which was much faster-moving and an excellent film , but this one is also rather terrific , if slower . ( Which , in this case , is a good thing . ) A sheriff in a small town in southwest Texas must keep custody of a murderer whose brother is trying to help him escape . After a friend is killed trying to muster support for him , he and his deputies - a disgraced drunk and a cantankerous old cripple - must find a way to hold out against the rancher's hired guns until the marshal arrives . In the meantime , matters are complicated by the presence of a young gunslinger - and a mysterious beauty who just came in on the last stagecoach . I wouldn't say this is one of THE favorite films of mine but it is a great film that set the course for many to follow - expertly directed by Hawks and all-around an influential , enjoyable semi-masterpiece .
As Fellini's " 8 " was a reflection of his own torment as a director , " The 400 Blows " was Francois Truffaut's exorcism of personal demons . Antoine Doinel is allegedly Truffaut's own projection of himself at an early age , and this movie was a very important project for the director as an adult . Jean-Pierre Léaud plays Antoine remarkably well , as a thoughtful but rebellious Parisian student who skips school and goes to the movies with his friends . His mother ( Claire Maurier ) shows no interest in the boy , nor does his father . He retreats home every day sullenly and sits on his bed , daydreaming . Beautifully filmed and still poignant after all these years , Truffaut's masterpiece is a moving and engaging study of youth that continues to retain its significance today . Definitely worth seeing , perhaps even worth buying if you're a film buff . The Criterion Collection DVD is excellent and provides a very insightful glimpse into both the movie and Truffaut .
" Malcolm in the Middle " may have lost a bit of steam recently , but some of the earlier episodes are absolutely , side-splittingly hilarious . Although Malcolm ( Frankie Muniz ) may be the titular character , it is really Bryan Cranston's characterization of the father figure , Hal , that makes the show so fun to watch . Cranston turns Hal into a boy at heart ( as all fathers are ) - only , like everything else with the show , extends it into a complete satire and goes completely wacky . This show , for lack of a better word , is crazy . It's absurd . And it couldn't be any better . The wild antics and over-the-top gags are similar to a cartoon , and even the fast-cut editing between scenes ( with the " whoosing " sound ) is reminiscent of an animated program . Like " The Simpsons , " " Malcolm " manages to successfully interweave everyday family / social topics into silly plots involving all types of nonsensical stuff . Some of the physical gags are absolutely hilarious - the episode with Hal running out of the supermarket , a parody of " Raiders of the Lost Ark , " is gut-busting - but at its heart this really is a tender and witty comedy that manages to be effective on more than one level . The rest of the cast are great too . It really " feels " like a genuine family . They bicker , they complain , they whine and moan and fight - this is America today . If we were to go back fifty years in a time capsule and present this to the " I Love Lucy " crowds , they'd be shocked .
The smash hit 1995 film Jumanji - based on the children's book - is a great family film . The plot of the story involves a young boy named Alan Parrish who in the 1960's finds a supernatural board game , that was buried underground in the 1800's . Alan is instantly drawn into playing the game , and Sarah-a girl who lives close to him - also joins in the game . After the powers of the game transport young Alan into the jungles of the board game , no one believes Sarah's story of what happened , and everyone suspects foul play . Now in 1995 , a girl named Judy ( Kirsten Dunst ) and her younger brother Peter have been drawn into the game after finding it in the attic of the old Parrish house . When they play however , Alan ( Robin Williams ) is released from the jungle accidentally when one of the kids rolls a certain number on the dice . Now , with the powers and creatures of Jumanji released , they must finish the game . But to do so , they must find Sarah ( Bonnie Hunt ) , because now it is her turn to roll the dice . After finding her , they must hurry before the town they live in is destroyed and before they all die ! Jumanji is great family film , packed with - at the time - great graphics ( that now look like a computer game ) . While some hate this film for being too terrifying for young children , people have forgotten what the rating PG means-PARENTAL GUIDANCE-NOT all ages . So with this in mind guidance is suggested for scary scenes , but I think any child over 3 can enjoy this film . It has no gore or attacks really . Sure , there're some mildly scary scenes , but look at Harry Potter ? I think more kids I heard of thought that was scary than Jumanji . Another great thing about Jumanji , is that like Shrek and such films , adults can enjoy it as well . It's not one of those films where you have to suffer through , like many movies coming out today . I think movies like Jumanji are the best of their kind . The acting was great , and Robin Williams is perfect for the role of Alan Parrish , and Bonnie Hunt and him had good chemistry . Kirsten Dunst in this film was further shaping her acting career , to appear in such films now like ' Spider-Man ' and the teen movie ' Bring It On . ' I honestly forget the name of the kid who plays Judy's brother Peter , but he was okay . I don't think he was great though . Okay , but not great . I doubt as he gets older he'll get a film career much past his teen years . So if you want some good , family fun seeing a movie , rent Jumanji . And remember , PG = Parental Guidance , not All Ages , so do use discretion is your kids don't like mild terror , but I doubt you'll have to , especially on video ( I'll admit the theater added some more terror ) . It's not as terrifying as Ebert stated in his review . With all the movies he's seen , I think he's way off mark . He compared Jumanji to being as suitable as Jaws was for children , but big news Ebert , Jaws WAS rated PG . Anyway , I hate when people think of Jumanji as a ' should be PG-13 ' because it's not . It's great family fun with loads of laughs , jungle animals and creatures , and just plain hilariousness ! stars . I loved Jumanji , and I DEFINITELY recommend it to families .
Capote is a great film ? one that captures the cinematic aesthetic of 1950s and ' 60s cinema and does , indeed , come across as a product of the era . ( In fact , presenting the movie in black and white rather than modern-day filtered color may have been a wiser choice . ) . From the opening , graceful shot of swaying cornfields to the punctuating closing frame , Capote is a magnificently crafted ( if somewhat flawed ) character study hiding behind the false façade of a standard Hollywood biopic ( and it is so much more ) . The film's approach to chronicling its titular figure is pleasing and unusual ? it doesn't chart his entire existence from birth to death ; rather , it drops us square in the middle of a key event of his life that dramatically altered his own perception for years to come . Directed by newcomer Bennett Miller , it is a promising and captivating character examination that takes place over a short six-year time period , beginning with the ruthless slaying of a family in Kansas in November 1959 and ending with the execution of the killers in April 1965 . Flamboyantly gay author Truman Capote becomes interested in the story and travels to Holcomb , Kansas with Harper Lee ( Catherine Keener ) to write an article about the tragedy . However , after meeting with the two young men who committed the crime , Capote feels compelled to extend the story into a " nonfiction novel " ? and he even begins to have possible romantic feelings for Perry Smith ( Clifton Collins , Jr . ) , a soft-spoken and sensitive man whom Capote feels a deep spiritual link with . He claims at one point in the film , " It's as if Perry and I grew up in the same house . And one day he went out the back door and I went out the front . " The movie does have a few problems , primarily its editing ? which is sloppy , unnecessarily slow at times and yet at other points much too fast . The direction is not superb or showy , although I think Miller's conservative approach is in part to adapt to the style of cinema from a half-century ago . Furthermore , considering the fact that this is Miller's second movie , it is still very impressive and vastly superior to the direction of Paul Haggis ' noisy , flashy " Crash . " Hoffman , the P . T . Anderson regular who has come to be known amongst film buffs as one of the generation's finest character actors ( he is for his generation what Steve Buscemi , Peter Lorre and Harry Dean Stanton were for theirs ) , buries himself inside Truman Capote . You simply forget you are watching the sleazy phone sex kingpin from " Punch-Drunk Love " ? he disappears inside his role . Every mannerism , every verbal pronunciation ? it's all nailed perfectly . His Best Actor grab was well deserved rivaled only perhaps by Joaquin Phoenix's embodiment of Johnny Cash in Walk the Line . Capote is a splendid character film , one that examines the manipulation and self-centeredness of its " hero " and isn't afraid to expose his lesser qualities . The film does not pander to its audience , nor does it cater to the standards of the Biopic . Its few flaws ? such as its inability to present Harper Lee and other supporting characters as well-rounded people , or its lackluster editing ? don't detract from the overall product , which is an incredibly tasteful and artistic examination of greed , betrayal , love and heartbreak . The movie is about Capote's experience writing In Cold Blood ? rather than his entire life - - for a reason , and that reason is made vibrantly clear by the end of the film .
This concert tribute to the late Freddie Mercury ( frontmen of legendary UK rock band QUEEN ) is a great performance . There are so many guest appearances , including Elton John , Def Leppard and Axl Rose . There are many musical performances , but the most popular - - and best - - has to be the reinterpretation of Queen's most famous song , Bohemian Rhapsody , which is performed here by Elton John and Axl Rose . It's a great performance , a great song - - and it sounds ( arguably ) even better with John and Rose singing it . ( Although Queen fans may disagree on that one . ) Overall this is a great performance and everyone involved is giving 100 % . And for the record , I absolutely loved the performance of We Will Rock You , which is probably the second best song here - and it's really well performed . Worth watching .
I don't know why everyone thinks " After Hours " ends happily . This is a brooding , dark , bitter film , with a pessimistic outlook on life and a downright depressing core message . It is a " comedy " with no laughs , and few chuckles . It is also a great cult film by director Martin Scorsese that came and went in 1985 with little attention . It's surprising to see that Scorsese took on another comedy so shortly after his major flop , The King of Comedy ( 1983 ) , starring Robert De Niro . Scorsese publicly acknowledged that he wished he had never made The King of Comedy and his star disowned it . It was a film so far ahead of its time , no one understood it ? or much less , cared to see it . Thank goodness this did not dissuade Scorsese from making another comedy . He was back two years later with After Hours , which is an intense , hellish , nightmarish odyssey through New York City's Soho late at night , and into the morning . The film's protagonist , Paul ( Griffin Dunne ) , is an unlikable character who generally gains sympathy with us only because of his grueling misfortunes . Fate , it seems , has a grudge against poor Paul ; as the night progresses , it only becomes worse and worse , until he is running away from a bloodthirsty mob and happens to inadvertently witness a random murder . " I'll probably get blamed for that , " he says to himself , which is exactly what we're thinking . This really is the sort of film that makes you almost want to stop watching , it is so painful . Nothing at all goes right for Paul . When he seeks comfort in a friend , he is relieved , finally able to sit back and take a breath of air - - only to look outside and see his " friend " alerting the bloodthirsty mob . The plot ? what little there is ? begins in a typical daytime office setting . Paul meets a girl after a hard day at work ( Rosanna Arquette ) and they arrange to meet later that evening . On the way there he loses all his cash through the open window of a speeding taxicab and is left with few dollars . On top of this , Paul soon realizes that Arquette is not his type and leaves to go home ? only to find that local subway fare has been raised and he doesn't have enough cash to make it back to his apartment . Thus begins his nightmare . Scorsese's genius move here is that as Paul progresses onwards into the night , the film slowly loses its balance and topples over into a distinct category of weirdness . The beginning is fairly standard and realistic . It is typical Scorsese with exterior shots of New York City , character-driven dialogue and so on and so forth . About of the way through it becomes a bizarre Terry Gilliam-esquire hell ride and Scorsese lets loose on everything . It's brilliant film-making and a devastating satire of New York's late-night underbelly . The original ending ( storyboarded but never filmed ) involved Paul being reborn after crawling through a random woman's legs ? that's how bizarre , and creative , this film actually is . Dunne is suitable in the role of Paul ? a fairly unknown character actor ; he doesn't have the charisma or talent to be a typical leading man . Which , I think , is part of the reason he seems so comfortable in the role of Paul , who is certainly one of cinema's most unusual heroes . Another film might setup Paul as a meek , hard-working , likable guy who gets stuck in bad situations ? when in fact Paul is a confident jerk who probably deserves what is coming to him . Before picking up Arquette he flirts with her roommate ( Linda Fiorentino ) and gives her a back massage . He puts the moves on Arquette , then ditches her when she resists . He's not shy and he's not an all-around good guy ? he's a flawed character that only helps the entire experience feel more realistic . Scorsese is at the top of his game here . Many techniques would be used five years later in GoodFellas . Note the ringing phone and the abrupt lunge forward ; the keys being tossed out of the window in first-person perspective ; the rotating camera as it pans around Paul's head in a diner ; and so on and so forth . Although it is not his best work nor his most distinct , After Hours is ample proof that Scorsese has a firm handle on black comedy and is able to stretch beyond his ( arguably ) typified style of gangsters and low-lifes planning how to " whack " people . Scorsese bashers should see this , and his fans should too ? insightful for everyone .
" The Runaway Jury " is a con movie , but a different kind of con movie . This isn't something like " The Score , " " Matchstick Men " or other movies about seemingly normal everymen pulling a heist - - it's about two regular people who successfully con an entire courtroom out of random justice . They take matters into their own hands . You've probably seen the ads already : " Trials are too important to be decided by juries . " This particular trial happens to be what Grisham himself described as " the most important trial of the century . " Well , almost , anyway . The book was about cigarettes , and the film is about gun control ( we can thank Michael Mann's " The Insider " for the plot change - - 20th Century Fox decided that a film about cigarettes might seem like a rip-off ) . So in all actuality , the movie differs from the book in one major way . But as a reader of the novel and a viewer of the movie , I didn't notice many differences - - at least not any differences that would harm the film as a whole . ( " The Firm " was brutalized with its big screen treatment . ) Essentially the same central idea as the book - - a jury being held under the control of a single man - - the story starts with Nicholas Easter ( John Cusack ) , a seemingly naive and innocent young man who is assigned to jury duty by the state after eight months of occupying his apartment . One of the biggest plot holes exists here , but by giving it away I'd be giving away some of the plot , so I resist with a grimace . Hopefully you'll notice it for yourself after ( or even before ) seeing the film . The trial is targeted against a large gun manufacturer , which allowed a chagrined office worker to purchase a handgun and shoot an office full of innocent workers in a fit of rage after being fired from the same company . Now , one of the victims ' wives is suing the gun company for allowing this " wack job " to get hold of handguns . At the defense is Rankin Fitch ( Gene Hackman ) , who is ranking as filth in this film . He's a grumpy old corporate hard-on , just like Hackman always plays ( with expert precision I might add ) , and he's essentially frowned upon as the " evil bad guy " in this movie . The good guy is Wendell Rohr ( Dustin Hoffman ) , who is playing the same type of doofus lawyer he played in " Sleepers . " Both actors play their parts with great accuracy , and their performances are the highlight of the movie . Much like the highly-anticipated De Niro / Pacino showdown in Mann's other film , " Heat , " we are finally presented with the first on-screen confrontation between Hackman and Hoffman - - two old pals who just never decided to make a movie together . I'm glad they did . When they finally share the screen together , it feels like all the tension of the movie is let loose in one major segment . It's probably the best scene in the entire film , and it's powered by these two veteran actors in a way no others could do so . ( Save De Niro and Pacino , of course . ) Essentially the jury is taken control of by Easter , who is a sly devil - - and his conniving ways are expressed clearer in the book . Here , we have to guess how he's bagging these jurors a lot of the time - - which , for someone who hasn't read the book , may be quite frustrating . The catch is that the jury therefore becomes purchasable - - for ten million dollars , the prosecution or the defense can buy a verdict . In the same style of a good old-fashioned auction , the bids keep getting higher and higher . Tension elevates , and startling revelations occur . Are the motives of Easter and his girlfriend working on the inside ( Rachel Weisz ) really what they seem ? The movie is based from a complete liberal standpoint , and the message comes across much stronger than Grisham's subtlety in the book . In fact , I somewhat agreed with a few of the points in Grisham's novels about cigarettes being targeted at children and being glamorized , etc . - - but as much as " The Runaway Jury's " film adaptation tries to convince me , I don't see why the gun company should be held responsible for allowing a man to purchase a gun and murder people . I'm not saying it's not wrong . It is wrong . But the right to bear arms is in the Constitution , and the gun company didn't purposefully give this wacko a gun . They had no clue he was going to kill people . Why should they be held responsible ? But for now , " The Runaway Jury " stands as Grisham's best film adaptation yet . Yes , you probably haven't been able to tell from my review thus far , but I absolutely enjoyed this film from beginning to end . It has its flaws , and like all Grisham adaptations it also seems to lack the narrative drive of the author's writing - - which makes up for his plot holes - - but " The Runaway Jury " always was one of Grisham's strongest-plotted books . It's now his be st film adaptation , carried by two great performances by two of the great screen veterans of our time . ( Actors that are sometimes type cast because of past career-shaping performances . ) I must admit that I was waiting for Hoffman to suddenly ask for K-Mart underwear , or to recite which aircraft carriers have had fatal crashes in the past , or to suddenly request that he immediately view an episode of " Jeopardy , " but he never did . And that's always a good sign , isn't it ? stars . - John Ulmer
" Batman " is all about a man who battles his enemies and inner demons . It's about fear , acceptance , morality and reality : Batman is not a superhero , contrary to popular belief . He doesn't have extraordinary powers . He's human , physically and emotionally . That is why Batman has always appealed to me , and I imagine many others feel the same way . I don't read comics , so I can't be one of the many angry fans who claim Tim Burton's 1989 adaptation was poor ; but as a film , it didn't really focus on the psychological aspects of the story , so I can see their point . Michael Keaton was an unconvincing Bruce Wayne ? he wasn't believable as a suave playboy or a ruthless billionaire . Jack Nicholson was fun as the Joker , the sets were gloriously dark and Gothic , but at its heart the film was as cold as its exterior . There was nothing of actual substance ? seen today the film is just an entertaining comic book-movie with good visual design that could have been better . The sequels came and went , none of them living up to the original , and the casket was sealed in 1998 with " Batman and Robin " ? considered by many to be one of the all-time worst films in existence . ( And I agree . ) The problem , I think , is that all these films ignored what is explored so proficiently in " Batman Begins : the fragmented mind of a billionaire who grew up under the constant shadow of his family's legacy , and never wanted to accept his reality ; a man who learns to hate crime ( and more specifically criminals ) after his parents are murdered before his eyes by a lowly street thug . Bruce Wayne is a fascist at heart ? but has enough moral fiber to resist devolving into an executioner . " That is the only thing that separates us from them , " Bruce says in " Batman Begins . " And that's something that the film latches on to ? amongst other topics ? and what makes it not only the best of the " Batman " movies , but also a great film by any standard . I admire the technical skill of this production . The fight scenes are fast and blurred ? I usually hate this , but it works well in " Batman Begins , " because we're meant to fear the unknown . Sounds are used to great effect . Cinematic ally , Batman becomes a movie monster on occasion ? the scene where a group of smugglers are picked off one-by-one in the darkness , with scattering sounds overhead and screams and gunshots piercing the silence , brings to mind Ridley Scott's " Alien . " In another segment , Batman questions Crane while he is on drugs , which results in some truly terrifying images that will shock children who are familiar with Batman as a flawless hero . I also like the fact that Christopher Nolan ? who admittedly does not prefer using modern special effects ? bases his film around the characters so much indeed that he uses very little CGI . Apart from a few action sequences and swarms of bats , most of " Batman Begins " is real , and that really impressed me . ( I do not like modern effects , either . ) I could tell the city was real , I could tell the Batmobile was real , and I could tell Batman was real . Remember the segment in " Batman and Robin " where they surf 30 , 000 feet above ground on pieces of an exploding rocket ship and look like cartoon characters ? There's none of that crap here . Bale is perfect as Batman , and the best yet , because he fits every aspect of the character ; he is believable as a smug , ruthless playboy . We can see him as a troubled young man haunted by his past and an unbearable sense of guilt . And in the suit , he looks confident without being comfortable ? he's still learning how to adapt . We can imagine how far he will progress in the sequels when , at the end of " Begins , " he has finally become the Batman we all know . The movie is grim like Burton's but more realistic , and not as glossy and perfect ; the suit is imperfect , Batman's technology and secrets are exposed , the Batmobile is ugly and efficient , and the bat cave was originally part of the underground railroad and doesn't have any gadgets or special super-duper display cases for the suits . ( I never did understand the point of encasing the Bat Suit in a special shiny glass container when no one was supposed to even see it except Bruce and Alfred . ) " Batman Begins " is to Burton's " Batman " what Burton's " Batman " was to the Adam West version . It's darker . It's surprising . It's better . This is the best " action " film of the summer ? one that doesn't favor CGI over characters or huge overblown action sequences instead of humble moments of dialogue . Sure , there's action . There's a cool fight sequence aboard a train . But because the characters are given depth , we actually care about them , which is something George Lucas could learn from . In an era when bigger is better , and audiences are used to Batman making his appearance on-screen in mere minutes of each film , " Begins " does something completely unexpected ( and risky ) . It actually takes its time . Bruce Wayne doesn't don his famous suit and cape for the first hour of the film ? and when he finally does , the costume isn't fantasized . It's imperfect , awkward and ugly . And best of all , there are no bat-nipples this time . All considered , is it really so surprising that " Batman Begins " has only made a disappointing $71 million in its first week ? Audiences are not used to blockbusters of such depth and beauty . Note : I had to trim my plot summary in this review because IMDb has a 1 , 000 word limit . Go to my website if you want to read my full review .
" Airplane ! " is , was and always shall be the master of spoof movies . It is single-handedly responsible for literally inventing a sub-genre of comedy . It is the ultimate Silly Movie . A satire of the disaster movies of the 1970s , particularly the " Airport " series , nothing makes sense and it doesn't need to . There's no real plot . Just laughs - and plenty of ' em . It was helmed by the ZAZ trio ( Zucker , Abrahams and Zucker ) , whose dedication to making the audience laugh is surprisingly adamant . Recent spoofs may have left a bad aftertaste in your mouth , but it seems to be a universal agreement : " Airplane " is the funniest film of its genre ever made . ( Closely followed by " The Naked Gun " - also penned by the ZAZ trio - perhaps . ) The plot : Ted Striker ( Robert Hays ) is a war veteran-turned-cab-driver who decides to chase after his girlfriend , an airline stewardess named Elaine ( Julie Hagerty ) , who has dumped him in order to pursue a new life . Right before her plane takes off , Ted climbs aboard , hitching a ride in order to woo her back into a relationship again . When the aircraft is in midflight , both pilots become very ill after eating their meals . Eventually many passengers begin to show symptoms of a rare disease , apparently transmitted by the food . Onboard , Dr . Rumack ( Leslie Nielsen ) takes care of the sick passengers as Ted - an ex-fighter pilot from the war - decides to try and land the plane . If he messes up they will all die , and in a particularly funny scene , the pressure becomes so unbearable that he begins to literally sweat gallons in the cockpit . That is essentially all the film is about , but most of its duration is spent cracking jokes . Spoof films are entirely different from other movies because normally we would criticize a film if it considered its plot to be the least important element . Not so here . This is a truly brainless piece of celluloid - a movie that doesn't try to be anything that it isn't . From the opening credits - that cleverly spoof " JAWS " - to the closing we realize that this is an altogether unique film going experience . The movie's biggest laughs come through unexpected flashbacks , such as when Ted remembers where he first met Elaine in a crummy bar ( " . . . it was worse than Detroit . . . " ) , and begins to disco-dance a la John Travolta from " Saturday Night Fever " ( complete with Bee Gees soundtrack blaring in the background and the famous Travolta pose ) . Then , later , we are taken back to when Ted was hospitalized after the war , and finds out that he was responsible for the death of six men . " Seven , actually , " he is informed , which adds to the pain of the moment for him . Though this movie is very funny , many jokes misfire . If you're not pop culture savvy and you don't remember Mrs . Cleaver from TV's " Leave it to Beaver " , the humor is going to go over your head . But unlike many comedies , " Airplane ! " offers something unique for each person . I know that as a film lover , I picked up on many movie in-jokes that some people might not recognize . And then there were the gags that I first missed but picked up after a second viewing , or when someone explained them to me , or both . And I'm sure there are many yet that I'm not aware of . It seems that every time I watch it , there's something else to laugh at that I missed previously . " Airplane ! " not only was a huge success in 1980 ( the year of its release ) , spinning off a horde of imitators and one sequel - it was also responsible for crowning Leslie Nielsen " The King of Spoof . " Prior to " Airplane ! " Nielsen had been a veteran of more serious productions , stemming back to playing cowboys on " The Mickey Mouse Club " and other embarrassing attempts at acting . However , Nielsen later claimed that he had always wanted to do a comedy , even when he first started acting seriously with projects such as the classic " Forbidden Planet " ( one of the best science-fiction films ever made ) . He later reunited with the ZAZ trio for " The Naked Gun " trilogy , appeared in similar spoof films over the years such as " Wrongfully Accused " and " Scary Movie 3 , " and had his iconic comedy shtick ripped off by many screen veterans - most noticeably by George Gaynes in the unbearable " Police Academy " ( 1984 ) . When it comes down to a single evaluation , " Airplane " is simply the best spoof film ever made . It's like a MAD Magazine parody come to life . There are the occasional misfires , but unlike many other spoof film imitators , this one contains far more hits . The deadpan acting is genius and everything else fits into place , resulting in what may arguably be one of the absolute funniest films ever conceived and put on the big screen . And if you decide to watch the movie , don't blink - you might miss a gag or two . The " Police Academies " will come and go but " Airplane ! " will never be forgotten .
Some Spoilers . " The Player " opens with a long , tracking shot outside of a Hollywood studio . We see a man walk by ( Fred Ward ) who complains about how directors use too many cuts in films nowadays , and that they should use long , tracking shots , instead . The irony ? The beginning of our movie is using a long , tracking shot . We wind around buildings filled with hoards of famous stars and directors and writers . Griffin Mills ( Tim Robbins ) is a studio executive - he hears film " pitches , " or outlines for film stories . We see Buck Henry ( writer of " The Graduate " ) throwing a pitch to him for " The Graduate : Part II . " It is 1992 , and every time a pitch is thrown , we hear a film exec respond to the pitch thrower by saying , " It should star Julia Roberts and Bruce Willis . " One British man throwing a pitch to Griffin insists that his film shall have no big stars , especially not Julia Roberts or Bruce Willis . He says that he wants no action , no car chases , no sex , no happy ending . And when the hilarious , surprise movie-within-a-movie ending of " The Player " starts to unfold . . . well , let's just say that things do not always turn out the way people want them to . And this is what makes " The Player " tick . It's a scathing satire , one that the sharpest of film buffs will love for its in-jokes and cameos ( over 60 ! ) , and the most naive of filmgoers will love for its ironic , good-guys-lose , bad-guys-win story . Griffin Mills ( Robbins ) has a nice life - a nice car , a nice girl , a nice job , and he's filthy rich . But lately his standing as a film executive has been threatened by the new guy ( Peter Gallagher ) , who is showing lots of potential in the field . One day he gets a postcard with threats on the back . Thinking that the postcard came from a writer he pushed away months ago ( Vincent D'Onofrio ) , he confronts him . One thing leads to another and he ends up killing the writer - unintentionally , we are led to assume , though there are some doubts . But being the ironic movie this is , Griffin has , of course , killed the wrong writer . And so he continues getting postcards and threats - someone even puts a poisonous snake in his car . Griffin becomes more and more paranoid as the days go on , and almost falls to the pressure of police questioning , led by Whoopi Goldberg . In-jokes flow freely . Some big movie buffs might pick up on such references as to Levinson , or " The Bicycle Thief " ( 1942 ) , or movie posters hanging on the walls in the background ( " M , " " Casablanca , " etc . ) . But it will take numerous viewings before you realize that they are more than just there to please film buffs - they are there for irony . Film buffs might be the only ones who pick up on the irony of them , too . This is a movie made for movie lovers , for the movie insiders and for those who like a good laugh . It's a spoof on tinseltown and all its crazy little rituals of getting a film made . This could be called an anti-heroic movie - and I'm sure it has been called that . It's not for those who like poetic justice in their films . Good guys burn and bad guys win . At first I didn't like this , but then I realized that it isn't trying to be anti-heroic - it's being ironic . And let's face it : Irony is funny . " The Player " reminds me very much of " Adaptation " ( 2002 ) , the story of a writer played by Nicolas Cage who doesn't want to Hollywoodize his script about orchids . " I just don't want to turn it into a Hollywood thing , " he says . He says something to the effect of , " No violence , no drugs , no sex , no people overcoming obstacles to succeed in the end . " The irony is that , in the end , everything he didn't want to happen in his script happens . There's some of that irony in " The Player , " plus a little bit more . If you liked " Adaptation , " then you've got to see " The Player . " .
" Casino " ( 1995 ) , a visceral examination of the Mafia's influence on the casinos of Las Vegas in the 1970s , is also the so-called " companion piece " to Martin Scorsese's " GoodFellas " ( 1990 ) . Both films star Robert De Niro and Joe Pesci , and were written by Nicholas Pileggi . Some even go so far as to claim " Casino " is a semi-remake of " GoodFellas . " And many critics found flaws regardless of its connections to the earlier mob film . " Go in interested and you may find your interest tested way past the limit , " wrote Mick LaSalle in the San Francisco Chronicle . " ' Casino ' is not about people , just Vegas . It's an ambitious film - - but also a scattered , unfocused one . " Viewing the movie a decade after its release , it holds up well . The film's real strength lies in its narrative and unflinching examination of its characters . Sam Rothstein ( played by Robert De Niro ) isn't a nice guy , and never really gains our sympathy . Nicky ( Pesci ) occasionally exhibits acceptable behavior , but if the film has a villain , it's him . And Ginger ( Sharon Stone in the best role of her career ) is selfish , spoiled and depressing . Critics didn't get it . " ' Casino ' runs a little under three hours , but ( you ) will feel like it is at least five due to the plodding pace by editor Thelma Schoonmaker , " wrote Internet critic Steve Rhodes . Rhodes , along with countless other reviewers , complained about the level of violence ? suggesting an NC-17 rating would have been more appropriate . Whether you will like " Casino " or not depends entirely on your tolerance for character-driven films ? and , of course , heavy violence . Ironically , despite its flaws , " Casino " is closer to Scorsese's older work than any of his other recent films ? " Taxi Driver " and " Raging Bull " did not feature likable people , either . Whereas we followed Henry Hill's journey from youth in " GoodFellas " and felt empathetic towards him , " Casino " drops us square in the middle of Sam's story and there's no connection ? this will either alienate or enthrall you , depending entirely on your taste in cinema . I personally love studies of characters ? especially ones that examine the evil inherent in man , and Scorsese is brilliant at revealing these things . His movie exhibits recognizable elements ? a whiz-bang style with quick-cuts , rapid zooms , a diverse pop-and-classical music soundtrack ( with no less than four or five Rolling Stones songs ) , and of course , his famous tracking shots ( here , he stages an impressive three-minute examination of a casino without breaking until we exit the front door ) . But " Casino " doesn't confine itself to the restraints of Scorsese's styling . Here he goes hog wild with the visuals ( more so than usual anyway ) , soaking up the vivid colors of Las Vegas , absorbing the dizzying array of flashing bulbs and tacky bright clothing . Editor Thelma Schoonmaker , Scorsese's long-time collaborator , experiments with digital editing for the first time here ? and employs some new techniques that are subtle but make a subliminal impact . The title sequence , designed by Elaine and Saul Bass , is simultaneously dazzling and haunting . The performances are almost flawless . De Niro is Sam " Ace " Rothstein , a legendary gambler who is chosen out of the blue to maintain a new casino for the Las Vegas Mafia . Sam explains the economics of the system ? the mob take their cut of the profits , the rest goes where it should , and everyone remains happy ? so long as nothing goes wrong . When Ace's old friend Nicky shows up in Vegas he begins to orchestrate a ring of violent robberies ? becoming the new leader of a vicious gangster force that threatens to destroy Ace's chances at cutting it straight . Since Nicky is a made man , and Ace is Jewish , he can't stop him ? but fears their new lifestyle will only lead to misery . In the meantime Ace falls for the beautiful call girl Ginger ( Stone ) , who doesn't love Sam , but marries him for his wealth . Her heart really belongs to her ex-boyfriend / pimp ( played by James Woods ) , and at first Ace believes he can tame her into submission ; but her free spirit ruins their lives and destroys Ace's confidence . The movie does have its blunders , and is not on the same level as " GoodFellas , " but would at least make the list a few titles beneath it . Some scenes seem unnecessary , and Nicky's violent attack with a pen does seem a bit reminiscent of an almost identical sequence in " GoodFellas " when Pesci attacks someone at a bar . And as enthralling and entertaining as " Casino " is , it never really matches the overall energetic exuberance of " GoodFellas " ? they are , despite their close ties , very different films in a cinematic sense . Still , this is a great film , well made and daring . You'll probably either love it or hate it , but there's no denying its powerful impact on the viewer .
One-sentence summary : " Midnight Run " meets the classic Arnie formula in this excellent , surprising action movie . Review : There's a scene very late into " The Rundown " where the lead hero decides to go against his short-standing morals and pick up guns in order to fight for his friends , despite arguing that he never would earlier in the movie . " Even Santa Claus would pick up a gun to help out a friend ! " he is told by a loudmouth . " Are you saying I'm Santa Claus ? " asks the hero . The audience laughs at the irony of the situation . The irony , of course , is that Santa Claus is a jolly old fat man , and the hero of " The Rundown " is a young , lean , muscular , lethal weapon - - the exact opposite of Mr . Claus ' unflattering , universally-regarded image . And in case you need an introduction to The Rock , a . k . a . Dwayne Johnson , he is a well-known wrestler , son of Rocky Johnson . He is famous for his own unique slamming move and great skills . Obviously I don't know much about wrestling , as you can plainly gather from reading my rather short and uneducated bio of the man . But regardless of any of this , here he is in this movie . The Rock is Beck , a " retrieval expert . " He is hired by rich people to seek out certain things - - people , objects , etc . - - and return them to the payer . In the opening sequence he walks into a crowded bar filled with football megastars . After politely demanding a ring from one of the husky players , he is thrown out of the bar by fellow football team members . So Beck gets on the phone with his boss . " Do we have to do this now ? " he asks . " They've really got a chance this year ! " The answer , of course , is that he must do it now , and what he does is a lot of fun - - he beats them up , one-by-one , bare-handed and using only his fists as weapons - - evoking a sort of Jean-Claude Van Damme image . Only . . . better . Prior to this scene , Arnold Schwarzenegger stops Beck while he's entering the bar . He tells him to have a good time with the typical Arnie grin , then leaves . That's when we realize we're about to have a fun time , and it only gets better from there . Beck's newest assignment is to locate Travis ( Seann William Scott ) , a young man who is residing in the Amazon and is worth a lot of money to his estranged father , who wants his son back - - for unspecified reasons . Beck doesn't ask questions , he just retrieves what he's told to retrieve - - like a golden retriever , I suppose . After making the trip to El Dorado , a . k . a . Helldorado , Beck finds himself being pursued by Hatcher ( Christopher Walken ) , a ruthless millionaire miner who owns much of the land surrounding the area - - and wants Travis for himself , so that he can tell him where an ancient artifact lies . So , on the run with Travis and being pursued by Hatcher and his men , Beck is left with few options . There's option A and option B . A is leave Travis and return home , forget his job and open up a new restaurant he's been saving up for . Option B is confront Hatcher , bring Travis back to his father , collect his reward and open his restaurant . He does , of course , choose the latter of the two options . There's a brilliant scene at the end of this movie that sent a strong chill up my spine . Travis is being shot at , calling for help , and Beck is scared to pick up weapons to defend his friend . The director Peter Berg , the former actor , raises the tension by splicing together various images at exceeding speed . And then finally they all immediately stop and we see Beck rise upwards , in typical slow motion , holding two guns in his hands . The audience is quiet and a chill is sent throughout the screening room . We all know that hell has finally been unleashed . After refusing to pick up guns throughout the movie for fear of what may happen to his enemies , Beck has turned on his morals and it's time to kick some butt . This is pure action stuff , delivered with great expertise , and its effect is startlingly powerful . All in all , I absolutely loved it . Prior to seeing " The Rundown , " I wasn't sure if I wanted The Rock to be the next Arnold Schwarzenegger . After seeing " The Rundown , " I must say that I don't really mind if he becomes half as good as Arnold . Granted , I somewhat doubt if he'll ever become the same box office titan . Arnold was the first of his kind in both bodybuilding and action movies . He's had a lot of pale imitators , right down to the " muscle men with accents " category . He is , to this day , unrivaled by any muscular action hero . Just like there will never be another Eastwood , there will never be another Arnold . But as far as they go , The Rock is one of his better imitators , which says something . " The Rundown " is rated PG-13 but plays like a good R-rated action movie . It's very good and will not disappoint any action fans that feel that the genre has been somewhat lacking recently . After " Terminator 3 " and " The Rundown , " though , it looks like we may be starting to get back on track after all . As for Beck ? I have a feeling he'll be back . stars . - John Ulmer
Danny Kaye's finest hour as Walter Mitty , a man who daydreams of faraway adventures all day long , while the real events in his life become further distanced from his mind . Some very funny imagination / daydream sequences intercut with real-time reactions from family and such . Great movie . stars - John Ulmer
From a technical viewpoint , " Monty Python and the Holy Grail " could be called a seriously flawed and impaired film . Filmed on location in the UK with a minimal budget and regular " Python " cast members , I seriously doubt that anyone working on the project at the time had believed it would spark such a cultural phenomenon . And revisiting the movie now , post its release 28 years ago , is magical . First-time viewers may be puzzled by the film's odd opening - - in fact , stories of those who thought that they had entered into the wrong screening room come in abundance . But as soon as the voice of the coarse British man is audible the viewer realizes that he or she has been duped once again by the Python Troupe . King Arthur and his Knights of the Round Table have been sent on a most glorious quest by God Himself - - to seek and maintain the Holy Grail , the legendary cup that Christ drank from during The Last Supper , prior to His execution , and which later caught His blood as he was left danging upon the cross . But the seriousness surrounding the Holy Grail is left wholly untouched by the members of Monty Python - - instead , we follow King Arthur and his men as they come upon an odd assortment of characters , including The Black Knight , Dennis , The Knights Who Say " Ni ! " , and The Killer Rabbit , all of whom hinder the daring soldiers in their quest for the Holy Grail . Many people will find the humor of " Monty Python and the Holy Grail " ingenious , while others will find the exact same jokes and stints repetitive and ridiculous . I myself did not enjoy the film the first time I saw it as a child , but over the years I have come to appreciate its humor a bit more . I still find the jokes a bit too stretched out at times , and certain gags , though hilarious the first ten times , get a bit humorless the twentieth time around ( the coconuts , for example , which are amazingly silly when first introduced , soon become tiring when they are treated as the highlight of a joke repetitively ) . However , often enough the jokes introduced at certain points in the films are merely played in the background further into the film - - for example , the fact that the men do not ride on horses is quite a major idea the first time it is revealed , and becomes the central subject of a conversation between Arthur and the man atop the castle battlements . But later on the notion of no horses is played smaller and in the background as so we can concentrate on the current jokes at hand , as well as the missing horses as an added bonus . There is absolutely nothing to truthfully discuss about " Monty Python and the Holy Grail , " other than to say that at first it seems quite obnoxious , but it starts to grow on you . And this movie has definitely made a deep dig into our culture . In fact , on the commentary track for the newer DVD , John Cleese mentions that a pro American football player ( or " footballer " as the English call them ) and his buddy were thinking of a plan in the midst of a serious game . Their strategy was this on the field : Run away ! Run away ! There are countless classic scenes , including the battle between The Black Knight and King Arthur ( " I've had worse ! " ) ; the scene where Sir Lancelot the Brave ( or Launcelot , as the script for the film names him ) storms the Swamp Castle in hopes of rescuing a fair maiden and , in result , ends up destroying everything in his path ( including the candle mounted along the wall leading to the spiralling staircase ) , saying that he gets a bit frantic and over-excited in this genre ; Sir Robin and the Three-Headed Knight ( " . . . when danger reared its ugly head he bravely turned his tail and fled . . . " ) ; The Knights Who Say " Ni ! " and their request for a shrubbery ; the Killer Rabbit's attack on Arthur's merry men . That's just to name a few memorable scenes . " Monty Python and the Holy Grail " may be the silliest film ever put on celluloid . It rarely makes sense , sometimes falls a bit flat , but always puts a smile on your face . And that's an achievement .
I love this movie . I love the way it focuses on dancing , yet it isn't about dancing at all . Yes , long amounts of time are given to showing John Travolta light up the dance floor , but the story's fundamental point is the most subtle : Trying to escape from your boring daily routine , even if it is just for an hour . That's exactly what Tony Manero does . He saves up his weekly earnings from where he works in downtown Brooklyn at a crummy hardware store , then blows it all in one day at the local disco joint , where he reigns as king . His female dance partner calls him a walking cliché . In a sad sort of way , it's true . But this is Tony's dream . I quote an aspiring comedian named Rupert Pupkin : " Better to be king for a night than a schmuck for a lifetime . " " Saturday Night Fever " is based entirely on this idea . In an odd sort of way , Rupert Pupkin is a lot like Tony Manero . He just has a different dream . We all do . " Saturday Night Live's " theme tune , " Staying Alive " ( the title of the horrendous Sylvester Stallone-directed sequel ) , speaks as much truth about life as the film itself . " I'm goin ' nowhere , somebody help me , I'm goin ' nowhere , somebody help me yeah " chants a voice in the Bee Gee's universally known disco hit . As I listen to it right now , I realize just how perfect it is for the movie . It's a legendary song , and for good reason . I didn't grow up during the disco generation . But " Saturday Night Fever " makes me feel as if I had - - and that is one of the fundamental keys to a film so incredibly outdated and yet still poignant in our memories . It was the film that solidified John Travolta as an icon , and the film that eventually led to him being regarded as the King of Cinema Disco . ( In the Travolta film " Get Shorty , " a criminal threatens a producer by saying that , if he doesn't pay up , he'll be " dead as disco . " Ironic . ) Travolta is in his prime spotlight as Manero , a Brooklyn kid aiming to make it big on the dance floor . There isn't much to the movie other than the need for fame - - as brief as it may be - - and the most obvious theme of the film , which is learning to treat women as something more than just sex objects . Tony and his pals all join together at 2001 Odyssey , a crummy disco club with dizzying strobe lights and a constantly-waxed dance floor where Tony is often encouraged to let loose and show everyone his moves . When he's not doing that , he's sitting at the bar watching a topless stripper do her thing . And he's only 19 . Part of this movie is learning to grow up , and treat women as something more than Tony is used to treating them . But that's one of two primary plots - - the other is , of course , trying to break away from a boring life . Tony comes from an Italian background , and he lives in a bad area of town . His mother is proud of her eldest son , who became a priest , and she's discouraged by the fact that her other son doesn't seem to care about making anything out of his life . We get the feeling that Tony's parents once had the same outlook as their son , and fear he may be going down their own path . After Tony gets a raise from $3 to $4 , his father tells him that $4 can't even buy $3 . His son swears at him and storms away . Some of my favorite scenes in " Saturday Night Live " are the human ones , such as when Tony stares in his bedroom mirror , bare-chested , and combs his hair forever , looking over himself with the same pride that Travis Bickle displayed in the famous " You talkin ' to me ? " scene in " Taxi Driver , " released a year earlier . In the background of the shot are posters of Al Pacino from " Serpico " and Sylvester Stallone as Rocky Balboa . ( Just think , Sly directed the sequel and did a cameo , yet he was , in a way , in the first film , too . ) I also like when Tony is interacting with his dysfunctional family . He's nice to his little sister when he walks through the door after work , but after working for quite some time on his now-out-of-date hairstyle , he barks at his father when he is slapped during dinner ( in one of the rare scenes that made me laugh ) . He yells at him : " Would you just watch the hair ? I work a long time on my hair , and you hit it ! " I know that scene has been quoted before , but I quoted it again since it made me laugh so hard . In one of the finest scenes in the entire movie , and certainly one of the most touching , Tony has lunch with an older girl ( who later becomes his dance partner ) and tries to impress her by acting mature . But his immaturity shines through - - he doesn't have a clue what he's talking about half the time , and when he tries to act smart she counters his moves with true brainpower . In a way , this is the first time Tony realizes that women aren't as dumb as he thought they were . This is one of my favorite guilty pleasures for all the right and wrong reasons . The wrong reasons include the dance floor numbers - - I love them , and I probably shouldn't . As for the right reasons . . . I think we already know what they are . It's all about dreams . Everyone has some . Whether it's dancing or whatever , we all have dreams . And that's why I think " Saturday Night Fever " relates to so many different people on so many different levels .
This sequel is just as terrific as the first film , if not more so . I hesitate to call it a sequel , as " sequel " is quite simply the wrong word I am looking for . A film like " The Matrix Reloaded " is a sequel - " The Godfather Part II " is something more . It's just too good to be called a sequel . The film won six Oscars in 1974 , including Best Picture and Best Supporting Actor ( Robert De Niro ) . It deserved every one . It involves the viewer from the start and never lets up . Particular aspects I enjoy in this film are the flashbacks to Don Vito Corleone as a child immigrating to New York City after social problems in his homeland , Sicily . I like the intertwining of Michael Corleone ( Al Pacino ) , his son , in present day , dealing with his crime inheritance , and Vito ( Robert De Niro ) , his father , years ago . I like how , as Michael comes to terms with his family legacy , the film shows us Vito coming to terms with his future . The day he shoots that man in a gritty apartment complex is a turning point in his life . Every actor is in top form here . Al Pacino has gradually made the move from a man who denies his future to a man who is accepting it . His character is the spotlight of this film , much more so than in the first film ( though both center around his decisions ) . Robert De Niro is particularly wonderful and convincing as a young Vito Corleone , who was of course played by the constantly-spoofed Marlon Brando in the original . De Niro takes an iron grip on his character and completely engulfs himself ; this was , in 1974 , the sign of an actor who would go places . Indeed , he did . Coppola's magical sense of direction is at work here , as is the script by Coppola and Mario Puzo ( whose novels the series is based upon ) . The original was a wonderful film , but the sequel presents more of a challenge . Flashbacks are often intercut in the middle of other films are awkward times , but in " The Godfather Part II , " Coppola uses them at precisely the right moments , managing to careen in and out of scenes and time periods with free abandon . It takes a great kind of skill to master something like this , much less a sequel to one of the most beloved films of all time . " The Godfather " was an instant classic upon its release in 1972 . Coppola had two years to plan for his continuation of the film . People told him it wouldn't work , he would never beat the original , and he would never pull it off . But he showed them all . " The Godfather Part II " may well be the best sequel I have ever seen in my entire lifetime . I wish they were all this good . To call it a " sequel " almost seems insulting .
The Maltese Falcoln is an American classic . Humphrey Bogart shines in this quintessential thriller . It's surrounded with mystery , suspense , and best of all great conematography and acting . So if you want a great film , get the MALTESE FALCOLN ! stars-JOHN ULMER
Estranged is one of the most beautiful rock epics ever recorded and sadly it has never really gained the reputation of , say , November Rain or Sweet Child O ' Mine . The music video is a bit MTV / early-'90s-ish compared to earlier ones but the song itself is awesome . This making-of details the behind-the-scenes of the production of the music video . Ironically its full title names it the " fourth in a trilogy " which makes absolutely no sense - - there were three videos in the trilogy , " Don't Cry , " " November Rain " and " Estranged " - - they skipped one just for confusion ! This is a good making-of about a brilliant song that never really gained the reputation it should have . I'd classify this as one of my top ten favorite songs of all time and this video is a must-see for anyone who cherishes it .
Prequels are messy things . Sequels can be , too , but with a sequel , the filmmakers are creating new ground . In a prequel , the filmmakers are treading into pre-recorded territory , and if they're not careful , they can make the audience feel cheated . But with " Red Dragon , " prequel to " Silence of the Lambs " and " Hannibal , " the audience doesn't feel cheated at all . In fact , it is handled extremely well , and is not only a gripping thriller , but a superbly-performed one , also . It stars Edward Norton as forensic specialist Will Graham , the man responsible for putting Hannibal " The Cannibal " Lecter , as seen in " Silence of the Lambs , " behind bars in the 1980s . The film fades in somewhere in the mid-1980s , where Graham starts to suspect that Hannibal may have something to do with the disappearence of a musician . Will confronts Hannibal , who stabs him in the gut and slowly rips open his stomach . Graham fights back , pushing an arrow from Hannibal's study / den through Hannibal's chest and shooting him some two or three times with a handgun . Hannibal is arrested and thrown in jail . Graham is left in critical condition . Flash-forward " a few years later " to Graham living somewhere in Florida with his wife ( Mary-Louise Parker ) and son . Graham still carries the scar from his last meeting with Hannibal , and it has forever reminded him of his job and just how careful he must be . But then comes along Jack ( Harvey Keitel ) , who asks Graham to take on a new case . . . There is a serial killer on the loose who attacks every full moon . He cuts his victims with shards of glass , then takes the glass and puts the pieces in their eye sockets . He also does some other things too grisly to mention in a family review . Graham , the best-of-the-best forensic specialist , agrees to take on the case , and becomes more intrigued by it and makes it his personal agenda to bring down the killer , known as " The Tooth Fairy , " or the " Red Dragon " ( hence the title ) , who is played by Ralph Fiennes . But as the case becomes more misleading and confusing , Will finds himself seeking the advice of Hannibal the Cannibal on his particular case . And as Will faces his greatest fear , the clock ticks until the next strike by the Red Dragon . Fans will be pleased to know that Hannibal has lost none of his creepiness since " Silence of the Lambs . " Fans will also be pleased to know that after the " Hannibal " flop , " Red Dragon " returns to the roots of the original . I thought that " Hannibal " was proof the series ' creepiness had outstayed its welcome . Hannibal's persona only works once , apparently . . . well , if you think that , you're wrong . Because " Red Dragon " is equally as frightening as " Silence of the Lambs , " if a bit more unrealistic at times . And it's also a bit more typical for its genre in some respects than " Silence . . . " , but it's still very thrilling . In fact , the ending could be considered predictable , but it's not for two reasons . 1 . Unlike other horror films where you just KNOW the killer's still alive , " Red Dragon " really makes you think the killer is dead , but the surprise is . . . can you guess ? 2 . In most of the horror films out there , when the killer is supposedly dead , there is a moment of happiness and the film seems as though it is over , but you know there's just something wrong with the abrupt end to the thrills . It shows the family at home , extremely happy , until . . . the kid who went inside to get food hasn't returned . The parent goes in to look for him , and the answering machine clicks on . A cop at the station says , " He's not dead ! Get outta the house ! " Big surprise : The killer's upstairs with the kid , holding a knife to his throat . All this happens in " Red Dragon " one way or another , but you don't feel as cheated as you do watching other thrillers of the same kind . If anything , " Red Dragon " follows a lot of the typical horror / psychological thriller routines , but it's hard to notice . " Red Dragon " does jump through all the hoops of its kind , but if anything , it comes across fresh and thrilling , and this is all I ask for in a thriller . stars - John Ulmer
" As far back as I can remember , I've always wanted to be a gangster . " - - Henry Hill , Brooklyn , N . Y . 1955 . Gangsters are all around us . Everyone knows it , not everyone wants to accept it . " Goodfellas " - - based on true events - - explores the lives of gangsters , chronicling the events through the eyes of Henry Hill ( Ray Liotta ) , who gets involved with the Mafia at a young age and continues his " career " throughout the film . As he gets older , he marries and has children , but still works for the organized crime family , under mob boss Paulie ( Paul Sorvino ) ; and he is friends with Jimmy ( Robert De Niro ) , a calm , steady gangster ; and Tommy ( Joe Pesci ) , a wild man with serious mental problems . Eventually Henry's life goes down the gutter , leading to drug abuse and paranoia , that leads to other unfortunate incidents that will be ruined if I type any more about them . " Goodfellas " is one of the best films I have ever seen . It's a tour de force of breathtaking images , witty scriptwriting , superb acting and realistic violence . Robert De Niro gives one of his best performances - - ever - - as Jimmy , even if he's not in the film as much as you might be lead to believe from the front cover . Joe Pesci is in this movie about as much as De Niro , maybe a bit more or less . But when he's on screen there's no doubting he's on screen - - he's very hard to miss . A short , deranged , loud-mouthed man with something wrong in his head . Someone makes an insult toward him and he shoots them , and then laughs . It's quite disturbing . I am a huge fan of Pesci , and I tend to love his characters , but he really makes you feel sick towards his character in " Goodfellas , " while at the same time taking a strange liking to him . That just goes to show how good of an actor Pesci is . Ray Liotta is perfect as Henry Hill . I can't think of a better actor to play him . He captures a sense of innocence yet at the same time a feeling of violence . I love the scene where he walks over to a man's house with a regular expression on his face . " What do you want , f & ^ & ? " the man asks . Liotta continues walking , takes out a gun , and starts to continually beat the man in the skull with the butt of his gun . As Henry walks back to his car , his face is disturbing and his expression stays with you for a long , long time . Martin Scorsese is a brilliant director and his work here is fabulous ; it's been recreated by other directors ( namely Paul Thomas Anderson in " Boogie Nights " ) and there's a reason : it's great stuff . He totally deserved to receive Best Director in 1990 , but of course he didn't . ( Rumor has it the Academy frowns on Scorsese's use of racial slurs in his work . Oh boo hoo , get over it . ) The movie is based on the true-crime memoirs of the real-life Henry Hill , whose novel with Nicholas Pileggi - - " Wiseguys " - - was adapted into a screenplay by Pileggi and Scorsese . The book itself was fantastic and insightful ; the screenplay is even better . The dialogue is incredible . By the way , I think it is appropriate to put a bit of a disclaimer on this review : I would not recommend " Goodfellas " to those that have a problem with violence and / or language , and " Goodfellas " is definitely not one for your kids to watch - - it contains extremely strong , pervasive language , and a great deal of strong , realistic violence . I only put this because I am sick of parents taking children to see R-rated films that are not appropriate for children . And this is definitely one of them . Anyway , " Goodfellas " has to be one of the best films I've ever seen - - a true modern classic that will be remembered for what it is : One of the greatest tales told on screen . It's an offer you can't refuse !
Monsters , Inc . We were all , at one time , scared of monsters under the bed . Shadows of clothes in the closet . Weird sounds outside in the trees . I remember thinking there were all kinds of monsters in my room - not as much under my bed as in the closet . And once again , Pixar , who brought us " Toy Story " 1 & 2 , plays on both adults ' memories and children's dreams , making it equally enjoyable for both children and adults . John Goodman voices James P . Sullivan , known as " Sulley " to friends . He is a big , blue , hairy monster with horns on his head and hands the size of a watermelon . Billy Crystal is Mike Wazowski , his wisecracking , one-eyed best friend . Both of these monsters live in Monstropolis , a world where monsters roam freely . Their city is powered by a rare source of power - children's screams . That is where Monsters , Incorporated comes in . At Monsters , Inc . , monsters like Sulley and Mike open portals into children's rooms - through closet doors - and scare the children , capturing their scream in a little yellow bottle . Sulley is the top-scarer , bringing in the most scares . But Randall ( the always enjoyable - even when animated - Steve Buscemi ) , a wormy , multiple-armed lizard-monster with the ability to change appearances to its surroundings , is jealous of Sulley , and will attempt anything to get more scares . . . even if it means taking a child from the real world and bringing it into Monstropolis . But after the child escapes , Sulley and Mike reluctantly look after it , all the while trying to get it back to the real world before Mr . Waternoose ( the late James Coburn ) and others find out about the incident . . . " Monsters , Inc . " does for monsters what " Toy Story " did for toys . Pixar once again not only expands our mind , but our very worlds . I respect their company and commitment values very much , as you can read in my " Toy Story " review . They stick to the values that made Disney films so family-friendly back in the fifties and sixties : Respect for the audience , respect for quality , and respect for the audience's INTELLIGENCE , something Disney , who has recently coughed up a bunch of lousy , thoughtless sequels , has forgotten . Now , I know that LEGALLY Disney is co-creator of " Toy Story " and " Monsters , Inc . , " but they really are not . They just give Pixar the money and get their name branded on the front box of the film . And even then , I have heard multiple claims that Disney is very mean-spirited towards Pixar ( read into sequel trouble for " Toy Story 3 " ) and gives them the bare minimum . But that is straying off the subject . " Monsters , Inc . " is one of the most enjoyable animated films I have ever had the pleasure of viewing . I didn't enjoy it as much the first time , but I then bought it , and have since watched it many times . It is an instant classic . I will be watching it years from now , when I am old and frail and in a rocking chair . It ranks right up there with " Toy Story " 1 & 2 , and all the OLDER Disney films from the 50's-70's . It has all the elements of a sweet , charming , emotional and pleasurably good-natured animated film . And , more coudos to Pixar : Thank you for not packing it full of the language and inappropriate content that Disney shoves into the dark recesses of their films nowadays . Not only has Pixar brought back the " Family Film " genre to what it should be , but it also redefines it . Pixar's animated films are some of the most thoughtful , imaginative and enjoyable animated films ever - not to mention 100 % family safe . Thank you , Pixar , for getting back on track . stars
