Brigitte Bardot must have had a very strong personality to make " and God created woman " the smash hit it was at the end of the fifties . Vadim / Bardot , it's Pygmalion in reverse : an actress who had un petit je ne sais quoi who created the worst director of the whole nouvelle vague . Vadim made half a dozen of movies with BB , each one lousier than the one before . This one takes the biscuit : not only a good cast is wasted ( Robert Hossein , Matthieu Carrière , Maurice Ronet , Jane Birkin ) but most of the time , the movie and BB's lines are unintentionally funny : how can we take seriously this priest , BB's cousin ? the macho Hossein and his wife who discovers Sapphic pleasures with Jeanne / Don Juan ? One cannot even call this farce " woman's lib " because Jeanne is chastised for having been a bad gal , like the true Don Juan . NB : It's BB last real film ; afterwards , she was to appear in a small part in " l'histoire très bonne et très joyeuse de Colinot Trousse-Chemise " ( 1973 ) , which , in spite of its title , was neither " très bonne " nor " très joyeuse " . Then it was silence . Outside Garbo , there's no other example of an actress , still young ( BB was 39 ) , who calls it quits at such an early age . She became an animal rights activist - and still is - .
He asks them to locate the story in Central Europa in the early Middle Ages . And what he gets . . . is not far from what the " scriptwriters " produced here . A voice - over begins a little " cultural " presentation : " in those ancient times , no one was spared : old men , women , children , blah , blah , blah , all was violence , crimes and rapes , blah , blah , blah , they were all barbarians . . . . Toryok ( Edmund Purdom , " the Egyptian " , who later got lost in Italian turkeys ) , is a brave king whose wife was raped and killed by the wicked Kovo ( both look the part ) . When his enemy comes back , he leads his village in a war ( in spite of his brother's and his sweet wife's disapproval . ) The story was so poor and so thin that the director had to fill the time with boring dances and endless fights and battles . Rossana Podesta ( " la red " and Wise's " Helen of Troy " ) is Kovo's fiancée but she will fall in love with . . . ( guess ! )
The eighties were really a hard time for sci-fi . Caught between children trivia and horror / gore , the genre produced horrible movies . Here's a good example . The magpie syndrome is rampant as ever : snatches of " alien " , " night of the living dead " , many a vampire movie , and of course , a big hunk of " invasion of the body snatchers " . Misogyny seems here to stay all along the show , and it paved , so to speak , a reliable way for " species " and " species 2 " , two more bombs in the second half of the nineties . Tobe Hooper began with a commandable movie " the Texas chain saw massacre " Not great , but watchable . " Funhouse " and " poltergeist " already sucked . And with this one , all the hopes have gone down the drain . Avoid .
That's what John Lennon once said . Themroc is would be avant-garde , but only for these who have a short memory . Take the beginning of the movie : these herds going to work , the hero's tiny and seedy flat , they already were in King Vidor's " the crowd " ( 1928 ) . Actually Claude Faraldo contents himself with recycling the most dated clichés of the post May 68 era : down with the bosses , power to the people , kill ( and eat ) the cops , this is a brand new life , opportunity knocks , make love not war , we are the good guys , the others are the villains , please get out of the new road if you can't lend a hand , and so on . Spitting on the cops was so à la mode that Faraldo could not be wrong while speaking to the intellectual post 68 elite : humble people are actually demeaned in his film . How to attract people's attention ? Which form should he use ? That's Faraldo's lucky break ! No form at all , a formless product . So it seems that he has filmed haphazardly , then asked his editor to work in a " surrealistic " way ( He was not aware that Luis Bunuel had already done that , as far as editing is concerned - un chien andalou ( 1928 ) l'âge d'or ( 1930 ) ; his movies were as subversive as Faraldo's , and at a time when it was not that much trendy . Bunuel wasn't born to follow ) . People who like this - and they seem to be quite a lot - should catch Jacques Doillon ' s " l'an 01 " , which deals with the same clichés , but which is less pretentious : it could be , relatively speaking , a seventies update of Jean Renoir's " la vie est à nous " ( 1936 ) .
Charley Boorman , who plays the villain ( and I mean villain ) , is John Boorman's son , but it is a far cry from " Esmerald forest " ! A trashy movie dealing with trash ! This is the kind of movie which should be burned . In the Middle Ages , the " director " , Jean Claude Roy ( who essentially made porno movies ) , would have been put in the stocks . " Massacres " deals with the awful subject of snuff movies . Although many characters are French ( as Roy is himself ) , the action takes place in Korea ( of course such things could not happen in a civilized country such as Roy's homeland ) . The filmed deaths make the viewer a peeping tom although the directing is so dismal it looks like a farce ( which it is not ) as three hooded men rush towards the victim . In Korea , French ( ? ) police captain ( the late Pierre Clementi : how could a man who worked with Luis Bunuel - " Belle de Jour " - have sunk so low ? ) and his men shoot without warning ! Rest in peace , counterfeiters ! Up comes a bubble head journalist moaning : " I do not approve of your methods , captain " . Sweet litotes ! Deserves to be part of the bottom 100 of French movies .
Oliver Stone is keen on American football and always dreamt of devoting it a movie . In 1999 , he made his dream come true . " Any Given Sunday " is a quite successful movie about the concerned sport which is practiced at all in France . It's especially during matches that the movie becomes awesome . Stone used a lively and even violent directing and makes us share what the players of his team feel . On the outside of these stunning moments , the movie loses of its appeal and is less convincing when it aims at denouncing financial shady dealings against Al Pacino's team . Moreover , a few characters are on the edge of caricature like one of the players who wish to manage the whole team . Nevertheless , it's a movie that is pleasant enough without boredom and American football fans should probably find something in it . Terrific performance from Al Pacino .
Crichton used to write elaborate screenplays long before he worked for Spielberg ( for whom he made his weakest stories , the likes of " Jurassic park " ) : " Mondwest " , the absorbing " coma " and even " looker " which began to show a declining skill . It was to continue with " Runaway " which had the poorest screenplay Crichton had done to date ( 1984 ) . The movie gets bogged down in gadgetry and the story is linear and predictable , without the brilliance of that of " coma " which held us breathless till its last sequence . The only good idea is the spider which makes you hair stand on end . But it does not make a movie . Do take " mondwest " or " coma " instead .
In 1987 , Quinnell's book was adapted for the silver screen by Elie Chouraqui , a minor director , responsible of " Paroles et Musique " ( 1984 ) and " les Marmottes " ( 1993 ) . This version was not a masterpiece and is now virtually in limbo . Unfortunately , it's not this overlong remake by Tony Scott which will set the record straight . Leaving Italy for Mexico , " Man on Fire " is split in two drastically different but globally weak halves . The first one deals with Creasy ( Denzel Washington ) who is hired as a bodyguard in a well-off Mexican family to protect a little girl named Pita ( Dakota Fanning ) . He's a man with a sad past and a strong bias for alcohol . Maybe will he find solace and redemption thanks to the Holy Bible . Ouch ! How original . Actually , this first part piles up the clichés linked to Crasy but also to the unlikely friendship he stroked up with his little protégée . First , sullen and distant and then friendly , he has found a way to approach her by developing in her assertion and setting new targets for herself thanks to a swimming competition . But the evolution of his demeanor and especially his liking towards the little girl is showed in a quite shallow way to be really conclusive . Now , what about this second part ? It completely changes the tone of the film which takes a leap into explosive violence and linear investigation . After his coma , Creasy turns into a real killing machine who exterminates all the ones who were involved in the abduction of Pita . Blood abundantly flows , explosions succeed themselves with stunts and knock-out images galore . Scott and his scenarist Brian Helgeland also felt compelled to include sequences which shelter free violence . One of them was influenced by Quentin Tarantino's " Reservoir Dogs " ( 1992 ) . It's the sequence in which Washinton is with one of the kidnappers in a car and tortures him to make him speak with loud music on the radio . But in parallel not to stay confined in this assumed perspective , Helgeland tried to introduce twists to boost the interest of the viewer in Creasy's vengeful adventure . Thus , in the middle of this second part , we learn a far-fetched revelation whose nature makes a little think of " Fargo " ( 1996 ) by the Coen brothers . The content of the film is made of thin substance and is still plagued by the flashy form . Scott didn't jettison his trademark which mar his efforts . His visual , sound excesses that are supposed to impress and gain the audience's approval make the film distressing to watch in the long run . Hyper images , sophisticated camera work , sharp editing are supposed to be here to compensate the weak potential of the story and it only helps to plague it . Worse : these features sometimes arrive at the most awkward moment in the story and action . Then , the soundtrack is extremely loud and mixed forward . Sometimes , you have to listen very closely to decipher what the characters say . This drawback is more irritating in the second half . " Man on Fire " is also ruined by an ugly cinematography . What's the consequence of all this ? A large proportion of shots are distorted by one or the other of these drawbacks . Overrall the other directions that the scenario could have taken to enable the film to take a subtle , rich dimension have been shelved or lightly touched . For instance , the major problem of these abductions of children in Latin America falls in the second category . Instead , Helgeland created a linear , stubborn revenge story which Scott filmed with a festival of shock images and by this ruined the reduced potential of the story . Even the direction of actors seems absent . Denzel Washington who is a commendable actor is here unable to shade his acting . Christopher Walken , a big American actor isn't given a chance to shine and his part is blatantly underwritten . But the little Dakota Fanning which Sean Penn's fans discovered in " I Am Sam " ( 2001 ) gives a quite mature offering . On its release , " Man on Fire " was made alluring through an eye-catching cover but this blazing film left me cold . As a scenarist , Brian Helgeland saw brighter days before : " L . A . Confidential " ( 1997 ) , " grandad " Clint Eastwood's " Mystic River " ( 2003 ) . . .
The title and the prologue might make think of a fine little film noir . " Le tout pour le tout " = ( going for broke ) . The heroes are not going for broke , that's for sure , but the producers were certainly broke . It seems that the cast took advantage of a trip to Brazil to film this obsolete story of husband and wife trying their luck in a foreign country . More than a comic strip , the movie rather recalls photo love stories which were thriving in the European fifties / sixties . Interesting , at a pinch , for Bruno Cremer's fans , the only name in the cast which is still known today . The ending is a poor man's " treasure of the Sierra Madre " .
. . . . . To the lucky children who have never known drugs . . . . sings Serge Gainsbourg in one of his best songs about the dealers . Gainsbourg was a singer / songwriter extraordinaire but really a poor actor ; anyway , he could not have saved this absolute dud . By far , André Cayatte ' s worst effort , with an absurd screenplay written by Barjavel ( whose attempts at sci-fi are not really exciting , at least to my eyes : but this movie is not sci-fi , mind you ) . Most of the actors are badly directed , and even Jane Birkin cannot convince as a junkie with an angel face . In the past , André Cayatte had taken his movies out of the courtroom ( he was unfairly nicknamed " the lawyer of cinema " by Truffaut ) , notably in his excellent " Oeil Pour Oeil " ( 1957 ) . But here , only the splendid landscapes around Katmandu are worthwhile . In his earlier " Avant Le Deluge " , Cayatte had also shown a youth in despair , dreaming of sailing away to the islands in the sun . But if their plan failed , the movie was really strong , one of these - it's not the only one - overlooked fifties movies . In " Les Chemins De Katmandou " , a young man , after the great disappointment of the aftermath Of May 68 , leaves his mother ( Elsa Martinelli was about ten years older than Renaud Verley who plays her son ) , and goes in search of his infamous father who never gave a single penny to them . The road to Katmandu will be a rocky one . The movie will too .
Like her star Bernard Giraudeau , Nicole Garcia's ambition was to direct movies ; she got close for honor with her " un week-end sur deux " . She did even better with " l'adversaire " Here she wallows in rivers of clichés . First of all , her main star is not up to scratch : Gérard Lanvin's wooden acting is desperately boring . Such a choice for the lead is really amazing ! What's more infuriating is that the highly superior Bernard Giraudeau only appears 30 minutes . Bearing more than a distant resemblance to Rosi's " tre fratelli " ' ( 1981 ) , " le fils préféré " is a banal effort with the de rigueur gay character played by Giraudeau who wears horrible glasses and of course the father is a good-hearted man , after all . Ridiculous scene when the father nearly gets drowned . No cigar , and not even close .
This film , chiefly a vehicle conceived to highlight Charlotte Church at a time when she was about to relinquish classical music to jump on the bandwagon of pop ( maybe wrongly ) didn't last long at its opening in English theaters . It didn't reach the streets in France for the simple reason that if Church is celebrated abroad for having a sublime voice and sang for a good number of most momentous people around the globe , she isn't a household name in my native country . This film was broadcast a few weeks ago on French TV and it was so hurriedly , badly dubbed that it brought a sensation of false , phony . It wasn't much of a problem given the weak contents and substance of Craig Ferguson's film . The fleeting life of the film in the English theaters is hardly surprising . This reheated menu is certainly partly derived from Church's several installments in her life . The quality of her acting leaves a lot to be desired . It's true that it would take impervious ears to resist her voice and singing but it's impossible to be moved by her rather wooden acting . And she's not served by a story with little depth and is sedately scheduled in its evolution and its recesses . Just think about the staple ingredients used by Ferguson : take a has-been rock musician in limbo , make him discover that he's got a cute daughter , the result of a relationship which lasted one week-end . And this daughter has a wondrous voice , so she could take her chance in music but her mother is not ready to accept this because the clichés of rock n'roll remain stuck on her mind . I won't tell the rest but the different steps of the scenario interlock as planned to give a run-on-the-mill film . Actors act cardboard characters and the supposedly would-be droll moments fall flat ( sorry Mr . Ferguson , but you didn't manage to make me smile during your antics at the psychiatric hospital ) . And there's a bad taste editing opening the film announcing the fiasco of this well-worn tale . Some users on this site talked about the " feel-good " vibe which shrouds the film . I wasn't taken with it at all so this vibe wasn't palpable at all to me .
In the second half of the fifties , Henri Decoin's natural flair for film noir was slowly but inexorably fading away . " Le Feu aux Poudres " is a mediocre flick but what was to come later was worse , a dreadful spate of turkeys : only maybe " Malefices " based on a Boileau / Narcejac novel would deserve to be watched but it is currently impossible to find it ; there are also good scenes in the first " Chatte " but that's about it . " Le Feu aux poudres " is another gangsters movie . It deals with arms dealing and it is obvious that Peter Van Eyck has an almost worthless part : he is given one scene to shine , when he tells Pellegrin about " man who will always kill for it is his nature " : for a short while , Decoin regains his pessimism which made " Non Coupable " " La File Du Diable " or " La Verite sur Bebe Donge " great films noirs . Apart from that , the audience will visit Roquefort village with its cellars full of the famous cheese , and there's a funny scene when Lino Ventura and his pal , the cops , try to make Charles Vanel say ( they are recording a tape to fool his accomplices ) " Demain Il Sera Trop Tard " ( Tomorrow will be too late ) . Françoise Fabian , an earnest thespian has a decorative part and Raymond Pellegrin is wasted .
Perkins brought out all the Hitchcock equipment and tried to recapture all that " psycho II " failed to do : the essence of the greatest thriller of all time . A cat that would try to catch its tail perhaps could in the end . It would take some time . " Psycho III " is a jumble where all the ideas are taken from Robert Bloch's story , from the mummy / mummy to the car into the water to the " conversations " . The one new " element " so to speak is a novice who gives up taking her vows . Which unintentionally turns very funny when Virgin Mary is involved ( Yes I saw her behind the window ! ! ! ) . To Perkins's credit , I must point out that the cinematography is effective sadly unsupported by a weak script and a generally mediocre cast . The made-for-TV " Psycho IV " , which focuses on Bates ' childhood , is more successful , thanks to Olivia Hussey whose portrayal ( once more ) of mum is convincing . And as Hussey played Virgin Mary in Zephirelli's " Jesus " , you see the connection . . .
When we were children , we swore we'd always remember : our school teacher was killed during WW2 by the Nazis , because of an informer . When we grew up , we would kill this b . . . . . . Now they are grown-ups , and only one of them seems to want to see it through . The others ' objections are numerous : " he " was only 17 when " he " did it ; we should kill the German soldiers as well ; we were children when we swore , we did not know what we were doing . The director didn't either : the story takes about 15 minutes to start ; the movie is handicapped by frequent use of Angelo Branduardi's music the connection of which with the action is vague , I fear . Add a folk dance which is mostly filler . Plus pointless flashbacks . Bearing more than a distant resemblance with Julien Duvivier's " Marie - Octobre " , which I recommend .
England had James Bond . France had OSS117 and Coplan , and SAS for those whose taste runs that way . None of them became an international star as Ian Fleming's hero did . Riccardo Freda is the entertainment director par excellence . He did horror movies , swashbucklers , sword and sandals , melodramas . . and spy thrillers in the wake of James Bond . This one is not bad , in spite of a budget which you cannot compare to Salzman / Broccoli productions . The scene when Coplan discovers his own coffin in the hacienda might be a nod to the prologue of " Thunderball " . The cold room scene is good suspense too . The rest is business as usual
. . . . And he won the case . " Verdict " is however one Cayatte too many . Realism which saved " justice est faite " " les risques du metier " and solid screenplays which made " avant le deluge " or " le glaive et la balance interesting if overblown works became some kind of " enough is enough " . For the first time in his career , Cayatte included nude scenes ( Muriel Catala and Michel Albertini , the doomed lovers , appear in their birthday suit during a whole sequence , more a desire to be a la mode than a genuine artistic move ! ) . Sophia Loren portrays a woman whose son might have killed her lover ( see above ) . In order to put pressure on the judge ( Gabin ) she abducts his wife ( Gisèle Cassadessus ) a diabetic , which makes the matters worse . Watchable because of the actors . But do not expect much .
Max ( Jamie Foxx ) is a taxi driver in Los Angeles and works mainly at night . It's a nine to five work reversed as far as the time is concerned . A humdrum life which he dreams of escaping . One night , after he took a lovely black lawyer , he accepts the alluring offering of 600 dollars from a weird , cynical customer , Vincent ( Tom Cruise ) to go and stop at five different places where he has meetings . But during the first one , a corpse falls on Max's cab and reveals him the true nature of his customer . He's a serial killer and the taxi driver has no other choice than to obey him . Public made an ovation to this " Collateral " in September 2004 and users on this site seem to like this movie very much . I have mixed feelings about this thriller made Michael Mann who is certainly an American director to remember with works like " Heat " ( 1995 ) or " the Insider " ( 1999 ) . It's true that it's suspenseful as one could wish and there are twists , a good dose of fighting , shooting sequences in store to keep the aficionados of the thriller happy . The backdrop , Los Angeles at night adds to the unsettling aura the film tries to convey . Besides the fans of the film would rejoice more if they could watch it all lights turned off . Mann is also certainly a technical virtuoso with prime camera work . So what could possibly go wrong ? Well several drawbacks . First the choice of Tom Cruise . In spite of his commendable efforts to try to convince the audience that he can act a cast against type role ( here a serial killer ) with gray hair to show that he has grown up , it doesn't really work . Several actors had contemplated to do the same thing , that is to say to get out of their ordinary roles commonly attributed to them . Some have succeeded like Brad Pitt in " Fight Club " ( 1999 ) or Jeff Daniels in Clint Eastwood's " Blood Work " ( 2002 ) but other failed like Robin Williams in Christopher Nolan's " Insomnia " ( 2002 ) . Cruise definitely enters this second category . He's also almost totally bland but his partner Jamie Foxx is better than him . And the film goes unravel because of some sequences in the taxi . In these moments , Cruise explains to Foxx his motivations for his actions and what he learns from these lessons . In short , the scenarist inserted dialogs that were supposed to be " deep " and " meaningful " but I don't find them truly convincing . And some of his traits is exaggerated . As Max says : " did you have to kill this cop who was married with children ? " And when the story starts to stagnate , Mann boosts the interest again with far-fetched tricks . It's better illustrated in the sequence when Foxx starts to speed up and they have a car crash . Cruise absconds to fulfill his last contract . Max , meanwhile discovers the identity of this last person and . . . I'd better stop here but I think the end of Max's nightmare smells the reheated and doesn't really redeem Mann's work . His film is also marred by unlikeliness . Does " Collateral " does the job it was made for ? Yes but that's all . If you're not too demanding and if you have time to kill on an evening in front of the telly , this might be your cup of tea . Otherwise , pass by .
" Ciboulette " is primarily an operetta so if your cup of tea is , say , Mozart , Miles Davis or the Beatles , this might possibly bore you . For they sing every five minutes . To my ears , the only tune I find palatable is the lovely " Nous Avons Fait un Beau Voyage " . The story : Ciboulette is a market gardener in love with an idle noble man , Antonin . She's got eight fiancés and her uncle urges her to marry one of them as soon as possible . The director : Claude Autant-Lara who was first a set designer and it shows in " Ciboulette " . Autant-Lara would become one of the masters of the Cinema de Studio which the New Wavelet despised ( they did not know what they were missing ) and which produced masterpieces such as " Douce " ( 1943 ) or " L'Auberge Rouge " ( 1951 ) . The film begins with a long travelling on the sleepy city which ends up at a lamplighter . The settings and the costumes are dazzling . The " handkerchief scene " is filmed with delicacy : we see her reflection on a pond before a duck comes and blurs the picture . But it's strictly for Autant-Lara's completists . If you do not like operetta , you must move on .
This is the contemporary French thriller : all form and no substance ; flashy pictures , disturbing characters and poor screenplays . The director obviously relied on his cast : Jean-Louis Trintignant and Stefania Sandrelli were once in Bertolucci's critically-acclaimed " il conformista " ; both are very talented actors but neither the rest of the cast nor the story are very exciting : the boy who spies on his neighbor with his telescope , the average viewer has seen this at least a hundred times or more . ( " You like astronomy , don't you ? " is supposed to be a " funny " line " when the sleuth investigates a murder ) . The young peeping tom's parents characters are caricatures ( they are not educated as their neighbors so when their son plays loud his opera arias , the crude father calls it " queer music " ) ; as for the depiction of the bourgeois life is concerned , you ' d better take one of Claude Chabrol's best films ( those of the late sixties ) any day . Ditto for the two cops : the old veteran versus the young ( not so young anyway ) bloody idiot subject is not new either .
A man suffering from amnesia coming back from war to be confronted with a wife and child . . . Well we've seen this before and long ago . . . To be precise in 1938 , when Curtis Bernardt - who continued his career in America afterward - directed his " carrefour " starring the excellent Charles Vanel and Jules Berry . Here the director - very academic - substituted the Middle Ages for WW1 and presto ! an original screenplay ! Actually , and even the scenarists will never confess it it's " carrefour " remade as " Martin Guerre " remade as " Sommersby " . Best part comes from Nathalie Baye , who portrays a woman who could belong to the Middle Ages as well as to our own era . Bernard-Pierre Donnadieu would have outstripped Depardieu , had the script given him the chance to shine . Since I posted my comments , an user wrote that both " carrefour " and " Martin Guerre " came from an incident from the sixteenth century . Perhaps so , but in my native France , nobody said a single word about that . " Carrefour " was based on a John Kafka novel ( not to be mistaken for THE Kafka ) , and as for " Martin " , famous scenarist Carrière - who wrote for Luis Bunuel - and director Vigne took all the credits . Jean Tulard , the most erudite historian of the French cinema does not hint at the American novel of Janet Lewis in his " dictionnaire des films " . I must add that in France " MG " is not looked upon as the great film it is in America . It's actually a return to the swashbuckler genre that was thriving in the 1955-1965 years in France , a bit more realist perhaps , to gain the highbrows audience , but not necessarily better . The real writer was actually Jean de Coras , conseiller au parlement de Toulouse , whom you can see in the film ( Roger Planchon ) and who reported the story .
This 1937 movie , which has become very hard to see nowadays , is actually entitled " si tu m'aimes " ( = if you love me ) but the IMDB title is more appropriate considering what the story is about . A young girl ( Aubert ) in love with an electrician engineer ( Barrault ) becomes a celebrated chanteuse in les folies bergères . He flies to Africa for his job and she will have to choose between her career and her love . The story is itself undistinguished and the directing is mediocre-at a time when the French cinema was at the height of its power - and the interest is only anecdotal now . Jeanne Aubert was a successful chanteuse , notably in " les folies bergères " some kind of French Jeannette McDonald . She was married to an American millionaire , king of corned-beef , who took resounding proceedings against her when she went on the stage again , in spite of his ban . There's an interesting - for those who care - look at the thirties folies bergères , fly - on - the - wall insight . The talent show is probably the best moment with all these people trying their luck on stage as an artist draws their caricature . Now for the most interesting things : the three other leads were among the very best actors France had ever known . Michel Simon and Arletty work wonders , but their lines are rather weak and they would do much better in " fric frac " and " circonstances atténuantes " ( both from 1939 ) . Jean - Louis Barrault , who plays Aubert's sweetheart , will team again with Arletty in 1943 : and this time for what many consider as the most important film of the whole French cinema - in 1979 , a poll put it at the top of the list , before " la grande illusion " and " casque d'or " - : Marcel Carné ' s " les enfants du paradis " .
" Zonzon " means " Prison " . This is a movie which takes place in jail and one cannot say it renews a genre which has produced few masterpieces ( " Le trou ' by Jacques Becker ) . There's the obligatory violent scene in the showers , there's the obligatory body search and the obligatory beating up , there are the obligatory nasty wardens , there's the obligatory dope the inmates smoke every day , there's . . . you name it . Considering the limitations they are working under , the good cast , particularly Jamel Debouzze and Pascal Greggory , give their characters substance and prove that they would have deserved a better script and a better director . Best scene is Greggory's wife's visit : " Mum , when shall we leave ? " the boring ( and probably ashamed ) prisoner's child asks .
Alan J Pakula made a name for himself thanks to the stunning thrillers he made in the seventies such as " Klute " ( 1971 ) , " the Parallax View " ( 1974 ) , " All the President's Men " ( 1976 ) . Alas ! More than twenty years after the release of these movies and at the screening of " the devil's own " , this director seems to have lost his talent and inspiration . First , " the devil's own " features two Hollywood monsters : Brad Pitt and Harrison Ford but Pakula badly manages them . You are under the impression that he wanted to balance their respective sequences so that each of them has his own equal part on the screen . A particular moment clearly shows it . The day after Pitt's arrival in the USA , he comes into contact with the arms dealer Billy Burke to purchase missiles . Pakula alternated this moment with a sequence aiming at showing Ford in his role of bold cop . This demonstrative side is useless for the plot . On another hand , Pakula steeped his movie with sentimental romance for Pitt and Ford . Even if this latter point is only a detail , it makes the movie uninteresting by endowing it with a somewhat Hollywood character . It goes to show that counting exclusively on two famous actors to save a movie is not sufficient . It can even hinder its success . The disappointment of " the devil's own " also comes from the fact that not only is Pakula powerless to try something new but he is also unable to renew the detective movie . He exploits without any major surprise , a few themes with overrated reputation . You can also detect in it a lack of relief : the IRA subject is barely sketched out . Then , the relationships between the characters often boil down to a series of looks that speak volume , of pistol shots , of weak dialogs . Let's add that the movie accumulates the stereotyped characters , the predictable sequences . All these shortcomings reveal Pakula's lack of investment in his film . " The devil's own " is the final movie of a weary filmmaker . It is a pity to see him leaving the cinema on a disappointing movie , ( he was to die one year later in a car crash ) .
Chabrol's plan was similar in " la ceremonie " to that of " la rupture " ( 1971 ) . Take a detective story ( Charlotte Armstrong for " la rupture " ( the balloon man ) , Ruth Rendell for " la ceremonie " ( A judgement in stone ) , then give it a " social satire " flavor . He did it all right in Armstrong's case which was a pure thriller . Rendell's case is much more different , since she is a much superior writer than her late American colleague . " A judgement in stone " is a captiving novel , very subtile , with interesting characters . The social critic is implicit , but sitting on the fence ; the bourgeois are sympathetic people , their daughter's proposal to teach the maid to read is sincere . But Rendell makes us feel the gap between this cosy intellectual life in which you enjoy operas and the illiterate world of the maid where books are enemies . A lot of the psychological side eludes C . Chabrol . First of all , Sandrine Bonnaire was not the character . She's much too beautiful . ( A young Shelley Winters would have fit the bill quite well ! ) In the novel , the heroine was some kind of village idiot with empty eyes who was not realizing her social condition . The same goes for I . Huppert , much too attractive to play her crude friend . Jean-Pierre Cassel and Jacqueline Bisset , on the other hand , are credible bourgeois and make up a bit for the weakness of the casting . Chabrol's work is not bad , by a long shot . But , while explaining what should be implied , his wholesale massacre loses some of its strength .
Claude Berri became famous worldwide with " Jean de Florette " and his remake of Pagnol's " Manon des sources " but his career had begun long before , in the early sixties when he was lucky to direct the great Michel Simon in " le vieil homme et l'infant " ( an old man and a Jewish child during WW2 ) . " Le pistonné " is no masterpiece but it broke a taboo : never before , a commercial movie had dealt with the colonial war . Some would say there had been Jean-Luc Godard's " le petit soldat " , but it was reserved for intellectuals and besides , it did not take place in North Africa . Claude Berri was virtually the first and the true forerunner of Yves Boisset ( " RAS " , 1973 ) and René Vautier ( " avoir 20 ans dans les Aurès " , 1971 ) . It's the story of a private , who does not feel like going to war , not at all . But duty calls . To avoid it , he tries to get somebody to pull strings for him ( that's what the title means ) . But alas , it will not work . Guy Bedos gives a fine performance as the squaddie , and he is so good we forget he's actually too old for the part . He's given strong support by Georges Géret as the warrant officer , a grumpy naive man to whom he makes believe he can bring Brigitte Bardot ( no less ) into the barracks . The second part deals with the war itself ( actually a guerrilla war ) and although it is mainly a comedy , one of the last pictures which shows a maimed soldier who bursts out laughing nervously leaves a bitter taste in the mouth .
A new version in the late nineties was released featuring Daniel Auteuil as the hero ; it was entertaining but the actor was overshadowed by Lucchini's portrayal of the wicked cousin . In the 1960 version , , there's not such a problem . Jean Marais was par excellence the swashbuckler hero and , like in " le capitan " , Bourvil provides the movie with good comic reliefs . Marais is as convincing playing a dashing knight , fighting for a girl's name and fortune as he is pretending he is a hunchback . André Hunebelle , often despised by the intellectuals made entertaining stuff which today's children ( and their parents ) can still enjoy .
Michel Berthier has been an executive in a mattress firm for ten years . One day , he's learning that he is fired . He doesn't want to reveal it to his wife Juliette and tries to artificially his life . But within a few weeks , things happen quickly : he is thrown out from his home by his wife and finds himself out on the street . It's there that he meets a bunch of homeless people who support him by their friendship . They live by begging , tricks and petty thefts . For his fourth passage behind the camera , Gérard Jugnot decided to look into one of the biggest dramas of our time : the increase of the new poor and the homeless . For this , it is virtually certain that Frank Capra's cinema was his main source of inspiration . The studied topic and the treatment that is made of it warn the spectator that we are not on an original land ( a dramatic topic treated on a comedy tone ) . However , Jugnot found the balance in his screenplay to alternate moments of tenderness , emotion and hoots of laughter . It is a shame that vulgarity and easiness often spoil the pleasure we take to watch this film . Where Jugnot appears interesting is in the way he perceives these new poor who live hand to mouth . His outcasts are more generous than embittered , friendlier than revolted . They are especially linked by values which Western society doesn't seem to know any more : solidarity , trust and fidelity . Without them , it is impossible to manage all alone . The best proof of it can be found at the end of the film . Indeed , Michel's friends help him to reconquer the heart of his wife . Eventually , the performance of the actors is widely sufficient to justify the view of Jugnot's opus , especially Richard Borhinger's .
Lollobrigida is a feast for the eye , but the screenplay leaves something to be desired . The movie is in turn : - a biography of a prima donna at the dawn of the twentieth century . Or to be precise a biographical novel . A long and winding road where Lina learns that the way to the top might go through men's beds . - a musical . - a comedy : when she pays a visit to her sick mother at the hospital , she sees a priest come out of her bedroom ; Gina fights a duel ( you read well ) with a rival . - a romantic melodrama : Lina / Gina has a love affair with a nephew of czar Nicolas II who appears in the flesh with wife Alexandra . - a whodunit ! During a performance of " la Tosca " a murder is committed , and for Lina , the handsome nephew ( see above ) , played by Vittorio Gassman , is a suspect . You've got five movies for the price of one . And anyway Lollobrigida is so many women . .
Only one comment and a very negative one . It's not that much bad . It will never be a horror classic but it's original , it has a screenplay ( 95 % of horror movies rely on special effects today ) , and two very good leads : Anny Duperey - some users will remember she was Al Pacino's co-star in " Bobby Deerfield " - is a very attractive woman who never had on the silver screen the parts she deserved and had to content herself with mediocre telly series . She plays a doctor who arrives on an island to be confronted with mystery and a disturbing colleague , doctor Marshall ( Jean-Claude Brialy , whose mischievous performance verges on camp ) . Domestic appliances go crazy and people are disfigured , maimed , burned , you name it . And they are unplugged at that ! Leroi creates fear in the kitchens and I'm not sure that , after watching " le demon dans l'ile " , you will use a razor , a stove , a coffee-maker and even a glass without a reservation . One can deplore the ending , which is borrowed from De Palma's " Carrie " . But all that remains is entertaining , and Duperey displays resilience and authority all along the way .
. . . . , even when he's not at his best are always better than the rest . Although it's a swashbuckler , an action-packed story , it's the kind of movie which loses much of its strength when watched dubbed . Released at the end of the swashbucklers era , whose hero was most of the time Jean Marais , " la tulipe noire " is more tongue in cheek , more picaresque , more libertine , closer to " Tom Jones " than " le bossu " or " le miracle des loups " . Christian-Jacques and Henri Jeanson wanted to match the scale and quality ( and commercial success and critical acclaim ) of their earlier and better " Fanfan la tulipe " ( 1951 ) . In both works , they take liberties with history and it's much fun : in " la tulipe noire " the characters know a priori that the 14th of July will be an important date , they talk about revolution before the storming of the Bastille ; and in the last pictures , they say people will remember the 19th ( ! ) of July . The villain ( the evil prince who comes with his army to kill all the Parisians ) about to be executed by the rebels says " I will remember my death all my life " . Alain Delon plays two parts , twins , and he's well cast as the dazzling heroes , even if Jeanson deflates them a bit . Henri Decae ' s cinematography is as splendid as ever . However the plot is sometimes confused and Philippe De Broca's " Cartouche " starring Jean-Paul Belmondo and released at the same time , is more rewarding . NB : it has almost nothing to do with Alexandre Dumas's novel , which took place in Holland where the hero was trying to create a . . . black tulip .
Montaldo's precedent work was about America ' s famous political prisoners Sacco and Vanzetti . Ennio Morricone's score was as excellent as usual and he asked Joan Baez to write four songs , the words of three of them were taken from letters of Vanzetti . And there was Gian Maria Volonte who like Baez was a committed artist . Montaldo continued with politics in " Giordano Bruno " . The scientist-philosopher , played by Volonte again , was a visionary man extraordinaire , so ahead of his time his thoughts seem sometimes contemporary . His world , at the beginning of the modern times only knows two concepts : good and evil ; it cannot free itself of the first conflict between God and Satan . God is not above , says Bruno , he's everywhere , in every plant , in every stone , in every grain of sand of the creation . What the Holy ( ! ) Office cannot forgive him , outside this " heresy " is that he keeps on repeating that religion helps man dominate man , all that these cardinals are doing every day ( who has the right to kill ? says Bruno ) Time had not come for science . Bruno's so called friend just wanted him to give him the power to dominate his fellow men . All that you could not understand was magic , black magic . Like Sacco and Vanzetti , Bruno was a political prisoner , a movie about him made sense after the 1971 work . And again , marvelous score by Morricone .
. . . . but you come too soon . André Hugon made the first talkie in France ( " Les Trois Masques " , 1929 ) . His whole work has sunk into oblivion , but this " Gaspard de Besse " indicates that this is relatively unfair . A good adventure film featuring Raimu as a French Robin Hood's brother , " Gaspard de Besse " takes place in Provence in the years preceding the French Revolution . It depicts the dubious milieu of the " law " : the drunken judge's son and his friends hang an old man just for fun . So Gaspard , his brother and their band steal from the Rich and give to the Poor . Historic character Mirabeau - who was to play a prominent part in the events of 1789 - appears in one scene . The script is not always satisfying but there are witty lines and a rebellious mind all along the film . André Hugon " signed " his movie after the last picture .
" The river king " is not particularly original , but it creates an atmosphere with its snowy landscapes and its frozen rivers . The entire town seems to be wrapped in mystery and to be the center of a huge conspiracy which would involve some grown-ups too : the science teacher's words sometimes recall some of " the skulls " ideology , as they deny any individualism . The movie would have been much better , had the writers concentrated on Gus's personality . The audience needs to know more about the unfortunate student . Too much time is given over to the love affair between the detective and the lit teacher ( we know since " dead poets society " that only lit teachers are nice teachers ) . And haven't we had enough of these " stories in the story " of the cop's youth , a trick which has been used a hundred times or more ?
Annie Girardot was THE French actress of the seventies . An outspoken nice personality , she's cast against type as an old maid . But she's so good a thespian that she pulls it off with gusto , abetted by an excellent Philippe Noiret , himself cast as a bachelor . Both are having a vacation at the seaside in a hotel . The man tries to make friend with her but it's a hard task because Mademoiselle Bouchon ( = Miss Cork ! ! ! ) is an inhibited prudish woman . The dialog between them is intentionally down-to earth , dealing with " Oh What a lovely pebble ! " " These are souvenirs for my family " . Only once they broach sexuality and not for a long time . Noiret and Girardot were such a wonderful couple that Philippe De Broca used them again in two of his late seventies movies . But there ' s a big flaw : the supporting characters are caricatures , and although they are played by talented actors ( Michel Lonsdale , Edith Scob , Marthe Keller ) , they really get in the way . That's why " la vieille fille " is only a good movie whereas it could have been a truly great one .
Fact : although the movie was to be released in 1939 , it was postponed to 1942 . WW2 had broken out and all Stroheim's scenes were remade with Pierre Renoir instead of the Austrian actor / director . After the liberation , the original version was shown in the theaters . Jean Delannoy , although always put down by the nouvelle vague , is a good director , whose best works were made in the fifties though ( notably his two Maigret ) . " Macao " , IMHO , is not Delannoy at his best . One can feel a lot of influences ; Marcel Carné's " Jenny " : in that work , Françoise Rosay did not want her daughter to know about her job ( go-between ) ; in Delannoy's work , Ying-Tchai ( Hayakawa ) does not want his daughter Jasmine ( Louise Carletti ) to discover he's involved in dealings and the owner of a dive ( which recalls " Forfaiture " , also featuring the Japanese thespian ) ; Von Sternberg's extravaganzas such as " Shanghai express " . Roland Toutain is miscast as the young romantic lead . The plot remains a bit confused and , except in the last pictures , Delannoy's perfect style cannot make up for it : it would have taken more madness : only the last sequence , where Hayakawa outdoes himself reaches a peak of tragic grandeur . But weren't it for that only , " Macao " would remain watchable . Besides , Mireille Balin's character is modern , a femme fatale with a down-to-earth side .
In her memoirs , Ava Gardner wrote that she hated some of her lines , notably when she had to tell her servant she would give children to her husband . " I just cannot say that , it's not my style " But the director answered : " my dear , you will " . " The Bible " is par excellence the movie Huston's fans love to hate ; other examples are " the roots of Heaven " or " the barbarian and the geisha " . Hindsight displays its charms : first , it is an accurate rendition of the Genesis ( the title reads " in the beginning " and it is exactly what it is ) . There's more voice over than dialog but if you have read the Bible ( and I'm sure you have ) you know that the characters have only a few lines to say . Chapters include the Creation and the wonders of nature ; Adam and Eve ; Abel and Cain ( should Abel have gone veggie , crime would never happen ) ; Noah ' s ark where the animals went in two by two just to get out of the rain and the huge hippopotamus - featured in the movie - did not get stuck in the door , thanks to the patriarch's watchful eye ( played by the director himself ) ; Nemrod ( a hardly recognizable Stephen Boyd ) and the tower of Babel ; Abraham whose segment is the most important in the whole movie ( about one hour is given over to his alliance with God , Sara and Agar - the scene of the pieces of dried fruit is worth the price of admission - , Isaac , Jehovah asking the patriarch to kill Him a son ) ; and Loth's adventures in Sodom where the Angel warns him : do notlook back when you escape from the doomed city . Poor wife ! The cinematography is splendid , particularly in the first sequences . But the most satisfying sequences are to be found towards the end : Abraham's sacrifice takes place in the desert among ruins and here Huston seems to transcend his subject whereas in the other segments , he only makes a picture book . Compared to Sergio Leone's " Sodom and Gomorrah " , is it so bad ?
Truffaut was one of William Irish's greatest fans ; he wrote a preface for an edition of the American writer's short stories . Not only he directed this movie but he adapted " la sirène du mississipi " too . There's just one problem . Irish's absolute tragic side totally eludes Truffaut . A critic wrote that this writer's endings did not put an end to horror , but prolongated it . Nothing comes close to Irish's desperate universe here . Jean Delannoy , whom Truffaut despised a lot , did a better job with " obsession " . Jeanne Moreau is not Irishian at all . She's too self-confident , too full of joie de vivre to interpret such a character . I've always dreamed of what Alexandra Stewart - who plays a small part as a teacher here - could have done with it . Obviously , Truffaut's directing is a tribute to Alfred Hitchcock , but I'm not sure that the Hitchcockian treatment was adequate here . It worked in " rear window " because this movie was , in the beginning , one of Irish's short stories and the master could develop it as he wished , but in the full length of a whole novel , the treatment destroys the emotion and the " lost in advance " feeling which emanate from this tormented soul-Irish spent all his miserable life in an hotel room with his mother ; an homosexual , he never found true love - . The cast is appealing but most of the actors are wasted , be they Michel Bouquet or Jean - Claude Brialy . Of course , it watchable , there's some suspense , but if you're searching for Irish's world , you must move on .
Not the way the French pupils and students remember him . He was not a jolly fellow . When he died , soon after le Cardinal de Richelieu , both were not mourned . But " le Capitan " takes place during the king's youth , when Concini was ruling the country on behalf of the queen mother Anne d'Autriche , and when Richelieu was a Concini protégé - he does not appear anyway - Jean Marais was cast as Jean Marais the fair knight , a part he played in half a dozen of swashbucklers of the era ( " le capitaine Fracasse " , " le miracle des loups " " le bossu " " le masque de fer " " les mysteries de Paris " . . ) . Elsa Martinelli , a former Kirk Douglas protégée supplies the love interest : a belle who wants her father to become king and thus to overthrow the legitimate one . Concini was , even in history , a true villain who squandered the money that Sully , Henri the Fourth's minister , had amassed . In the movie , he becomes a super villain , trying to kill his king by poisoning him or drugging his horse . Why not ? Bourvil and Pierrette Bruno provides the flick with a welcome comic relief . Those old Marais movies retain a certain charm . History was given a rough ride , à la Alexandre Dumas , but they are still enjoyable today . Recommended for the family .
Basically a stage actor and a close friend of the winning team Jean Pierre Bacri and Agnès Jaoui , Sam Karmann belatedly tried his hand at directing but the few works he left shouldn't be dismissed at all . " Kennedy et Moi " ( 1999 ) was the French " American Beauty " and an ideal cure for its director who had a breakdown prior to shoot it . Although it belongs to another cinematographic genre , " A la Petite Semaine " is every bit as good as its predecessor . From a classy starting point , Karmann drew a respectable piece of work . Jacques ( Gérard Lanvin ) is released from prison and has decided to go straight . But his friend Francis ( Jacques Gamblin ) , an actor who lives with his mother and an impulsive young man Didier ( Clovis Cornillac ) prepares a job . Jacques tries to make them renounce to their affair , it's no use . However , tangled up in their shady affairs , the two casual thieves will soon be caught in a downward spiral and Jacques might have a solution to save them . . . Karmann's film encapsulates two genres and swings between them with fluidity : detective film and social comedy . By the use of key scenery ( cafes ) , sharp dialogs and the type of story employed , his credentials are derived from José Giovanni , Jacques Becker and Michel Audiard . So he knows his classics and he's supported by his great threesome of actors even if I must say that I'm not a fan of Gamblin and Lanvin . The rest of the cast doesn't lie fallow either . The delineation of each secondary character is precise and has its importance in the representation of this rather dull but not despondent everyday life . " A La Petite Semaine " is a throwback to good old popular cinema . How refreshing !
. . . You can waste your time on the other ridesBut this is the nearest to being aliveOh let me take my chances on the wall of death . ( Richard Thompson ) This is a mysterious film . The precedent user was cross cause they did not mention Maria Montez's name on the DVD or video cassette release . He must realize that it's aimed at the French market and in France , who remembers this beautiful but limited ( at least to my eyes , and at least in this film , the only one I've seen featuring her to date ) actress ? The French cast is a dream : first it was Arletty's comeback ; after the problems she had in 1945 , and the unfinished Carné's " la Fleur de l'Age , it was the first film she had made since " les Enfants du Paradis " . The male cast is exciting too : Erich Von Stroheim , and two other Carné's favorites , Pierre Brasseur and Jules Berry . The subject is original . Brasseur portrays a stunt-man who rides his motorbike on the wall of death . He's married to Martha whose love is strong and true but he has come to hate her : he tries to kill her in the first sequence ! But Martha forgives and she delivers a wonderful line " For once , the victim also provides the alibi " . Enter manager Montez : she wants the acrobat to work on a larger scale and she asks an engineer ( Marcel Dalio , who was in " la règle du jeu " and " Casablanca " ) to build a huge track where the man will perform a terrifying looping the loop . The script lacks sometimes rigor and Von Stroheim's character - a disabled man , after working for Montez - repeats more or less the same lines every time he appears . On the other hand , Bernard-Roland perfectly captured the fair / circus atmosphere . He even hired the Fratellinis , a famous clowns family . Probably influenced by Carné and Duvivier , the director continued the Realisme Poétique of the pré-war years and its pessimism . He could have been a heir to that tradition , as contemporary Yves Allégret was . But he essentially worked for TV .
Although a remake of a Hitchcock's celebrated silent movie , the 1944 version compares favorably with it . The conclusion is different from Hitchcock's who had " the wrong man " concept in mind . Laird Cregar gives a tormented performance , which often reminds me of Peter Lorre's " M " . John Brahm uses him with an absolute skill , working like a painter with shadow and light . Merle Oberon was never as beautiful as here . Snatches of " Beauty and the Beast " and " Phantom of the opera " occasionally surface . Oberon plays an actress who performs on stage French cancan and sings a little saucy song half in English half in French ( " Un Petit Je Ne Sais Quoi " " C'est Chic " ) And the Ripper kills the actresses , not the prostitutes as he usually does in the other versions .
. . . you can do worse than watch this intriguing film . The story only lasts six hours but do not panic : it's not a six-hour flick ! A tour de force Alex Joffé will pull off in his 1957 film " les Fanatiques " everything happens in real time like in Wise's " set-up " and later in Varda's " Cleo De Cinq à Sept " . A traveler gets out of his train and in the station , he is mistaken for an ambassador . We know nothing about him , not even his name . Some of his lines might make us think he's got no family . All we know is that he's got six hours to waste , between two trains . His chauffeur drives him to his desirable mansion where everything seems to go wrong . He's been away for five years , but it's a bit unlikely that his whole family welcomes him as their husband / father / master . His missus is sour-tempered , his daughter ( Dany Robin ) is in a love with a shady pianist while her brothers are fighting for the musician's sister ( they are actually husband and wife and crooks at that ) . His chamber maid ( Paulette Dubost ) cheats on her hubby ( the butler ) with a gendarme . The " new " ambassador will be the providential guardian angel and succeed in settling all the problems of the house . And he and his " wife " celebrate their silver wedding while a telegram signals that the true " His Excellency " is about to arrive in half an hour . " Wait for me , I'll be back soon " the strangers says before leaving . Two sinister-looking men are loitering around . . . . What was a comedy with now and then bitter touches would turn into a tragedy . . . . The ending will take you by surprise and gives the movie an eerie final . Definitely worth watching .
The Algeria war was a taboo subject for about ten years . Then at the beginning of the seventies , came Claude Berri's " le pistonné " , Yves Boisset's " RAS " and the best of them " avoir 20 ans dans les Aurès " by René Vautier . Boisset's movie is a good work which , although his characters may seem stereotyped ( there's a commie , a pacifist , an anarchist , a sadistic warrant officer . . . ) , still deeply touches the audience today . Some scenes are very well directed ; the riot in the station where the crowd tries to stop the train , the brothel in a tent in the desert . . The most satisfying part is the second one , because of Philippe Leroy's sensational part of commandant Lecoq . This is a clever officer . He tries to treat his men as men , to leave them the right to argue , in a nutshell he's a human soldier although he seems as cold as ice . . . . . and the commie ( Jacques Weber ) quickly realizes that he is the most dangerous of them all . . . Can there be a clean war ? a human soldier ? A noble cause ? The final pictures are an act of rebellion , and the audience sides with the deserter ( Jacques Spiesse ) A beautiful song ( Leny Escudero ) opens the movie .
Pierre Chenal's last hurrah-although not his last movie - , it's easily the best of the four thrillers he made when he was back from Argentina . " Jeux Dangereux " the precedent year suggested a return to form for a director who made interesting film noirs in the thirties and a masterpiece in the forties ( " La Foire Aux Chimères " ) . All promises were fulfilled in " La Bete A L'Affut " . There are two apparently distinct plots : - A cop's widow ( Françoise Arnoul ) is through with love and she spends her time collecting money for the orphans of the Police , abetted by a bunch of snobs and false friends . Unfortunately the person who was in charge of the money is assaulted and the money is gone . . Might this respectable notable of the town be the stealer , after feigning an aggression ? - A warden has two inmates do some repairs in his house . But he's got a too pretty wife . Two of the men are killed in mysterious circumstances and the survivor , one of the prisoners ( Henri Vidal ) takes refuge in the widow's desirable mansion . Love begins to grow between them but is the man a victim of fate as he claims to be ? The screenplay is particularly smart as the two stories meet in the last minutes . There's also a grandiose finale in a lighthouse , with scenes to rival the best of Jacques Tourneur . Henri Vidal was perhaps never better than here and his pairing with sexy Françoise Arnoul was really a good one . The last scene was particularly harrowing when you know that Vidal was to pass away in December 1959 , leaving Belmondo and Delon a clear field . NB : Henri Vidal was disappointed with the roles he was given . He wanted to make movies with Carné , Clouzot , Allégret and Delannoy and his fine physique went against him .
It was the second time Ophüls had broached an historical subject ( unless we count " Lola Montès " ) . In France 1939 , he filmed the tragic love story of Franz Ferdinand and Countess Sophie Chotek , of course a misalliance , hence a Morganatic marriage . As it did not happen as Charles Stuart was concerned , the lovers are left with memories ( " I'll visit you in your dreams " ) . If it weren't for the last minutes , the film would not be a real Max Ophüls ( spelled " Opuls " ) movie . The last third is a bit Curtizesque , Douglas Faibanks Jr recalling Erroll Flynn . This is certainly a good film , but it cannot be included in the director's best works such as " Liebelei " " La Signora Di Tutti " " Letters from an unknown woman " or " Madame De " . This is fictionalized history - whereas " De Mayerling A Sarajevo " depicted real events - where the round heads ( the Puritans ) , dressed in black nicely play the parts of the villains against a noble hero dressed in white . There are good lines ; I particularly like this one " If I ever come home , I shall belong to no party " . Another good moment : " He lives in luxury and idleness " say the Puritans ( a picture shows the " farm worker " plowing ; " He must be ready to kill " ( the man and his girl see the new-born chicks ) Maria Montez is the " star " of the film but her appearance does not exceed ten / fifteen minutes . It's Holland as we imagine it : windmills ( with an impressive duel on it ) , tulips , canals , fair-haired girls . . .
Hats off to Epdean , the user who did the hard task of letting us know about the situation in China when our film begins . I wish every " historical " movie had an user like him . What about the movie ? It ' s perhaps not as absorbing as " Dr Zhivago " ( it's important to notice that anyway Robert Bolt took liberties with Pasternak's novel ) , but it's a very worthwhile epic , with a very good cast including David Niven , Charlton Heston and Ava Gardner , the most beautiful woman Hollywood ever knew . But the best performance comes from Flora Robson as the empress , a spider on her cobweb . The lines are above average : " we're in the country of poppy and we can't get any morphine ! " and China in " 55 days " is less " chocolate box " than in " Inn of sixth happiness " . What about Ray ? They said he was always drunk during all the shooting . I can feel his touch even there ! Teresa's character is in search of a family , as the heroes of " rebel without a cause " ( particularly Plato ) of " run for cover " " " they live by night " and more were . And as it often happens in Ray's movies , someone has to sacrifice his / her life so the others can go on : Mitchum in " lusty men " , Derek in " run for cover " Granger in " they live by night " Mineo in " rebel without the cause . . . . and who-you-know in " kings of kings " . Ava Gardner's death , while trying to bring food and medicine to the children will lead Heston to something he would probably not have thought of .
Natalie Wood , giving one of her best performances , portrays a typical Williams heroine . Alva is an innocent sinner . She knows she's attractive , she teases every man around , but she has kept her childhood's dream , she's an immature character . she's akin to the girl of " the glass menagerie " . Alva hides her dream in a convert rail car which bears her own name , like the latter dreams her life away with her frail animals . All right , Laura is a pure young girl , Alva is not , by a long shot , but it does not make a big difference . Innocence , for Tennessee Williams is only a matter of heart . Alva might have been some kind of Blanche Du Bois too . Both are victims , both have a romantic dream , both pretend ( Natalie's red dress , Blanche's schlock jewels ) . I think Alma's arrival in New Orleans is a tribute to Kazan's " streetcar named desire " : as she gets out of the train , there's some smoke around . The over - possessive mother is also a constant in Williams ' universe . Alma's mother ( a magnificent Kate Reid ) recalls Mrs Venable in " suddenly last summer " . If Alma does not realize she's some kind of prostitute-Redford tells her so while they are hiding behind the bushes - , her mother resembles a madam in a brothel ( the boarding-house ) . It's Redford's character who will spoil the party . By revealing Alma who she really is , by telling her he's got no dream , by his social status , he's a man who lives in the material world . Many users noticed it was an ambiguous character : after all he comes to lay off railroad workers in this one-horse town which Alma longs to leave for broader horizons . The boarding-house and the tiny railway station are certainly a dead end for the heroine . And this car named " Alma " symbolizes a land where time stands still . When Alma leaves for New Orleans , James Wong Howe's wonderful camera becomes aerial with breathtaking high angle shots on the train . This is a rather talky movie , and it loses steam in the third part in New Orleans , but it sure did not deserve such a poor rating when so many talents are involved ( outside the already mentioned people , there's also Bronson and Ford Coppola - script writer - ) . It's the beginning of Pollack's heyday , when he was a genuine artist who gave us such major works as " Jeremiah Johnson " and " they shoot horses don't they ? " . A far cry from " Tootsie " or " the firm " .
Given the very poor users ' rating and given the fact that only a 70 min copy is available , it's doubtful people might want to see Jacqueline Audry's take on a child's book which is a classic in France ( in Russia I was told the young students who learn French frequently read the Comtesse de Segur's book , for this writer was born a Russian ) . The credits read " inspired by Segur's novel " so don't expect a faithful academic adaptation . Actually only the first twenty-five minutes come directly from the original story . The book was not that easy to transfer to the screen for it's not a linear story . Jacqueline Audry , instead of treating the chapters one after another-as Jean-Claude Brialy did in his late seventies listless adaptation - , blended several episodes : the doll , the tea , the donkey , etc . She added one character , Mademoiselle ( Marguerite Moreno ) , who epitomizes authority , punishment and submission . Madame de Rean , a not very kind character in the novel , became a sweet mother , under Mademoiselle's thumb . Jacqueline Audry , and it's the first thing to bear in mind , was the only female French director of the fifties . It was long before Agnes Varda . Only Ida Lupino dared to do what she did , and like Lupino , her main subject was woman and early feminism . It makes her work all the more precious to us now . I loved Segur's novels but they were reactionary to the core . Hence the second part which happens when Sophie has become an adult . It is probably the reason why people hate this movie . Cousin Paul , the virtuous boy , has turned into a revolutionary man , on the 1848 barricades . Sophie's mother being dead , Mademoiselle wants her to marry a notable's son . Audry's Sophie wants to venture off the beaten track . As the child , she was already a rebel . Unlike Segur's character she will not quiet down when she grows up . Audry laughs at the perfect little girls and their ridiculous song . The last picture is a transparent metaphor of woman's lib well before it's become trendy as well as a spoof on the Prince Charming myth .
When you're watching Minnelli's work today you cannot help but thinking that he had a strong influence on Luchino Visconti's " la caditi dei degli " ( 1969 ) Actually the two movies begin the same way : a family whose members are tearing each other part because some of them go nazi . It does not matter if the scene takes place in Argentina in Minnelli's work : we find the same madness , the same baroque side and similarities abound : the old man's death echoes to that of the patriarch of the Essenbeck family in " la caduit dei degli " . Karl Boehm's character inspired Helmut Griem's one . And Ingrid Thulin is featured in both films , although she does not appear in the first thirty minutes , the best . . The dinner scene remains impressive today : if it certainly inspired Visconti later , itself takes probably its roots in Frank Borzague's masterwork " mortal storm " ( 1940 ) , which tackled long before his two peers the subject of the family and nazism . But Minnelli added gaudy colors , typical of the fifties melodrama , and special effects - the four horsemen who will come back , particularly later when chic people are dancing while war is raging outside . Actually this scene is so strong as the rest of the movie seems like a let-down afterward . All that takes place in Paris does not rise above average . The film never recaptures the intensity of its beginning , except for its very last minutes , with the final confrontation between the two cousins - it's difficult to admit , though , that Glenn Ford and Karl Boehm are relatives . If a strong beginning and an effective ending make a good film , you can say that Minnelli's extravaganza is worth a watch . It's not among his best works , but if critic Georges Sadoul said " the first sequence is sheer aggressive bad taste " , do not forget that " good taste " does not necessarily make great works .
At first sight , Duvivier seems to follow in André Cayatte's footsteps . At the time , the latter director had launched a crusade against all the miscarriages of justice and had begun to champion any good cause going . But further acquaintance shows this : " l'affaire Maurizius " is a Duvivier movie . In Cayatte's movies , the problems are finally generally solved : in " Nous Sommes Tous Des Assassins " , René was granted a pardon , in " Les Risques du Métier " , the schoolteacher was rehabilitated . Even when the story turns black ( " Le Glaive et la Balance " or " Justice est Faite " ) , Cayatte " manages to limit the damage " so to speak . One should note that the young lead , Jacques Chabassol , was part of Cayatte's " Avant le Deluge " ( 1953 ) . In " l'Affaire Maurizius " , no one was saved : the judge has lost his son who is ashamed of his father , the son has lost all his illusions , the gorgeous reluctant femme fatale has turned into a prematurely aged lady , her former lover is now living on the fringes of society , and the chastised innocent . . . . . . his fate is sealed as soon as the film begins . . . . . . . because , when the movie begins , " L'Affaire Maurizius " is an old one everybody wants to forget . That an innocent man may have spent seventeen years in jail does not seem to move the bourgeois judge ( Charles Vanel ) , jealous of his privileges . Little by little , through flashbacks , scenes of the past resurfaces again . The judge ' s son believes in justice and wants to save the prisoner ( Daniel Gélin ) who was " burried alive " . But Waremme ( Anton Walbrook ) tries to explain to him that the society scoffs at the law : while he is talking to the desperate young man , two dancers appear as shadow graphs on the window . This is the key to the film and to Duvivier's black world . " L'Affaire Maurizius " is wrapped in mystery : all the flashbacks are filmed in places which seem secret and where a danger seems impending . The film sets are bare when they depict the past , emphasizing the characters who , unfortunately , with the exception of Vanel , sometimes display a tendency to overact . This misty atmosphere will emerge again in later works such as " Marianne de Ma Jeunesse " or " La Chambre Ardente " . Some objections to " l'Affaire Maurizius " remain : overacting ( Anton Walbrook verges on ridicule ) , and Madeleine Robinson's underwritten part : she barely appears ten minutes whereas she plays a pivotal role in the screenplay . Her relationship with her younger sister ( Eleonora Rossi-Drago ) is only skimmed over whereas it is essential to the plot . However , like almost all the movies Duvivier made , it is a must : his pessimism leaves the viewer no hope : the last scene could be subtitled " out of the blue . . . and into the black , they give you this but you pay for that , and once you're gone you can never come back . . " ( Neil Young )
One of the cult-movies made in the nineties , often compared ( a bit wrongly ) to " A Clockwork Orange " ( 1971 ) , " Trainspotting " is the revelation of a new talented director : Danny Boyle . If his previous movie " Shallow Grave " ( 1994 ) was not accepted unanimously , " Trainspotting " was critically praised and made a beautiful commercial way , notably in Great-Britain . Danny Boyle's opus is served by a galaxy of actors who are all outstanding ( Ewan McGregor and Robert Carlyle at head ) and whose characters are well-rounded . Moreover , McGregor's voice-over makes the movie more thrilling . It is to be noted that if Boyle perfectly used this device in " Trainspotting " it will not be the case four years later with Leonardo Di Caprio in " The Beach " ( 2000 ) . Then , we deal with a dramatic story , it is indisputable but it is told on a comedy tone so as to avoid the movie to fall in absolute horror and the sordid and of course , this is often black humor that prevails . " Trainspotting " confirms Boyle's master of the directing too . Nevertheless , it includes faults that spoil somewhat the movie . For example , this one , by moments evokes a clip . Besides , in connection with music , there is an excellent original soundtrack even if sometimes we feel that its constant and discreet use surcharges the movie . On another hand , through Mark's trouble with heroin , this is a realistic vision of a British society undermined by unemployment in the eighties . Even if the last movie is full of optimism , it nonetheless remains ambiguous . Indeed , as Mark walks on the bridge and enumerates the things he will know , the picture becomes increasingly blurred . It probably means that Mark's future will not probably be bright . . . " Trainspotting " is a vivid , sometimes raw movie ( the sequences that involves heroin ) but never boring . It deserves to be watched .
In the guide of films by Jean Tulard , one of the very valuable bibles for any French cine buff , Claude Bouniq-Mercier had qualified " Swimming Pool " as " an accomplished work which intrigues and fascinates " . He should have been attributed these flattering words to François Ozon's previous work , " 8 Femmes " ( 2002 ) , arguably his very seminal piece of work and one of the top five movies of 2002 . In this film , the filmmaker transcended the whodunit by incorporating to a plot à la Agatha Christie other cinematographic genres like drama , comedy and especially musicals . Ozon also had had fun by peppered his film with movie-loving details and there was a strong Chabrolesque aura to unearth dark secrets of this bourgeois milieu . And , so the expectations were high for Ozon's next movie . Ozon had the guts to produce another work one year after " 8 Femmes " : " Swimming Pool " . Did Ozon depicted himself in the character of Sarah Morton ? Was he afraid not being able to renew himself and to be marooned to write another movie ? Did he write and direct his 2003 film to eschew at all costs a block which could have been fatal ? Anything goes but he seems to have overcome his fears and cropped a film up with several possible understandings and which isn't here to make the viewer lazy in spite of its little holiday feel because of the landscapes . At first sight , " Swimming Pool " is a film difficult to define and label . It could be a cross between a psychological drama , thriller with a dash of fantastic . " Swimming Pool " seems to be located in the continuity of Ozon's precedent worked and adds to the cohesion of his early work . The director showcases some of his trademarks which contributed in asserting his own style . Thus , there's an evident taste for derision like in the sequence when Sarah , Julie and Franck dance to the sound of a tech no music . It's reminiscent of a similar sequence in " Gouttes D'Eaux Sur Pierre Brûlantes " ( 2000 ) in which the quartet of this film danced on a German dance song . Shocking is also well present . Like in his other films , Ozon likes to put his characters in an isolated , closed space to unearth what's going on in their tormented minds and seems to prefer to film women than men . Here , two women . On the one hand , Sarah , a successful , uptight , frustrated English writer with a bias for alcohol . On the another hand Julie , a brazen bimbo girl who leads a carefree life and collects masculine conquests . The perfect mismatched pair until Sarah begins to show a vivid interest in her partner and the two women start to come together . Sarah seems to envy her partner even if she doesn't declare it straight to her and perceives Julie as an object for her fantasy . The famous swimming pool is the strong contender for Sarah's fantasy to fully express herself . When she arrives in the villa , she's reluctant to dive in it . It's after she better made the acquaintance of Julie that she feels strong enough to act . Especially , Julie will be her source of inspiration to write her new and supposedly drastically different novel . In another extent , Ozon's directing virtually evolutes on the razor's edge , efficiently enough to install a disquieting tension which doesn't really fade away after Sarah is in good terms with Julie . It reaches a climax in the murder sequence and when the writer wants to learn more about Julie's past which seems to be murky , things take an eerie turn . Julie seems to be John's offspring from a first relationship , her mother died in mysterious circumstances and seemed to have suffered of this . Check the sequence in which she hysterically screams " Mum ! Mum ! " . So , like in " 8 Femmes " , Ozon unmasks her two main actresses and things could have stopped there but the director preferred to go beyond with an unexpected twist which destabilizes the viewer . At the end of the film , there is an unexpected twist which gives the inkling that illusion reigned throughout the film and Ozon may have played a trick on the viewer . His or her certainties about what he or she watched are subverted and the first reflex would be to separate what may come from Sarah's imagination and what would be real . In the second case , the sequences when she's in front of her laptop could be strong contenders and the most important part of the film would consist of Sarah's novel unfolding before our eyes as soon as she arrives at the villa . But other points may leave the viewer baffled because they are hard to put in one of the two categories mentioned above . After Julie's arrival , Sarah desperately tries to get through John and she doesn't manage to do it . Is he ashamed of Julie ? Does he refuse to deliver information about her to Sarah ? Ozon said once that he didn't really like to write the scenario of his films and preferred to let the viewer decide what he wanted about the contents of his works . So , up to the viewer to make his brain work about the mystery which shrouds the whole film and its unclear aspects . To quote Bergman : " questions are more important than the answers " . I think that beyond an unlikely relationship between two different women , Ozon showed us the act of creation for an artist in general . So , Mr Bouniq-Mercier , I partly agree with your opinion but I have little doubts about its first part . But it's nevertheless a work which will haunt you for a long time after you've seen it and will probably make your brain work when you think about it . Try to watch several times in a row and if thinking too much causes you headaches , why not watching Ozon's following works which are easier to follow ? : " 5x2 " ( 2004 ) and especially " Le Temps Qui Reste " ( 2005 ) . I relish more on the second work which is perhaps Ozon's best film since " 8 Femmes " .
She was there one minute Lying in a pool of herselfAnd then she was gone the next With a twisted neck . O she fell from the roof to the ground . . . . A crowd gathers around the building as the cops shout " move along ! " . Someone fell from the terrace of " Larry " ' s luxury flat . Larry ( Michel Auclair ) had gathered for a formal occasion his ex-wife ( Darrieux ) , his wife ( Corinne Calvet ) , his fiancée and his mistress . An ominous stormy evening in a chic apartment with champagne served by a Chinese butler . There was a bad moon on the rise ; it seemed that someone was going to get killed tonight . But which of the four women ? The ex-wife ? She crossed a lot of peopleSome she called friendsShe thought she'd live foreverBut forever always ends . Darrieux portrays a painter who remained loyal and true to her friends , which her ex-husband did not . The fiancée ? She used to live the life she used To live life with a vengeance And the chosen would dance The chosen would dance in attendanceThe fiancée is a spoiled child , she thinks that her dad's money can buy her anything . She's pregnant by a student who disappeared but she won't care if Larry passes for the father in her folk's eyes . The wife ? She used to have style She used to have style and to use itAnd they say it turned badWhen the truth came around and she refused itShe married Larry just because thanks to him , an unscrupulous journalist , her false suicide made the headlines . ( It's thoroughly credible : a French actress did that in 1947 ) Like Larry , would do anything to get fortune and fame . The mistress ? They did not find no killerand they did not find no note . Maggy is a shady lady , who seems to blackmail Larry ; he ' d like to recover a receipt she owns . This is a fine film noir by Henri Decoin , which does not equal his best in the field ( " non Coupable " " La Vérité sur Bébé Donge " ) , but where the suspense is sustained till the very end and its unexpected twist . The flashbacks are introduced in an unusual aggressive way . They begin with bells : they herald a wedding but they sound like a toll . Darrieux and Auclair would team up again in Périer's " Meurtres en 45 tours " ( 1960 ) Many lines of this comment were taken from the lyrics of Richard Thompson's extraordinarily gloomy song " Did she jump " on his " Shoot out the lights ' majestic album ( 1982 ) .
" Rien à faire " is a watchable and enjoyable flick for one main reason . Marion Vernoux , the director had intuition by choosing Valeria Bruni-Tedeschi for the main role . It is a real joy to see fer acting on the screen and her big talent , her soft voice are widely sufficient to justify the vision of this film . It is all the more beneficial as she's ably assisted by her main partner Patrick Dell'Isola . Marion Vernoux put very well in parallel her two main actors ' living conditions . The contrast constitutes one of her best weapons between the naive and the simple-minded Marie and Pierre who appears as a lucid and clever man . This contrast is highlighted when the director evokes difference and misunderstanding about several points commented by the two characters . Another interesting detail : the supermarket plays the role of meeting between the two universes . Then , the author built her movie around one of the biggest plagues at the end of the twentieth century : unemployment . So , you could expect to discover a bleak and hopeless atmosphere . It is not the case . The relative seriousness of the situation remains confined in the background . A certain joy of living comes out of the film . Marie and Pierre are jobless but while searching for a job , they take time to know themselves , to help each other and eventually to fall in love . Marion Vernoux lets us suggest the reasons why they become lovers . You feel that Marie gets on rather badly with her husband ( Sergi Lopez ) . As for Pierre , he falls in love with Marie , mainly because he doesn't succeed in finding a job again . However , this work isn't without a few faults . Certain sequences can be judged as conventional ( like the one when Pierre explains to Marie why he wants to put an end to their love affair ) and I think an extra touch of passion would have given the movie more strength . Anyway , I repeat it : this movie is worth watching especially for Valeria Bruni-Tedeschi and given the treatment Marion Vernoux made of her subject , her work can be taken for a cousin of the movie : " en avoir ou pas . . . " ( 1995 ) by Laetitia Masson .
Denys De La Patellière was never much of a director but , who could be wrong with a cast including Gabin , Pierre Brasseur , Jean Dessailly , Bernard Blier and many more ? The cast and credits introduce the characters , à la Sacha Guitry : these persons are VIPS , proud of their Legion D'Honneur or of being part of high society , academies and the whole shebang . Then we attend the funeral of the old " poet " of the family ( who wrote sonnets for Sainte Blandine but did enjoy saucy games ) , during which the priest insists that the Lord moves in mysterious ways and fortunately he did give the money to people who were good Christians ( meaning : not to the riffraff ) . With the exception of the son ( and his wife ) all the characters are hateful ; even the right-wing anarchist is a selfish false rebel and a despicable two-faced person . The boss , played by Gabin , is a self made man-though , in the only scene when he shows some humanity , he reveals his parents had five servants ! - , who pushes people out of his way and cannot stand getting old : he lets his son manage one of his factories only to see him fail ! Audiard's lines are full of bite ; a propos of a general : " I'd never seen him in such a despair since June 1940 , . . . when he lost his tin trunk ! " ) Like this ? try these . . . . . " Les Affaires Sont Les Affaires " Jean Dreville ( 1942 ) " La Vie De Plaisir " Albert Valentin ( 1943 ) " La Rupture " Claude Chabrol ( 1970 )
Like his elder brothers , Claude Sautet and Jean-Pierre Melville , Alain Corneau began to cut his teeth in French cinema with a series of fine thrillers : " la Menace " ( 1977 ) and " Série Noire " ( 1979 ) among others . " Police Python 357 " is a good example of how Corneau conceived and shot his works at this time of his career . They had a splendid cinematography , painstaking screenplays and a sophisticated directing elaborated for efficiency's sake . The police superintendent Ferrot ( Yves Montand ) is a cop with unconventional methods who usually works all alone . He makes the acquaintance of a young woman Sylvia Léopardi ( Stefania Sandrelli ) and becomes her lover while ignoring that she has another lover : his superior Ganay ( François Périer ) . When the latter learns it , he kills her in a fit of anger . Ferrot has to investigate the murder and all the clues are inexorably against him . . . One could deem that this kind of far-fetched story isn't exempt from glitches and sometimes , one can see right through it but Corneau's pedantic directorial style helps to conjure up a stifling , dusky atmosphere . The first part of the film before the night of the murder might seem uninteresting and however , it is crucial for what will follow this key-moment . Corneau falls back on a sober treatment with rather sparse moments and short appearances by secondary , minor characters whom the viewer will see again during the investigation . In spite of drawbacks , Corneau and his scenarist Daniel Boulanger penned a deft story . Ménard ( Mathieu Carrière ) who sometimes expresses his surprise because Ferrot keeps a relatively low profile during the investigation . But his superior knows that he usually works alone . Actually , Ferrot has to find solid tricks to muddy the waters and so to exonerate himself . Eventually , the chief idea of the film concerns Ferrot himself . He's a cop who bit by bit loses his identity and finds himself in the heart of a terrible depersonalization . It is epitomized by the moment when he throws himself acid on his face so that witnesses won't recognize him when he is brought face to face with them . The backdrop of this thriller , Orléans is efficiently enhanced by Corneau's camera and helps to inspire this eerie thriller its pernicious charm .
What's lacking here is a great director , someone like Robert Siodmak ( " Phantom Lady " ) or Mitchell Leisen ( " No man of her own " ) . Who says Truffaut ? ( " the bride wore black " ) . Even flawed , " Black Angel " is far better than the two Truffaut movies ( the second being " La Sirene Du Mississipi " ) cause only an American can feel the desperate atmosphere of Cornell Woolrich's ( aka William Irish ) best novels and short stories . Generally the character who experiments tragedy is a woman ; such is not the case here . Martin is the loser , the unfortunate expiatory victim who is looking for a second chance . Some people won't accept the fact that half of the action is based on a wrong track : it's necessary to make us feel Martin's growing hope . His moonlight sonata is not only a warning , it's also a love message ( look at his face when he is playing ) When Cathy tells him there can only be one man in her life , he's got no reason to live anymore . Hence this ending a la " lost weekend " ( which was released the precedent year ) and these words of Martin when he says he is happy now . William Irish's novel was arguably not his best : the story is too close to that of " phantom lady " and Cathy becoming a singer overnight is not very plausible . But it's Dan Duryea's hope against hope and his face longing for happiness and peace of mind that will haunt you after watching this good film noir .
" The Untouchables " is reckoned as one of the kingpins in Brian De Palma's filmography by the insiders and his devotees . I would tend to agree with them and to be conducive about this general contention with however certain reservations . This transposition of the well-known TV series is surely one of his less personal works . His obsessions with Sir Alfred Hitchcock take a back seat and we're quite far from the thriller genre with grisly , bloody effects which helped to build the filmmaker's reputation . Actually , " the Untouchables " appears as formulaic in the presentation of events : Chicago during Prohibition under the control of the underworld with its main leader Al Capone , here acted by Robert De Niro whose performance is however less startling than in " Angel Heart " ( 1987 ) by Alan Parker , released the same year . A young fresh FBI agent Elliott Ness ( Kevin Costner ) rises up against him and has a yearning to make him fall . After a failed police raid in Capone's warehouses , he teams up with a seasoned cop , Malone ( Sean Connery ) and hires a band of volunteers who share his same determinations and then their hopes soar . But some members are killed including Malone . This doesn't help Ness's men to arrest Capone's accountant and his financial registers . . . It's sure that De Palma wanted to remain as close as possible to the historic reality . It seems that everything in the film from the scenery to the making was recreated to capture the stifling atmosphere of the Prohibition and the spirit of the film noir in the thirties but the contents of the film is very classic as a whole . And it's often aggravated by a streak to excessive effects , one of De Palma's main drawbacks . Visual excesses which are mostly present in shoot-out and fight sequences like Malone's slow death . Ditto at another level for Ennio Morricone's majestic but overwhelming music . But once again and like in some De Palma's works , the rumbustious form compensates the contents despite bombastic tendencies . Three seminal sequences would deserve to be legion in the filmmaker's canon : the western sequence with the Canadian mounted police , Malone's death , the arrest of the accountant by Ness in a shoot-out sequence doubled with a wink to Eisenstein's masterpiece " the Battleship Potemkine " ( 1926 ) . It's rather acceptable stuff but I favor Phil Karlson's terse style on the same domain with " the Scarface Mob " ( 1959 ) .
This first movie of a woman directly come from French television is based on comparatively classic basis . Albert Dupontel plays the role of Max , a man who has everything to be happy : a stable job as a photograph , a ravishing wive ( Marianne Denicourt ) but little by little , depression overcomes him so much so that nearly nothing interests him . One night , during a night of drinking bout , he orders on Internet a molded doll as tall as him called Monique . It doesn't take him long to fall in love with her and to look after her as good as possible to the surprise of his friends . By reading this summary of the story , it is evident that Valérie Guignabodet , at least in the first part of her movie was influenced by " Kennedy et moi " ( 1999 ) , a film made by Sam Karmann starring Jean-Pierre Bacri . The latter and Albert Dupontel act the same type of character and present several similarities . They're both family fathers . They are sick of their respective lives . Their wives deceive them with lovers . But at least they find some comfort with their fathers who live in old people's homes . But especially , they regain strength thanks to silly actions . If Bacri found taste for life again because he could get the watch of his shrink ( the one that Kennedy wore on the day he was killed ) , here Dupontel , his love for a molded doll makes him happy and Monique doesn't leave Dupontel's friends indifferent . Except for the will to show that her main character treats " Monique " like a real woman , Valérie Guignabodet also directed her movie on the meetings between Max's friends and " Monique " as well as the consequences . Through this method we can formulate that " Monique " , for the male characters , is the perfect woman , the one that every man would like to get which cause their wives ' frustrations . Guignabodet's work is a good one and if she doesn't avoid the predictable sudden new developments , if her style contains ponderousness , if the film writing lacks coherence towards the end , her movie reserves good moments and it often borders on the surrealism and the politically incorrect . Moreover , the absurdity of the sequences where we see Max taking care of her lifeless love is enhanced by a photography with very kitsch colors and the chosen songs give to the movie a crazy air . Valérie Guignabodet's career as a film-maker is in a good way as this globally successfully movie shows .
With " Silence of the Lambs " ( 1991 ) , Jonathan Demme achieved a masterstroke and his movie became one of the landmark movies made in the nineties . The reward of his efforts were the following ones : 5 Oscars in 1992 including Best Movie and a widely deserved blockbuster . This is a movie that enjoys a performance of a high quality with , of course Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins who dominate the cast . The former is absolutely convincing in her role of ambitious trainee who gradually realizes that if she wants to nab " Buffalo Bill " , she has to face and overcome her fears . All this with " a little help " from Hopkins who finds in this movie one of his best roles and offers a remarkable and especially unforgettable composition of his character : Hannibal Lecter . Besides , concerning this character , more than fascination , this is nearly liking that we feel for this monster . On another hand , his confrontations with Clarisse are the key-moments of the movie where we can notice a careful work on the light , the scenery and the framing . In " Silence of the Lambs " , Demme plays with the spectator's nerves , avoids as much as possible the bloody sequences and creates suspense the following way : throughout the movie , there's a constant tension that starts with the warnings given to Clarisse before her first meet with Lecter . Then , it becomes more marked with Lecter's escape and it reaches a peak with Clarisse's final dual with " Buffallo Bill " . The whole is well-orchestrated by Demme thanks to a witty making . At last , even if the end reveals an inevitable happy-end , the very last sequence is here to remind us that one of the two monsters in the movie is still alive and he will keep on getting himself talked about ( Hannibal , 2001 ) . A terrific and terrifying thriller . Highly recommended and this is one of the very few movies that will haunt you for a long time after you watched it .
Jean Delannoy stands as one of the best ( if not simply the best ) Simenon adapters . In the short space of two years he made two gems , while the nouvelle vague was insulting him , and these two gems should not be missed : " Maigret tend un piège " and " Maigret et l'affaire Saint-Fiacre " ( 1959 ) , both absorbing , both featuring a top-notch cast , both packing a real wallop . The first one is an urban psychological thriller , the second one takes place in the country , in the castle of old aristocrats . " Maigret tend un piège " is at first sight a serial killer story , but Simenon is too subtle a writer to be content with that . And I'm sure that Jean Delannoy had seen Julien Duvivier's sensational film noir " voici le temps des assassins " ( 1956 ) : not only he casts Jean Gabin as Maigret , Gabin who was the hero of Duvivier's movie , but he also uses Lucienne Bogaert , who was his ex-wife in the same movie . Bogaert portrayed a drug addict abominable criminal in 1956 ; in Delannoy's film , she is an over possessive mother , proud of his son who could have been a sculptor , a painter , an artist , a genius , had they not thwarted his outstanding gifts . SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS This son is a very complex character masterfully played by Jean Desailly , who probably found his lifetime part here : he's so intense that he will leave you ill-at-ease . He cries , screams , begs , almost never stops twitching , and his tragic strength is absolutely incredible . " Be a man ! ! ! " Gabin shouts , whereas he's an impotent little boy , under his mother's thumb . From the very beginning , - and what I write is not really a spoiler - we know he's the killer , Simenon did not write a whodunit , he's more interested in his poor man's psychology whom his mother and his wife - an excellent Annie Girardot - will try to save , stopping at nothing for that . The film begins slowly , but when it hits its stride , after about thirty minutes , it grabs you till the very end , with more and more verbal violence . No , Jean Delannoy is not the mediocre director the nouvelle vague used to despise .
Generally the simple name of Marguerite Duras makes me yawn my head off . But here , not at all . Released in 1960 , this little gem has almost sunk into oblivion , and for good reasons : Henri Colpi was not part of the Nouvelle Vague and it was a curse when His Majesty Godard's reign began . Hindsight displays the great charms of this movie : the subject is finally close to " Un long Dimanche de Fiançailles " , Jeunet's extravaganza , but it's an intimate drama and much more moving . During WW2 , Thérèse ( Alida Valli , the great Italian thespian , excellent as ever ) lost her husband ; he had been reported missing in Germany . In her small bistro , she is still waiting , waiting . . . One days she spots a tramp on the street ( George Wilson ) . Might he be the one ? Might he ? A film about souvenirs , lost illusions , fear of loneliness , nostalgia , hope against hope , " Une aussi longue absence " is all this and more . Enhanced by George Delerue's ( who else ? ) delicate score , which features the little song " Trois petites notes de Musique " ( = three little music notes ) , an infinite poetry emanates from Colpi's work . In 1960 , there was not only Truff ' or God ' in France ! Please give the non nouvelle vague directors a chance ! They were not out of breath either .
Yves Robert passed away three years ago and any cine buff remembers him for his towering achievements that are : " la Guerre des Boutons " ( 1962 ) , an adaptation of Louis Pergaud's famous novel still fresh today as it was forty three years ago , " my Father's Glory " and " my Mother's Castle " ( 1990 ) , adaptations of Marcel Pagnol's childhood memories . And don't forget a good pack of quality comedies treated with respect and no vulgarity . This flick , " Alexandre le Bienheureux " ( 1967 ) largely deserves its place of winner among them . In 1880 , Paul Laforgue wrote and published an essay entitled : " le Droit à la Paresse " ( the Right to Laziness ) in which he offered a positive definition about this term generally considered as one of the biggest vices in the world . But Laforgue shelved the negative prejudices about it . He suggested to leave work fallow and to devote free time to rest and leisure which enabled a beneficial development for the individual . I suppose Yves Robert did the same for his movie . Without taking itself too seriously , it presents itself as a comical tale in which laziness is praised because thanks to it , happiness and the possibility to enjoy basic pleasures of life prevail . There's no need to worry about the constraints and stress imposed by work and modern society . And in the background , there's this country filmed with love and delicacy which Robert seems to know like the back of his hand . Seen today , the movie displays a few technical flaws that weren't noticeable in 1967 . Certain shots or camera movements are dated and it lets us think that the movie on a technical level hasn't worn well . But it has no importance for it kept an undeniable charm and can be watched with pleasure again . And a few funny moments in Robert's work evoke the devastating humor coming from Tex Avery's cartoons like the orchestra in front of Alexandre's house . Philippe Noiret in the main role acts the role of Alexandre with an admirable easiness and naturalness . Because of its physical appearance and as he is inseparable from his dog Kaly , he is akin to Obélix with his tiny dog Idéfix . The rest of the cast follows him well and includes Pierre Richard and Jean Carmet . At the level of the quality in Robert's filmography , " Alexandre le Bienheureux " is just a few notches below Robert's flicks I previously mentioned . It's the kind of movie to full savor after a hard day's work or after a Jean Luc Godard intellectual movie . Given that it is difficult to find in DVD , it deserves to be restored in favor and considering all the favors did by Kaly to his master , Robert's movie perfectly illustrates the famous maxim : " man's best friend is the dog " .
When the movie was released in the early eighties , it was difficult to realize that the man who made this gem is the same that , many years ago , had done " high noon " " act of violence " or " from here to eternity " . It was also hard to accept Connery in such an intimate , sensitive part . Zinnemann , who was - unfairly - criticized by European critics for being " academic " " Hollywoodian " directs here a true European movie , far from the fashions , as far from Hollywood artifacts as it can be . The equivalent of John Huston's last movie " the dead " , it's one of the most moving swansongs in the seventh art history . SPOILERS Sean Connery portrays a middle-aged man , who at first sight seems very nice , but he ' s got a wife who's much younger than him . . . Little by little , with flashbacks , we learn the truth : this young woman , Kate , is not his wife but his lover . But there's more . The center of gravity of the movie is the discovery of a body in the mountains . Ice has preserved the dead man's youth and the scene when his former love , a woman who seems older than the mountains , sees this fixed face is absolutely mind-boggling . One thinks of the sequences in Pomp��i in Rosselini's " Viaggio in Italia " This incident is not irrelevant : it reveals Connery character's harshness and selfishness when he says to the young guide ( Lambert Wilson ) that they're not in a hurry to bring back the body to the village . This is a movie with few dialogues , where looks are more important than words . The splendid cinematography enhances the mountains which will outlive everyone and make human feelings futile and fleeting . From here to eternity , they will stand , but as the guide tries to say to the heroine , life is too precious to be spoilt The ending is as stunning as Huston's " the dead " conclusion : Connery and Wilson set off to climb a dangerous mountain , one of them fall , but the camera only shows tiny figures in the landscape . Who's dead ? Kate ' s mad running across the snow , the white snow , will haunt you long after you ' ve seen the movie . Elmer Bernstein's music is an also asset and you will appreciate it till the final credits . Wonderful .
. . . an user mentions in his comment did exist . If you do not believe it , you probably never worked in a school . A child like that , I met one three or four years ago . The French title is " la rumeur " ( the rumor ) , and more than the right to be different , the main subject of " children's hour " ( check the title ) is slander which can destroy lives . Wyler's movie gains , in spite of its dated side , an universal meaning because slander can be about anything and can lead anybody to humiliation , despair even death . And even in 2005 , are all the parents prepared to accept a gay or a lesbian teacher for their child ? Wyler was not happy with the first version ( these three ) which avoided the gay side . In 1961 , it was a very courageous move to deal with a scandalous situation . The young audience will probably find it hard to understand what all the screaming was about . They have got to remember that the Production Code Administration Office ( PCA ) only began to change in 1958 . " The PCA finally altered its attitude toward " sexual perversion " ( sic ) - despite controversies over films like " suddenly last Summer " - when such major studio movies as " the children's hour " and " advise and consent " dealt with the subject . " But it was 1966 before the code was revised , this time drastically . Excellent performances by the two leads , extremely moving , fine support by James Garner and Miriam Hopkins . Shirley McLaine is to be praised because she has the hardest part . Her evolution makes sense . What about the ending ? Lilian Hellmann took the easy way out . But once again , it was 1961 . Mark Rydell , in 1968 , when the code had been revised , did not improve on the ending with his own " the fox " . Neither did Claude Chabrol with " les biches " . With his legendary depth of field , Wyler lightens what could have been a filmed stage protection . He places his characters in their space as a chess player ( see the last scenes between the two women and the doctor ; also the scenes with the old lady and the girls ) . Spoiler : Wyler refused to sweeten the final . Whereas today's cinema would have reunited Hepburn and Garner hugging and kissing with a full choir and orchestra behind , he opts for an open ending . as an user already noticed , everything is possible . . . William Wyler was never the academic director the French " cahiers du cinema " and the Godard clique used to spit at . He took more chances than they did . And it was not over . " The collector " , the follow-up , four years later , tackled the real sexual perversion ( The two heroines are normal for today's audience , and they were forty years ago as well ) and was definitely ahead of its time . Vive William Wyler !
Jean Jacques Annaud is a film-maker with a daring character . After he shot this medieval thriller and among the plans he made , he made " the Bear " ( 1988 ) with wild animals as stars and he got down to adapt the Marguerite Duras ' novel " the Lover " in 1992 and however , Duras ' works are difficult to adapt for the screen . No , back in 1986 , to adapt Umberto Eco's voluminous book was no small matter . On top of the detective plot , the work comported a theological reflection and a philosophical richness . They could be sufficient enough to lead the viewer astray . Jean Jacques Annaud seemed very aware of it . That's why he preferred to erase the quoted topics for an investigation à la Conan Doyle with a passionating enigma which is arguably more accessible in the spectator's eyes . Like Christian Slater and to reassure oneself , we rely on Sean Connery's wisdom and insight because we move in an isolated and mysterious place where lives a gallery of disturbing religious characters . The whole is scattered with beautiful pictures and a certain humor adds to the interest of the film . The director also found place to denounce the Inquisition with its unfair methods . Umberto Eco may have judged the adaptation of his novel as too simplistic but the public gave it an ovation in 1987 . If you are interested in Annaud's cinema , don't miss this movie .
It was the second time Bunuel had directed Deneuve and she was probably never better than when she was directed by the master . Like Juan Bardem's unfairly forgotten " calle mayor " , " Tristana depicts a small Spanish town still entangled in religion . But the times are changing . Don Lope ( Rey ) has become an hedonist and he tells us that it's Mosis who made sex a sin . Tristana is his ward , but as she confesses it to the painter , " I'm his daughter and his wife " . Tristana is perhaps Bunuel's more complex woman . The physical metamorphosis of Deneuve is stunning . From the virgin who puts her hair in braids to the bitchy one-legged woman , she runs the whole gamut . She refuses marriage because it kills love , and when she finally becomes Lope's wife , she uses it as a way of humiliating and frustrating her old husband whom she despises . The noise in the corridor as Tristana walks on her crutches while Lope is sipping hot chocolate with his friends ( priests ) shows frustration as nobody but Bunuel can . The dream , ( Rey as a bell clapper ) , which will remain " Tristana " ' s most famous scene , will puzzle the audience . The first time it had appeared , I did not think at all it was a dream . Bunuel will take this technique to its absolute limits in " discreet charm of the bourgeoisie " , his following work . We find back some of Bunuel's permanent features in " Tristana " : Lope , full of jealousy and locking up his ward , is a distant cousin of the hero of " El " ; the deaf and dumb boy , some kind of brother of Maria in " la mort en ce jardin " ; The old man who sees his youth slip away was already in " Viridiana " ( Fernando Rey again ) ; fetishism ; exhibitionism : in a memorable scene , Tristana , who refuses to give herself to her future husband ( the wedding scene follows the exhibitionist one ) shows her magnificent body to the deaf and dumb boy , an outcast , the scum of the earth , derisively . Recommended , as anything Bunuel did .
. . . . we can't never return , we can only look behindFrom where we came And go round and round and round in the circle game . When I began to watch " La Cavalcade des Heures " , I was not expecting much ! I was almost immediately enthusiastic about it . La Cinémathèque Française owns a copy and it's really too bad this work should not get out of that place and at last be screened on the French cultural channel Arte . " La Cavalcade des heures " , like Carné ' s " Les Visiteurs du soir " ( in spite of veiled hints at the Occupation ) , Cocteau-Delannoy's " L'Eternel Retour " or Lherbier's " La Nuit Fantastique " is escapist stuff . And it magnificently succeeds . Probably inspired by Fritz Lang's " Dër Müde Tod " , it is , along Albert Valentin's contemporary works , the lost gems of the French cinema of the days of the Occupation . Prologue : An expressionist film set ( which , again shows Lang's influence ( " Metropolis " ) ) sets the tone : the one thing man will never master is Time . It reigns over the world and from time to time an hour comes to man's rescue . We will follow one of them , Hora . Segment one or " If life's for living then what's living for ? " A working man is sleeping . Rude awakening . First the alarm clock then the clocks . . . ticking . . . Ticking . . . It's just a routine day , but the man begins to think that he is caught in a trap . . . . four minutes for breakfast . . . Then the tube ( subway ) . . . then the factory where he repeats the same gesture 3 , 000 times or more a day . . . Segment two or " Getting old and running out of time " : A state employee realizes how empty his life was with a shrew of a wife ( portrayed by the marvelous Jeanne Fusier-Gir ) Segment three or " The time has come " . A glorious champion was given flowers by a lady ( Hora ) every time he won the race . But one day she makes him comprehend his time is almost through and he ' s got to hand the torch to someone else . Segment four or " these precious minutes " . A lady ( Gaby Morlay ) comes to visit her ( very young ) son in a boarding-school . She's in a hurry , eager to meet her lover , but Hora holds back the hands of the clock and she is an hour late . Too late for her lover who is about to be arrested . Segment five or " Brother can you spare a dime ? " . In spite of Fernandel's presence , this sketch is the weakest , some equivalent of the game of golf in " dead of night " , a comic relief which is too derivative . Segment six or " time waits for no one " . A rich owner of a night club feels sick when he comes home late at night . He takes to his bed , Hora is here . " It's your last hour " she says . The man ( Charpin ) is only fifty and he wants to live more ( " Half a century " she says " think of it ! many men are not so lucky ) . Like in the old Egyptian religion , then begins some kind of weighing of the soul where even the ghost of his late mother comes back . . . . There's nothing to do about it when your time has come . . . DepressingSegment seven or " Where have all the good times gone ? " : this one is the most brilliant . Charles Trénet was never as moving , as good and as charming . . . He portrays a man who seems to have anything : fortune , fame , women aplenty ; one night he invites an old poor woman , who is begging for food in the streets . He treats her to the delights of champagne and caviar . He opens up and tells his frustrations , his regrets , he calls her " Grandmother " and longs for a childhood long gone . Then the haunting melody of " Que Reste-t-il de Nos Amours " is not far from driving the viewer to tears . That's here that the song belongs , not in some of Truffaut's flicks ( that new wavelet director even stole the title of his movie from that superb song ( " Baisers volés " ) ) Segment eight or " You can't beat time " . A man was sentenced to death and he waits for the executioner in his cell . Then comes Hora . The desperate prisoner asks for a reprieve , crying it was not his fault and he was a victim of destiny . We're closer to Lang's " Der Müde Tod " than ever . Hora helps him to escape but she knows that his attempt is doomed . As he drives his car at a dizzying speed , she gives him a cigarette . The condemned man's last smoke . . . . A wheel rolls on the road ( Claude Sautet will use this picture for the first scene of " Les Choses de la Vie " ) Hora comes back there where time reigns over man , eternal captive on the carousel of time . A great film ! Should not be missed . I'd like to see more films of Yvan Noé ! !
When this film was released , one French critic , Gilles Colpart wrote that TRuffaut did better when he focused on a main character , Antoine Doinel , for instance . At least here , we do not have to stand Jean-Pierre Léaud's mannerism . The people who watch Léaud's movies dubbed in English cannot imagine how lucky they are . Gone is Léaud , gone is Truffaut's sometimes smugness and pretension . Here we find what Truffaut does best : a movie about children played by children ( he had brilliantly succeeded in the very hard task of bringing Victor the " wild child " to the screen ) A lot of humor ( a quality that is not generally Truffaut's forte ) , a lot of plots and subplots masterfully intertwined , no stars , and a lot of spontaneity too . These vignettes are often delightful : the reluctant student declaiming Molière , the girl who " has already slept with a boy " ( What did he do when you were in bed ? her best friend asks-Oh , he read a comic strip , was the answer ) , the boy who says to his friend's mother " thanks for this frugal meal " after having swallowed a whole lot of food . But Truffaut , present in the movie through the schoolteacher character , does not give up more serious topics : here mistreated children . After he discovered one of his pupils suffered such physical cruelty , the schoolteacher explains this problem to his school mates with delicacy and intelligence , as if they were adults . Don't miss this simple , yet heart-warming movie .
That was what Luis Bunuel used to answer when asked about the meaning of one of his least accessible works . Much less linear than " Viridiana " - featuring the same actress Silvia Pinal-which precedes it , " El Angel exterminador " can be looked upon as an allegory . We find a lot of permanent features of the Bunuel canon in it though . The fact that the guests cannot leave the luxury house will find an equivalent in " le charme discret de la bourgeoisie " ( 1972 ) when the five characters cannot have a good meal at the restaurant ; the guests turning like lions in a cage echo to this strange picture of the five heroes of " charme discret " walking on an endless road . This is the kind of movie that will have as many interpretations as there are users writing about it . And Bunuel would probably be the first to say that anyone is allowed to see his movie as he feels it in his soul - which is a word he would not certainly approve of though . Another put-down of the bourgeoisie , probably ; As Charlie Chaplin would not have let an ice-cream fall on a poor woman's dress , Bunuel's wholesale massacre concerns the rich , the well-to-do . The house may be a metaphor for their world which they want to keep exactly as it is . But Bunuel soon scratches the varnish and after long hours , his powerful bourgeois are just men and rather hateful selfish cowards - the scene when they rush to get a glass of water . And as they cannot rely on themselves and on their pals , the only assistance can only come from above : so they promise God they will chant Te Deums , they will go to Lourdes and buy a washable rubber Virgin ( sic ) . Surrealist pictures , which had been absent since " cela s'appelle l'aurore " ( 1955 ) come back for a while during one night , and they mainly deal with religion and heaven . The mystery of the night hours will come back in " le fantôme de la liberté " ( 1974 ) The last pictures bring the missing link : the army , shooting people ( talking about a revolution ? ) , as the bourgeois keep on singing ( ? ) and praying ( ? ) in the cathedral . Recommended ? Everything Bunuel did is crying to be watched .
This is the only movie by Serge Debecque , and against all odds , it's a really worthwhile effort ; too bad he did not continue . A rich girl ( Suzanne Bara ) is in love with her father-in-law ' s ( Pierre Renoir ) librarian ( Serge Reggiani ) . The wealthy man wants her to marry a military man but she's not prepared to accept it . So , in some kind of " love story " in reverse , she marries the poor guy . This young man has a cousin ( Andrée Clement ) , who seems secretly in love with him but in fact we ' ll never know what she feels . The movie smartly combines melodrama with fantasy film elements : there are hints at Nostradamus , fate , coincidences ( check the title ) and a box which seems to be a bad luck charm . Suzanne Bara was not much of an actress and her part of a romantic girl who thinks that money cannot buy happiness suffers accordingly . Serge Reggiani is as excellent as ever , but , for the first and last time in his career , he is eclipsed by his other female co-star Andrée Clément , whose performance is absolutely mind-boggling . Clement died well before her time at 36 , and considering the talent she displays in this movie , one can't help but regretting she passed away at such an early age . The audience never knows whether she is good or evil , if she loves the hero or she hates him , if she gave him the mysterious box because she had sworn to ruin him . The actress is cold , often dressed in black , she has disturbing lines such as " It never happens anything to me " or " there's not enough room for my grief in your house " . " Coincidences " is , along Decoin's " La Fille Du Diable " ( another must for French cinema connoisseurs ) , her best role . The last pictures compare favorably with works such as " Peter Ibbetson " or " Portrait of Jennie " . Good depictions of the garden party and the farandole around " Le Feu De La Saint Jean " ( bonfire lit to celebrate the summer solstice ) . Like this ? try these . . . . . . " Le Pays Sans Etoiles " Georges Lacombe 1945 " La Foire Aux Chimères " Pierre Chenal 1946 " La Fille Du Diable " Henry Decoin 1945 " Les Amants du Pont Saint Jean " Henry Decoin , 1947
This must be one of Bunuel's most accessible works . It's often hard to find the master's touch but , although it sometimes recalls Italian neorealism ( all that concerns Sandro's family ) , the picture of the Christ - the only element of surrealism in the whole work - signals Bunuel's inimitable talent . Georges Marchal , who was good friend with the director , portrays a charitable doctor , almost what we could call a secular saint . He's got a practical mind and he does what Nazarin and Viridiana will try to do in the name of God . He is l'Honnête Homme , in the Bunuelesque sense of the term . Religion is not part of his life and however , he is always around when it comes to lending a hand to his fellow men . The man of God , the priest is also here , but he's in the boss's bourgeois house : when the distraught Sandro ( Gianni Esposito ) comes to him , he tells him " go back home , my son " , when the poor man has got no more house and wife . The movie tells the story of a man leaving slowly but inexorably the discreet charm of the bourgeoisie . First step is falling for a woman who is not part of his milieu ( Lucia Bosé ) . Second step is breaking up with his wife ( and his father-in-law ) . Third and final step is refusing to become an informer and finally joining his friends , all working class men . Georges Marchal gives an effective warm performance . His character is very close to the one he will play in Bunuel's French follow up " La Mort en Ce Jardin " . That raider might possibly be the doctor estranged from his country , milieu and family . Both have got a practical mind : in " La Mort En ce Jardin " , Marchal lights a fire with the pages of the Bible . Bunuel's obsessions are still here : the mistreated donkey , the girl raped by her grandfather , the boys playing at soldiers and blindfolding one of them before shooting him . But they do not seem to matter much next to the hero's line of thought : this be called the dawn of his life .
From the start , the hero's future is at a complete standstill . His familiar background - an indifferent mother and a brute of a brother-leaves him no hope . His school seems an alien world , of which he cannot take advantage , where the adults are hostile . The gymnastics teacher is a failed football player , and now , with his students , he's still dreaming he's coaching his football team for glory . And because he ' s getting old and embittered , he uses a scapegoat when things go wrong : and of course , he always chooses our unfortunate hero . The shower scene enhances , so to speak , the psychological and pedagogical " aptitudes " of this dumb-and a bit sadistic-man . So , the young boy needs someone to love , and because he cannot find one , he tames an hawk . This hawk epitomizes freedom , escape from this petty microcosm . In direct contrast to the gym teacher , appears the English teacher . He wants the young boy to give a presentation on his hawk . And , in front of a spellbound class , the dog has his day . Thanks to this clever man , the boy acquires self-confidence and maybe his studies will take a new turn . But Kenneth Loach's characters rarely escape from their fate . Because of his brother's cruelty , all hopes will be blighted , and the boy's future will probably that of the two lads in " looks and smiles " . Kenneth Loach or the wrong side of England .
For several years , the thriller genre has been rather tarnished in France and mainly survives by imitating American thrillers which make them downright inferior to their American big brothers . But sometimes , some pieces of works are drawn from the American source and can emulate their American companions . With its big budget , stars and its ambitious goals and if it doesn't completely transcend the genre " 36 Quai Des Orfèvres " is a valuable face-lift whose credentials is incontestably " Heat " ( 1995 ) by Michael Mann . It would be silly to attack the director Olivier Marchal for talking about what he doesn't know . He experienced the ruthless world of the police because he was himself a policeman . Everything rings true in this larger than life description of the police headquarters with its rules and codes and the director holds a hard-hitting way on these policemen with tough relationships who are forced to cooperate together . It's in this milieu that Marchal grabbed two trivial events to weave a fictional work . The chief idea is derivative but underpins the motor of the film : the fight between two unscrupulous cops who don't fear to break the laws to achieve their ends . Daniel Auteuil , a silently confrontational cop who resorts to vehement methods to do his job and Gérard Depardieu as a disillusioned cop who has behind him a heavy past and tames illegality to be promoted . The detractors of the film could object that the two pivotal performances have a rather monotonous acting but it's necessary to underscore the weariness and the disenchantment that eats them . On the other hand , they will be right to think that sometimes the story lacks of fluidity in some linkings of episodes and a thumping music makes some sequences lose the emotional impact they sheltered and cover some dialogs . But for the rest why denying yourself a good thing ? The two characters have their zones of ambiguity which make them spellbinding . There are stunt , action , shooting sequences rigorously shot and a somber cinematography that make a vibrant , dusky French thriller . At last , a great care is given to the interpretation as a whole until the minor roles very well used .
I do not think the 1994 remake is so appalling . But it cannot hold a candle to this one , for sure , though . Part of the reason can be found , IMHO , in how the two directors deal with the main character . THe color version gambles on Albert Finney's performance and overlooks the rest of the cast which is not that much exciting in the first place ( M . Modine is rather bland ) . Here , the whole cast is outstanding , from the young guy who plays the student to Jean Kent , a bitchy wife , from Nigel Patrick's bewildered science teacher who becomes a human being during the movie to Wilfrid Hyde-White's ( whatever a precedent user's view on the matter ) mischievous , suave and finally cruel headmaster . Of course Michael Redgrave steals the show , but he gets good support all along the way . His performance is subdued , but emotionally intense , and if you do not shed a tear during his final speech , you must have a heart of stone . The black and white cinematography and the stifling atmosphere give the tragedy the three unities ( place , time and action ) and an inventive directing makes us forget it's a play , like in the best Mankiewicz works .
SPOILERS Edgar Rice Burroughs's famous character was adapted thousand of times for the screen til one's thirst is quenched , notably during the thirties and the forties by Hollywood . Its productors made Tarzan one of the most successful cinema characters . Several years later , Hugh Hudson decided to make a more ambitious version of the monkey-man and it's a more natural , more wild and more down-to-earth Tarzan that he gives away here . Hudson skilfully avoids the clichés that you usually grant to Tarzan such as his famous scream or his friendly pet , Cheetah . Not only , are we far from the designed and invented character made by Hollwood but we are also far from the film set used to make his stories . The movie was partly made in Africa ( more precisely in Cameroon ) . The movie introduces two obvious parts : the first one which takes place in the jungle where Tarzan lives among his adoptive friends , the apes and considers himself as their lord . But he ignores his real origins . The second one in England where Tarzan discovers the English society . Ian Holm epitomizes the link between the two parts and Hudson avoids all that could make the movie falls into the ridiculous thanks to a clever screenplay . Indeed , Holm teaches Lambert basic rules of manners so as to behave correctly in the English society and the result works . Moreover , in the second part , no-one ever laughs at Tarzan and he's even really appreciated . As far as the end is concerned well it's a both bitter and happy end . Happy because Tarzan comes back to the jungle and meets again his adoptive close relatives . But bitter too , because this homecoming means that the Greystoke line won't be ensured and is condemned to disappear . . . Christophe Lambert finds here , his first ( and last ? ) great role . Sadly , he'll never equal the achievement of his performance in this movie and he'll play in poor and insipide action movies . Nevertheless , as I said previously , a clever screenplay , a performance of a rare quality , some impressive natural sceneries ( both the jungle and the English country and we get a gorgeous movie . It's also an excellent rereading from a popular novel . So why is it only rated barely ( ) ?
When I checked this film on IMDB , I was surprised . Not by the popular rating , 6 . 7 out 10 is a good mark but by the number of votes . Only , 368 votes ! How can such a good movie by largely ignored by the public ? Peter Mullan in the world of British cinema is especially known as an actor . We remember his performance in the trendy " Trainspotting " ( 1996 ) where he acted the role of a heroin supplier . With " Orphans " , he decided to display his gifts as a director . He chose wisely . His real debut movie is , by any standards a remarkable one . However I am obliged to recognize that for his first direction , the place of the action which the city of Glasgow in Scotland has nothing welcoming . Indeed , most of its inhabitants are narrow-minded or unpleasant . I read a few reviews about Mullan's film and all of them had said that Glasgow's inhabitants are really like this . If it is true , truth is stranger than fiction . But also Mullan for his first directing chose a tough topic : what can be the childrens ' reactions following the death of their mother ? To answer this question , the filmmaker divided his movie in 4 individual parts . Each one focuses on one of the 4 main characters . Thus , we can say the following answer to the quoted question : either with violence ( John , the college boy who tries to prove himself as a hard man ) either with obstinacy ( Thomas , the holier-than-thou chief mourner who wants everything to be perfect for their mother's funeral ) . As for the two others , Michael and Sheila , they feel especially lost . What Mullan tries to reveal to the spectator is that these reactions are necessary because this painful hardship represents for them the definitive transition in adulthood and maturity . The very last sequence shows the three brothers and the disabled sister together and they seem more united . " Orphans " is a movie that swings between humor and poignancy , violence and calm with ease . Moreover , the moment when the roof of the church is torn off by the wind gives the film a little surrealist air . In short , it easily ranks among the best British movies of the nineties and it deserves to be better known . At last , given the success of " the Magdalene sisters " in 2003 , Peter Mullan is well away to become one of the finest British directors of these last years .
Along with " Midnight Cowboy " ( 1969 ) , this is John Schlesinger's most important work in a rather undistinguished filmography . Although they belong to two distinct genres , these two works have some common points : the same backdrop New York , the same main actor , Dustin Hoffman , here hires for another type of character . The 1969 film had seen him in the shoes of a little miserable Italian emigrant who suffered from TB . The second film gives him the role of a student , " Babe " haunted by the suicide of his father caused by McCarthysm . His thesis about the abuses of power in American political history seems less prominent to his eyes than the marathon for which he intensely trains . A solitary life which will be interrupted by an infernal chain of foreboding mishaps . They revolve around a conspiracy involving a former Nazi criminal , Szell ( Laurence Olivier ) nicknamed the " white devil of Auschwitz " . Babe finds himself in the throes of darkness , wrestling with unforgiving , formidable evil forces whose motivations and goals are elusive to him . " Marathon Man " is a representative film about a trend which developed in the seventies : the conspiracy cinema fueled by generalized suspicion and an increasing paranoia . Just check works such as " the Parallax View " ( 1974 ) by Alan J . Pakula or " Three Days of the Condor " ( 1975 ) by Sydney Pollack . From a fragmented , meandering master plan elaborated by William Goldman , John Schlesinger captures a discomforting climate of fear and paranoia which increase throughout Babe's struggle in the darkness . The director has also the aptitude to generate eerie feelings from sequences shrouded with a muted anxiety . Helped by a brutal editing , an invisible , impending threat hangs over the film and will sooner or later catch Babe up . To puzzle more the audience , Schlesinger muddies the waters and one of his cunning tricks is to delay as much as possible the clarification and the denouement of this apparently convoluted story to make this unsettling atmosphere last . For a major part of the film , the different parts of the puzzle remain separated but to piece them together and so to decipher the story , the viewer will have to be patient just like Babe . He's caught in a spiral of unnerving events which go beyond him and his immature behavior inconveniences the audience , perhaps more than Szell and his henchmen . Before having made the acquaintance of Elsa , Babe tried to flee from reality but is finally caught up by it . To blur the picture , Schlesinger and Goldman tap numerous possibilities of the suspense genre . Illusions and lies abound in the film under different forms : the image " Doc " gives to Babe , the moment when he sneaks into Babe's cramped flat to test his reactions , Babe's false release from Szell's clutches . Schlesinger's directing is laced with effective suspenseful scenes but about the notorious torture sequence with dental surgery instruments , I have never found it really creepy and doesn't live up to its reputation . A character will hint at it in a droll sequence in " Serial Mom " ( 1994 ) by John Waters . On the other hand , the scene is somewhat intense when Olivier asks to Hoffman : " is it safe ? " . One of the best sequences of the film shows him in Madison Avenue where he is recognized by former prisoners and no one seems to care about the woman's shouts . This scene rings true . On the other hand , the film includes weaknesses to bridge the steps of the story like the moment when Babe asks his scoffing neighbors to pretend to burglarize his flat to give him his clothes and his gun . And while I'm on the possible drawbacks of the film , Schlesinger's directing doesn't exclude some easy effects . But they are of minor importance . Even if he's credible as an immature , brazen student , Dustin Hoffman was a little too old for the role . To think that the same year , he acted a clear-sighted journalist , Carl Bernstein in Alan J . Pakula's compelling " All the President's Men " . Beside him Laurence Olivier is brilliant as usual and the two secondary actors , Roy Scheider and Marthe Keller confer to their characters mysterious , opaque dimensions . This is a legion suspenseful movie of the right bottle .
For the melodrama buffs , it is cause for celebration ! Treasons , death , ambition , love , anger , murder everything is here ! Bearing more than a distant resemblance to Fanny Hurst ' s tear-jerker ( which was filmed in the thirties by Stahl and remade by Sirk in the late fifties ) , though the mother : daughter relationship is much more dramatic in Curtiz's film : whereas Bea and her daughter went though simple love rivalry , the problem of Veda and Mildred is much more complex : Veda is ashamed of her mother , because she feels ( maybe her paternal heredity ) her place is not in her mother's modest house . When her mother succeeds in business ( restaurants ) , - always the last refugee for the woman love is denied to ( see also " Only yesterday " " Mannequin " and of course " Imitation of live ; in " Written on the wind " , all that is left to Dorothy Malone is black gold business ) - , things get even worst : Mildred becomes a parvenu , a nouveau riche , nothing to do with the ( even if he is broke ) aristocracy Monte epitomizes . Superlative performances by Joan Crawford and the rest of the cast . In " Imitation of life " ( 1959 ) , it's the black girl who parades around ; in " Mildred " , it's the spoiled daughter who does .
George Langelaan is an absolutely original writer , whose obsessions are time and death . Although English , he used to write in French , he's been living in France for a long time . Richard Matheson might be his American equivalent . " The fly " is a " long " short story which Neumann and his scenarist James Clavell respected faithfully . Some might regret the sheet thrown on the hero's head once " it " happened . But by showing something too soon and too much , you end up destroying imagination , that's the main flaw of many a contemporary horror movie , brimming with make-up and special effects . And James Clavell deserves congratulations for having avoided the de rigueur happy end - particularly when a family , complete with child , is involved - at the time . Nothing in the - good , however-remake can equal the fly with a human head caught up in the cobweb . This sequence will haunt you long after you have seen the movie .
" time slips away and the light constantly fades . . . " ( the Cure , Seventeen Seconds from the eponymous album , 1980 ) . Here comes François Ozon once again with a long-anticipated vehicle and a prickly topic which has been used countless of times in cinema with varying results : a person who has an incurable disease and who's going to die soon . She's got only a few months , even weeks to live . How does she react ? How does she live her last moments of life ? This is the thrust of Ozon's latest opus " Le Temps Qui Reste " ( 2005 ) and it is a remarkable movie in which Ozon eschews what could have caused the fiasco of the film : pathos . There's no whiff of it in Romain's slow way towards death . According to his author , it is the second opus of a trilogy begun with " Sous Le Sable " ( 2000 ) and which will close with a third film about the death of a child . It's true that " Le Temps Qui Reste " has a few common points with " Sous Le Sable " : both end with a sequence in which the main protagonist is standing on a beach but the difference between the two films lies in the fact that in " Sous Le Sable " , the viewer and Charlotte Rampling weren't fully sure about Bruno Cremer's death . Maybe did he abscond , maybe did he leave Rampling whereas here we are absolutely sure about the terrible truth : Romain is going to die in spite of the words pronounced by the doctor aiming at bringing an inkling of hope . Besides , the sequence at the hospital is credible . A doctor has to tell his patient that there is a glimmer of hope although he pertinently knows the tragic exit . The sequence which comes after where we can see Romain sitting on a bench , looking around him also rings true . So , Romain is a young photograph in his early thirties . He's homosexual and lives with his lover in a quite comfortable flat . His life shows all the signs of professional and sentimental success . But one day , everything falls apart when one day he learns that he has a generalized cancer . Where Ozon retains the attention is how he shoots the evolution of his main character . The author of the fabulous " 8 Femmes " ( 2002 ) has once said that he didn't care about the New Wave ( although he puts Eric Rohmer and Claude Chabrol in his straitjacket of favorite filmmakers ) . Well , I don't care for it either apart from notable exceptions . Among these exceptions , there's " Cléo De 5 à 7 " ( 1961 ) by Agnès Varda , probably one of the most accessible movies of this movement in spite of the gravity of the topic . The topic is the same as " Le Temps Qui Reste " and the psychological evolution of Cléo is more or less the same as Romain's . Ingoing at the beginning of their tragedy , mature at the end as death comes closer . In Romain's case , Ozon presents him as an obnoxious , brazen and egocentric young man who only lives for his job . Then he has an argument with his family an evening ( the sequence of the dinner is quite incommoding ) and then with his lover . He decides to visit his grandmother ( Jeanne Moreau ) and his stay at her house constitutes the crux of the film . He finds himself with a person who lives the same situation as him . He tells to her : " because me and you we are close to death " . In Varda's piece of work , it was a young soldier Antoine who helped Cléo to accept her disease and so made her fearless facing death because he saw death very close to him too ( the context was in 1961 during the Algerian war , a " dirty war " , the equivalent of Vietnam for the USA ) . In Ozon's flick , Romain's stay at her grandmother's altered him : he tries to reconcile himself with his family , his lover and is even ready to make a baby to a family ( the young woman is played by Valeria Bruni-Tedeschi who held the main role in Ozon's precedent film , " 5x2 " , 2004 ) . After that , Romain seems to have become another man , he has accepted to belong to the world that surrounds him and appears to be at ease and relieved amid it ( see the last almost timeless sequences when he's by the sea ) . So , if the first part of the film was disturbing , the second one has a placating whiff . Romain's visit to his grandmother is the central and crucial moment between the two . Ozon's camera knows how to capture the situation , the feeling , the gesture , the look and the director has a real genius to let the what is left unsaid show through . As Romain slowly but surely makes his way towards the adamant death , there are flashes of his childhood which arrive in his mind . Maybe , they help him to accept his own death . Moreover , it is often said that old people behave like children . In a way Romain also behaves like a child , at least in the beginning of the movie , then , there's still time to become a grown-up . " Le Temps Qui Reste " is a small cracker which maybe won't cater for all tastes because of its thorny topic . But it has the merit to put aside formulaic or corny ingredients . As for Ozon , more power to him although it's very likely that like some of his fellows ( Patrice Leconte ) , he'll still have to wait for a long time to receive the honors he deserves
This is Lehman's only claim to fame , although he was helped by Claude Autant-Lara who was to become one of the most important directors of the years to come ( " Douce " , " le diable au corps " ) . It's not much of a plot ( a fric frac = break-in ) , but the fabulous threesome make it a winner . Michel Simon plays a gentle thug , so lazy his nickname is " Jo with the arms cut " . Arletty is Loulou , a whore who teaches slang to the respectable Marcel , a clerk in a jeweller's shop , object of his two " friends ' " desire . A lot of fun is guaranteed for all !
" Un Ami Viendra Ce Soir " is Raymond Bernard's most ambitious film . Today , it is looked upon , by most French critics as an extravaganza , a minor - albeit with a major potential - work . " Un Ami " , despite some reservations ( the second part looks like filmed stage production and the Madeleine Sologne / Paul Bernard pairing does not work very well ) , deserves to be seen . The action takes place in WW2 in occupied France . The first part might disturb someone who is not familiar with the subject ; a man , Michel Simon , , whose behavior and words seem completely insane , meets a lady pushing an empty baby carriage all over the park . We are in an insane asylum . Resistant fighters hide there , with their leader , Commandant Gerard whose identity they all ignore . Who is crazy ? Who is a true fighter ? These first scenes are downright disturbing , it's a dialog of the deaf : some pretends they are crazy and talk nonsense ; some are really crazy and talk nonsense . A musician uses music notes to communicate . And Radio London adds to the confusion with its coded messages " The rhino is blowing soap bubbles / The kangaroo is dancing in the meadow " , which make sense not only to the impostors but also to the madmen ( I'm going to my Republic with the kangaroo " says Lunatic Michel Simon , a hippie of the forties , who could not stand evil ) . And there is also the German language , almost nobody understands . The second part is not as successful as the first one and there are historical mistakes : at the time , no one knew what happened in the concentration camps ; the American and Russian soldiers discovered the horror of those places in 1945 only when Germany fell in their hands . No one in France knew about the crematories and the word is uttered though . They seem to know all the details about the horrible things which the Nazis were doing there . However , there is enough suspense to sustain the interest till the last minutes , in spite of Madeleine Sologne's histrionic performance ; besides this blonde actress , with her " Aryan " look , is supposed to be a Jew . Like this ? Try this . . . . . " Le Roi de Coeur " Philippe de Broca 1966
This movie came one year too late . " Star Wars " happened , for better or for worse , depending on whom you ask . This is clever sci-fi , very close to Crichton's work , before he gets bogged down in Jurassic Park and spielbergesque follies . ( " Mondwest " " Coma " and later " looker " ) Is it sci-fi anyway ? Admittedly , it's unlikely as hell , but not much more than many a spy thriller . In the movie , this whole performance was to make people believe the astronauts actually landed on Mars . This trickery , isn't it what Peter Hyams ( and all other directors ! ) does when he makes his movie ? His whole performance is to make US believe that Astronauts are to land on Mars but . . . They do it with mirrors , like Jorge Luis Borges . The second part of the movie is a chase , a well done thriller , in landscapes recalling " Planet of the apes ( 1968 ) " . Hyams does not show the killings , and the way James Brolin manages to show the way to his wife , then to journalist Gould is pretty smart . The ending verges on black humor . Had this movie been released five or ten years sooner , when sci-fi had strong scripts , it would have been deservedly acclaimed . But in the land of special effects and childish stories , it became a sleeper , every sci-fi buff should know . Neither " outland " ( some kind of remake of " high noon " on Jupiter ) , nor " 2010 " ( which failed dismally as a " 2001 " sequel ) is on a par with " capricorn one " .
Unlike his former colleagues , Roger Richebé was slagged off , not by the young Turks of the Nouvelle Vague , but by one of the greatest writers of the Old Wave : Henri Jeanson . Everybody thought that he was right and now nobody wants to see Richebé's movies . And however . . . I saw a handful of his movies and I was never disappointed : at least five of them would deserve to be watched : " Madame Sans-Gene " , " Les Amants de Minuit " , " Monseigneur " , " l'habit vert " . . . . . . . and " Gibier De Potence " ( = Gallows Bird ) ! This film proves that Richebé's bad reputation is totally unfair . This is a great work , extremely daring for the time ! A soldier , Marceau , comes back from WW2 . An old man tells him " There were not many dead soldiers in this war , were there ? " . A line which would not be out of place in Wyler's " Best years of our lives " . He remembers . . . . ( Long flashback ) he was an orphan and was raised by priests . . . No childhood . . . When he left the orphanage , he was short of the readies . Then he met Madame Alice : she made him a model for pornographic photographs disguised as " art " and a gigolo for lonely aging women . . That's the main originality of the movie . What happens to the hero is what happened generally to girls at that time . " White male slave trade " he says . But there's more to the picture than meets the eye : Madame Alice , played by fabulous Arletty , is a spellbinding mysterious woman . The audience expects her to sleep with her protégé but nothing happens . The relationship is very uneasy , certainly perverse and leaves the viewer ill-at-ease . " Who are you ? Marceau asks . you are not feminine , you do not wear any jewels . Are you . . . . . ? Terse answer : " No , I do not like women either " . A revelation tells us that something happened in Madame Alice's childhood too . Georges Marchal ( who was good friend with Luis Bunuel who gave him his two best parts " La Mort en Ce Jardin " and " Cela S'Appelle l'Aurore " ) portrays this unfortunate hunk with great conviction . He's caught in a cobweb , and Madame Alice makes me think of a Black Widow . After the war , he tries to pick up the pieces and to start a " pure " brand new life but she is not prepared to accept it which is all the more disturbing as there is no sex at all between them . When he meets a pure young girl ( Nicole Courcel ) , both of them swim in the nude in the pool ( which was quite unusual in 1951 in the French cinema ) . It's like a new " christening " for him . Marceau's longing for purity finds its roots in his friendship with one of his pals in the orphanage . When he leaves him - the poor lad who wants to become a priest soon dies from The warns Marceau : " stay true to yourself , stay pure " . Priests play a prominent part : Marceau comes back to his orphanage and he is so hungry he wants to take a piece of bread , but he is too proud to do that in front of the man who was some kind of father to him . Later , in the strange mansion where the plot is resolved , he meets another priest ( who ' s afraid of dying : " and however " , Marceau says " you are a believer " ) with whom he strikes up a bizarre relationship . Two famous French critics Jean Tulard and Jacques Lourcelles have recently praised " Gibier de Potence " .
" Batman " was created by Bob Kane in 1939 and in the sixties , a wacky version with gaudy colors was shot . The Batman saga was revived by Tim Burton and it started under auspicious skies with the two following novel chapters : " Batman " ( 1989 ) and " Batman Returns " ( 1992 ) . With the arrival of Joel Schumacher , the series plumbed . " Batman Forever " ( 1995 ) and " Batman and Robin " ( 1997 ) were real downers which tarnished Batman's reputation . Due to this , Gotham City's most well-known inhabitant took refuge in his den and waited for things to evolute . In the meantime , he was upstaged by other superheroes like " Spiderman " . Was there a future for Kane's son ? Rather than pouncing on the elaboration of a new adventure ( at one point , one even talked about the possibility of a story called " Batman vs Superman " ) , why not plumping for a streak which has been seizing the Hollywood firm for several years ? Just look at the titles of the following works : " the Exorcist : the Beginning " ( 2004 " or recently " the Texas Chainsaw Massacre : the Beginning " ( 2006 ) . These titles give this inkling : to go back to the sources and roots and unearth what made Batman a myth . Like many moviegoers on this site , when I learned that Christopher Nolan was the heir of this work , I felt that the project was in good hands . I'm not a fan of his " Memento " ( 2000 ) but I recognize that he's a canonical filmmaker and this was largely conducive to Batman's rehabilitation . The storyline is apparently slick on the surface , but in depth it conceals several directions . More than half of the storytelling is based on Bruce Wayne's psychological turmoil , His trip in the world to forget the traumatizing death of his parents under his eyes . His apprenticeship and learning to gain trust and knowledge and to try to overcome his demons and to put a term to his weaknesses . As Liam Neeson puts it : " you are afraid of your own strength " . But eventually , the young man will have recourse to his own fears to fight fear ! To admire the hero , you'll have to be very patient for one can't see him before almost the half of the film . The second half which sees the young cape crusader going back to Gotham City to make justice triumph and creating some of his gadgets which cemented his popularity like the " Batmobile " is more devoted to action sequences . These thrilling moments keep a very reserved feeling to insist that Batman is a flesh and blood protagonist . It is more embellished by a restricted use of special effects . But Nolan and his scenarist didn't put aside rigor and construction . The development of the story is fantastic as one could wish with twists , turns to keep the audience interested . Apparently the scarecrow wants to command Gotham City but the biggest villain isn't necessarily the one you can think of . Even " Batman Begins " is a typical Hollywood product , it is earmarked of Nolan's touch . The filmmaker deftly introduces flashbacks at the right time and sometimes flashbacks inside flashbacks ! And Nolan once said that he liked to oppose the subjectivity of a character to the objectivity of the world . This declaration could make sense in one of the thrusts developed in the film : many inhabitants in Gotham City may think that justice is lost but Bruce Wayne / Batman is back and here to stay to convince them that it's not dead . The setting helps to capture this and Nolan's own ominous vision of the city : a Gotham City shrouded with a gritty urban realism and in which bribery and violence easily propagate due to the power of the underworld . This assumed perspective breaks out in the apocalyptic end of the film which in a certain extent harks back to George Romero's cult film " the Night of the Living Dead " ( 1968 ) with the population wandering in a hazy , artificial fog in the throes of fear and madness . Thanks to Nolan's stringent brio , these different levels in the scenario and in the directorial style are combined to amount to a meshed , well-rounded poise shot without alacrity . An overlong movie ( 2h 20 minutes ) but the length eludes the viewer . For this resurrection of Batman , Nolan gathered a stellar cast . Every actor slips into his or her role in an unselfconscious way . Christian Bale can preen himself on having got the role of his life and he has never been so much better than here . Michael Caine brings a mix of complicity and mischievousness to the butler Alfred and I have a preference for Cilian Murphy whose cynicism and deadly charm have positively devastating effects . For Nolan , the transition from a " film d'auteur " to a Hollywood blockbuster wasn't knotty at all and even if the whole seems easy , it's very bracing . So thank you Mr . Nolan for having re gilded Batman's credibility . The follow-up is currently under way . Let's hope it will showcase the same high standard of quality .
In 1940 , Frank Borzage gave two great movies in a row . In these trouble times , it was a true tour de force to achieve that . " Strange cargo " and " mortal storm " are admirable works , works of redemption , full of compassion for the human race . Hats off to you , M . Borzage , you who are often ignored when they list their favorite directors . A user wrote that " strange cargo " was ahead of its time . It's so obvious that even now , it remains demanding , deep , and absorbing . When you see where the adventures movie has gone , the likes of Indiana and co , you wonder that some works like that have been produced . " Strange cargo " anticipates the cinema future . In several respects it's John Huston before John Huston , but with more faith in the human nature . I would go as far as saying the first part is some kind of Bunuel's " la mort en ce jardin " ( 1956 ) , but a Christian ( ! ) Bunuel . The users who saw the Spanish director ' s underrated film will be struck by the analogies between the two works . Gable's and Crawford ' characters resemble George Marchal's and Simone Signoret's in " la mort en ce jardin " . Or rather the other way about . The main difference is the indomitable faith in God that Cambreau displays in the whole movie . His face radiates like a Christ , and Ian Hunter outshines the two stars Gable and Crawford . His performance , subdued and sober , but always mesmerizing , fascinates . There are unforgettable scenes : the beach , where he opens the gates of eden for some kind of thief ; the cask of fresh water ; his strange predictions ; Clark Gable screaming " I'm God ! " after throwing him into the water . The movie often verges on fantastic , but a spiritual and sustained fantastic , not drivel such as " IJ and the last crusade " . " Strange cargo " was followed by " mortal storm " , which iseven more superior to it . Here , Borzage anticipates on Minnelli " the four horsemen of the Apocalypse " 1961 ) and Visconti ( la caditi degli dei 1969 ) . His love for the human race is still beaming : in a world gone mad where nazi hate oozes everywhere , there will be several Cambreau to heal the wounds : Mr . and Mrs Roth , Martin , Freya and the old Mrs Breitner . Do not miss his earlier works , pacifist ones of course : " three comrades " and " no greater glory " . Should they give a Nobel price of cinema , Frank Borzage would have been a strong contender in his lifetime .
Immediate background : Jean Anouilh who wrote the screenplay was to direct the movie but he fell sick and had to give up . He chose Jean Grémillon , one of the great directors of the golden age of the FRench cinema ( 1935-1945 ) to do the job and he was right . Jean Grémillon gathered a splendid cast including Paul Bernard , as the fallen aristocrat ( " Pattes Blanches " ) , Fernand Ledoux , Suzy Delair at her bitchiest , and - the Chabrol fans will notice it - a very young Michel Bouquet as the squire's doomed brother , Sylvie and Arlette Thomas . This latter actress is completely forgotten today , but her part brings some hope in a desperate - most of Anouilh's plays are - story . Her character , a hunchback whom Odette ( Delair ) despises , resembles Cinderella , a miserable Cinderella ( check the admirable sequence in the castle ) . Another memorable scene shows the noble , on the edge of the cliff , holding Odette's bridal veil . Don't let the current rating fool you . " Pattes Blanches " , with its distraught lyricism , is a must .
It's considered polite to write that the silent era was Gance's time and that his talkies are mediocre stuff . Do you need FF Coppola to give them a chance ? Do you ? Gance was a pioneer even when he made talkies . Actually his post-silent career was a constant drift back and forth between adventure ( " La Fin du Monde " " J'accuse " ( 2nd version ) , " La Venus Aveugle " " Le Capitaine Fracasse " " Cyrano et D'Artagnan " ) and retreat ( " le Roman d'un Jeune Homme Pauvre " " Le Maitre de Forges " - actually mostly directed by Fernand Rivers - " Austerlitz " ) . " Un Grand Amour de Beethoven " is the follow-up to another historical biopic ( " Lucrece Borgia " ) which exposed the worst of the man's weaknesses - or is it because of a bad editing where scenes were lost or deleted ? - Gance did not repeat the same mistake : I'm not a specialist , so I will not argue over historical accuracy . " Un Grand Amour de Beethoven " is not a biopic , it's an experimental movie , which predates another one , Forman's " Amadeus " . Gance's film is a musical poem , where he tries to enhance the music with his pictures ( and not the other way about ) . Most of the time , he brilliantly succeeds : he virtually invented the " subjective " soundtrack . These scenes when the musician feels the first effects of the illness are among the very best in the French cinema of the thirties , and as the thirties French cinema was the best French cinema ever , it speaks volumes about them . Gance simply cuts loose all the visual effects ( mill , nature , thunder ) at his command and lets the music surge and flow and ooze around his audience . This is shockingly transcendent stuff , absolutely intoxicating in its use of dynamics - perhaps inspired by his previous experiments in " La Roue " - from silence to thunder . Gance also finds marvelous scenes to let us hear " moonlight sonata " . Harry Baur gives another sublime performance ; the very long scene depicting the death of the artist has the strength of a dirge : while a " Miserere " is heard , the face very slowly turns into a death mask .
A trustworthy value of contemporary French cinema ( in 1996 , the French Minister for Arts and the director of the national center of the cinematography hailed him as a French worthy ambassador ) , Patrice Leconte can brag himself to rank among a handful of French filmmakers whose popularity is continual in France and abroad , especially since " Ridicule " ( 1996 ) was virtually unanimously lauded . On this site , several of his films exceeded the 1000 even 2000 votes mark . This one " la Fille Sur Le Pont " is near to the 3000 votes mark and appears to be the most well-known of Leconte's flicks abroad . A word to his devotees and they seem to be numerous : I urge them to watch " Tandem " ( 1987 ) . It is Leconte's towering achievement and his sleeper . To come back to " la Fille Sur Le Pont " , this cracker basically revolves around a young girl , Adèle ( Vanessa Paradis ) . She's only 20 years old and she got a raw deal . Apparently interviewed by an emcee on the telly , she assesses her rueful life and can't see her future . One evening , she's cracking up and is about to jump from a bridge into the river Seine . Fortunately , she's saved at the last minute by a knife-thrower , Gabor ( Daniel Auteuil ) who becomes fond of her . He hires her as the target for his show and will make her enjoy life again . From then onwards , luck smiles on them , the lead a freewheeling adventure and Gabor becomes increasingly enamored of his young protégée . " La Fille Sur Le Pont " is the movie in Leconte's filmography which heralds a series of films in which a love story is one of the staple elements of these flicks . It is perhaps the artistic success of this film which incited him to continue in this vein with the subsequent pieces of work " la Veuve De Saint Pierre " ( 2000 ) , " Félix et Lola " ( 2001 ) and at last " Rue Des Plaisirs " ( 2002 ) . In reality , Leconte had already adventured in the domain of the love story well before " la Fille Sur Le Pont " . Love stories were main threads in the nearly dreamlike " Le Mari De La Coiffeuse " ( 1990 ) and " Le Parfum d'Yvonne " ( 1994 ) and they gave brilliant results . When I read Leconte's intentions on this film , I had misgivings . The director wanted to make a work which was supposed to be a homage to the New Wave , hence the shooting of Gabor and Adèle's adventure in a black and white cinematography . Leconte had lauded François Truffaut and Jean-Luc Godard as " masters " . Ahem ! . . . There's no accounting for taste . But he kept his trademark and his movie remains accessible to everyone who likes being told a story . The liberties dear to the New Wave clique are subdued and tamed , a stabled content and form with perhaps an emphasis on the content , no amateurish side in the directing , except in the very first sequence and a scenario which encapsulates several directives including a classic but absorbing storytelling and an analysis of the two main protagonists ' persona . Leconte pulls off with gusto to create a timeless atmosphere . The first sequence comes out of the blue and sets the scene for the unique aura in which the film bathes . It is realism and fairy tale in the same package . Everything in the scenery , the costumes , the cinematography and the directing seem to be dovetailed to produce this pristine poise . An impression reinforced by a discerningly chosen music . But also , " la Fille Sur Le Pont " is a success story and Leconte is very astute at this game . He refuses a good number of constricting codes of the genre or diverts them in a neat way . For example , the viewer will have to wait the tail end to see Gabor and Adèle exchanging their first kiss . The scenarist Serge Frydman did a first-class job with an abundance of witty cues . My favorite lines are : " Knives are dangerous " " you know , everything's dangerous nowadays . . . " or " the first time I had sex , it was uncomfortable " " yes the first time you have sexual relationships it is usually uncomfortable " " no no , it was in the toilets of a gas station . It was uncomfortable " . Always on the plus side , Leconte was obviously interested with the persona of his two main characters and perhaps more Gabor than Adèle . In spite of his apparent self-confidence and his deadpan humor , he conceals a deep vulnerability and has his own weaknesses . Like Adèle , he's unsure about the future ( check the sequence when he's on the rails and a train arrives in front of him ) . He's a " Lecontian " hero par excellence . He's apparently sure of himself but hides a deep fragility . He is also admirably portrayed by Daniel Auteuil who garnered a deservedly César in 2000 . As for Vanessa Paradis who when she was 14 years old scored a big hit in France with " Joe Le Taxi " , she unveils another face of herself with unsuspected skills of actress . With a " feel-good " sentiment which suffuses the whole movie , " la Fille Sur Le Pont " is the ideal flick to restore confidence to the ones who lost it . Gabor says that " luck is a matter of life and death " but when it affects someone at a loss , it can work wonders . A wondrous movie to rank among the magnum opus in Leconte's filmography .
With " Scream " , Wes Craven who before this had left a chain of horror flicks gave to the horror genre one of its proudest kingpins and a valuable reference which gave a new lease of life to the slasher genre which thrived in the eighties . But also a film which involuntarily became an accursed one since it prompted many fragile teenagers to kill their families or friends dressed in the killer's outfit . Wes Craven exploits the indispensable ingredients pertaining to the serial killer story like a female teenager all alone in her house who is about to watch a horror flick and receives ominous phone calls or teenagers all gathered in a house watching horror flicks and they're all killed one after the other and the filmmaker follows the rules of the game while poring over them . During 110 minutes , Craven mixes the slasher movie and a studied reflection about the genre and its premises . Hence its indisputable strength . Flicks like the " Freddy " or " Friday the 13th " endless saga contributed to the fame of the genre and were based on rules that the viewer knows very well . Craven takes them again for himself to reveal the tricks of the trade and to dynamite the clichés . Thus it gives both a highly terrific and terrifying piece of work in which Craven involves the viewer at all levels . One should note down all the witty lines the film shelters and the black humor of a formidable efficiency which lacked in so called gore masterworks like John Carpenter's " Halloween " ( 1978 ) . I dig the " test " in the first sequence the killer asks to Drew Barrymore about horror flicks . Painstakingly built , full of ideas , nods or allusions to gore films which secured the popularity and the trademark of the slasher genre . Craven's film has also the ability to make us shiver and to be jubilant thanks to what has been said before and also thanks to a taut scenario in which the murders aren't only the worthwhile moments as it's often the case in many mediocre horror films . Craven also doesn't fear to delay sequences as much as he can to stretch terror and treat , notably the first one and all that happens in the big isolated house where the students party while very bad things occur near them . This is a film to cherish and to ponder about provided you have nerves of steel and if you keep in mind that it's just pure cinema . And one of the characters says : " there has to be one or several sequels to a film of this kind " . It was judicious from Craven to have included this cue for there will be two sequels . But the pernicious charm that wraps " Scream " will be absent in its two heirs .
This movie was too ahead if its time for its own good ; the political movie was trendy in the seventies in Frence but these flicks were spectacular , Manichaean , with lots of events-of-May-68 thrown in for good measure . The cops and the politicians were the villains , the young gents ( they were often students , journalists lawyers , teachers , etc ) were the heroes . Actually , " Le Petit Marcel " ( the title is deceptive , making the viewer think he's going to watch a comedy ) is Pialat's overrated " Passe Ton Bac d'Aboard " ( = take your high school diploma before ) forerunner . With one exception , this youth has no " Bac " to take . They have become rebels without a cause , they do not go to school anymore , they do odd jobs now and then . In the town where they live , nothing was made for them . Enter Marcel ( Jacques Spiesser ) : he's got nothing but an old lorry and he hopes he ' ll make enough dough to buy a garage . He , too , does casual work , being the mover for a retired teacher who leaves his old house for a public housing unit ( significantly , the teacher will not reappear again although the book he gave to Marcel plays a small part in the plot ) Marcel seems a good guy , but there are cracks in the mirror : although he seems to be part of the pack , he ' s more a witness than an player ; although he sleeps with a girl of the pack ( Isabelle Huppert ) , she's finally a pain in the neck to him ; although he seems at odd with the police , the captain fascinates him with his educated wife ( Anouk Ferjac ) , his desirable house and his billiard table . Some of his friends belong to the far right wing , they smashed his young friends's face in , but he begins to realize that his world is no longer theirs . Marcel is almost a neuter character ; he does not want to get involved in the pack's business . Jacques Spiesser was ideally cast as Marcel . Except during the last scenes , he seems to be overtaken by events . Jacques Spiesser excels in this kind of parts : remember the pacifist soldier in Boisset's " RAS " , the geographer in " La Victoire En Chantant " aka " Black and White in Colors " by Annaud . In the three movies , his evolution is stunning : a positive rebellion in the movie about the Algeria War , his character takes no longer a rebel stand in the two other movies . A war profiteer in Annaud's work , he , little by little , becomes an informer . One will never praise Yves Robert's performance enough too : he knows that Marcel lost his father several years ago and that he never overcame the pain . Marcel , unconsciously , sees the figure of a father . Robert plays a " human " captain , who , unlike his subalterns who humiliate the young man , treats him gently , friendly , kindly . . . Marcel , who is not very clever , cannot see what his game is . He is akin to Louis Malle's " Lucien Lacombe " ; like him , he tries to find a way to get out of his wretched situation . The last scene , one of the strongest of the French cinema of the seventies , makes sense . Now that he has betrayed his friends , now that he has lost his lorry , he can join his " father " ' s side without tears . Marcel is not good , he's not bad either . He's an immature person : like Malle's Lucien was fascinated by a suit and a tie , Marcel dreams of beautiful blue uniform . " Le petit Marcel " is the best political movie of the FRench seventies . With its plot where nothing ( or almost nothing ) happens , it ' s better than any Boisset'sor Cayatte ' s stuff of the era .
Luis Bunuel : " I had a dream in which a cloud cut the moon and a shaving knife wounded an eye " Salvador Dali : " Well , me , I had a dream in which I saw a hand full of ants . . . What if we made a film with this as a starting point ? It's from this conversation between Bunuel and Dali that the genesis of " un Chien Andalou " ( 1929 ) was created . Written in less than a week , shot with a rather paltry budget , it's virtually impossible to tell this ground-breaking short film . It occupies a prominent place in the category of movies which one can watch more than one can tell them . By elaborating this unsettling piece of work which came aside as a shock in the late of the twenties , the two young men's thrust was to accept any image or idea and to exclude cultural , psychological or rational explanation . In short , to advocate the freedom of human imagination ( hence the title of my review ) and in a way to forehead what's going on in human unconscious . These are two fundamental premises of the philosophy of surrealism and Bunuel , here applied them with gusto . He will tap again in several of his subsequent works surrealistic features in masterpieces like " le Charme Discret de la Bourgeoisie " ( 1972 ) or " le Fantome de la Liberte " ( 1974 ) . " un Chien Andalou " is the first true screening of surrealism . Everything breathes nonsense and extracted from the mysterious depths of human mind . Furthermore , one just has to read the title of Bunuel's piece of work to be introduced to surrealism : it is of a tasty insignificance . The narrative marks are abolished by the presence in disorder of black cardboards such as " 7 years later " or " the following spring . . . " . An absence of story , only a sequel of mostly outlandish and vaguely eerie images , no logical link between them . However , " un Chien Andalou " like surrealism derives a part of its influence from Freud's theses who contended that orgasm was a sort of small death and that explains why Bunuel shows to the audience a close-up of Pierre Batcheff with a head's corpse . It's not by chance if I mention this detail . It's his very first passage behind the camera and " un Chien Andalou " already contains a few seeds which will contribute to Bunuel's recognizable trademark . If , here religion is absent , the topic of the desire is well here . It is one of the strengths of human unconscious and was deeply construed by Freud . In Bunuel's short movie , it is protracted by the unsuccessful attempts from Batcheff to have sexual relationships with the involved woman . The latter is perceived as an object as the shot in which Batcheff strokes her breasts and the one which shows her headless body testify . Man can't escape his drives in his interior world , nor can he achieve them . It's a frustrated love . Moreover , Batcheff desires the woman but he drags behind him in the literal sense , traces from his past with these dead donkeys on the piano . All right , I said earlier that Bunuel didn't want to include any explanation to what was seen on the film but we can interpret the film in our own way and to come back to the traces , they can be construed as a result of a repressive education and a faded culture which stop the man from fulfilling his most intimate desires . At last , the cine buff will have surely noticed that Bunuel himself sharpens the blade which will be used for the famous scene of the eye cut with a razor blade . " une Chien Andalou " is the first work of a series of treasures which will crown Bunuel as one of the most important filmmakers of the twentieth century and it will have a deep impact in his career , in the cinema and even in rock : the aficionados of the Pixies may know that the leader Black Francis penned the lyrics of " Debaser " in " Doolittle " ( 1989 ) from Bunuel's debut : " got me a movie / slicing up eyeballs / don't know about you but I am un chien Andalusia " .
My God ! " Requiem for a Dream " ( 2000 ) , what a movie ! It's always difficult to write reviews about perfect movies but I'm going to try . First , there are three adjectives which come to my mind to describe this movie and they're the ones which everyone thinks of : powerful , harrowing and heart-breaking and certain sequences remain engraved in the memories like for example , Jared Leto's wounded arm caused by drug . To watch " Requiem for a Dream " is like being punched in the face . It's the kind of movie which can't leave indifferent . It is impossible to come out of this horrifying movie unharmed . It was made by a young director Darren Aronofsky whose previous movie " Pi " ( 1998 ) was very hailed . I must admit that I wasn't fully convinced by this indie movie but here , without a doubt , the director entirely hypnotized me and I thank him for that . The movie was made from a novel written by Hubert Selby Jr . It isn't the first time that a work from this novelist is adapted for the screen . Indeed , in 1989 , Uli Edel had shot " Last Exit to Brooklyn " which developed a nightmarish and apocalyptic vision of a mankind who lived in hell . Here , the movie focuses on 4 main characters . There's Harry Goldfarb . He , his girlfriend Marion Silver and his best mate Tyrone C Love plan to become high-rolling smack dealers . In the meantime , his mother Sarah Goldfarb has got her head in the clouds . She received a call and she learned that she's going to appear on television . At the beginning of the film , the 4 characters ' hopes amazingly answers the shiny weather of the summer . But as we usually say : best things have an end . Summer will go away to leave place to fall and winter . Just like the dreams will slowly but surely shatter and the 4 main protagonists will embark on an endless suffering . A vertiginous descent into hell like we have never seen one and which will reach its climax in winter in the last half-hour of the movie . From this moment , the film presents a flood of incredible pictures ; they are so painful so much that they make the view unbearable . However , you watch it flabbergasted with both repulsion and fascination . Darren Aronofsky invites us to a climbing in the morbid . " Requiem for a Dream " strikes by its visual and sonorous frenzy . Through , accelerated frenetic sequences , hysterical split-screens , parallel images , the director doesn't pull his punches to describe this diving in absolute horror for the 4 characters . However , in his crazy making , there's none form of unwarranted nature . The features previously quoted may be disturbing but necessary to answer several things which aren't pleasant to hear like for example , to denounce the omnipresence of the consumer society . These abuses express themselves , here , by the crushing presence of objects , perfectly representative of this society like the television or the refrigerator . The another goals of the film : to make us share the physical and moral sufferings of a drug addict , notably through the deterioration of their visual and sonorous perceptions . But also to show us in a straight-forward and rough way , the dependence of a drug addict on his drug . Aronofsky's message is simple to understand . There's not only the drug like cocaine or amphetamines that make dependent but also simple objects apparently harmless which can become dangerous like the television or the refrigerator . They can destroy our faculties of reasoning and judgment . In a way " Requiem for a Dream " illustrates very well Brad Pitt's key cue in " Fight Club " ( 1999 ) : " things you own end up owning you . . . " . On the other hand , if we put the stress on drug , the least we can say is that the moments of shooting , the withdrawal times are showed with a realism and bluntness rarely reached . True , " Trainspotting " ( 1996 ) had already presented similar scenes but Darren Aronofsky isn't afraid to go further in daring . It would be unfair to neglect the terrific cast . Beginning with Ellen Burstyn who in all respects gives a dazzling performance . She renders very well the degeneration of her character . In the beginning , she is a normal old lady but in the end , she looks like a senseless living dead . Why didn't she get her Oscar in 2001 instead of Julia Roberts in " Erin Brockovich " ( 2000 ) ? Then , concerning Jared Leto and Jennifer Connelly well their sensitiveness and fragility are impressive . But the biggest surprise is Marlon Wayans . Who could have thought that he could be at ease in a comic role ( Scary Movie ) as well as in a dramatic role ? These 4 actors make particularly harrowing the very last sequences of the film which show them forever in the depths of despair or madness where pain , humiliation and misery suffer into them . And then , during the final credits , we can hear the sea with a little of relief as if we had just made a nightmare . But what is extraordinary in Aronofsky's work is that he manages to find a little place for humor which acts in an efficient way . In conclusion , this young film-maker has shot a film with a real emotional power . I must confess that I almost shed a tear several times . " Requiem for a Dream " is a movie I highly recommend but beware ! It's not a movie for everyone and for the spectators who didn't watch it , I advise you not to see it if you are in a sad mood . It demands a strong stomach and I think the people who say they weren't afraid during the projection are liars . Don't forget your handkerchief .
I have always thought it was one of the most underrated Hollywood epics . First of all , it's only partially an epic : most of the scenes are intimate , generally two characters who are constantly tearing each other apart . Joseph L . Mankiewicz , one of the most intelligent director of his time , rewrote the dialogue during the shooting , night after night , and the results are stunning , considering the difficulties he encountered with his budget and his stars . Cleopatra's dream is perfectly recreated , much better than in De Mille ' s version - a good one , though - : It's Alexandre the great ' s plan , this Alexandre from whom she's descended , to make a huge empire , uniting the Orient and the Occident . One of the major scenes takes place near the great conqueror's grave . The second part has Shakespeareans accents : Cleopatra becomes some kind of Lady Macbeth , and Marc Anthony is left alone against the whole Roman army ( the Shakespearian trees ) . The last lines ( repeated twice ) are some of the finest you can find in an epic movie . And look how Fellini has been influenced by Mankiewicz for the final of his " Satyricon " : the photograph turning into a fresco . As for the epic scenes , they are here , of course but they are little over 20 % of the movie . And to Cleo's awesome Rome entrance , you can prefer Ceasar's epilepsy fit . The actors are not as uneven as it's often said . Elizabeth Taylor had already worked with Mankiewicz ( the extraordinary " suddenly last Summer " ) and she learned a lot with him ; she's now ready for the great roles of the sixties : " Virginia Woolf " , " Secret ceremony " " taming of the shrew " . Richard Burton had been " Alexander the great " ( coincidence ! ) in a rather academic movie , and here he portrays a clumsy , almost Don Quixotesque Marc Anthony with art . However , Rex Harrison steals the show in the first half . Supporting actors , including Roddy MCDowall , a puny but shrewd Octavious , and Richard O'Sullivan , an effeminate Ptolemy . This visual poem , a feast for the eye and for the mind must be restored to favor .
This is Maurice Pialat's debut movie and François Truffuat offered him to produce his first effort . Not only because he was at the time a seasoned filmmaker ( a dozen of films so far for a man who was 36 years old whereas Pialat shot his first film when he was 42 ! ) but because the topic could only please him . Indeed , Truffaut's first film , " les 400 coups " ( 1959 ) revolved around the same subject and was a big critical , commercial hit . However , Truffaut like the rest of the crew who worked with Pialat wasn't prepared to the director's unconventional shooting methods and consequently the two men will never talk to each other again for several years . Pialat used to say that he refused everything planned in the shooting of his films and " l'Enfance Nue " was inescapable to this scheme . Better , it was indispensable to have a genuine , deeply moving work as a result . Created in the chaos with tensions and having to rely on a shoestring budget , " l'Enfance Nue " is part of the top five films about stolen childhood alongside Julien Duvivier's " Poil De Carotte " ( 1932 ) and Luigi Commencini's " Incompreso " ( 1966 ) . What " les 400 Coups " tried to reach , " l'Enfance Nue " achieved it . It's a much stronger flick than Truffaut's very overrated work . The piece of work from the former critic at the fusty " Cahiers Du Cinéma " suffered from a loose narration and cardboard characters which made it a bit humdrum to watch . Given the two other films Pialat gave us after his 1969 vintage : " Nous Ne Vieillirons Pas Ensemble " ( 1972 ) and " La Gueule Ouverte " ( 1974 ) , these three films have often been perceived as a sort of trilogy of life and Pialat's treatment of stolen childhood is drastically different to Truffaut's . He opted for a nearly documentary approach and tried as best as he could to reproduce working class life as it was in the Northern France of the sixties . A method he will tap again with gusto for his next two films . And you can only marvel at Pialat's remarkable camera work and observation . The hero François is a cruel child , perhaps worse than Antoine Doinel who never threw a cat from the top of the stairs ! He goes from household to household because his adoptive parents can't stand his cruelty . He's not the only one like that . At the beginning of the film , Pialat shows us numerous orphans in an orphanage who can't manage to find adoptive parents . But when François is put up by an elderly couple , he seems to have found human warmth and comfort from them . Feeling Pialat manages to convey to the audience in an astounding way . You must be tender towards the attention these little old people give to François like when Granny offers him a piece of cake after François was involved in a fight . And in a sequence close to " Cinéma Vérité " , they talk about François with their own words and how much do they understand him ! More than François's tragic story , Pialat's work encompasses a word picture of Northern France with its ways of life . His depiction is all the more genuine as he hired non professional actors who are in their own roles . During the shooting , Pialat used to write down excerpts of conversation these inhabitants had and to incorporate them in his film . This process of hiring " gifted amateurs " will be tapped again thirty years later for another film set in Northern France : Bruno Dumon's harrowing " la Vie De Jésus " ( 1997 ) . Anyway , Pialat and Dumont understood well Robert Bresson's one of his cinematographic lessons : to hire non professional actors to reach the scale of purity . That's precisely what Pialat reached even if as a perfectionist he denied his film . A hard-hitting approach of naked childhood made without any embellishment . Pialat's debut film gains to be as famous and celebrated as Truffaut's so called masterpiece . And be prepared for a river of emotions !
Childhood is in the center of Comencini's work . " Incompreso " sees him going at a peak of true emotion and aesthetic refinement . Comencini is one of the greatest directors Italy has ever known even if he remains in the shadow for so many cine buffs . If you have the chance to see " incompreso " do not miss his other works " lo scopone scientifico " " Pinocchio " , the best version of the Collodi classic and his mammoth series " Cuore " , these two works dealing with childhood too , not to mention such achievements as " Casanova veneziano " ( which beat Fellini at his own game ) and " l'ingorgo " " Incompreso " is one of the saddest movies in the world and however , it's not a melodrama : it's pure emotion , realism , quivering sensitivity . A man's - a consul - wife dies and he ' s left on his own with his two children . He's a good father , but he wants his older son to become adult , to act like a man . Anthony Quayle's portrayal is not that of a tough man ; it's only little by little , in spite of his good will , that he leads his son whom he loves to despair . Some people say that you become a man when you lose one of your parents , after all ! In many a melodrama , we have heard the mother say after the father's death " now you're the man " . Comencini's work is the contrary : for him , even if a child shows more perceptiveness than the grown-ups ( see " lo scopone scientifico " or " cuore " ) , he still remains a child who should be allowed to suffer , to cry and to love . Because the father thinks that a big boy does not need tenderness anymore and he takes only the little brother in his arms . The mother is still here even if the boy does not see her anymore : there's a painting in the house , a tape which the father recorded before her death and mainly a big garden where the two brothers speak of intimate things like death . All the nannies ( are you like Mary Poppins ? asks the younger boy ) in the world that the wealthy dad can pay cannot help : that's why they stay out of the game ( and out of the games ) : never the boys will communicate with them . The first part of the film tends to show that Milo , the little kid , is the frail one ; an admirable sequence , taking place during a storm at night , shows the father taking his little boy to his room . . . but closing his door to the other . SPOILERS : Because his father does not seem to understand him , to love him , to treat him like a . . . child , the only way for him is to go where his mother is . Then begins a harrowing finale , during which the father understands ( but too late ) that his son wanted to die , even if the accident had not happened . The essay which the boy wrote " my best friend , my father " , climaxes the movie . the last picture is an extraordinary fade - in ( the mother's picture ) fade-out ( the dead boy in his bed ) . These final pictures alone would make the movie a masterpiece . Superb cinematography , remarkable cast and credits over paintings of another century , first-class score which enhances the emotions but never drowns them out . Absurd remake by Jerry Schatzberg in 1984 ( " misunderstood " ) with Gene Hackman taking on the part of the father and colossal mistakes ( flashback where the mother appears , hollywoodian happy end ) . These remakes are really a curse .
First of all , this movie is an accurate rendition of MCCullers'novel . In France it's regarded as a " ciné-club " work , like " barefoot comtessa " or " the big carnival " . Reflections ' main topic is not perversity or sexual obsession , it's incommunicability . All these people live together , cut off from the world - the only scene that takes place outside the barracks is Alison's confinement in a mental hospital-they brush into one another but what they exchange is so superficial , so mundane that they spy or they cheat : Such is the case of Penderton who's fascinated by Williams : it's not simply an homosexual desire ; it's also the fear of getting old , fat and the longing for this youth that eludes him . Such is the case of Williams , watching Leonore in the nude , he who doesn't know women at all . The same goes for Alison who sees the soldier leave the Penderton's house whereas she's expecting her husband , Leonore ' s lover . Eleonora and Alison ' s husband don't spy , they cheat , they are the " normal " ones , so to speak . But at the end of the movie , the lover begins to understand Eleonora's emptiness , and because of his wife's death , maybe he's learning to communicate with ¨Penderton . . ( Spoiler ) But it's too late . The tragedy is here , Penderton kills the soldier , nobody was able to understand in time . The camera becomes crazy as Leonore screams ans shrieks with terror . Hats off , M . Huston . People who like the movie should read MCCullers ' excellent book .
The fifties will remain Minnelli's heyday . During this decade , there are at least four masterpieces in his filmography : " lust for life " , " tea and sympathy " , " some came running " , and definitely the crème de la crème of his musicals " Brigadoon " . " Brigadoon " is perfection itself , and only " singing in the rain " can equal it , as a fifties musical : sparkling colors , dreamlike landscapes , terrific score which encompasses Irish bagpipes , peerless cast ( Gene Kelly and Cyd Charisse , it's a dream come true ) , and , most of all , a wonderful script . A solid script is often lacking in musicals : that's the drawback , of , say , " An American in Paris " , which is a feast for the eye , but does not completely satisfy , because it has not got a true story . The same goes for " band wagon " . Some scenes are at least five or seven years ahead of their time : the chase in the woods , which Minnelli treats like a ballet , predates " West Side Story " . The wedding , with the torchlight procession , is impressive as well . Brigadoon story looks like a fairy tale , but it leaves a bitter taste in the mouth . The village may be the fountain of perpetual mirth , but it indicates man's failure in his pursuit of happiness . Unlike other musicals , behind its cheerful characters , the movie hides a " lost paradise " feel . The return to the modern world is impossible to the hero , ( the passage from Brigadoon to NYC skyscrapers climaxes the movie , as Charisse keeps on repeating " any day . . any night . . I love you . . . I love you " ) Reality is an impossible world for many a Minnelli character : in " lust for life " , the painter ( Van Gogh ) takes refuge in his art ; in " some came running " , the prostitute lives in a dream , thinking the writer loves him ; in " home from the hill " , the hero escapes from his wealthy milieu and becomes a worker . " Brigadoon " has few predecessors , only Henry Hathaway's " Peter Ibetson " ( 1935 ) and Frank Capra's " lost horizon " ( 1937 ) can be mentioned . Francis Ford Coppola's rather obscure " Finian's rainbow " ( 1968 ) might have tried to recapture some of the magic of " Brigadoon " , but this kind of Magic , like the village , happens every century .
