Ed Gein , one of the most famous serial killers of all time , he was the inspiration for famous movie killers like Norman Bates , Leatherface , and Buffalo Bill . He is also one of the most sick and disturbing killers of all time , I watched a documentary on him , so I know his story pretty well . When I saw this , I was curious because I thought it was supposed to be like a documentary re-enactment , but I have to say that this was just a pathetic waste of time . First off , the facts are completely wrong , with a few minor exceptions , and secondly , this was just a stupid Hollywood story when these horrific murders really happened and they just made it into a cheap buck . Not to mention that if they were going to make it into a horror movie , this was poorly acted ! Ed Gein , he lives in a small town in Wisconsin called Plainfield , but he has a little secret that the whole town is being effected by , he digs up dead bodies , as well as brutally murdering people . Bobby , a deputy , is on the case to get Ed Gein , only , no one knows who the killer is at first , just finding crime scene after crime scene . But things get " personal " when Ed starts messing with the policemen's family and friends . Of course this movie was just ridicules and completely insulting to the true story . I always thought that bad acting is a necessary tool to a horror flick , but for this story , it should have been a better acted film , not to mention , it should have been more of a documentary than a stupid cliché'd horror film . Please , stay away from this film , it's completely pathetic and untrue to the story of Ed Gein .
To those who enjoyed the film , I have one question : Why ? This film was stupid and a complete waste of time . I'm not one who was looking for a gory film , so don't say to me that I didn't get the " art " of the film because all in all , this was a poorly made film and believe it or not as horrible as it may sound I was rooting for the killer to win because those girls were so incredibly stupid . SCENE SPOILERS The girl surprises the killer by having his riffle , she misses the shot and hits his neck , good injury , but not great . Now if she didn't want to kill him , that's fine , but injure him . . . bad ! Now there are no more bullets for her to kill him , but he has a knife , she doesn't take his knife and stabs him . OK , that I could see , maybe she forgot or something , but now she could have taken the butt of the riffle and hit him in the head causing a bad concussion or even death . But no , she just hits him in the back that would probably more likely wake him up or give him a tiny back ache . Stupid women ! I'm a girl and I was embarrassed to be one because of this movie . This movie is so stupid , don't waste your time or money . To people who liked this film , I'm not judging but seriously , what did you see in this movie ?
Gigli , named the worst movie of 2003 , understandable in some ways , but I have to say from what I was expecting , this is not the worst film I have ever seen . BUT , but , but , but , that is a huge BUT , I can see why people don't like this film , and why I found it to be a bad idea as well as a bad film , the cast was beyond a mistake . First off , this movie was made during the time of the media craze of Bennifer , so it made it kind of annoying to see these two together again , but it's mostly Ben and Jennifer's acting " abilities " that kill the film . I'm supposed to believe that Jennifer is a " tough " gangster who does nothing to prove she is dangerous and that she is a lesbian ? Not likely . Ben is also supposed to be a tough like New York accent dumb gangster ? His accent was in and out during the whole movie . Also , did Christopher Walken and Al Pacino like owe Ben and Jennifer a favor ? Because they so did not belong in this movie . Basically we have a screw up gangsta hit man who for some reason keeps getting hired instead of killed , Gigli ( his name rhymes with really ) , he has to kidnap a retarded brother of a politician . But Gigli's boss thinks he needs to be watched by a hot lesbian gangsta , Ricki , who just refuses to sleep with Gigli , understandably , but he's a brat about it . Then his mom hits on her , very scary , and she ends up liking him anyways . But they end up liking the retarded kid and want to help him because they are now the tough hit men with a heart of gold ? Now somehow this was turned into a ridiculous romantic comedy . Now Gigli like I said is not the worst movie I've seen , but it is a bad one . The only reason why I saw it was because I was so curious if it really was the worst movie of all time , is it ? No , I wouldn't say so , but it is up there . The script was not at all well done , and very hard to believe . But for the most part it was Ben and Jennifer , I'm not saying that to hate on them , it's just a true fact . They were just the worst cast for a mafia type of movie , what was the casting agent thinking ? I'm glad the Bennifer thing is over , but it's sad that Ben and Jennifer will always have to look at this moment in their lives and be teased about it , because if I have a bad weekend , I'm going to say it was " Gigli " bad from now on .
Why ? ! Who in the hell hired the people who actually thought this would be a good movie ? ! Some movies just shouldn't be made and this one is an example . First " Prince of Space " and now this ? ! OK , again , I loved the MSTK3 episode , but this is so silly . How do movies like this get made ? I mean , it's the same exact plot of " Prince of Space " . Except without the gracious laugh of the annoying villain . That's a plus . Other than that , this film is awful . I don't get how these movies ever get made . Oh , well . I guess it's one of those questions that will never be answered . Obviously .
How . . . why . . . who . . . WHAT DID THEY DO ? " Star Wars " in the now is like waiting for a disaster to happen ! They destroyed the story . How could they ? I used to love Liam Neeson , but he has truely lost my respect . The " Star Wars " trilogy is one of the greatest trilogies ever . Then they give us this ! This ? ! Nothing but big computer effects . Characters that are dull and boring . The plot did not put me on the edge of my seat , thank you very much . I do not get how this movie has a rating of 6 . 5 . How ? ! It doesn't even deserve my kind rating of 1 . But unfortunatly , that's all IMDB gives me to rate . And if 1 is " awful " , this is being to merciful . This was beyond awful . But until then , I'll have to stick with giving it :
Batman & Robin , the big summer movie of 1997 , I remember seeing this in the theater when I was 12 and even then I wasn't impressed . But when I was more grown up , I watched this film again , I figured since I loved the 3 previous Batman films , why not give this one another shot ? Now , seeing this movie once again , I can understand the low rating on IMDb , this movie was just a pathetic attempt at merchandising Batman and making an over the top action movie that really had nothing to do with Batman . The casting was just oh , so plain wrong . We have Arnold Schwartzenegger as Dr . Freeze ? ! Not to mention the accent , the character was just someone you felt like you could laugh off . Alicia Silverstone as Batgirl , she was alright , but again , questionable casting since she seemed out of place . Now , George Clooney ? ! I couldn't believe how Val Kilmer got complained about , but George Clooney I can see why . He was just the most awkward Batman ever and didn't fit the role at all , he was only used for his popularity . Batman is living it up with his bachelor lifestyle , but Robin is a bit upset that he is living under Batman's shadow and wishes to be the star . Alfred is becoming very sick and needs serious help ; his niece , Barbara comes to his aid and hopes to help him and stays with Bruce Wayne . Dr . Freeze is our new villain and is looking for a cure for his wife who is frozen until he can find a cure for her , he also is intending for the world to pay for what has happened to him and his wife for some reason . Dr . Pamela Isley is a plant scientist / right activist and while her boss sees her finding out more than she needs to know about an experiment on his version of Frankenstien , named Bang , he " kills " her with her plants . But the plants chemicals have an effect on her and actually make her into Poisen Ivy . She and Freeze team up to take over Gothem and of course to split Batman and Robin forever , oh yeah , then kill them I guess . Batman & Robin was really beyond over the top , the costumes were a bit silly and the story was just too family friendly . This is Batman , the Dark Knight , it's not meant to be this bright and so crazy . I couldn't believe Joel did this , I really wish I could get past this , I know he's going to get a bad rap for this film for the rest of his career . The acting was just stupid and not true to Batman at all . The problem here was that the story and setting just had nothing to do with what Batman truly is and was just an excuse to spend stupid money . Please , don't watch this film if you love Batman , or you'll be sorry .
I was kind of excited to see Silent Hill , it looked totally creepy and just plain exciting to watch . Then I heard some mixed reviews on it , some good , but some pretty bad , like bashing the movie bad . Still , tonite my friend and I needed a movie to watch and we have either seen the new releases or just really didn't want to see the movie in general . Now the pick came down to " The Lake House " or " Silent Hill " . . . you guess how easy that decision came to be . Silent Hill started off so well , a little creepy girl is having nightmares about Silent Hill , a burned down town that is abandoned . The adopted mother naturally wants to help her , so she figures to take her little girl down to Silent Hill to maybe stop the dreams , but ends up in a bad accident after running from a police officer . She wakes up to find herself in a disturbing town and her little girl is gone . The police officer and her decide together to take on Silent Hill to find her daughter , but instead find themselves fighting off something worse , zombies ! But it turns eventually into a total Salem Witch Trial . : PSilent Hill like I said started off so well , but the ending just killed the movie totally . Big twist , ha ! Not to mention that the ending just plain didn't make any sense . I don't know , maybe the fans of the video game might enjoy it , but I can see why now that I didn't get into those games .
I have no idea why , but from the cover and short summary in back , I thought that Primevil might have been an entertaining horror film . I'm not really into crocodile stories , they usually don't work , but for some reason this one looked very promising . When I started watching it , I kept checking the cover just to make sure I was on track , but the story just seemed to get lost somewhere . Now I don't mind different stories , but the cover promised something else and I wasn't even really that entertained or moved by the story . Basically there is a killer crocodile in Africa , apparently he is a big one to be very frightened of . So an American crew of reporters wish to capture the beast or get him on film so they can help these villages and become famous more so . But there is another major problem that takes the story to a completely different place , where there is a huge war going on and starts to terrorize these reporters and one by one they are killed off before the crocodile gets to them . Primevil would have had good potential for a horror movie , but it just went in an intense turn where you had no idea where the film would take you . The script was also in some ways done in poor taste and wasn't well thought out , like I'm not offended easily usually when it comes to racial jokes , but Orlando going on about slavery in Africa went a little too far and was ridiculous . The acting is so so , not the worst I've seen , but the effects are not that impressive , a warning in advance . But if you would like to check out this film , please feel free , but I wouldn't really recommend it .
I kinda watched this film in a bad mood hoping for a good laugh , Leslie Neilson always makes me laugh . Especially parody movies , since I wasn't into 2001 : A Space Odessey , I thought that this was a fun looking movie that would make fun of that film . Well , it turned into something pretty bad , I really couldn't find myself laughing at any of the situations , which is sad , because I find the stupidest situations very funny and I am easily amused . But I was curious if maybe it was my bad mood that killed the comedy for me , but I looked on IMDb before watching it again and it's not just me apparently . Well , a some what take off of the Naked Gun series , only in outer space situations , Leslie is now Dick Dix , a clumsy detective that is sent to a planet called Vegan where he learns that President Clinton has been kidnapped and cloned and that the clone is on Earth with bad intentions for the world . Or as it seems , Dick actually plants the clone by accident and well . . . it just wasn't funny . The jokes tried too hard and the story was just weak , it could have been something special , but unfortunately they took too much advantage of the Naked Gun series , which was pretty sad . I know Leslie can do much better and he has , so I forgive him . For those users who are looking for a recommendation here , I'm not going to give you one because like I said , I thought it was just me that didn't like the film , but I think the rating is enough warning in itself .
I mean seriously . LOL . They didn't become more popular and get laid . In fact quite the opposite . LOL . OK , on to the movie . " Teen Wolf " was a typical 80's flick . Put a little camp and spoof in the mix . And throw in some Michael J . Fox , and you've got " Teen Wolf " . It's an OK movie . Nothing really special . It was pretty memorable for it's time though . Michael J . Fox . What can I say about the guy ? He's come a long way . But he was pretty entertaining in the film . I've only seen this a couple times . And they've both been on TV . So , I haven't seen the non-edited version . But I got the idea of what they cut out . If you enjoy 80's movies , you might get into it . But don't expect too much .
Squirm is a film that I first saw on Mystery Science Theater 3000 and I absolutely love that episode . It was just a terrific and hilarious one that will always give me a good laugh . Now believe it or not , I later found this film in the 5 dollar bin at Wal Mart and figured , why not ? This movie was just so laughable , why not watch it and make up my own sarcasm . Well , when I watched the uncut version , actually I have to in some ways admit that this wasn't the worst film ever made , worthy of MST3K sarcasm , but I would say that the problems are minor and the film just needs a band-aid , lol . The music and southern accents are just a bit much . Mick is coming to Fly Creek for a good country vacation and meeting an old friend , Geri . There was a nasty storm the night before and electricity hit the ground hard causing the worms to turn into killers . Mick and Geri , along with her creepy neighbor who is a mixture of Steve Young and Alvin the Chipmunk have to learn how to deal with it . But the worms are going to destroy the town and hopefully tone down the southern accents . Squirm isn't necessarily a bad movie , well , I think it's one of those movies that it's so bad that it's actually good . Just the way the actors present a lot of the lines are a little distracting and get a good unintentional laugh like " Yer gonna be da worm face ! " was said a little oddly . This is a great Mystery Science Theater 3000 episode I would recommend , but as a film , it's worth a look if you're into a cheesy drive in flick type of movie , otherwise , don't expect too much .
Now , he accidentally stepped into the bad movie path . I think he was meaning to make a good movie . And it did have potential . But the main problem was the casting ( Elizabeth Berkley ) and the script . Now Elizabeth Berkley , let's start with her . Most remembered before as Jessie from " Saved by the Bell " . What a dramatic change of characters . Nomi is not a character that can be loved or have some kind of feeling . I mostly just wanted to kick her butt . Because she didn't put any kind of energy into her character as Nomi should have been portrayed . WARNING : SPOILERSThen there were some questions , like : 1 . ) How could no one notice Nomi pushing Crystal down the stairs ? Molly was the only one who noticed ? 2 . ) Was the rape scene with Molly neccessary ? I couldn't really see how it fit with the story . 3 . ) James turned out to be a jerk . And you then question his loyality and when he's being honest or not . I don't know , I'm going to be kind and give it a
I wasn't really interested in seeing Step Up , but my friend just kept bugging and bugging me to see this film , especially since she is so in love with Channing Tatum , I tease her constantly about it saying how that's the only reason why she loved the movie . But she somehow convinced me that it was a movie worth seeing , that if I loved movies like Dirty Dancing , Take the Lead , and Save the Last Dance , that I should love Step Up , eh , what the heck ? I guess every movie in some way has it's right to a view . Well , you know those movies I just mentioned up top ? Dirty Dancing , Take the Lead , and Save the Last Dance ? Well , put them in a blender with some gangsta love in it and that's what you have . Not to mention if you've seen those movies , well , frankly , you have seen Step Up . Because Channing is lower class with street smarts who just naturally feels the music while that snobby up class girl must follow step by step , how will they ever fall in love if they are so different ? After all , this is their chance to " step up " to the passion , the mystery , and the lust of the dance ! OK , that was a silly plot explanation , but like I said , as long as you've seen those movies I mentioned , or even if you just saw the plot , you get the movie . I don't understand how it actually has a 5 . 5 rating , I bet it's those Channing lovers ! LOL ! I'm kidding with you guys , but it's all good , I guess I just didn't get what others did with the passion , the mystery that is the dance ! Oh , Antonio Bandares , where are you when we need you ? !
You know what ? Standing alone as a comedy , it had some really good moments , but as an action movie , this was beyond unbelievable and incredibly clichéd . I'm going to start with the good parts , see , Eddie Murphy is still great as Axel and is always very funny . He has some really great moments , but for me in this sequel , it was Judge Reinhold that stole the show as Billy . He was just such a lovable goof , which was semi-sad since he was a cop in the film , but I got past that part pretty much since he has been a goof from the first Beverly Hills Cop movie . Axel is back in business , in Detroit he gets into a once in a lifetime for a cop normally , type of shoot out with dirty business men , one who is an extremely super duper bad dude , who just won't stop killing people or stealing , why do you ask ? Because he's a super duper bad dude ! Well , he leads Axel to Wonderworld in Beverly Hills , California , where he finds out that that's where they do business . He gets his favorite buddy Billy back in the game and together they try to find a way to reveal the super duper bad dude's true identity to the crowd . Now the complaints , there are a huge list of them : first off , for security guards , most of them had pretty crappy shooting techniques and couldn't hit a barn . Secondly , Axel saved these children from a ride in Wonderworld , with one arm ? ! Third , a shootout like they had in this film in reality is a one in a million chance for a real life , but somehow Axel just seems to keep getting them like their a dime in a dozen . And fourth , the super duper bad dude , did the badness a little too much , to the point where it was just obnoxious . But who am I to judge , you try it .
Now , I know most people are afraid of this movie , but I wasn't . I mean , come on ! You could just pick the friggin ' doll up and drop kick him . I am afraid of dolls very much . But this thing was just like a foot tall . Yes , the plot is very original . And I did enjoy some of the scenes . But most of this was just lame . I give the movie a little credit , because yes . Chucky is a creepy villian . But to me , he's not that memorable . He just didn't do too much for me . Not like Michael Myers or Freddy Krueger . If you are a true horror movie fan , you will watch this . Just to know what all the hype is , but if you are just looking for a quick scare . Skip the movie . Trust me , it's not worth it .
After the fun time I had watching The Whole Nine Yards , I was looking forward to seeing The Whole Ten Yards . But I watched it last night and I was pretty much disappointed with where they took the story . It just seemed like they took the characters and turned them into something completely different . For me , I'm such a Bruce Willis fan , so when I saw him growing and acting like a bull while he was drunk in one scene , I didn't laugh , I actually wanted to cry for him , it was pretty pathetic what they did to this cool , smooth , charismatic hit man that we knew and loved in the first film . The script and story was just up to par like the first film was , in fact , I would've appreciated it if they just left The Whole Nine Yards alone if they really felt like this one had a chance for a great comedy . Jimmy has changed from this tough guy hit man to a Martha Stuart and Jill is not happy with it . Oz and Cynthia are in a quiet life in hiding from the gangsters . Lazlo is out of prison and wants revenge , so he " kidnaps " Cynthia and now Jimmy , Jill , and Oz get together to save her only to find out there are more twists and turns than they expected . But Jimmy has to go deep back into his roots of being the tough guy , not Mr . Clean . Now don't get me wrong , The Whole Ten Yards has a few laughs here and there , but for the most part I just actually felt bad for Bruce Willis with the silly attempt to be a soft like Martha Stuart type of guy , he's just such a great tough guy , it's hard to see him as anything else . Matthew Perry wasn't as fun as he was in the first movie and neither was Amanda , it just seems like everyone lost their magic and chemistry with each other in this film . I really wish that I loved this film , but I'm having a hard time , I'm sorry .
Well I have officially entered the mind of a lot of the children in this world , I am trying to understand what this generation's music and television are like . So I have watched Hannah Montana , The Jonas Brothers , and now High School Musical . . . frankly I've gone where no 23 year old girl should go , I feel as if I have taken some really bad drugs that no one should ever take . OK , I'm over reacting , but my cousin wanted me to watch the High School Musical movies , the first one wasn't really as bad as I was expecting , the sequel isn't really up to par , but honestly this wasn't as bad as the rating says it is . I admit that it is a pretty lame movie and has really cheesy songs , but take it for what it is . Just the title alone should say something considering that it takes place on the beach . This is the classic 60's beach musical with the cheesy looking actors and oh so dreamy cast members . Troy and Gabrielle are just looking forward to their summer together , but power hungry Sharpay wants Troy for herself and gets her country club to offer him a job , but he will only take it if his friends and Gabrielle can have a job too . Sharpay does whatever she can to make sure that she keeps Troy's mind off his friends and Gabrielle so she can make him enter the talent show with him so she can look good . Troy gets promoted and of course looses track of who he really is , leaving his friends behind wearing his new Italian loafers . High School Musical 2 is a must see of course if you are a fan of the movies , but they are very overly cheesy . The first high school musical film had reminded me of Grease , the sequel reminded me a little bit of Footloose , especially with Zac Effron's solo , but he is certainly no Kevin Bacon ( even if that was a stunt Bacon in the dance moves ) . I probably won't watch this again , but the thing that is nice about these films is that as cheesy as they are , they're perfect for the kids , they need a musical as well , so these movies are perfect for them . They have fun songs that kids can dance too and just beautiful people , isn't it just wonderful ? Sorry , had to say it , you know it's true with these movie covers .
You think Mel Gibson , you think great movie . Don't you dare think that for " The Patriot " . It's an O . K . movie . Nothing to get excited about . It is historicly accurate . That is what I will only give it credit for .
I was honestly expecting total trash when I started watching Get Rich or Die Trying ' , I'm going to be honest with you , I hate rap music . I think it's extremely degrading and insulting to women , all races , and life in general , so I obviously steered away from 50 Cent and his " music " . But I figured I might give Get Rich or Die Trying ' a shot , I had nothing else to watch , why not see how much of a disaster this film would be ? This film is supposedly based on 50 Cent's life and how hard it was growing up in his neighborhood , he dealt with a lot . My problems that I had with his life , you choose the life that you want , and him being " proud to be a gangsta " is very sad when he could've done so much more . There is so much to question about why Americans are so violent , and this film is making terrible stereotypes , not to mention making more people afraid of African Americans , it's insulting , and I'm a white person ! That's just my thought on the subject and that's why I had a hard time watching this movie , because we need to improve ourselves , big time . But the movie itself seriously isn't as bad as a 3 . 2 rating , I agree that it wasn't a necessary movie , not to mention that it was probably just publicity for 50 Cent , but still , it had a good story , but didn't carry through . The acting was alright , but honestly , I don't know who told rappers they could also act , but I'd really like to meet that person , because most rappers should stick to their day job instead of trying to make everyone feel sorry for them . Choose the right path , and you won't come out to look like such a punk who will be taken seriously .
Recently my boyfriend has been trying to stump me with movies , since I've seen so many , he wanted to know there was at least one movie that I'd never seen but he did . He finally got me with one : Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man . I had never heard about it , but he told me that Mickey Rourke was in it ; I got excited because I loved Mickey in 9 Weeks and was hoping for the same kind of performance in Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man . Now the funny thing is that I made my boyfriend watch 9 Weeks with the smooth operator Mickey and I watched Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man scary motorcycle Mickey . But onto the movie and wither it was good or not . Now actually , Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man wasn't at all a bad movie , it's better than most I would say . It's actually a cool action movie and has a decent story despite it's unusual title . Harley Davidson and Marlboro are buddies way back , together they ride their motorcycles on a care free life . But when they go back to the bar that they love so much , they find out that a bank is about to replace it unless the owner , Jimmy , comes up with two and a half million dollars to cover the cost . Harley and Marlboro decide to rob the very bank that is taking the bar away with some of their friends , they think they got away with it when they do , but it turns out that the truck they stole that they thought had the money has drugs instead . So they make a deal with the evil guy from the bank and get the money for the drugs ; they just did one thing wrong , they trust the evil super duper bad guy too well . Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man is good cheesy fun that was kinda fun to watch , sometimes you need the typical and predictable action movie that just has the great exciting scenes to make you at least be entertained . Both Mickey and Jon seemed to have a lot of fun together and I would say clicked very well . I loved how Marlboro was trying to teach Harley how to shoot his gun , and well , it comes in handy at the end to actually make for some dark comedy jokes , but I'm not going to tell you what happens . I think I would recommend Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man for those who just want entertainment , it's a fun action movie .
Well , it's better than the 5th Rocky film , but I wasn't too impressed with Rocky Balboa . I was so excited to see Rocky back in the ring , even if Sylvester Stallone is 1600 years old , I'd see Rocky XX ! Well , my boyfriend and I were so excited and it was so great to be in that audience last night , the audience was cheering before the movie even started ! I never saw that before ! People were screaming out the famous lines of the first Rocky and having fun pretending to be Sylvester Stalone , how could anyone not be pumped up to see this film ? Well , I'm going to explain the sadness that was the end in just a moment . Adrien has unfortunately passed away , their son , Robert , has grown up trying to separate himself from his famous father , and Rocky has opened up a restaurant to pass time and make some money since he doesn't box any more . But there is a new boxing heavy weight champion , Dixen , who doesn't have much pazazz like Apollo Creed , Mr . T , or Ivan Drago , instead he's kind of a gangsta of some sort . Well , everyone is thinking old school vs . new school and now Rocky must face Dixon in a not so triumphant fight that gets you pumped up and go to the gym after the movie is over . Now , normally some movies get an applause after it's done , and you'd think with this movie there would have been a standing ovation , but instead two people started clapping and one person screamed " What the hell was that ! ? " and someone screamed at the two people " Man , stop your clapping ! Let's go home ! " , and my boyfriend and I looked at each other and said " That's it ? " . The training sequence didn't get us pumped up and excited like the others did and we didn't have the typical happy Rocky ending , what the heck ? ! Rocky , I demand a rematch !
So I had the opportunity to see The Women , even though I'm not a huge fan of chick flicks , this did look a little interesting . I admit , I haven't seen the original , but I am a little curious , because from what I was seeing , this seemed like an ultra updated version that might have chopped up the original , maybe that's why there are so many harsh reviews . But just seeing this movie , it wasn't as bad as I was expecting , it's so rare we have the movies with an ALL WOMEN cast , I mean literally , no men , not even a man's voice is used in this movie , it's always put down by the guys because it's automatically going to be a " bad chick flick " . But we do have a strong cast , although , I still have my doubts about Meg Ryan , not sure why she's still in movies , no offense to her , just I don't see her as a strong leading actress any more . But the story works and makes it a nice little watch for a group of friends looking for a movie . Mary seems to have it all , a rich husband , a daughter , and 3 loving friends who would do anything for her . But the bad news is her daughter and her do not get along at all , her daughter even asks for advice from her best friend , Sylvia . Then from a manicurist's mouth , she hears that her husband is cheating on her with the hot little number in perfumes , she tells her mother , her mom says to not tell her husband , make him grateful for her , the plan actually works . Mary goes home happy and relieved that her husband wants her back so badly , but then her friends tell her to get angry , she does and ends up separating with husband only to find out about herself before it's too late . The only thing I really didn't like about this film is that it has a slight message in the middle of it where it's saying how magazines are hypocritical of women today , that on the cover there's a hot young air brushed actress and on the inside it says to love yourself just the way you are , then we have 4 older but extremely attractive actresses who have in no right what so ever to complain about their looks . Meg Ryan doesn't look a day over 30 , and I'm supposed to think yeah , I feel bad for her , it's understandable that her husband would see that she's slipping in the looks department , when it's the complete opposite . That's why I'm giving this movie a 5 , it's enjoyable , but the message is just hypocritical . For a few chuckles , it's worth the watch , not a horrible movie , but I think I'm going to check out the original .
I mean seriously , the whole trilogy I kept on thinking " Are the good guys gonna win ? " because frankly it didn't look good for our side . The story to be honest was a little weak and just never could compare to the other stories . It also left some cliff hangers that could lead into another sequel . Sam Neil as Damien was an interesting choice , he just didn't have the same fright as the children did , which is interesting . I also thought that Damien was British , in here he is American . Even though I had a feeling this trilogy was going to close this way , I felt empty and that I wasted my time in some ways .
While the ideas were very good and interesting , there is always a " big twist " at the end , that pretty much you can easily predict by today . I've mentioned before , but I'll repeat , you've seen one good thriller , then you've seen them all . While it seemed like the director had good intentions , he tried too hard to shock the audience when really I could had written a better script . Another problem I had is that Ashley and Morgan are getting stereotyped , well Ashley more than Morgan , because they are signing onto these thrillers with the shocking ending . It gets old , they couldn't do it really after the excellent crime thriller " Kiss the Girls " . When all is said and done , you're really just looking at the case of the movie when it ends and wondering why you bothered because you knew what would happen . Like I said , the cast wasn't the main problem , it was just script writing and the director's fault . There were some things I had questioned , like Ashley's character's reactions at certain times . They didn't seem appropriate or on cue when needed . Morgan was the only actor who was true and original , he and Jim had carried the film doing the best they could with what they had . If you want a predictable thriller , I would recommend , but I mean you can really save the watch . It's just not exciting any more to see them and the script could have been written by a 15 year old that has seen one too many high action crime thrillers .
" The Karate Kid Part II " was made a year after I was born , so no , I never really had an opportunity to see the films but I am now interested in seeing what the hype was about . When I saw the first film recently , I could understand why people enjoyed it so much . It had humor , drama , and a feeling of total accomplishment at the end as " Rocky " did in it's series . " The Karate Kid Part II " disses the honor the first one brought . As I predicted " they'll send the mother away and Ali will break up with Daniel because the actors probably either didn't like the scripts or actually got good careers " . I was so right ! : D First off , we are now in the country where Mr . Miyagi is from and he is there to visit his dying father . There he is confronted by an old friend who wishes to fight him over an argument they had several years ago over a woman . Mr . Miyagi of course says he cannot fight him and wishes to visit his father and leave once again . Daniel has also come along with him to Okinawa to learn about the culture and such . When Mr . Miyagi's old friend , Sato , just won't leave him alone about the fight , he gets his nephew involved as well getting Daniel tangled into the old argument as well . Now , the old friend , Sato , has such a deep voice that is trying too hard to intimidate , you just expect his mouth to be out of sync . That nephew of his also is like " I'm super bad ! Fear me ! I kill ! Grr ! " , it really wasn't that effective . The ending just didn't make sense to me and I wouldn't really watch this movie again . Unless you want to see the series , this is the only way I'd really recommend it .
" Bad Santa " does deliver it's title . I wanted to see this movie so badly because the trailer was very funny . But I figured this is a movie not worth spending 7 bucks on , so I'd wait for the rent . I'm glad I waited for the rent . There are some very funny moments in the film , but it does have a lot of dirty humor . Some humor I can stand , but it seems like " Bad Santa " was trying a little hard . I thought Billy Bob did a great job and I loved his character , but the rest of the cast doesn't add up . The kid and Willy were the only people you could get into . Over all , it's not a bad film . In fact , I wouldn't mind seeing it again . But it's not the comedy of the year .
After all the hype reviews , especially from Peter Jackson , the director from Lord of the Rings , who wouldn't want to see this movie ? We all need a good scare every once in a while . This was indeed , a scary movie . I think because it felt real and it could happen . A lot of the images were very disturbing and not fun to watch . But the movie and story itself ? Not on the bright view of my movie knowledge . There were some things that seemed like this was a college wanna-be director's first movie . While it had a very good and scary feeling of being claustrophobic and turning against your friends in a heartbeat , it didn't have any depth . I liked how he turned the friends into the monsters of the story . Because , in the beginning of the movie , they seem like your typical American college friends who get along very well . But when this " desease " pops up , they turn against each other in a heart beat . I felt that the director could have gone more into that . Another problem , the girls . I know that every good horror flick usually has to have sex in it , but this wasn't really necessary . It seemed like the director said " I have two hot chicks , how can I get them naked ? " Over all , I don't mind watching this movie . It's not too bad , but it's not worthy of the classic horror films . You get the gore , the blood , the scares , the senseless violence . So for horror fans , this is a go , but if your just looking for a movie , you have my warnings .
Oh , my friend was just dying to see Nights in Rodanthe , I'm convinced she is absolutely in love with Richard Gere , not to mention she just loves romantic movies , so Richard Gere and romance ? It's a no brainer , she just had to see this movie , guess who she begged to go with her ? Yeah , me , I didn't really want to see it though , it looked too sappy for my tastes , but we got to see it for free , so I figured to just go ahead and give it a fair chance . Well , we saw it today , it was a little better than I expected , which is saying plenty . After seeing the movie Unfaithful , I really wasn't into the whole Diane and Richard being back together on screen , but for some reason they made this story more enjoyable . Even though it was predictable , it was a sweet movie , I hate the sappy movies , despite it's sappiness that I normally resent , it's still a nice movie and was just a breath of fresh air due to the recent movies that we're getting that are either thrillers , comedies , or action . Adrienne Willis is a divorced mother of two who's ex-husband is begging to come back home after a nasty affair he had with one of her friends . She's debating on it since her children want them back together and she feels it should be that way . But when her friend leaves her to run her house on the beach that she rents out to people , Adrienne meets Paul Flanner , a doctor who has had a rough year after loosing a patient on a routine surgery , he's staying in the house with Adrienne . Loosing themselves has been so hard , but when they're together they find themselves once again and bring life back into their world realizing it's OK to be in love once more . Nights in Rodanthe is a nice movie to watch . . . more so I'd say for either a rental or a matinée , I was more impressed with it than I thought I would be , but it does get predictable , which I hate to say I've just been seeing nothing but predictable films lately . Maybe I should start writing scripts if this is all it takes , I could write a number one movie maybe , wish me luck . But back onto the movie , it has decent acting and does give you watery eyes . It's a nice movie to watch , gives you a little smile and reminds you of the sweeter things in life . Richard and Diane made this movie enjoyable and were lovely on-screen together , it's worth the watch .
Knowing that our government gives extreme convicts a chance to save our country makes me sleep like a baby every night . . . wait , no it doesn't . OK , the story , is incredibly unrealistic and not to mention some of the action sequences that go on . In general , I guess this is what you can classify a " guy's flick " . But I'm not sure why , I kinda enjoyed " XXX " because it was very cool just to watch . I think just to watch these kind of sports are very exciting , so you just get into the groove of the movie and except everything that is happening . If you're looking for a great movie , I wouldn't really recommend this type of flick , but if you are looking for sheer entertainment , I think you'll get that with " XXX " .
After a stressful day , I needed a good comedy to lighten up my mood and I had been hearing a lot of good things on Ghost Town . So I saw it last Sunday , over all I think it was a pretty funny comedy , although I wasn't laughing as hard as the other audience members , but I had a nice time watching it , I think the reason why was due to how predictable it was . For example . . . the lead character can talk to ghosts , what do we constantly see in ghost movies ? The character who can see or speak to ghosts looks crazier because they talk to the ghosts right in front of people who obviously can't see or hear the ghosts . The story was also a typical romantic comedy that wasn't really original . But one thing I was impressed with this movie was how strong Ricky Gervais held his own as a male lead , with Greg Kinnear , they made a good match . They both had great comedic timing and looked like they had a great time making this movie . Bertram Pincus doesn't have the best social skills when it comes to life . . . he constantly pushes people away , he's a dentist who doesn't care for his patients or co-workers , and he just wants to be left alone . Well , for what is a routine surgery , he dies for a few minutes , but is brought back to life . Later on he discovers that he can see and hear ghosts , as soon as they hear this , they go on a rampage to get him to talk to their loved one's they left behind to cross over with making sure their family is taken care of . But one specific ghost , Frank , wants Bert to talk to his widow who's with a guy he doesn't approve of , but of course Bert socializes with her realizing that maybe needing people isn't so bad and that love can be found once again . Ghost Town is worth the look , but I would recommend it more so for a matinée or a rental , it's a cute movie , just doesn't have a real comedic edge in my opinion . But it does have some good laughs in it and a nice story that will make you smile . But there is another problem I have , Bert gets hit by a bus . . . he is revived by Frank's wife's ex-fiancée , by C . P . R . ? You get hit by a bus , you should be splattered into pieces , but instead all apparently it takes is C . P . R . and you'll be just fine . Sorry for the spoiler , but if anyone who saw this movie read this , I wonder if you agree as well ? I know it's a movie , but geez , call this beyond unrealistic . Over all , it's a nice movie , but it didn't thrill me , it's good for a couple laughs , that's about it .
Well , I was really looking forward to seeing The Texas Chainsaw Massacre : The Beginning , I even dragged my friend to see it . I really enjoyed the first remake and this looked like it had even more scares and a great story . I loved the original Texas Chainsaw Massacre as well , so I figured it would be interesting to see how the family got started . That's what this story delivers . It's just about how Thomas Hewitt / Leatherface was born and raised into becoming Leatherface . The new sheriff , well the farmer killed the real sheriff we find out , and just takes his place , he figures he should train Thomas to be a killer as well . 4 teens just happen to be cruising by and get into a car accident because of a biker trying to rob them , but the " sherrif " comes by and kills the biker and captures 3 out of the 4 teens . Well , you get the idea of how else this story came to be . Now , the story I think needed more development , like how Thomas grew up , they kind of skimped out on it . The acting is your typical cliché horror film , but I did love the gore . It had a few scary moments , but it got really annoying with all the loud noises when there was nothing to be scared of . But I guess you should just judge for yourself .
This wasn't my favorite Disney film . I mean it is fun to watch sometimes . But it's more for the kids than adults . I love Disney films a lot , even though they are meant more for children . I always felt like they should also be for adults . " The Recscuers down under " was not one of them .
When it comes to Dracula movies , especially the classics , I always jump on it . My mother had bought the Christopher Lee Dracula movies when I was younger and even though I kind of enjoyed Dracula when I was a kid , today I would sleep through it . Yes , it's the first brilliant installment into the Hammer's collection of Dracula films and Christopher's first time being the character . I am a little surprised by the decent rating , yes , true , this is a good classic , it's still slow paced and doesn't really add to the Dracula stories . It stays close to Bram Stroker's novel , but felt a little off at times . Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee are remarkable actors , don't get me wrong , just again why people found this Dracula to be sheer entertainment is a wonder to me because it's just nothing special . During Lucy's staking , I just felt like they could have just uped the action just a little bit . You're telling me that during all these scenes you were on the edge of your seat ? The only really exciting scenes to me were when Jonathan is attacked by Dracula's female vampire and you see Dracula by the door way with blood all over his teeth , it scarred me to death when I was little . Then the final battle between Van Helsing and Dracula was huge for me , those were cool special effects . Like I said though , it just didn't move me . The only interest I really had in this movie TODAY is Peter and Christopher's acting abilities . They worked so well together and brought excitement to horror pictures . Otherwise , I wouldn't really recommend this movie , to me it's just boring and not that important unless you want to see the whole Hammer's Dracula collection with Christopher Lee .
When I saw the trailer to Fred Claus , I was excited , this seemed like a fun Christmas movie that would have tons of good laughs and had a great plot . Now I waited ' till the weekend after this film opened , and I heard nothing but terrible reviews about it , so I was very scared to see it . But the way I looked at it was some people have different opinions , nothing to worry about . So I saw it tonite with my boyfriend , and I have to say that honestly , for what it was , this was just a fun Christmas movie . True , it's cheesy and the jokes are a little dumb at times , but it was all in good fun . I think honestly this is one of the better Christmas movies we've had in a while . It was definitely better than Deck the Halls , you have to admit . The story was still clever I think , I mean who could live up to Santa Claus status ? Fred certainly had a hard time doing it . Fred Claus is the older brother of Santa Claus , quite frankly he's getting a bit tired of all the attention Nicholas ( Santa ) gets . It's tough being the brother of a saint . But when he gets into a bit of trouble with the cops , he asks Nic for help and Nic gives it to him , but Fred wants more money , Nic tells him alright , if he comes up to the North Pole to help him out with the work . Fred comes up and decides to shake things up in the North Pole with the elves , but it couldn't come at a worse time when Santa is being examined for his business and could possibly be shut down . Fred Claus was a cute holiday movie , like I said , it's nothing special , but I thought it was fun . You have got to admit , to those who saw the movie , that scene where Fred goes to the anger management and finds other celebrity brothers who are in the same situation was beyond hilarious ! I couldn't stop laughing at Stephen Baldwin , I wonder what Alec thought if he saw this movie , lol . Fred Claus is a good holiday film and I think people are just taking it too seriously here on IMDb , just go and have fun . That's what Christmas movies are supposed to be .
I'm not sure why , I never had The Pacifier on my mind or had an interest to watch it , but when I passed the movie at Hollywood Video , I figured maybe I could just give it a shot since it was a free rental . My friend also said that she loved The Pacifier and that I would be into it if I loved Kindergarten Cop . I have to say that while The Pacifier was extremely predictable , it was a fun little family movie that has a few good laughs here and there . Shane Wolfe is a Navy SEAL , he is very serious about his work and very dedicated to discipline . His mission was to protect a professor who created a program called GHOST and unfortunately the professor is killed , but he disk is still out , so Shane is asked to protect the professor's family and try to retrieve the disc , otherwise he has become the new nanny and may find it a bit harder disciplining tough strong guys to 5 horrific children . The Pacifier , well , you can predict one scene after the next , but this movie was intended for kids , so it's all good . I loved the scene where the Russian nanny tried to leave and Shane freaked out and tried to grab her from leaving the door , honestly , if that scene didn't make you laugh , check your funny bone . To those who haven't seen the film yet , go ahead and give it a chance , it's a good family film .
I just didn't understand how this movie was so raved about in 2003 , I remember it was up for some Oscars , I believe , and I heard about it from several people on how dark it was but interesting . Well , I rented it the other day and decided to give it some time to think about it , still I came up with the same conclusion , it had no point . Normally most movies have a moral or some kind of meaningful conclusion , I'm not saying that some films could be different , and we've had those types of films , but still this one just made absolutely no sense . I think because the pace was just so slow and really couldn't get to the point , I lost interest . Cristina has just lost her husband and her two daughters in a horrible hit and run accident , realizing that she would loose her husband due to massive brain damage , she lets him go and donates his heart to another man who is dying and needs a heart transplant , Paul . Paul looks her up and instantly falls for her despite being in a loveless marriage , he would do anything for Cristina , including killing the ex con who is now a religious freak who killed her family and part of her life . There's more to the story , but that is the summed up version of pretty much what it is . The acting was not bad at all , in fact I would say that is very decent , it was the story and how it was edited that didn't work for me . I think the story had some kind of meaning that could have been better explored or told in more sincere way . Doesn't make any sense I know , but I would just warn you that this movie is somewhat a waste of time .
Naturally most fans of The Nightmare Before Christmas who saw this trailer were interested in seeing Igor , it was the dark humor we craved around Halloween , not the typical safe humor used in most children's movies . I couldn't wait to see Igor , we have an awesome cast and what seems like a great story that was made for entertainment . So I saw this opening day with great hopes , but I left the theater a little disappointed , while it's a cute movie and is fun to watch at times , this was technically a failure when it comes to what I was expecting . I thought this was going to be funny and just a delight to watch , but it turned out to be predictable , the animation was mediocre and the humor at times was a little off key with the story . I'm not saying this movie was a total disaster , it's cute , it's worth the look , but like I said , the story doesn't add a special touch to make Igor stand out against other animated films . Igor is . . . well , and Igor , he's been trained specially for this job to serve a master who doesn't have the screws tightened quite right in his head . Igor doesn't want to be an assistant , he wants to be an inventor , and after one of his master's inventions kills him , Igor sees an opportunity to create the most evil invention of all and finally be respected as an inventor , with the help of his two friends / practice inventions , he creates Eva , a female Frankenstein type of monster who's not exactly monstrous . After trying to brain wash her , she gets the wrong message and wants to become an actress , Igor figures a way for her act evil and win the competition , but realizes that maybe having a heart of gold isn't so bad . But he still has one more problem , another inventor who is trying to take over will do anything to get ahold of Eva and rule the city . This movie is worth the look , I'd just say if you're going to go to the theater for it , I'd recommend a matinée , it's fun for your kids and I will say that there are some fun laughs and despite the story's predictability , it's still enjoyable . You really enjoy the comic relief from the two friends that Igor has , a cat who is immortal and a brain who isn't the smartest tool in the box , but they had great chemistry and gave the scenes some relief on the humor . I did like the movie , but it just didn't stand out to me , seeing it once was enough , I was really pulling for this movie , we need a new fun Halloween movie , but unfortunately Igor doesn't cut the cake .
The moment I saw the preview for Hancock , this just looked like the most ridicules movie that could be made , I was sure that it was going to flop or get horrendous reviews . But after talking to people who saw it , it was half / half of either they loved it or hated it , so I guess this was just a movie I had to see for myself . So I watched it yesterday , I am dumbfounded , I'm the half / half , I loved it and I hated it . I felt like the beginning was just silly and rushed , not to mention that the villain was just under developed and didn't have any depth to why he was so bad . But however , I did like the little twist they had , which I refuse to give away , even though I did predict it sadly , it's one of those things you'll have to see . But I also did enjoy the originality , it's not just a typical super hero movie with all the stereotypes , it was John Hancock ( which by the way should've taken place in Chicago after it's famous building ) . John Hancock is a homeless bum who just has a bad attitude along with a horrible drinking problem , he also is different , he is a super hero . The only problem ? He causes a lot of damage when he " saves the day " and doesn't care what people think . But when a failing advertiser , Ray Embroy , is saved by John , Ray offers John a chance to look good and be the ultimate super hero . But Ray's wife , Mary , isn't so excited and has a little secret about her and John . But Ray is determined and will make sure that Hancock is a great super hero for the whole city . Hancock is over all an alright film , it's not bad by any means , but I feel like it could have been so much more with a better script . Not to mention some of the camera angles were a little extreme , there were times where I thought the cameraman was on a tilt-a-whirl and I felt sick . But for the story I'll admit that it was original and fun at times , Will Smith is a good actor , I will always admit that , but it seems like his movies ( which are always released around the fourth of July , you notice ) have become like a love letter to him and how great he is . Hancock is worth the look , but I'd recommend the rental , it's just a notch under a great blockbuster .
I didn't know what to expect from Kung Pow : Enter the Fist , from the cover , it looked pretty stupid , but my boyfriend said that it was worth a look and that it was pretty funny if I was in the right mind set . But we watched it last night and even if I was in a normal mind set , I thought it was a pretty funny movie . I think I just needed one of those stupid comedies in my night , the one's where you don't have to think , just watch and laugh . Kung Pow : Enter the Fist was interesting where Steve Oedekirk took these old martial arts films and just made them into his own amusing comedy . I think the reason why this movie was so funny besides the ridicules voices was because Steve really had a passion for the film and his writing . Who among us has not made fun of the old martial arts films ? It's great to see someone else bring it to life , even it at times it was a bit stupid . The Chosen One is one of the finest martial arts masters in the world , but his family was murdered when he was just a baby . When he meets the villain who murdered his family , he wants revenge . But he discovers that he needs more strength , with the help of his martial arts teacher , the love of his life that makes strange noises , and his wood chuck nun chucks , he learns the way of the martial arts and now must face the evil villain that plays popular music while defeating his opponents . Kung Pow : Enter the Fist is stupid , but I'm sure you'll get a couple laughs out of it . Like I said the voices are so over the top that you can't help but at least laugh at the movie if not with it . Steve and the rest of the crew looked like they had so much fun making this movie and they didn't take themselves too seriously . I really loved a lot of the spoofs they had like The Lion King , it was so out there , but it was really funny . Just give this movie a chance , I'm sure you'll have a fun time watching it if you just wanna laugh .
I finally was able to watch all the Land Before Time sequels , as silly as they may be , I loved the original Land Before Time and I read a lot of these scary comments , I was still curious about them . So I was expecting nothing but trash when it came to the first sequel , granted I know that the singing doesn't really do much for the story and it's a bit stupid , but actually I thought this was a decent family movie that is very enjoyable . It's a great story for the kids , it's harmless and has great morals . The reason I think there's a lot of hate on the sequels is because of the love we all have for the first Land Before Time , but I think this is just a new way for the generation of today to enjoy the same stories we had . Littlefoot and his friends are living happily in their new home , under their families ' watchful eyes . When the gang tries to get to the sheltering grass to play , but land in the quicksand surrounding it , the grownups come and rescue them , then lecture them that night . Cera then tells the others that they need to prove they are independent by running away for a while into the Mysterious Beyond , a location just outside the valley . Before they leave , they notice two egg nappers stealing an egg from Ducky's nest . They chase them into the Beyond , during which a landslide occurs . The egg rolls safely back to the nest , but the five are under the impression that it was destroyed in the landslide . Then , Ducky notices what looks like the egg , only slightly larger . The gang " return " this egg to the Valley , only to find out that the stolen egg and this one are not the same . They decide to hatch it , nonetheless , until the egg hatches , revealing a baby sharptooth . While the others run away , Littlefoot decides he's safe , and tries to raise the hatchling on leaves . When he hears the others calling for help , as the egg nappers Ozzy and Strut are attacking them , he runs to their aid , while " Chomper " follows him . Chomper's shadow frightens the villains away , after which Littlefoot exchanges introductions between Chomper and the others and they accept him . But how is the Valley going to accept a sharp tooth ? You'll have to watch to find out . Yeah , the plot is predictable , the singing isn't necessary , and the story may be a little Barney-like , but don't go into these sequels expecting Citizen Kane . Just have fun with them . I know I'm a sap , but I just loved Chomper and Littlefoot's relationship , it was so adorable the way Chomper just wanted to hang onto Littlefoot and was like his shadow . I felt that this story had a great moral to the kids and personally as an adult I still find it very watchable . These movies are made more so for the kids , so give these films a break , The Land Before Time 2 is a good movie .
" Julian " ? " Julian " ? So , I have heard so much about " American Gigilo " being a sexy movie and it was , don't get me wrong . But then I heard the name " Julie " being said to Richard Gere . Couldn't it have been a more manly , sexy name like : Lance , Dick , or Hermes ? : D OK , just kidding . Over all , " American Gigilo " isn't a bad movie . It's kind of a landmark in the history of film . One of the first major prostitute films . It's kind of interesting to see Richard Gere as the prostitute in this film before " Pretty Woman " . Do you people find it a bit ironic ? : D I did kind of enjoy the movie . That acting was OK and the story over all was alright . But there were a lot of clique's in the film . You can tell that it is pretty well dated . But actually , I think I'd might recommend this film for a watch . Adults only ! Because it is an interesting film and it has a good love story that I think the ladies will enjoy and some action that the guys will like .
I wasn't really too interested in seeing The Reaping , but it looked like it might be worth a watch , so my friend and I saw it last night and both him and I agreed , it was kinda predictable and not that entertaining . Hilary Swank is an incredible actress and this seemed to be a step down for her . While it has some creepy moments , it wasn't anything to be thrilled over , it just could haven been better or more scary . The acting was alright , the story could have been more clever , but I do have to admit the effects were pretty cool , sometimes a little hokey , but over all they did a good job on the " destruction " of the Earth . Katherine is a scientist who used to be a Christian missionary , but when she lost her husband and child to a plague , she lost her faith as well . But when a town starts to witness the reaping , the end of the world through God's wrath , they blame it on a little girl , but Katherine is sure she can prove through science that it's nothing to worry about . But she starts to find out slowly how this may not just be something to forget about and the prophecy just might be true . It's not a recommendation for the theater , it's more of a rental , I'm just warning you that it's not a movie to get thrilled over and it's a disappointment considering all the advertisement that it got . Hilary made a mistake taking this film , it wasn't creepy and it doesn't really get your mind thinking . Seriously , just wait for the rental , you'll thank me later .
The Waterboy is one of those movies that I really loved as a kid , I was 12 years old when this movie came out and I thought it was just the most hilarious movie I had ever seen . So growing up I re-watched it thinking that I would still enjoy the movie as much as I did when I was younger . But honestly I wasn't laughing as much as I did when I was 12 , I think because it was for the most part it was just junior high humor . Is The Waterboy a funny movie ? Yeah , I'm not going to lie , I still got a few good laughs out of it ; it's just baffling to me that a grown man could make millions of dollars while making baby voices , that's the power of Adam Sandler . Bobby Boucher , a pretty stupid , stuttering , water boy with anger issues due to constant teasing and his mother's excessive sheltering . He was the water boy for the University of Louisiana Cougars or the past 18 years , but the players tormented him , and the team's head coach , Coach Red Beaulieu , fired him for disrupting his team's practices . He later goes to Coach Klein , coach of the Mud Dogs , and volunteers to work as the team's water boy for free after seeing the filthy water that the coach provides his players . During his first few hours of being waterboy for the Mud Dogs , one of the players spits into the water can . A flashback is then seen when the waterboy was a young kid working for the Cougars . Coach Beaulieu refuses the right for the waterboy to retaliate against one of his players for spitting in the cooler . Coach Klein notices his anger problem and encourages Bobby to stand up for himself instead of letting the players walk all over him . After Grenouille , the team's captain taunts him , Bobby then sees flashbacks of the people that also made his life a living hell . Bobby then effortlessly runs onto the field , grunting and growling in sheer anger and tackles Grenouille , shocking the whole team and prompting Coach Klein to put him on the field , with positive results . Despite his overprotective mother's disapproval , he secretly continues to play football , and also secretly goes to school . He uses his anger to tackle the opposing players by pretending they're the people who made fun of him throughout his life . He quickly becomes one of the most feared linebackers in college football and love interest of Vicki Vallencourt . While The Waterboy is stupid in a lot of moments , over all it's just a harmless comedy that is just for fun . I still love quoting certain lines to it , especially when Bobby attacks his college professor because his mama was insulted . Another reason I can't hate this movie is that this was the time that Adam Sandler was actually funny and we enjoyed seeing his movies . I think the reason why people just didn't respond as well to this movie as his other films was due to the fact that a lot of his movies are the same plot with a different character : Happy Gilmore or Billy Madison . The Wedding Singer was his first movie that was completely original and that's why it's so well loved . But I still would recommend seeing The Waterboy for a few good laughs , you have to love some of the fantasies that Bobby comes up with , such as " Water sucks , Gatorade tastes better " , you'll have to see what I mean , but trust me , it's a good scene .
I loved the first Homeward Bound so much , it was one of my favorite childhood films . My friend had the sequel and I guess I was kind of curious where the story would go or end . The first Homeward Bound was so adorable and such a great story , so why not see the second one ? It seemed like a great concept and go back to the magic of the first one . While it's not as good as the first one , I warn you , I think this was still a fine family film . The family is going on vacation again , but this time they are taking the pets with . But Jamie and Chance's relationship has changed , where Jamie isn't playing with Chance as often and Sassy teases Chance that he's going back to " the bad place " , in the dog world that means " the pound " . So , Chance escapes the cage taking him to the plane , Shadow and Sassy follow to help Chance . They end up lost in San Francisco and get their butts saved by other street dogs , Chance also falls for one of those dogs named Delila . But it's street vs . pet and if humans are really worth risking everything for . Like I said , the second Homeward Bound doesn't compare to the original and the plot is extremely similar , but I think over all that it worked very well for the kids . The whole family will enjoy the film , it has positive energy and fun jokes that anyone could enjoy if they don't have an attitude problem . So , give the second Homeward Bound a chance , you may just like it .
This is probably the most controversial Halloween movie , simply because Michael Myers isn't in it . I know that this movie gets a lot of complaints , but actually I can see where the writers were going with this . They just had an idea to continue the Halloween stories , but just to do a different type of franchise , which I give them a lot of credit for . Does this movie deliver the same scares as the original Halloween or even the sequel ? No , it doesn't , but it's still creepy and not given a proper chance by most . Just the song that is used alone in this movie was a bit intense . It's a great little ghost story that is sure to deliver chills if you have an open mind to it . The acting isn't as good as the other movies , we have some pretty below par actors , but over all they make the movie worth watching even if it was cheesy . On Saturday , October 23 , shop owner Harry Grimbridge is chased by mysterious figures wearing business suits . He collapses at a gas station clutching a Silver Shamrock jack-o'-lantern mask and is driven to the hospital by the filling station attendant all the while ranting , " They're gonna kill us . All of us . " While Grimbridge is hospitalized , another man in a suit enters his room and pulls his skull apart . The man then returns to his vehicle , douses himself with gasoline and lights himself on fire , causing the car to explode . Challis , together with Grimbridge's daughter , Ellie , begins an investigation that leads them to the home of the Silver Shamrock Novelties factory . They learn from a hotel manager , Mr . Rafferty , that the source of the town's prosperity is Irishman Conal Cochran and his factory and that the majority of the town's population is made up of descendants of Irish immigrants . Challis learns that Ellie's father had stayed at the same hotel . Other guests of the hotel included shop owners Marge Guttman , Buddy , Betty and their son " Little " Buddy . All have business at the factory and eventually meet gruesome ends because of the Silver Shamrock masks . The Kupfer family views the Silver Shamrock commercial that will air on Halloween night . But there's more to these masks then meets the eye . Is Halloween 3 the best sequel ? No ; is it the worst sequel ? No ; I'd say just a lot of people got the wrong idea about the movie and didn't know what the writers were thinking when the wrote for this franchise . I loved the ending scene , it actually did give me a nightmare , I don't want to give it away though , just trust me , it's a creepy scene . I do recommend if you love horror movies to give this movie a fair chance or if you want to see the Halloween movie franchise , just remember that the writers just wanted to try something new . I do honestly like this movie , I hope people will see it for what it is and it's just a good ghost story to watch on a night for Halloween .
I remember seeing the trailer for The Secret Life of Bees and honestly , the movie looked completely different than what I was expecting . I have not read the book , so I wasn't sure what to expect , but after watching The Secret Life of Bees , this story just touched my heart and I felt like this film couldn't have come out at a more perfect time than this year with our first bi-racial president . I think we always could use a history lesson or reminder of how far we have come these few decades . The actors , Queen Latifah and Dakota Fanning both pulled in beautiful performances and really make this film powerful and touching . Another surprise performance that I really enjoyed was Alicia Key's , I've never seen her in film before , but she did a great job . It's a strong drama that holds itself very well and is very heart warming . Lily is a young white girl in the 1960's southern America in the peak of racism . At only 14 years old she has a lot on her shoulders , she accidentally shot and killed her mother when she was just 4 years old , her father is extremely abusive , and her best friend is her black nanny who takes her into town and gets beat by several white men and is arrested for not apologizing afterwards . Lily breaks her out and runs away with her , they ask a black family for hospitality . The head of the house hold , August takes them in despite the suspicions from June and May , the other girls of the house . But Lily soon finds herself surprisingly when she least expected it and now has the most loving family in the world . The Secret Life of Bees is a charming film , I would say worth the price if you want to see it in the movie theater . This film reminds us of the little things and the happy feeling of love . Sounds cheesy , but it's true and honestly I think anyone could enjoy this movie if you open your heart up to it . The performances were great and the story is heart warming . Dakota is growing into a fine actress and held herself very well next to Queen Latifah . So I would recommend The Secret Life of Bees , I think somewhere down the line , this will be a little treasured classic .
Howard the Duck is a film that I grew up with , I was only a 1 year old when it was released , but my mom and I would watch it together all the time . I think that's the reason why this movie is just special to me . But still I watch this movie and honestly it's not as bad as most people exaggerate it to be , granted it's not Citizen Kane , but it's still awesome to watch . I think people take the movie too seriously , first off look at the title , if you're expecting a duck to deliver an Oscar worth performance , get your head checked , second people make fun of the " flirting " between the duck and Lea Thompson , which was meant to be a joke , not real . Third , the ending , people make fun of it and it's being over the top , I personally found it to be so funny and still a ton of fun to watch , how could you not get a kick out of Jeffrey Jones ' performance ? He was awesome ! If you wanna know what the movie is about , read on before you see the movie so you can get a good idea and judge for yourself . The film begins late at night in " Duckworld , " which is a version of planet Earth , but with talking ducks living there in place of human beings . As Howard tries to relax , his armchair begins to vibrate violently , and Howard and the chair are promptly yanked through outer-space , all the way to Cleveland on planet Earth . After ending up in an oil drum , Howard hears a fight involving a woman and two thugs pretending to be her fans . Howard uses his skills of " Quack Fu " to defend her . Intimidated by a talking duck , the thugs scamper . The woman , Beverly , thanks Howard and , feeling sorry for him because he has no warm and dry place to sleep , invites him to her apartment . The next day , Beverly takes Howard to see Phil Blumburtt , who she believes is a scientist that can help Howard get back to Duckworld . It turns out Phil is actually a janitor at a museum and Howard , infuriated with Phil's charade . A few days later , Dr . Walter Jenning , and Larry who explain to Howard that they were doing a routine procedure at the lab , only for the experiment to go out of control , causing the laser to hit Howard's planet instead . Howard suggests he can be sent back to Duckworld if the laser can be put into reverse . He is taken to the Dynatechnics lab alongside Beverly , only to find out on arrival that the laser is seriously damaged due to another explosion . The explosion brings down a " Dark Overlord " who is not seen by the audience at the time , and takes over Jenning's body . Howard and Beverly see Dr . Jenning , but he is in the process of being taken over by the Dark Overlord . With Howard and Beverly both unaware of this , they escape in Jenning's car onto the freeway with him driving dangerously due to his worsening possession . They stop outside a diner just before he is fully taken over . Inside the Diner , the Overlord explains his attempts to call forth his fellow aliens from the Nexus of Sominus so that they may take over the world . Honestly , yeah the plot is a bit much to grasp , but cut the movie some slack , it's about a duck for goodness ' sake ! For me , it still makes me laugh and I have a ton of fun watching it . I loved seeing Tim Robbins and Howard trying to get to the factory to destroy Jeffrey Jones before he could take over the world , Tim was absolutely hilarious ! Yes there are a few things about this movie that are over the top but I still think that this movie is just mindless entertainment . Hey how many movies do we have where a duck saves Planet Earth ? Hmm , I guess this is the only one ; but give the movie a fair chance , it's a cute one .
I don't know , I'm not quit sure . This is on the top 100 . In fact in the top 50 . At 37 , I was quit impressed . I have been dying to see this movie . I finally swallowed my pride and did the stupid 2 day rental at Blockbuster . Which everyone knows is stupid and not worth it to have a film for 2 days . Now , I thought that the movie was very interesting . There is a point . The acting was very good . There is another point . The editing was great . There is another point . The directing is pretty decent . There is a point . And quit another few to be named . BUT ! ! ! . . . in some ways I thought this was a pretty average film . Like " Vanilla Sky " and " Wicker Park " , you are confused through most of the movie . I felt also that it didn't end too well . But you could give it a shot , because obviously other people saw something in this film to give it a high rating .
So , Hellboy , another comic book I never heard of , figured I would never get into it if I didn't know the story , so I stayed clear of the film , but I was renting movies and came across it and figured to just see what it was about . I watched Hellboy yesterday and this was definitely a fun film , it's so rare that we get the dark comic book story like Batman , except we have Hellboy , supernatural and dark , nice combo . Hellboy packs plenty of action and cool effects with an awesome story and a new anti hero to root for . It's so cool and ironic that we are rooting for a half man and half devil to save the world , right ? Hellboy is an awesome hero with the super strength , great fighting skills , and best of all , gotta love the last cool pun lines when he saves the day . In 1944 , Professor Trevor Bruttenholm goes to Germany to stop a Nazi troop who are ready to open the gates of Hell . The Americans are able to stop the troop , but Trevor finds a creature , half man , half devil , he calls him Hellboy . Years later Hellboy is being used by the government to help the city out with super natural forces . But when Grigori Rasputin wishes to open the gate once more , he needs Hellboy to do so . In the mean time , Hellboy is fighting for the city and the woman he loves , Liz , and will not fall for Grigori Rasputin's tricks . Hellboy is definitely a fun film to watch and it's a great comic book film . The only complaint I have about the film is just that the effects , as great as they were , there was still some very CGI moments and they were not believable . But I loved Abe Sapien , the special effects on him were beautiful and looked very real . I would recommend Hellboy for the comic book fans or even if you're looking for a dark super hero film other than Batman or The Crow . This is a fun movie and I'm looking forward to the sequel .
Seven Pounds , this was the movie where I was just convinced Will Smith is really going for the " I'm going to make you cry " films . One thing I can give him a ton of credit for , the man can cry . My only thing is , as moving as the story is , Will Smith has proved time and time again that he can act , so why is he taking this extremely depressing story ? But nevertheless it's still a good movie . I do have to admit it made me cry , but I felt that the stand out performance was Rosario Dawson , I absolutely love this girl , ever since I saw her in 25th Hour with Ed Norton , I knew this girl was going to go far . She's beautiful , charming , funny and talented , can't wait to see how much further her career is going to go . But her and Will Smith , not so sure if they had the great chemistry that the film needed that would've made this into a great film . Two years ago Tim Thomas was in a car crash , which was caused by him using his mobile phone ; seven people died : six strangers and his fiancée . A year after the crash , and having quit his job as an aeronautical engineer , Tim donates a lung lobe to his brother , Ben , an IRS employee . Six months later he donates part of his liver to a child services worker named Holly . After that he begins searching for more candidates to receive donations . He finds George , a junior hockey coach , and donates a kidney to him , and then donates bone marrow to a young boy named Nicholas . Two weeks before he dies he contacts Holly and asks if she knows anyone who deserves help . She suggests Connie Tepos , who lives with an abusive boyfriend . Tim moves out of his house and into a local motel taking with him his pet box jellyfish . One night , after being beaten , Connie contacts Tim and he gives her the keys and deed to his beach house . She takes her two children and moves in to their new home . Having stolen his brother's credentials , and making himself known by his brother's name Ben , he checks out candidates for his two final donations . The first is Ezra Turner , a blind vegetarian meat salesman who plays the piano . Tim calls Ezra Turner and harasses him at work to check if he is quick to anger . Ezra remains calm and Tim decides he is worthy . He then contacts Emily Posa , a self-employed greeting card printer who has a heart condition and a rare blood type . He spends time with her , weeding her garden and fixing her rare Heidelberg printer . He begins to fall in love with her and decides that as her condition has worsened he needs to make his donation . Seven Pounds is a good film and no doubt worth a look , I would just recommend going for the rental vs . the theater . Will Smith pulls in a good performance , but not his best , just most of the film required him crying in every scene , but the last one with him is a doozy . But I loved the ending , it was beautiful and really made you appreciate life and to not take it for granted . There is still good people in this world and Ben's character reminds you to value life and to give to those who are in desperate need . Although he went a little far , but it was still a beautiful story .
Is it cheesy ? Yes ! Is it cliché ? Oh , yes ! But this was so original for it's time and the effects were astonishing ! While it is very corny and goes over the top with the cliché hero / villain relationship , Superman is just a fun little movie to watch . Despite that I'm still digging Batman even more , but Superman is cool to watch too . : D I had heard that there was a new Superman movie coming out and I had not seen the original Superman movie in a while , so I figured I should re watch before seeing the new one . Comic book nerds , I know they'll love this movie ! : D No offense to those who are ! Remember , you'll be the rich one's in the future ! But in general , I think anyone can enjoy this fun and optimistic super hero movie !
" Constantine " , " Constantine " , " Constantine " , you started off so well , what happened ? Sorry , I just watched " Constantine " last night . Even though , I'm not kidding , about everyone I met who had seen this film said it was stupid , I still was interested . It did look interesting and fun to watch . First off , computer effects . I understand that CGI effects are needed in this type of a movie . It wasn't bad at first , we had some good eye candy , then it seemed like they should have quit while they were ahead . It got a little out of control and you could tell that it was beyond fake . This isn't The Matrix , guys . Second , story . It was going so well , I mean , you actually believe Keanu's character and story . Then , oh , man , the ending . Oh , what a sad ending it was . It had really no point . I didn't understand about 35 % of the movie , because it never explained itself . Over all , this wasn't bad . I mean , I would actually watch it again . There are just a few complaints . It's not as bad as everyone said it was , but it just isn't that great either . So , I think this is one of those movies you should judge for yourself .
It was a scary movie . But it's not a remake , more of a sequal . It was kind of insult to Gunnar Hanson , but it's a fun movie for a stormy night . Jessica Beil's character is the herion of the story . She did do an excellent job . Leatherface , he was effective . The story was believable . Of course it is 1000 times gorier than the original TCM . But after all it is 2003 . Speaking of which that was the only thing that bothered me . It was set in 1973 , but did anyone else notice that the clothes were updated ? Oh , well . It's watchable .
The Pink Panther Strikes Again is the completion to the trilogy of the Pink Panther . Once again the detective is up to his clumsy ways of trying to save the world away from a man who has a machine that will make very important things disappear , maybe even a city or country ! My favorite scene was definitely when the detective dresses up as a dentist and comes to the villain's toothache pains . The laughing gas gets to both of them and together they just have a good time pulling out teeth that don't need to be pulled out . This is a pretty entertaining movie and I'm now kind of interested in seeing the remake . Hopefully it's a good one .
My Super Ex Girlfriend turned out to be a pleasant surprise for me , I was really expecting a horrible movie that would probably be stupid and predictable , and you know what ? It was ! But this movie did have so many wonderful laughs and a fun plot that anyone could get a kick out of . I know that this was a very cheesy movie , but Uma and Anna were just so cool and Steve was such a great addition along with a great cast that looked like they had so much fun and that's what made the movie really work . Jenny Johnson ( scary , that's my best friend's actual name ) is not your typical average librarian looking woman , when Matt , your average male , asks her out , he's in for more than he expected , he's asked G-Girl out on a date , the super hero of the world ! But when he finds out what a jealous and crazy girl she really is and decides that it may be a good idea that they spend some time apart , but Jenny won't have it since he's fallen for another girl , Hannah , and she will make his life a living hell , I mean , let's face it , he couldn't have chosen a better girl to break up with . The effect were corny , but you seriously move past them quickly , the story and cast made the story really work and I loved Uma in this movie , it was such a step up from Prime . My Super Ex Girlfriend is a fun movie that you shouldn't really take seriously , it's just a cute romantic comedy that I think if I could get a laugh out of it , anyone could .
Lately , I've been enjoying my social life more than getting back into my movie hobby , so apologies for the delay on my comments for those who enjoy them . ; ) I was looking for a movie to watch and my mom had recommended for me to watch The Royal Tennenbaums and that it is a very dark humor type of movie . So I figured I'd give it a shot . I really did enjoy this movie . For some reason I really got into the humor , which is kind of weird , but I loved how quirky it was . Gene Hackman without a doubt steals this movie with his incredible performance as Royal , who fakes his fatal illness just so he can get back into his family . Actually to be honest , all the actors pretty much had flawless performances . I can see where people wouldn't like this movie , but I think it is one of those love / hate movies that you just have to give a chance . But I would recommend this one for drama and independent movie lovers .
The first time I saw this preview , the first thought that came into my head was " Oh , my God , how could they rip off Rear Window ? " , Rear Window is one of my all time favorite movies . But my boyfriend and I had nothing better to do last week and decided to see it , I have to say that actually , it wasn't as bad as I expected , I have to admit that it was a pretty good re-introduction to one of the greatest thrillers of all time . It had a new and fresh feeling with teens and it worked , despite how it seemed a bit more predictable than Rear Window , it still was pretty clever . Kale has had a rough year , while driving his father back from their father / son fishing trip , they get into a horrible fatal car accident , the Father dies , but Kale is alive trying to deal with the guilt of what happened . But a teacher pushes him too far in his high school Spanish class and he hits the teacher , putting him on house arrest , he cannot leave outside his property . But he's in luck when a hot young girl moves next door , they quickly develop a peeping tom type of relationship , they spy on the neighbors , but when they see the neighbor across the street on a date , but the date " never leaves the house " and they want to prove him as a cold hearted murderer , but is he ? You'll have to see this movie to find out . So Distubia was a pretty good movie , I would recommend it , although before you see it , I would highly recommend seeing Rear Window , but this was a good updated version that I'm sure you'll enjoy . It keeps you on the edge of your seat and will make you ask questions over and over again , those are always the thrillers that are worth seeing .
OK , I saw Australia back in December , so I'm a little rusty , forgive the late review . But looking back on this movie and just thinking about it really did help me in looking at the film and it's story . Australia was a movie that really tried to be the next Gone With The Wind for the millennium's audience . While it's a good movie , it definitely wasn't great and went way over the top . It's a little lengthy in the time and the writing was a little over done , BUT nevertheless it was still a good movie . It had terrific sets and was a beautiful setting , it felt like watching one of the old classic movies that made you feel good . Well , it was kinda like Titanic with the emotions , you were up , you were down , you were laughing , you were crying , well you get the idea . The story is a bit much , so I'm going to do the best I can to give you a decent summary . In 1939 , Lady Sarah Ashley travels from England to northern Australia to force her philandering husband to sell his faltering Australian cattle station , Faraway Downs . Her husband sends an independent cattle drover , called simply " Drover " , to Darwin to transport her to Faraway Downs . Lady Sarah's husband , who has been working hard to sell 1500 head of cattle to the military , is murdered shortly before she arrives . Meanwhile , treacherous FD cattle station manager Neil Fletcher is trying to gain control of Faraway Downs , so that neighboring Lesley ' King ' Carney can have a cattle monopoly in the Northern Territory , which will give him negotiating leverage with the Australian army . The childless Lady Sarah is captivated by the young boy Nullah , who was born to an Aboriginal mother and an unknown white father . When Nullah and his mother hide from the white authorities by entering a water tower , his mother drowns . Drover is friendly with the Aborigines , and therefore shunned by many of the other whites in the territory . Lady Sarah and Drover develop a romance , and she gains a new appreciation for the Australian territory . But Carney's men poison all the water sources along the cattle-drive route , so the group risks driving the cattle through the dangerous Never Never desert , which they accomplish with the help of " King George " . Two years later , Drover and Lady Sarah have lived together with Nulla . But Drover , who has been quarreling with Lady Sarah and has gone droving apparently never to return , hears that she has been killed in the bombing of Darwin . Drover finds out about Nullah's abduction to Mission Island , and sets out with Magarri and Ivan to rescue Nullah and the other children from the island using a sailboat . Whew , OK , I hope that summary is a good description of the movie since I haven't watched in a while , but I did the best I could . So in a quick sum up , the movie is worth the watch , for the background , it was worth watching in the theater . But you get the same effect if you watched it at home if you have a big screen TV and surround sound . Nicole and Hugh were a beautiful couple together , they did the best they could for such a lengthy story . But the chemistry was on and the movie did work , I think they just went a little too over the top on trying to make this movie into a classic or some kind of love fest for the Oscars . It's worth the watch , but I'd recommend just watching it at home , I don't think I can sit through a 3 hour movie again in the theaters , I'm really loosing my touch .
I was watching on VH1 I love the 80's and Back to School got a mention , I remember seeing it in my mother's VHS collection and I recently saw Easy Money , it was my first Rodney Dangerfield movie and I absolutely loved it . So I decided to go ahead and give Back to School a chance . I really had a good time watching it , I just miss comedies like this where it was dirty or over the top , it was just plain fun to watch and you have a good time viewing the film . Rodney is such a lovable goof and he always makes it look like he and the cast enjoy making these comedies . The story is so crazy , but so hilarious that it makes you wanna go back to school with Rodney and just have a good time with him and his son . Thornton Melon's father made one thing clear to him at a young age , no matter how old , young , poor , rich you are , education is one of the most important things in life . Well , Thornton has grown into a successful clothes store owner and is very rich and powerful . But when his son , Jason , is discouraged with college , Thornton goes back to school to help encourage his son to get through it . While for Jason it's all studies and trying to fit in , it's all fun and games for Thornton and he's having the time of his life while being the big man on campus . Back To School is a great comedy that I highly recommend , it's all in good fun and Rodney is just such a great comedian . I just loved it when he was going to the college to visit his son and he accidentally enters the sorority house and walks in on a girl showering and says " Oh , don't worry , you're perfect " , lol , I just couldn't stop laughing . Also I loved Keith Gordon in the film , I can't believe this guy didn't make it big in acting , but he just does such a terrific job keeping up with Rodney . Back to School is a fun film and I'm sure you'll have a good time watching it .
Not bad , I just saw this movie on Cinemax , I thought it was actually pretty entertaining . Well , what can you say about The Blob ? First off , this is the remake of the original Blob from the 50's which was megga cheesy . I have to say that also this movie was megga cheesy , but in some ways just more fun to watch . You know I just love the fact that the cheerleader goes from this cute little girl talking all lightly and being in general you're typical cheerleader , then when she starts to fight back at the blob , she goes all Rambo screaming " Come on ! You want some of this ! You son of a . . . " well , you get the picture . The characters and plot is very typical , but like I said , I think this was just a cheesy good time for movies . So over all I would recommend this fun little horror movie . Although , I have to still admit that a moving jello isn't that horrifying , I kept on expecting Bill Cosby to come out and say " There's always room for jello ! "
A few years ago , while I was renting some movies , I came across Subspecies 4 , ended up watching it and actually kind of liking it , we need a good vampire gore flick that doesn't hold back . But when I went back to the video store , they said they didn't have any other Subspecies videos , unfortunately , the same went for any other video store I checked out . I gave up , until someone on youtube actually posted all the Subspecies films and I got to watch them all last night and I'm hooked . I am now a fan of the Full Moon Subspecies series . I think because this was the type of horror film I have been looking for , I've been looking for a good cheesy scare for a long time and Subspecies filled that spot . Radu is one of the coolest vampires on screen and almost gives Nosferatu a run for his fangs ! Radu is an evil vampire who is after his blood stone , his birth rite , the stone contains some blood that is absolutely incredible and gives him strength . Three American girls who are studying Romanian history and culture bump into a man , Stephan , who offers to help . They stay at Radu's castle where we find out that Stephan is Radu's brother ; Radu seduces and turns two of the girls , but Stephan falls for one of the girls , Michelle , and will do anything to protect her . Subspecies is a fun series , despite the cheesy effects , it makes it in some ways more likable . Plus Radu was a perfect villain as Stephan was the perfect angel like romantic vampire . The story is chilling and I think this was a fun vampire movie . This was also the first in the series , the best part is , the sequels are just as fun . I would recommend this for a scary movie night , watch it in the dark , Radu is sure to send shivers down your spine , or even your neck . . . OK , cheesy joke , couldn't resist .
Look Who's Talking is such a great classic , one of my great memories of childhood , every weekend when I would go to my grandparent's place , they would let me pick a movie and we would watch it together , very often I would pick Look Who's Talking or Look Who's Talking Too , they were just such fun movies to watch and laugh at . When I grew up , I realized I hadn't seen the movie in so many years , but it was on TV the other day and I figured I would have a little blast from the past and watch it . You know what's strange about this movie ? It's actually more for adults rather than the kids , but this became such a family friendly movie , but that's why many people say they don't make them like they used too , because writing where it is more aimed at the adults but it ends up being something that every age can enjoy is clever and this is one of the most fun movies of the 90's . Mollie Jensen is an accountant living and working in New York City . The latest client she has been assigned by her firm is a charmingly-handsome but shallow womanizing executive named Albert who seduces her and although married embarks on an affair with Mollie , promising to leave his wife for her . Mollie becomes pregnant with his child . After realizing she is pregnant she informs Albert who takes the news well and again promises to leave his wife and raise the baby with her . Mollie continues her relationship with Albert as the pregnancy develops , however he's seeing another woman . Later when Mollie and her best friend Rona are shopping Mollie finds Albert in a clinch with the other woman . Angry and upset , a heart-broken Mollie storms off in a rage while the fight causes her to suddenly go into labor . When she hails a cab the driver James Ubriacco realizes the seriousness of the situation and speeds off to the hospital . Upon reaching the hospital , the nurses ' confuse him for being the father of Mollie's baby and he feels inclined to stay . Mollie gives birth to a son she names Michael . A few days after " Mikey " is brought home , Mollie receives a visit from James , where he returns the purse she left behind in his taxi . James meets Mikey , and they seem to enjoy each others company . Mollie starts dating again , but quickly realizes that none of the men she has been seeing are good enough for Mikey and one night she lets her guard down and almost sleeps with James ; however after imagining what life would be like if she married him , she asks him to leave , despite James telling her he loves both her and Mikey . Look Who's Talking is a charming movie that I'm sure won't disappoint you , it's cute , romantic , funny , and has a great cast . It's a realistic look at what happens with unplanned pregnancy and John Travolta's character , James , becomes the ultimate and unexpected hero of the movie . I hope that I meet a guy like James one day , he was just so lovable . I also adored Bruce Willis ' voice , he was a perfect fit for Mikey . Kristy Alley , she plays the crazy mother , but you see all that her character goes through and you just feel awful for her . This is such a great movie , I highly recommend it if you get the chance to see it , it's a great classic .
Recently I saw the theatrical trailer for Resident Evil : Extinction and it occurred to me , I have never seen the first two Resident Evil films , and I always wanted to see them . So I rented the first two Resident Evil films and watched them last night . I had a lot of fun watching Resident Evil , it was very high action and kept my heart racing on what would happen next . This is a great movie based on a video game , this is the kind of movie that we need if we are talking about basing it on a video game . I haven't seen a good one since Mortal Kombat . The action and effects were so awesome not to mention that there are some very awesome scares in here . Very cool make up for the zombies ; and the story was excellent . A virus breaks out in a lab called the Hive where everyone is held in captivity and dies . All of a sudden we see a woman passed out in a shower , she has no idea who she is , she meets two other men who have no idea who they are , but they are taken by soldiers who take them underground to the Hive . There the three learn that they are fighters for this out break and that also they might be part of what happened . The main thing is that they control the Hive , but that gets more difficult when the virus has turned the people it killed into the living dead , zombies . The woman , Alice , turns into the leader and must find out why this happened and also how they can get out alive without contaminating the world . Resident Evil was an awesome movie to watch and I would highly recommend this movie for anyone who loves action movies . If you loved Mortal Kombat I'm sure you'll love Resident Evil . There are so many great scenes , but my favorite was when Alice saw the evil dogs and they chased her throughout the lab , it was really scary but so awesome to watch . Well , you'll just have to see what I mean . Milla Jovovich was just a perfect choice for Alice , she is such a cool character and now I'm really looking forward to seeing Extinction .
When I saw " Austin Powers " , I was on the floor laughing . This movie has every single memorable line you could possibly imagine . From " Yeah , baby ! " to " Riiiiiight " , Mike Myers is a genius when it comes to comedy ! I think everyone could say that they laughed at least once to this film . Paroding of the James Bond flicks , Austin Powers is an international spy who is a lady's man . Dr . Evil , is Arch Nemesis , goes into the future of 1997 and now Austin must travel through time to find him . When he gets to 1997 , he has a beautiful assistant , Vanessa , who happens to be the daughter of his former flame in the 60's . Vanessa resists Austin's charm and wants to stick to business while Austin is wasting no time to get to his " business " with her . Dr . Evil learns that he has a son , Scott played by Seth Green . When Scott isn't as excited to have Dr . Evil as a father , Dr . Evil tries anything he can to get Scott to love him , including a hilarious scene in a counseling group for father's and son's . But back into action , Austin must find Dr . Evil before he rules the world with his kitty , Mr . Bigglesworth . But can he do that and have Vanessa at the same time ? You'll just have to see ! My favorite characters that worked so well together was without a doubt Seth and Mike as Dr . Evil and Scott . They are just beyond hilarious and work so well together . I think a lot of the other Austin Powers fans would agree . There first scene together meeting is just really funny , " Give Daddy a hug ! I'm down with the kids , ducka ducka ducka ! " " No ! Get away from me you psycho ! " . Classic ! Like I said " Austin Powers " is just a great and funny movie that I think you can get into if you're looking for a decent comedy . Come on ! We still say " Yeah , baby ! " to this very day after all ! Let's give Mike some credit here !
Back when I first saw the trailer for Wanted , I have to say that I was more puzzled and assumed the movie would just flop , instead I had friends who were just crazy about the movie . I also work at a movie theater , so I saw a lot of the audience walking out and going crazy over it . I had to see what all the rave was about , so my friend and I checked it out a couple days ago and this was one of the funnest action movies I have seen in a long time . One of the things I loved about this movie was despite how unrealistic it was , that was what had made it so much fun , we need a good action movie that you can just let go of reality and just enter this world where you can kick butt while doing the most incredible stunts . Now I'll admit I have never read the comics , this also seemed like the newer fight club , but I think this is one of the funnest movies I have seen this summer . Wesley Gibson has a crummy life : dead end job , a girlfriend who cheats on him with his best friend , and a father he never knew . But all that changes when he meets the girl of a life time , Fox . He meets Fox in a store and not only does she tell him that his father was an assassin who just was murdered , but she has a major shoot out with a man who is the killer of his dad . She takes Wesley to a factory where the assassins maned The Fraternity . Sloan , who is the leader , trains Wesley to be a top assassin and to kill his father's murderer . But at least that's what Wesley is led to believe into a shocking ending . I think Wanted does deliver all it promises , I know there are a lot of people who are upset that supposedly that this isn't faithful to the comic series , but I think that some just need to let go , because no matter what , you have to admit that this was just a wild ride . I'm not a huge fan of Angelina Jolie's , but dang , this girl just rocked and was so hard core , I wanted to be Fox . Morgan Freeman made such a great Sloan , he has a great skill of being a leader and someone that everyone admires ; I also loved his line " Kill this . . . " well , it's a bad word that I can't say , you'll have to see the movie to know what I am talking about . But Wanted is worth your money and time , it's a fun action film that will leave you wanting more .
A lot of people ask why " Clueless " was so popular or how people could enjoy this , for me I think because you can tell that the cast had so much fun doing this film ! They made such a memorable team and a must see movie from the 90's . This movie could have everything you could possibly want : shopping , clothes , catchy lines , sex , and teens ! OK , I'm kidding , but " Clueless " is such a fun film . Alicia Silverstone in her best movie role as Cher Horweitz . A rich and extremely popular teenage girl who has it all . She has friends , money , a car , a line of admirers , setting two teachers up to fall madly in love with each other , good grades , an awesome best friend ( D ) , and a crazy but loving father who would do anything for her . She has the world at her fingertips , but when her college step brother tells her that she should do something more in her life and calls her selfish , she finds a very young Britney Murphy or her role as Tai Frasier and wants to make her into her own clan of clueless friends . But when Tai gets out of hand and becomes the most popular girl in school , Cher starts to loose it and discovers herself that she is clueless . The reason why Cher is so lovable though is because she wasn't your typical stereo type of a teen , she had friends of a different race , background , click , and homosexuals . She's just so cute and lovable as a person , how could you not love her ? This movie has every memorable quote you could imagine from " As If ! " to " Whatever ! " , yes , this is Valley . But it's just a lot of fun movie that everyone would love and enjoy . This is a must see movie if you want the best flicks from the 90's !
At my movie theater that I work at for some odd reason we got Vicky Cristina Barcelona 2 weeks after it's release , strange , but I don't know how these things work . But people were walking out very pleased with the movie . So I decided to go ahead and check it out , so I watched it this afternoon . Now we all have to admit , Woody has just been out of his game these past few decades , not since Annie Hall has he had a very memorable film . Nor have none of them have that creative edge that Woody has , but he still has something because Vicky Cristina Barcelona is a good movie . It has a strong story and was very different than any film we have had this year . We have a narrator throughout the film that just tells us the story as if he was reading a book . We have a strong cast that they can all hold their own on scree : Scarlett Johansson , Javier Bardem , and Penelope Cruz . They hold a strong chemistry and make the story very interesting . Vicky and Cristina are best friends who are going to Barcelona for the summer , Vicky is a believer of realistic love and is engaged to a successful man who can make her ideal marriage dream work . Cristina is the idealist of a romantic love and meets a Spanish handsome charmer , Juan Antonio who invites the girls to another city for a weekend . He gets Cristina's notice automatically , but Vicky takes some seducing to get into bed . But Juan's crazy ex wife gets back into his life and just makes things very interesting for Cristina . Vicky starts to question her ideals on love when she is just swept off her feet with Juan . Vicky Cristina Barcelona is a very well told story and nothing like I've seen before . Even though I found it to be unrealistic at times , this movie was just different , which we all need and Woody has a talent for showing that , as he has shown us with his private life , lol . But the acting is good and there are some funny moments and some touching one's as well . I loved how crazy Penelope was in this movie , she was like Fatal Attraction scary , yet you could see how Javier's character fell for her so hard , I don't blame him , I found her craziness attractive as well . So I do recommend this movie if you have the opportunity to see it , the characters are cool and the story is wonderful , Woody is back and throws in one last punch in the fight for his career .
Mel Brooks , one of my favorite directors of all time , he's delivered some of the most memorable comedies : Young Frankenstein , Spaceballs , The Producers , High Anxiety , Blazing Saddles , Robin Hood : Men in Tights . He now brings us Dracula : Dead and Loving it , one of my favorite guilty pleasures . I know there is a bit of hate for this movie because a lot of people say that Mel lost his touch and this isn't as funny as his older films . Let's face it , Mel peeked pretty early in his career with Young Frankenstein , which is one of my favorite films of all time , but everyone is naturally going to compare every film that he made at that point with his greatest movies . But if you seriously are telling me that there was not one scene that you didn't laugh at then you need your funny bone checked . The year is 1893 , solicitor Thomas Renfield travels all the way from London to Transylvania to meet an important client . As he nears the end of his journey , the sun sets , and the stagecoach driver refuses to take him any further . Kindly villagers plead with him to turn back , but Renfield explains that he is expected . Renfield arrives safely and meets Count Dracula , a charming but rather strange man who is , of course , a vampire . Dracula signs the papers finalizing the purchase of Carfax Abbey in England , and Renfield retires for the night . He wakes up when two Brides of Dracula come gliding seductively in . Dracula then casts a hypnotic spell on the suggestible Renfield , making him his slave . Dracula and Renfield soon embark for England . He goes ashore , leaving Renfield behind . When Renfield is discovered alone on the ship , he is confined to a lunatic asylum . Dracula introduces himself to his new neighbors : Doctor Seward , owner of the asylum where Renfield is being held , and a believer in enemas as a sovereign remedy for mental illness ; Seward's assistant , Jonathan Harker ; Seward's beautiful daughter Mina ; and Seward's ward , the equally pretty Lucy . Dracula flirts with Lucy and , later that night , he feeds on her blood . The next day , Mina discovers Lucy still in bed late in the morning , looking strangely pale . Seward , puzzled by the odd puncture marks on her throat , calls in an expert on obscure diseases , Dr . Abraham Van Helsing . Van Helsing is convinced that Dracula is a vampire and that they must destroy him before he gets to Mina next . Dracula : Dead and Loving It may be a bit silly at times , but seriously , you can't help but laugh . It's certainly a lot better then most spoof movies today . How could you not love Leslie Nielson as Dracula ? He was so hilarious , but who truly stole the show ? Peter MacNicol as Reinfield , I can't tell you how hard he made me laugh , if one laugh supposedly makes you loose 3 calories , I think I lost 15 , 000 calories with just his scenes . Reinfield being seduced by Dracula's brides , him trying to save Dracula's coffin on the ship from hitting the walls back and forth , him sneaking under Lucy's bed sheets to peak at her , to the ending , actually every scene with him is non stop laughs . I don't care what people think , I'm not comparing , I think this is a very funny movie and is just a blast to watch , if you don't laugh while watching this movie , you're not invited to my parties , you party pooper !
I think every kid has to see this movie . It's a charming and delightful little flick . I wish they would make more movies like this than all the fancy computer effect movies of today . I'm serious , I think this is more impressive as far as animation goes . Charlotte's Web is a great flick to watch . Even though I enjoyed the book more as a child , I still loved to watch this film . I would recommend it for children . It's a little cheesy at times . But it has good lessons and morals . Hence , why I say it's for kids . There are some catchy toons though . Even the adults might still get into it .
Silly metaphor , I know . The film " Dodgeball : A true underdog story " while maybe be offensive at times , the film really brings it back up to place with the humor . You really can't help but laugh at the movie a couple times . Sort of like " Zoolander " , another great flick with Ben Stiller , it's so stupid you've gotta love it . I would recommend this film for a good laugh . As of movie of the year or comedy of the year , no , this is not the film . But it was a good one to watch . A true film for any Ben Stiller fan , that's for sure . I will warn though , if you get offended easily , this maybe not the film for you .
Ghost Busters is one of those honest classics that will forever be remembered . It's one of those old wacky comedies that anyone could love . Not to mention it's unique idea of a story , while most ghost stories are supposed to be scary , Dan Aykroyd and Harrold Rammis made this into a genuine comedy that is so much fun to watch while it still has it's spooky moments here and there . They also picked the perfect cast and great characters , they clicked so well , and I think that's what made the story work so well . Not to mention one of the funnest songs of all time was made with this film , OK , a little off the subject , I know , but I had to mention it . Peter , Egon , and Ray are three unemployed fella's when they come up with a great idea . New York is being haunted by ghosts lately and no one can come up with a plan to get rid of them , well , instead of a typical exterminators , they become the Ghost Busters ! The Ghost Busters are like the police only they know how to face these ghouls and they come up with a whole business with it . Peter's girlfriend , Dana , has a problem with her refrigerator , it has demons inside of it , not to mention the whole building is being taken over by evil forces that only the Ghost Busters can handle . Ghost Busters is a fun film that I guarantee you a few laughs with . This is a film that will be remembered for years to come . I think my favorite scene was when Louis Tully is having a party for the building and is trying so hard to get everyone to join , he was so cute . Not to mention when Dana becomes possessed and invites Peter over and how he handles the whole situation , it was just so funny . I really love this movie , I think you will too if you haven't seen it yet .
" Platoon " was an incredible movie I just watched last night . To be honest , I don't think too much of what the soldiers in Iraq are going through right now . Unfortunately , one of my friends has been shipped over to Iraq and won't be back until next year . The only thing I worry about is if he'll be alright . " Platoon " showed how much a soldier can loose in a war . His sanity , health , and innocence . You see the transition of Taylor's behavior , he comes to Vietnam a little nieve and not realizing what he had just got himself into . But at the middle and towards the end , he becomes a " man " by the army's standards . William Defoe , what a terrific under rated actor ! I've just recently have been seeing more of his movies and he is just so great . His character touched my heart . Because he is one of the more experienced people in his troop . He even tells how the Americans were kicking butt in the beginning and now it's their turn to get it . When he punched Barnes when he held the gun to the little girl's head , I was hoping that he would've killed Barnes . But his character won me over . " Platoon " is a great Vietnam movie and I would recommend it . But it is very violent and graphic . Not recommended for kids under 16 . Otherwise , just enjoy .
Finally , after the long wait to rent Kill Bill Vol . 2 , I watched it . I was so excited . I thought the first Kill Bill was great . But I was a bit disappointed . First off , a clearence to fans of Q . T . I do think that Quentin is very good at what he does as a director . But he is still like any other director . I tend to notice that every film he made , his fans act like it was the greatest movie in the world . So , to any fan reading this review , it is just my opinion . SPOILER ALERT ! ! ! The beginning is great . Great dialouge , acting , and action . There is more drama and explination than the first Kill Bill . Elle's kill is the best by far with the removale of the other eye . And the black mamba is a great touch . We finally get to Bill . The big and final show down . And we're going with it . This has been the Bride's goal since the first movie . And she just kills him within 5 seconds . It's very lame and pathetic . And her child just accepts her into her life like as if she had always been in her mother's life . Over all , it's a good movie . It just is a little disappointing .
Zorro , the Gay Blade is a classic comedy with George Hamilton who can get even the grumpiest man laughing on the floor . He plays twins who were separated , on is a smooth Spanish womanizer who comes across his father's cape and becomes Zorro . But when a bad accident happens at a party causing him to break his leg , he must now ask his flamboyant brother to take on the role of a more colorful and happier Zorro . With some brilliant and zangy jokes , if you enjoyed Zorro , the Gay Blade , I'd highly recommend Love at First Bite . It has the same humor and the wonderfully talented George . He and the cast are just great together in this all time classic , Zorro , the Gay Blade .
The only sequel that really stood out to me that was up to the same level as the first was the Lion King sequels . Now , I've seen some good Disney sequels , but normally they're not that much fun . But I just watched 101 Dalmatians II : Patch's London Adventure , and I have to say that I had so much fun watching this movie . It was cute , fun , and just a pleasure to watch . I know the story is kind of lame , but I thought it was almost right up there with the original 101 Dalmations film . I loved watching Thunderbolt , Patch's hero , try to save the day and he ends up ruining it , but he just thinks he's doing a good job . It's a typical story , but this wonderful Disney movie makes it work . In a huge family of 101 dalmations , Patch is looking to stand out amongst his 99 brothers and sisters . The family moves to a farm , but accidentally leaves Patch behind , Patch goes to London to meet his favorite TV hero dog , Thunderbolt . When Thunderbolt's jealous sidekick , Lightening , tells him a lie saying that Thunderbolt is getting killed off the show , he freaks out and wants to save the day to get his press back , and with the help of Patch who knows every episode of his show on what he should do , he takes advantage . But Cruella DeVille is back and is helping a starving artist find his inspiration with the puppies she wants back so badly . 101 Dalmatians II : Patch's London Adventure is seriously one of the better Disney sequels . I really do not get the rating of 5 . 3 here on IMDb , because this was just a fun film to watch . If you are honestly telling me you did not laugh when Thunderbolt fakes his death with Lightening to prove that he's still " got it " , Lightening's reaction was just priceless . This is a terrific family film and just a fun Disney movie together if you are just looking for a Disney movie to watch . I loved 101 Dalmatians II : Patch's London Adventure , please give it a look , it's very cute .
And I'm serious ! To be honest , I wish this would have been shown in my high school class , we would've had so much fun with this flick . I'm a little upset , it sounds stupid , but I think I needed to see more " Q " movies , and this started with a " G " ! The movie ? Ah , cavemen love . To think that the future cavemen's child was conceived when he was taught how to do the deed right . : D Mind out of gutter , mind out of gutter . The movie isn't bad . I actually thought it was a lot better than " 2001 : A Space Odessey " . Yeah , it's a little slow paced and you have to guess what's going on during most of the movie . But if you didn't figure most of it out just by the title , GET HELP ! GET HOOKED ON PHONICS ! : D The movie is interesting and was a pretty decent watch .
Just a few days ago , my mom and I watched a documentary on the famous Zodiac killer and his victims . It was incredibly interesting so it got me thinking about the film Zodiac that was released this year and lucky enough it was released on DVD today so I rented it . My friend and I just watched it a couple of hours ago and really liked it , especially on how it ended and was over all shot . I thought it was kinda cool how it started off like a documentary type of movie , but then was turning into a thriller that kept you going and guessing , even if you knew the whole story . In the small towns of California , there are several brutal murders , eventually going onto San Fransisco . These murders are extremely violent and very random , and every time it happens there is a message or sign that is left by the killer that calls himself the " Zodiac " . He sends letters to the press on how and where he killed his victims and teases the police that they will never catch him . But Robert , one of the newspaper cartoonist starts to obsess about the killer , who he is and how they can capture him . With an all star cast , we had absolutely no problem with acting because it was terrific . Jake and Mark held their own very well . The whole story is very chilling and kept you going . The Zodiac Killer is a case that forever will remain a mystery and it was a great idea for a film , Fincher added a Se7en type of feel to this film . It's so funny how I knew the story and how it ended already , but I was actually just waiting to see what would happen in the next scene . I would highly recommend this film to any thriller fan , I'm sure you'll enjoy it , it's a great one for
A few months ago I wanted The Secret Garden on DVD , I found it , but it was a double feature with A Little Princess , I never saw that movie but remember hearing about it when I was a little girl . Not sure why I never saw it , but I was looking for a movie to watch last night and figured I would watch it and I have to say that this was such an adorable and beautiful film about how every girl in the world has a little princess in them . The girl who played Sara was so incredibly amazing , she was such a talent in this film , and so were the other children . I think the reason why this film is so wonderful is that we could all relate to the magic of being a child and using our imagination to make things better . The story here is absolutely charming . Sara is going to an American private school where over privileged girls are getting their education , her father leaves her to fight in the war . Sara quickly becomes the most popular girl in school and tells all of these imaginative stories to the girls that excite and frighten them . But Sara's dreams are quickly shattered when she learns from the mean and strict Minchin teacher that her father is dead , now she has to " earn her keep " and becomes a servant to the girls . But Sara will not loose hope and reminds the girls that they all have a little princess in them . A Little Princess is an absolutely charming film that I would recommend to anyone . I have a feeling that a lot of American children missed out on it , so please if you see the double DVD of this and The Secret Garden , please pick it up . This was a great film to watch , the acting and sets were so amazing , but it's the story that was so wonderful for the children and adults alike . I'm really glad I had the opportunity to see this movie , it's a great one that I highly recommend for anyone .
You know , to those people who claim that this is racist or too violent , I think that they are just scarred . Because we all have thought like D-fens . The day that I saw this , I was visiting my friend , it was supposed to be just a one hour drive that turned into a three hour mess because of construction on the express way . I just wanted to get out of my car and walk to my friend's house , it would've been a lot quicker . Not to sound psycho , but also , I wanted to scream at the construction workers , they are destroying a perfectly fine street ! They charge more on the express way tolls now to put me in traffic for a longer time . The food mart , how many of us wanted to ask " Why do you charge so much for a bottle of pop ? " To street gangs , if we get off your " territory " , why do you still want to beat up innocent people ? The list goes on and on . Watch this movie and give it a chance . It's very true and we all can put ourselves in D-fen's shoes .
I couldn't wait for The Duchess , I am just a huge fan of period pieces and Kiera Knightly is becoming a fantastic actress in this genre . I was looking forward to this film mainly because I studied Georgina a little bit in college for my history class and I always thought she was such an elegant and strong woman that stood out from the others . She was like the Madonna of her day , she had a great sense of style , self , and strength . While the movie is not completely accurate , it still was a fine movie to watch . Kiera truly held her own as Georgina and was absolutely stunning . One of the underlining stories that I appreciate in this film is the battle of the sexes . Ralph Fiennes who plays the Duke of Devonshire does a fantastic job as well and he plays this anti-villain , shows the true side of the pain and pressure men felt but how they looked at women as nothing but property . This story truly touches you and makes you grateful for our present day . Georgina is born into a high class family of royalty who is about to be married off to the Duke of Devonshire and everything seems great , G is going to live the high life of class , culture , and being a lady of the people . She comes across the price though : her husband's affairs that are practically rubbed in her face , her life is constantly watched and judged by people , she must be perfect at all times to keep up her reputation as a joyful lady , she is forced to be the mother of the duke's child from an affair he had , as well as she cannot birth a son for the Duke and he will find every opportunity to rub it in her face . All this and Georgina has found another love who she cannot give her heart to fully for the love of her children and people . The Duchess is a fine film that I truly enjoyed . I wouldn't be surprised if Kiera was nominated for best actress during the academy season . I would highly recommend this movie , especially for the period piece lovers . Like I said , this film makes you appreciate what we have today in our modern society and truly makes you feel for the pressures both men and women had to face in that day . Georgina is a figure that I think is very looked over in history when she is one of the strongest presences in England's history . The Duchess , even though not entirely accurate , does a very good job of telling her story and was a pleasure to watch .
When I watched 8 MM , I didn't know what to expect , but I noticed that Joel Schumacher directed it and I am a fan of his . Also it stars two other terrific actors like Nicholas Cage and Joaquin Phoenix , so usually that equals a great film . 8 MM turned out to be a terrific dark drama that I'm not so sure that I understand it's low rating . I was actually expecting it to be in the 7 . 0 range when I went to check it out on IMDb , but it's in the low 6 . 0's . I understand that it's an extremely dark movie that not too many people would wanna take a look at , but for what it was , I thought it was great . It took us into the deep dark world of porn and what some sick people get off on . It's not just about that , but also it takes us into a detective type of drama that makes it into a scary type of thriller . Tom Welles is a detective that is given a strange short movie called a " snuff film " , where a beautiful young girl is being brutally raped and then murdered on film . While it's supposed to be fake , it looks incredibly real and terrifying . Her relative asks him to find out wither it is fake or real and if she's still alive . This means he has to go deep into a world of brutal porn that is out of his league . With the help of a porn salesman , Max , they go to find out if this girl is really alive or not , but end up getting into some serious trouble when the directors and " actors " find out about them . 8 MM is in no way for the faint of heart , there are some extremely disturbing images that I really wouldn't like to see again , I'm sure most wouldn't either , but this is a great dark drama that I would recommend for a watch . Nicholas did a great job , but Joaquin really takes the show here . He made his character incredibly believable and almost sympathetic . Joel really made me believe the story , he shot it wonderfully and didn't over do anything . I would recommend this film for a watch , it's a great thriller that is impressive as well as scary .
I'm not a fan of " Silence of the Lambs " . In fact I think it's a little over rated . But I was impressed with this thriller . It's an interesting tale about an interesting fellow . Going through his gruesome life of murders . Great performances , and a great story line .
Wow , I have seen so many bad movies lately that it is not even funny ! I have almost lost total faith in Hollywood because of the horrible films I have seen , but I wanted one last chance before I lost it . So , I rented some more movies , and I had this great story " Unbreakable " about real life super hero's and villains . The acting is terrific and the story is original and fun to watch . The whole story is just about if there are real life super hero's and villains and how they are born . Bruce Willis is nothing too special , he doesn't fly or have super powers , but he is unbreakable . He's never been injured except for one drowning incident when he was younger . Samuel L . Jackson or " Mr . Glass " has very fragile bones and breaks easily and is trying his best to convince Bruce about his capabilities . With a twister and awesome ending , Unbreakable was terrific !
I was so excited my theater got The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas , from the moment I saw this trailer , I knew I was in for a treat . This movie just looked incredible , even though it's a touchy subject with the holocaust , it still looked like it was going to be a great story . Everyone always makes a comment about the innocence of childhood , what it was like to just not have reason , to just go with the flow of things before adults tell you what you have to do . So I watched The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas today and this movie seriously is one of the saddest films I have ever seen , but I felt it was very maturely handled . The actors are great and the story is very touching , to watch these two boys from two completely different worlds who come together just to have fun , be boys , not because of the difference of their background . Set during World War II , a story seen through the innocent eyes of Bruno , the eight-year-old son of the commandant at a concentration camp , whose forbidden friendship with a Jewish boy on the other side of the camp fence . The boys have a great friendship talking every day , enjoying the company . But when the father gives Bruno a Nazi propaganda loving tutor , Bruno becomes confused , is his father an evil man or is his friend the evil one ? Love his country and do his duty or don't judge and just stay true to his friend ? Bruno must decide all this with some scary consequences ahead of him . The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas is a fantastic film , though if you see it , I do recommend bringing the tissues . I couldn't believe the chemistry they had with these two young actors , they worked so well together as these innocent boys who both have no idea what's going on . Bruno doesn't know why his friend is behind fences , and his friend doesn't know why he's there either . The ending is extremely powerful and the story keeps you interested . I do recommend seeing The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas , it's a treasure from
The Stooges are back and funnier than ever . " Brideless Groom " in my opinion was probably the best Shemp flick . Shemp has the opportunity to inherit $500 , 000 ( which was probably more than a million dollars compared to today ) from his dead uncle . BUT ! There is a catch . He has to marry someone that day by 6 o'clock . Shemp is a bachelor with not too many admirers , except for one high pitched aggressive annoying singing student of his . But he doesn't want her , he wants someone a little more on the Victoria's Secret model type of women . But obviously he has no choice since he's no Collin Ferrel himself . But when it is printed in the papers that he is to inherit all that money if married , his ex girlfriends are on the " I want my man back " attack ! What a great stooge flick ! This is up there with thewinners of all stooge flicks !
Now , I'm not saying this was a bad movie . Actually , I loved it . I'm a big M . S . fan . He's a wonderful director . He knows what he is doing . " Gangs of New York " is very under rated . But I can see some people not enjoying the movie . It kind of depends on what movies you like or what mood you are in . The movie goes into the ACCURATE history of New York . I have studied my history . So , I know what I'm talking about . And the cast did a great job . Again , Leonardo can do a heck of a job when he is put with the right director . I feel like Martin does bring out the best in his actors . The sets and time are beautiful . Over all , like I said , I think it's a little under rated . But I'm not going crazy over it like " Casino " . hinthint This is a great movie though . Give it a chance to get a higher rating .
" Zoolander " is a hysterical movie that has non-stop laughs and endless memorable quotes . I'm not kidding when everyone had told me that " Zoolander " was one of the funniest movies they'd ever seen , so I had to give it a chance . I'm really glad I did . Ben Stiller and Owen Wilson give a parody on male super models that is beyond tears of laughter . Ben Stiller plays " Derek Zoolander " , a 3 time " Male Model of the Year " award winner , when his streak of wins is stopped by Owen's character , Hansel , he starts to doubt his career and wants to go back home with his father and brothers as a mine worker . He pretty much fails due to the lack of his being used to high maintenance type of environment with clear air and less , well , work . When his father tells him that he's no longer part of the family , Ben gets the offer of his career or so he thinks . Will Ferrel plays Mogotu , an evil model agency owner who is trying to kill the prime minister of Molesia so he can continue to have children make his clothes . He figures people would assume that Derrek has lost it with his career so he can easily frame him and brainwash him into killing the prime minister for him . When a journalist played by Ben Stiller's wife , Christine Taylor , Matilda finds out about this , she tries to save Derrek by hiding him " where no one would know he's there " , hence at Hansel's house . Hansel is very forgiving and confesses that he was wack and Derrek was his inspiration to be a model and Derrek claims his wack of being jealous . There they have strong tea and learn of the lacking in Matilda's love life and why she hates models . Hansel playfully says " I think we should get naked . . . don't talk , just give into the power of the tea " . Followed by a very strange but amusing orgy where Derrek just happens to fall for Matilda . But Derrek will NOT miss a show and there is a certain " relax " ing music that will cause him to kill the prime minister of Molesia ! Can he make it past the beautiful celebrities and save the day ? Ben , Owen , Will , and Christine work perfectly together in this great comedy about male super models . This movie has non stop laughs and you'll immediately buy it when you see it . If you can't laugh at this movie and it's amazing rounds of cameo's , I don't know what's wrong , because this movie doesn't deserve to be under a 7 . 0 . Trust me , this is a great movie !
Batman , the best superhero of all time is finally in techni-color . And is coming to a DVD near us . Sorry , just had to get that out , I mean this movie leaves you will a cheesy goodness that is Batman . I know a lot of people always criticize and make fun of the series , but I don't understand how anyone could hate this ? Yeah , it's a complete turn around from the original comic books , but it's just non stop laughter and even the actors were aware of that . You just have to love the sprays that Batman has , " Shark repellent " ? LOL ! Not to mention the fun villains who are just so " filthy and diabolical " . I am in love with this script , I mean , it's so cheesy , but it did it on purpose . Like when Batman finds out the true identity of Catwoman and Robin says " Holy Heartbreak ! " . Or my favorite scene that is possibly my favorite scene of all time , where Batman has a bomb in his hands and is trying to get it out of people's way so they won't get killed , but no matter what he keeps bumping into the same marching band in the streets or finding people in the way , and finally he just sighs and says " Some days you just can't get rid of a bomb " . CLASSIC ! Please , watch this movie , it's beyond hilarious , just pay the $5 . 99 for the movie !
But it was pretty damn close . " Red Dragon " was a great movie to watch . I have to admit that I had my doubts . I heard some bad things about this movie from my friends . I had bought the movie for my mom , and she said just to give it a shot . I'm glad I did . " Red Dragon " goes back into the roots that " Silence of the Lambs " did . It had high action and drama . I was very impressed . And Anthony Hopkins does a great job as his most famous role as Hannibal Lector . I really have to say that I didn't stick to my friend's opinions . This was a great movie . I would recommend for the " Silence of the Lambs " fans .
I know this is the lowest on the top 250 films of Star Wars , but this was a film I enjoyed even more than the first two . It has a very powerful ending with answers that you have been searching for since the first Star Wars .
I swear I did not really want to see this movie , it just seemed so lame to me and like it was going to be nothing but potty humor . But recently I watched " Bravo's 100 funniest movies " , and this ranked pretty high , so I think I was willing to let my guard down and see what this movie had to offer . " The 40 Year Old Virgin " is one of the funniest movies I have seen ! I couldn't believe how much I enjoyed it . I think because we felt so much for Steve's character and how pressuring it is in today's world to have sex . Especially for a guy ! All the scenes were just great and so hilarious , like the waxing his hairy chest , I'm not a guy , but I was screaming for him ! That looked so painful ! I think in some sick way I gave guys a few more points after watching that , the things they go through just to make women happy . It's a heart warming and very funny story that anyone could enjoy . We have a new classic comedy that I'm sure my kids will be talking about in 50 years . Let's hope the remake trend won't stick ' til then .
I just happened to walk by What's Love Got To Do With It in the video store and remembered how much I wanted to see the movie , I am a fan of Tina's , have been since I could crawl . When I was 4 years old I would walk around with a walk man and sing out loud " What's Love Got To Do With It ? " , and my mom would laugh and she eventually told me when I got a little older what the song was about . I still blast and sing the song every time I hear it and understand it's power , afterwards , I wanted to read the book I , Tina and my heart was shattered for Tina and I just wanted to be like her and have her strength . Finally , I saw this film last night and I was blown away by such a terrific performance by Angela and Lawerence ! They were truly amazing and made this film an incredibly biography . This is based on Tina Turner's life , mainly what happened between her and Ike , the utter and horrific abuse that ensued by Ike by his jealous rage of Tina's spotlight . Tina has only one friend by her side that truly defends her against Ike and Tina tries so hard to get away , but Ike won't let her . Finally , Tina has just had enough in an extremely emotional scene , they have a fight in the limo and Tina swings back at Ike finally ! You just cheer and scream for her to leave and she finally gets what she truly deserved , the solo career and utter fame for being a truly gifted star . I have a feeling things were a bit exaggerated in the film , you know , the fights ? But I think almost 25 years of an abusive marriage is hard to get into a 2 hour film , so they had to make you understand the pain Tina went through . Angela did a terrific job , one of the best performances I have ever seen in fact , I was just cheering for her in that limo ! I cried and cheered for Tina , she is truly a remarkable woman and to understand that , please read the book and watch What's Love Got To Do With It .
What's Eating Gilbert Grape is one of those little treasures that for the most part most people do know about , mainly due to Leonardo DiCaprio's knock out performance as Arnie Grape . But both he and Johnny had this great chemistry together that made what could have been a very boring movie into an extremely touching piece of film that meant more and more to me as I grew up . When I was a kid and watched this film , I just loved laughing at all of Arnie's jokes not realizing why he was so silly . As a teenager I could start to relate to having a little more pressure with a job and school . Then as an adult and having my mother become ill , I could relate completely to Gilbert in his frustrations of just wanting to be young and enjoy his life . I think that's why this film is special to a lot of people , those who have felt the added little pressures in life and makes you think on what's eating at you ? This is the story of Gilbert Grape . In the small town of Endora , Gilbert Grape is busy caring for his mentally handicapped brother , Arnie . His morbidly obese mother , Bonnie has done little except eat since her husband died , and longs only to see Arnie live to the age of 18 . With Bonnie unable to care for her children on her own , Gilbert has taken responsibility for repairing the old house and looking after Arnie , who has a habit of climbing the town water tower , while his sisters Amy and Ellen do the rest . The relationship between the brothers is of both care and protection , as Gilbert continually enforces the ' nobody touches Arnie ' policy . A new " Foodland " supermarket has opened , threatening the small Lamson's Grocery where Gilbert works . In addition , Gilbert is having an affair with a married woman , Betty Carver . The family is looking forward to Arnie's 18th birthday . A young woman named Becky and her grandmother are stuck in town when their car breaks down . Gilbert's unusual life circumstances threaten to get in the way of their possible romance . His affair with Mrs Carver ends when she leaves town in search of a new life following her husbands death , . Becky becomes close to both Gilbert and Arnie and as she talks to Gilbert she begins to unlock some buried hopes , dreams and happiness . Later on , Arnie tries to run away yet again from his bath and in his frustration Gilbert finally snaps , hitting Arnie several times . Guilty and appalled at himself , Gilbert takes the car and runs out without another word , fearing that he is leaving his family just like his father and brother did . What's Eating Gilbert Grape is just an incredibly beautiful and touching movie that will always have a special place in my heart . It makes you laugh , cry , and think about how precious life is . All the characters are relatable or likable in some way . Even in the smallest of all towns where it seems like it's just dead , there is life . That's what this movie is about to me , everyone has a story and everyone has an experience to share . This is just a terrific film , quality acting and a heart felt story , I very much recommend that if you get the chance to watch it . If anything for Leonardo DiCaprio's incredible performance and Johnny Depp singing to him " Match in the gas tank , boom boom ! " .
My father and I are the only non smokers in the family , and even my dad was a smoker way back but quite . I haven't caved into the peer pressure , or at least yet , but probably won't . Why ? Smoking , from what I've learned , is a very deadly and addictive substance , it's like putting poison in your body . But I don't judge other smokers , never have since I grew up around them , but I always wondered why and how someone could get into it . Tobacco companies for years have been trying to be convincing on how they care and are trying to stop other possible young buyers , lol ! Thank You For Smoking is one of the most intelligent and funny movies I have seen in a while . It mixes the truth with comedy , not to mention that the lead character's voice makes such an impact and argues so well . He'd make you want to easily start smoking because he is so charming and smooth . It was also interesting that he had a son , you spend some of the movie debating wither or not he's trying to make his son like him socially or just teach him how to survive in the world of constant arguments . Like I said , this is one of the most intelligent movies that moves so well and was brilliantly made . The cast brought so much to this story that could've been disastrous , but turned into a total masterpiece of a movie and a great debate for many . You gotta love a movie that keeps you thinking way after you finish watching it .
In 1996 , when I saw this in the theater , I was expecting to see a predictable movie . That we would just get bored with . But I was wrong . This has to be one of the most clever movies of the 90's . Believe me , this was an awesome thriller . Wes Craven should stick to movies like this , It had a wonderful cast . Funny lines . Scary moments . Classic horror scenes that will keep you at the edge of your seat . A movie that you'll rewind and want to watch again and again . And after the 50th time you watch it , you'll say , just one more time . So , if you have good taste , or are looking for something original , watch this film . And get the trilogy DVD set . It's a screamer !
West Side Story , one of my personal favorite movies of all time and without a doubt my favorite musical . Why do I love this film so much ? Because of it's high energy , great actors , terrific songs , awesome dance numbers , and beautiful love story . As an updated Romeo and Juliet story , we visit the streets of Manhattan , two gangs of different ethnicities , Tony and Maria , the two fall in love by are torn apart by the gang's hatred for each other . Sounds pretty basic , not to mention we have dancing gangs , they don't really fight , they just dance , yeah again sissy , but not in this story ! The crew and cast put their heart and soul into this film and it truly paid off as this is the best picture of 1961 . In the streets of Manhattan the Jets , led by Riff , and a rival gang of Puerto Rican immigrants , the Sharks , led by Bernardo begin to rumble . The police arrive and tell the " hoodlums " to get off the streets . The Jets discuss challenging the Sharks to one last all out " rumble " , that will decide who gets control of the streets , and they will deliver the challenge to the Sharks at a dance later that night . Riff decides that his best friend Tony , a co-founder of the Jets who has left the gang to work at a local store , would be the best member of the Jets to present the challenge to the Sharks . When Riff visits Tony at the store , Tony initially refuses Riff's request to meet with the Sharks , but he later changes his mind . At the bridal shop where she works , Bernardo's sister , Maria complains to Bernardo's girlfriend , Anita . Maria believes that Bernardo is overprotective , never allowing her to have enough fun . Bernardo arrives and takes her to the dance . At the gym , the Jets , Sharks and girls are greatly enjoying themselves , but the rival gang members and their girlfriends remain apart . Tony and Maria see each other , become infatuated , almost going into a trance-like state and begin to dance , then embrace in a kiss . Bernardo pushes them away from each other and orders Maria home , and tells Tony to stay away from his sister . Tony discreetly visits Maria outside the fire escape at her home and they confirm their love . The next day at the bridal shop , Maria sings to her coworkers about how happy she is . Tony arrives to see Maria , she pleads with Tony to prevent the rumble altogether , even if only a fist fight is planned , and Tony promises to do so . At the the rumble , the fight begins between two rival gang members . Tony arrives and tries to stop the fight , but is met with ridicule and mockery from Bernardo and the Sharks . Unable to stand by and watch his best friend be humiliated , Riff angrily lashes out and punches Bernardo . Drawing their knives , Riff and Bernardo fight each other , their duel ending with Bernardo killing Riff . Enraged , Tony kills Bernardo with Riff's knife ! Tensions are now at an all time high as both gangs want to get even and Tony and Maria's love is being torn apart by all the hate . West Side Story is truly a special movie , I personally don't know why it's not on the top 250 IMDb movies , if you are going to watch a musical this is the one that I always recommend . We don't get musicals to this big scape any more , they don't have the same heart as West Side Story had . The actors are absolutely incredible , it's so weird when I watched a documentary on this movie , apparently Natalie Wood and Richard Beymer hated each other , but I guess that must help during the lust scenes because hate and love are practically in the same category when it comes to passion . But the true stars of the film are Rita Moreno as Anita and Russ Tamblyn as Riff , great performances from the both of them . West Side Story is a movie that has no flaws what so ever and anyone who wants to argue me on that , feel free to send me a message .
Clint Eastwood , the master of making depressing films now makes his trilogy : Mystic River , Million Dollar Baby , and now Changeling . Based of the horrific chicken coop murders from the 1920's in California , we get a deeper insight into one of the mothers of the victims , Christine Collins who is portrayed by Angelina Jolie , queen of the never ending tears . I'm just playing , she does a terrific job and is just so heart breaking to watch her story on film , she gives Christine a lot of character and depth . The film is even made a certain way , a lot of dark colors , it seems as if it was made in old Hollywood , which was a very intelligent way of setting the mood and time of the film . We have some very fine performances pretty much from everyone in this movie . The one flaw I did feel is that the script does have some lines that are a little over done , a little too dramatic , but it really works for the film and story . Christine Collins is a single mother in the 1920's , she's a strong woman who is even ahead of some of the men in her line of work as an operator manager . But she's so busy with work that she tries to make time with her son , Walter . One day they are going to go to the movies , but Christine has to go to work , she says she'll meet Walter right back at home , she's late of course and when she gets home , Walter is missing . She calls the police , but they say she has to wait 24 hours . After a few months , the police tell her they've found her son , she couldn't be happier . . . that is until she sees a boy who is not her son . But the police will not fess up and admit they messed up , so instead of helping Christine , they treat her horribly and throw in her in an insane asylum and quite looking for her son , but the town's Rev . Gustav Briegleb will not give up and expose the police for the horrible people they are and will do anything to help Christine find her son . Changeling is a great film , one of the best of 2008 , you know this is going to be a big contender for Oscar season . I really enjoyed this film , I have to admit it had me in tears , all that this poor woman went through to find her son , the pain and mental mind , well you know the f word , that the police put her through , I felt so horrible for her . Jeffrey Donovan just plays the ultimate jerk who just keeps playing gaslight on Christine Collins forcing a child who is not her son down her throat . Although I think this film could have been a good comedy if they gave her an Asian baby or something and try to convince her then that that's her son , lol , OK , that was so bad , sorry . But seriously , this is a great film , I do highly recommend that you take the chance to see it in the theater if you can .
When I was reading what was considered to be the best films of 2007 , Lars and the Real Girl came up quite a few times , I wasn't sure since I had never heard of it before . But I decided to rent it and see what it was about , I watched the film last night and this was not only the most charming film I've seen , but for me it was one of the saddest . I think it just touched me how much this town stuck together to help one friend and get him back from a " delusion " , just unfortunately , it was semi-unrealistic at times , and I think that's what made me very sad , not to mention how lonely a person can get , I think we forget that sometimes . But the script was just so wonderful and Lars was just this character who actually didn't really seem crazy , like this dummy fantasy was something that made him come out of his shell , this story was just so beautiful . Lars is a shy and quiet man who just keeps to himself all the time , everyone always begs him to join the crowd , but he always backs down . But when his co-worker shows him a website with a " create your own sex doll " , Lars gets one , but not exactly for the purpose of sex , more like it's his girlfriend . Not like he's ashamed , he thinks she's real , her name is Bianca , and he even asks his brother and sister in law to keep Bianca in their house . Instead of hospitalizing Lars , the town pulls together and helps Lars by treating Bianca like a real person . Lars starts to come out of his shell and then even notices a girl , Margo , but he realizes that maybe Bianca isn't everything he's wanted in life . Lars and the Real Girl is seriously one of the sweetest films ever . Everything about this film was just wonderful and it was such a pleasure to watch . To be honest I am surprised that Ryan Gosling didn't get an Oscar nomination for Lars , he is one of the most touching characters in film that I've seen in a while . His scene with Bianca , the last one where he kisses her , there are no words , but it was such a touching scene , I turned into such a girl ( I am a girl , but I don't get all sappy normally ) , I cried so hard , it was just a beautiful scene . I would highly recommend Lars and the Real Girl , it's a great movie , has terrific performances , and just an original and lovely script .
One of my favorite childhood memories of all time , the live action Jungle Book , in 1967 we had a classic animated movie of the same title , it's a great movie , has fun music and terrific characters . When my family bought the movie The Jungle Book , I don't think they realized the surprise that we got when we just enjoyed watching this film . It's strange because this is made a little more for the grown up crowd vs . the children , but still I absolutely loved The Jungle Book and every time I see it , I admire it a little more for different reasons . The story , the setting , the actors , I don't know what it was about this film that I just love so much , but it holds a special place in my heart . In the Victorian period , Mowgli is the five-year-old son of a wilderness guide who accompanies his father on a hunting trip in the jungles of their native India . Mowgli becomes close friends with a British girl named Kitty Brydon , whose father , Colonel Geoffrey Brydon , commissioned the hunt . When Shere Khan attacks the camp and kills Mowgli's father , the boy and the wolf are lost in the confusion and are left to fend for themselves . Bagheera finds them and leads Mowgli to the wolf pack . Mowgli is befriended by the animals of the jungle including Baloo the bear cub , and they develop an unspoken bond as the growing boy learns to survive . While in the wild , the Bander-Log steal the bracelet Kitty gave him . Years later , after growing to adulthood , Mowgli once again encounters Kitty , who still lives in India with her father and her arrogant and deceitful suitor , Captain William Boone . Kitty and Mowgli recognize each other , and while his powers of speech are rusty , Kitty reintroduces Mowgli to civilization with the help of Dr . Julius Plumford and Mowgli introduces Kitty to his friends in the jungle . However , after spending most of his life in the jungle , Mowgli does not feel at home among the rude and snobbish aristocrats who are friends with Kitty's family . He falls in love with Kitty , but wants to go back to the jungle and to be with his real family . The Jungle Book is an incredibly good movie that I highly recommend . It has great laughs , like watching Mowgli learning how to becoming " civilized " in society with the help of Dr . Plumford and seeing how Plumford is also trying to learn from Mowgli how to be in touch with nature . I loved to love story between Mowgli and Kitty , it was so lovely and their kiss was one of those sappy moments that got a big " Awww ! ! ! " from me . Then there's one of the saddest movie moments ever , when Baloo gets shot and Mowgli finds him and just lies with him crying , then Dr . Plumford reveals Baloo at the end of the movie and I cry in joy , they had me on so many rollar coaster rides of emotions . But seriously if you haven't seen this movie , I would recommend it very much , it's a very special film and deserves more recognition .
Interview with the Vampire is hands down probably the number one vampire movie . We got to see a story so unique and original , the eyes through a vampire and his world . Normally , we see Dracula getting chased around by Van Helsing , all we know is vampires are usually bad and must be destroyed , yatta , yatta , yatta . But this time , we not only experience how Louis became a vampire , but what his life became of it . Anne Rice would truly be proud of how much a great movie her most famous book turned out to be . We have some great and very attractive actors who star in this film like : Brad Pitt , Tom Cruise , Antonio Bandares , Christian Slater , and Stephen Rea , not to mention a very young and new Kirsten Dunst . The story starts off with Christian Slater interviewing Brad Pitt , who plays Louis , he makes the most interesting statement to Christian that he's a vampire . Obviously , Christian doesn't take this seriously , but Louis offers him one thing : his story . Louis was born and grew up during the time when America was just being discovered in the late 1700's , he just lost his wife and child in labor , a little different than the book , but anyways , but his misery brings him to wanting death , and Lestat , played by the brilliant Tom Cruise , brings him that with becoming a vampire . Of course Louis doesn't realize what he gets himself into , but Lestat does what he can to show Louis the perks of being a vampire , even if it means bringing in a child , Claudia , played by Dunst , and turning her into a vampire to keep Louis with him . But Claudia and Louis look at Lestat as a warden and won't let them go , so they attempt to kill him and flee the city of New Orleans to France . In Paris , they meet a group of thespian vampires , they kill people on stage as if they were in a play . " Vampires pretending to be humans pretending to be vampires " . Louis meets Armond , played by Bandares , and Santiago , played by Rea . Armond is obsessed with Louis and tells him that Claudia shouldn't be a vampire since she is so young and ends up destroying the thing that means most to Louis , I won't spoil it . Which leads Louis back to the interviewer where Christian is starting to question his doubts of Louis being a vampire . Interview with the Vampire is a terrific film that is just beautifully directed and the actors are just so brilliantly charismatic , it's just impossible in some ways for someone not to enjoy this movie . I know my friends who are not into horror films ended up loving this one because of it's interesting story . It's just a great film that I think everyone should get the chance to see .
