Night starts late one night as a cop ( I think ) named Mike Jericho ( John Hardy ) finds himself in the middle of a robbery , as he tackles the robber ( Will Green ) a woman named Tonia ( Melanie Ginnett ) is shot in the chest & survives . Wondering why Mike sets about tracking her down & once he does she reveals herself to be a Vampire & bites his wrist which turns him into one , Mike seems pretty happy about it so all's well with the world except Mike's best mate & partner Jimi Cannon ( Shawn LeTang ) is determined to find Mike & save him from his newly found Vampire friends whether he likes it or not . . . Edited , photographed , written , produced & directed by Byron C . Miller I thought Night was one of the worst films I have ever seen & believe me I've seen some crap films . The so called script isn't worthy of the name , this has no discernible storyline , nothing drives the film forward , it's incredibly dull & boring plus the characterisation is some of the worst I've had the displeasure to see . The dialogue is awful , there's no action , there's next to no gore & it took me four attempts over three days to get through to the end of this piece of crap . Now I realise this had the sort of budget which probably wouldn't stretch to a round of drinks but that is no excuse , I'm sorry but when I have spend good money & 90 odd minutes of my life to watch this utter crap I find it difficult to have any sympathy & I genuinely struggle to see how anyone could gain any sort of entertainment or pleasure from such a poor film . Night is the sort of film which makes you lose the will to live , Night is the sort of film which makes you feel like poking your eyes out & Night is the sort of film which I personally think is killing the horror genre . Director Byron quite obviously hasn't made a film before & quite obviously has no experience in doing so , this is basically a home movie shot on a digital camcorder using friends & family as cast & crew & edited on a cheap software package on a PC . This is one of the worst looking amateurish films I've seen since Swamp Zombies ( 2005 ) . Forget about any gore as it's strictly of the plastic axes stuck to peoples foreheads type variety , there's a bit of nudity & some fight scenes which are absolutely pathetic . I'm sorry but I just don't have anything positive to say about this crap . With a supposed budget of about $7 , 000 which is maybe the second lowest budgeted film I've seen Night looks horrible in every regard from cheap lighting , poor special effects , bland locations which amount to a warehouse , a few street corners , a car park & a roof , rubbish acting & awful muffled hard to understand shot on set dialogue . Night is an absolutely terrible film , I hated every single second of it & the fact it's low budget is simply no excuse for such crap . My advice is to avoid this celluloid turd at all costs & do something fun instead like having your fingernails pulled out with pliers . Edit , to the guy who did the make-up effects & posted a comment referring to mine . Firstly I didn't say I could do better & I know for a fact that I couldn't which I freely & openly admit because I don't want to make a film & have absolutely zero interest in doing so , I simply want to be entertained by them & frankly Night fell someway short for me . Secondly I'm sorry but if I pay good money & spend 90 minutes of my life watching Night then I can say whatever I want about it , period . Thirdly for what it's worth I genuinely hope the film finds an audience & is successful for you , at the end of the day I didn't it like but so what ? I'm just but one person on a planet of 6 billion . . .
Brain Fix starts with with a narration by Jeff Feud ( Charles Coplin ) who informs us that he has flown to Mexico & drove out into the middle of nowhere to spend the summer in his Father's clinic . However upon arrival he is assaulted by Sven ( Jiri " George " Petracek ) the scumbag orderly who doesn't believe he is Dr . P . Feud's ( Jack Savage ) son . Luckily for Jeff his Father turns up & sets the record straight . Jeff explains that he wants to spend the summer with him & assist him in his experiments on curing schizophrenia & other mental illnesses , his Father just makes him mop the floors which is all he's good for by the look of it . Jeff is introduced to Norm ( Richard Arvay ) , one of his Fathers patients who has been supposedly cured but Jeff isn't convinced as Norm is still a nut case . Jeff also meets & befriends another patient , an attractive female patient named Molly ( Kristin Dean Boswell ) who appears totally normal . Jeff decides to have a look at what his Father's up to so he sneaks into his operating room & is sickened & appalled at what he witnesses . It seems that his Father is conducting hideous experiments with parasitic creatures called Paratosas which excrete a euphoric enzyme directly into the patients brain after it has been surgically implanted into a unfortunate patients head , Dr . Feud hopes that this natural drug will cure all mental disease , I haven't got a clue why so don't ask , but as of now has been unsuccessful . Dr . Feud discovers that Jeff has found out what is happening & together with his new found girlfriend Molly is next on the operating schedule . . . Co-edited , produced & co-directed by Scott Wallace with Jay Amin as the second director I hate Brain Fix with a passion . I see there is only one other review of Brain Fix at the moment & that user has given it , well we were obviously watching different films . Brain Fix is absolutely awful in every single way a film could possibly be . The acting is terrible , for most of this rotten film everyone just stands there & says their lines without the slightest hint of emotion or effort , & when these ' actors ' do try it comes across as totally embarrassing just check out the fight at the end which has to be the most wimpy I've seen as they just sort of hold each other & scratch a bit . Brain Fix is one of the most shoddy & incompetent films I've ever had the misfortune to sit through , basic film-making techniques are either botched or ignored . These filmmakers light scenes from the side which produce glaring shadows in the direction that would be physically impossible if the laws of science are to be believed . For some strange reason half of the sound effects are missing like a gun being fired but with no accompanying blast & a fight with no sound effects either & there is no music whatsoever during Brain Fix even during the opening & ending credits . For the clinic the filmmakers use the same corridor & the same room throughout , one character even says at one point ' all these corridors look the same ' which was maybe an attempt at a joke , well it wasn't funny in the slightest & the corridors look the same because they are the same one used over & over . The one room they use is laughable , it has wooden planks nailed across the window to stop the inmates escaping ! Brain Fix is rock bottom stuff all the way , there aren't even any laughs to be had as it's just so painful & dull to sit through . There are no scares , no sub plots to give us a break from Jeff & his Father , no atmosphere & a complete lack of anything that even remotely resembles entertainment . The script by Ted Chalmers & Tracy Charlton is terrible , the characters will get on your nerves , it's as slow & dull as any horror film I've seen & it doesn't make any sense at all . I mean how come no one else has ever discovered these parasite things ? How do these things cure mental illness ? They also chuck in a lame & predictable ' twist ' ending too . According to the IMDb Brain Fix had a minuscule budget of $10 , 000 & all I can say is where did the money go ? ! Brain Fix looks even cheaper than that . Forget about any gore either , there's a brief operation scene of one of the parasites being implanted but it's short & like everything else cheap looking . There is also a terrible looking slit throat & that's it , that's your lot ! I hate Brain Fix , it's one of those films that you simply can't express in words how bad it is , it commits the unforgivable crime of being boring which is worse than having rubbishy production values because if a film entertains than I can forgive almost anything . Easily one of the worst horror films ever made & with those missing sound effects was Brain Fix ever truly completed ? Avoid at all costs , you have been warned .
Horror of the Blood Monsters starts out by giving the impression that it's a Vampire film with some inane stupid narration ( by someone called Brother Theodore apparently , uncredited ) that claims Vampires are widespread on Earth & are slowly taking over the human race . These Vampires were created when alien Vampires landed on Earth centuries ago from the ' Spectrum Solar System ' & that the infamous scientist Dr . Rynning ( John Carradine ) is heading a space expedition to the ' Spectrum Solar System ' to do some research or something , I don't really care as Horror of the Blood Monsters is already as stupid as any film I've seen . So , Captain Steve Bryce ( Bruce Powers ) , Bob ( Fred Meyers ) , Willy ( Joey Benson ) & their glamorous assistant Linda ( Britt Semad ) together with Dr . Rynning take off in the XP-13 , a state of the art spacecraft ( well , as state of the art as you can get from a spacecraft made out of a washing up liquid bottle , some wires & painted silver ) . Not very well guided by Colonel Manning ( Robert Dix ) & a bird named Valerie ( Vicki Volante ) back on Earth they unfortunately hit a meteorite & are forced to land on an uncharted planet that suffers from ' Chromatic Radiation ' which turns the sky different colours . Once safely landed the team come across various creatures & warring tribes . The encounter a woman named Lian Malian ( Jennifer Bishop ) whom they do a little DIY surgery on & are able to make understand & speak English perfectly . They must find a way to repair the XP-13 , avoid all the hostile creatures , sort out the entire planets problems & make it back to earth safely . . . Produced & directed by Al Adamson who also has a small role during the opening sequence as a Vampire , Horror of the Blood Monsters is as bad as you could possibly imagine & perhaps even worse . The script by Sue McNair has potential , isn't too bad in itself & even tries to add a moral message at the end but in the hands of the infamous Adamson Horror of the Blood Monsters is a real chore to sit through . The incompetence is astounding , lets start with the process ' Spectrum X ' which means most of Horror of the Blood Monsters takes place in annoying colour tints , the entire screen is bleached a single colour & it got on my nerves so much it's untrue , I simply hated it & can't see anyone disagreeing . The film goes to great lengths explain this with the useless ' Chromotic Radiation ' nonsense , in fact Horror of the Blood Monsters if full of stupid inane scientific babble which means nothing & Carradine's character is particularly guilty of this . None of the characters are developed & I hated them all , I never cared for anyone or was in the slightest bit interested in what happened to any of them . Adamson's direction is pathetic & he slows the film down to a snail's pace , he fails to create any sort of excitement or pace & the fights are so poorly choreographed their laughable & beyond tedious . Horror of the Blood Monsters uses different footage from various other films including One Million B . C . ( 1960 ) , Unknown Island ( 1948 ) , Robot Monster ( 1953 ) , The Wizard of Mars ( 1965 ) & Tagani ( 1965 ) which is where the real reason for the ' Spectrum X ' colour tinting is discovered because some of these films were Black and White so Adamson could just tint the whole screen one colour & it would match the rest of the film , brilliant stuff Al . The props like the wobbly aluminium painters ladder on a supposedly futuristic spacecraft , costumes , sets like the truly awful looking spacecraft which consists of a wooden table some old fashioned computers & some of the most basic chairs ever that appear to be two planks of wood nailed together , continuity with the XP-13 having taken off but the footage on the control rooms monitors suggest otherwise & those tribes all of a sudden are able to speak English , the special effects are as bad as anything I've seen & just about everything else are terrible , this is real bottom of the barrel stuff . The monsters are rubbish , there are some stupid looking bat-men , a half a crab man , I say half because he always remains half submerged in water so we never get to see below his waist & the Vampire cavemen have the most fake looking plastic fangs in film history . The acting is so bad it's hard to imagine it could be any worse even if they tried . I hated Horror of the Blood Monsters , sure it has a wonderful title but it is a really crap film . It bored me to tears & I couldn't wait for it to finish . Sci-Fi horror films don't come much worse & it's not even worth a watch in a so-bad-it's-good way either , avoid at all costs .
At Dawn They Sleep tells the tale of two drug dealing friends , Stephen ( editor , cinematographer , writer , producer , director , etc , Brian Paulin ) & Ian ( producer , cinematographer , etc , Rich George ) who get bitten by two angels who they decide to sleep with . Unfortunately the bite of an angel turns the victim into a Vampire so Stephen & Ian are left to contemplate their future as blood drinking Vampires who deal in drugs . Actually not that much else happens really . . . Virtually made by himself & starring Brian Paulin I thought At Dawn They Sleep was total complete & utter crap , I'm sorry but it's as simple & straight forward as that . The script is rubbish , the story is so thin it's beyond anorexic , it's incredibly boring , it's dull & it's just a real chore to sit through . The character's are awful & you just instantly hate them all , the dialogue is terrible & as a whole it doesn't make much sense . The angel thing just doesn't work & the mixing of horror & crime thriller just doesn't come off to any effect . I'm trying but I cannot think of one positive aspect to this crappy film , I really can't . What more can I say ? Director Paulin was obviously working on a low budget & I'm sure the filmmakers put lots of effort into it & tried their best but that just isn't enough , I mean if the films crap it's crap right ? We're the ones who have to pay good money to sit down & watch this crap so why choose this piece of rubbish over a decent Vampire film ? The film was shot on a camcorder & it looks awful , there's no scares or atmosphere & the ' action ' scenes are as unexciting as any ever committed to film , sorry I meant video . There are a few gory scenes here , there are some intestine's ripped out , a decapitated head , some neck biting , a knife suck in someones head , various bloody gunshot wounds & a fair amount of fake blood splashed around but it looks pretty fake . There is also a baffling end sequence where someone slices a tree with a samurai sword & some liquid oozes out while some naked bird writhes around on the ground being fondled by the trees leaves & branches ( The Evil Dead ( 1982 ) anyone ? ) just before it starts to ' rain ' blood , I have no idea why though . With a supposed budget of about $6 , 000 this is really low budget stuff , I still cannot accept that as an excuse for making such a terrible film though . This is also one of those films with an extremely annoying soundtrack that at times seems louder than the dialogue & as a result drowns it out making it hard to hear what's being said . The acting is poor & the main lead ( Mr Paulin himself ) looks like a ginger haired Meatloaf . At Dawn They Sleep is awful , I'm sorry but that's the way I feel about it & the fact that it's an Indie film just doesn't cut the mustard with me & it's not an excuse as far s I'm concerned . I've had more fun visiting the dentist , not recommended .
La Tumba de los Muertos Vivientes , or Oasis of the Zombies as it's more commonly known among English speaking audiences although I like the IMDb listed alternate title of Bloodsucking Nazi Zombies but it's still a lousy film under any title , starts with two young women arriving at a desert oasis in the middle of Africa for a walk or something like that , logic isn't La Tumba de los Muertos Viventes strong point . As they walk around the date trees & discover various World War II relics in remarkably good condition they are attacked by something hideous . . . Treasure hunters Kurt ( Henri Lambert ) & his partner Ingrid pull up outside a house belonging to Captain Blabert ( Javier Maizer ) who knows where 6 million in gold is hidden out in the desert . Blabert tells Kurt that the gold is in an oasis plus where it is on a map & for his trouble is killed with a poisoned pen , that's gratitude for you . Meanwhile in London , we know it's London because Jesus shows us a shot of the Houses of Parliment & Big Ben chiming , Blabert's son Robert ( Manuel Gelin ) receives a telegram informing him that his Father is dead . Robert flies out to Africa quicker than a rat up a drain pipe & reads his Father's diary which chronicles an ambush on a German special command escort of which he was the only survivor , it also talks about the 6 million in gold they were escorting . Robert becomes greedy & with three school mates Ronald ( Eric Viellard as Eric Saint-Just ) , Ahmed ( Miguel Angel Aristu ) & a bird named Sylvia ( Caroline Audret ) set out to claim the treasure as their own . On the way they meet up with Professor Denicken ( Albino Graziani ) & his attractive assistant Erika ( France Lomay as France Jordan ) , the results of Kurt's attempts to find the gold & a whole load of rotting , flesh-eating zombies that rise from the sandy dunes of the oasis . . . Directed by Jesus ' I have no talent ' Franco as A . M . Frank on the version I saw La Tumba de los Muertos Vivientes has to be one of the very worst horror films I've ever had the misfortune to sit through & I have seen some real stinkers in my time . The script by god knows who as A . L . Mariaux on my copy is absolutely terrible . La Tumba de los Muertos Vivientes is quite simply one of the most boring films I've seen , I can't stress enough just how dull this pathetic attempt at a film is . The characters are none existent , the film features little in the way of dialogue & nothing in terms of development . The dialogue that is present sounds like it was written by a five year old , it's some of the most basic tripe I've heard . I think La Tumba de los Muertos Vivientes was written on the back of a postage stamp by a trained pigeon . While watching this lump of dung of elephant sized proportions I kept looking at my DVD timing counter & praying that it was almost finished , at only 82 minutes long La Tumba de los Muertos Vivientes actually seemed liked it went on for hours . The script has no logic , it clearly states that the zombies rise during the night & that at dawn they disappear right ? Well in that case how come the two women during the opening sequence were killed in the day ? When Blabert tells Kurt the location of the gold how does Kurt know he's telling the truth ? Kurt is very quick to kill him but what if he had been lying ? Why didn't Blabert go & find the gold for himself ? 6 million in gold sounds very tempting to me . I could go on forever with it's many problems but I really can't be bothered . Technically La Tumba de los Muertos Vivientes is awful , Franco shoots most of the climatic zombies vs . stupid annoying teenage kids battle using day-for-night which has the ( presumeably ) unwanted effect of the brightness levels of things going up , down & all over the place & one more thing Jesus there are no shadows cast at night because that takes the sun if you believe the laws of physics anyway . A special mention for the cinematography as well which is basic , very jerky & full of cheap stuttering zooms . The zombies look terrible , Franco even resorts to having a skull with one eye on a stick bobbing up & down in front of the camera . The attacks lack any gore , excitement , atmosphere or threat . These zombies are seriously lame & are a disgrace to money paying filmgoing audiences all over the world ! As one would expect the dubbing is atrocious , even worse than the usual Euro horror dub if that's possible . How much can one person hate a film ? Given La Tumba de los Muertos Vivientes just ate 82 minutes of my life up nowhere near enough I'd say . La Tumba de los Muertos Vivientes is so bad I'd walk out on it on an aeroplane . . .
The Crazies is set in a small Pennsylvanian town called Evans City . The film starts with with a man having killed his wife setting fire to his house for no apparent reason . Major Ryder ( Harry Spillman ) of the United States Army and his men have arrived in Evans City after a recent plane crash . The plane crashed into a river that supplies the town's water , on-board the plane was a man made virus called Trixie . The military believe that the residents of Evans City may be infected with a disease that turns the sufferer into a crazie , people who commit random acts of violence & are generally unpleasant to be around . Major Ryder takes over the local Doctors , Dr . Brookmyer ( Will Disney ) , surgery and prepares his plan of action . His men form a perimeter around Evans City , no one gets in or out . His men are then ordered to round all the residents up and take them to the high school . Soon an even more high ranking officer Colonel Peckhem ( Lloyd Hollar ) arrives to take charge , as well as Dr . Watts ( Richard France ) who was part of the team who originally developed Trixie to try and find a cure for the disease . The military think they have the situation under control but five people have escaped their round-up , Dr . Bookmyer's nurse named Judy ( Lane Carroll ) & her fireman husband David ( Will MacMillan ) & his workmate Clank ( Harold Wayne Jones ) , Artie ( Richard Liberty ) & his daughter Kathy Bolman ( Lynn Lowry ) & Frank Winson ( Norman Chase ) most of whom are convinced that they would be better off as far from Evans City as possible . Will they make it out & are they infected ? Can Colonel Peckham keep the situation quiet , prevent the disease from spreading outside Evans City and resolve the crisis before unthinkably drastic action is taken ? Written & directed by George A . Romero I really disliked this poor excuse for a film . The script by Romero is about as dull and slow as you can imagine . The film itself is too long and just plain boring , although I did like the last 10 or 15 minutes & the downbeat ending . The Crazies also has a lot of similarities with Romero's infinitely superior Dawn of the Dead ( 1978 ) , the female lead being pregnant , a fight against inhuman faceless enemies ( all the soldiers wear gas masks ) , the lone survivors who question whether they should stay or leave & a degeneration into petty squabbling and in-fighting . All the characters are very unlikable too , both military and civilian . The fact that the acting is poor throughout doesn't help things either . The violence & gore is non-existent , there are some gunshot wounds , that's it . Overall the film is very rough on a technical level and becomes a real chore to watch . I had heard very good things about the Crazies , but I just can't see anything in it even remotely enjoyable . Maybe I was expecting too much but having Romero's name on the credits as director gave me high expectations that weren't met . Anyone familiar with Romero's other horror like Dawn of the Dead , Creepsow ( 1982 ) , Martin ( 1977 ) , Day of the Dead ( 1985 ) & expect something similar then prepare to be very disappointed . Proceed with caution .
Shapeshifter is set in a state prison where state law demands the warden has to have a minimum number of female deputies , ex-soldier Ginny Lydon ( Jennifer Lee Wiggins ) gets the job . It's Ginny's first night & she's placed in the low security wing where they keep the none violent & mentally unbalance prisoners , a new prisoner named Velku ( Vaz Andreas ) turns out to be a Romanian shapeshifter who can transform into a huge hairy monster thing . It's there to break fellow Romanian Marcoux ( Marat Glazer ) out & kill any witnesses in order to conceal it's human identity , however it never reckoned on Ginny Lydon who doesn't take too kindly to hairy monsters ripping her prisoners apart on her shift . . . Co-written & directed by Gregory Lemkin one has to say that without wishing to sound too unkind Shapeshifter is awful . The script by Lemkin & A . Everett Howe is terrible , it's boring , it's predictable , it's slow , nothing of any interest happens & it goes on for too long , far too long . The character's are awful , the dialogue is awful , the comedy relief is awful & all the character motivations are awful like continually splitting up & wondering off down corridors on their own , not making enough of an effort to escape , standing around talking doing nothing in particular & this whole film is just bad . Very bad . Director Lemkin doesn't do anything to make this rubbish any more watchable , there are annoying editing techniques where everything on the screen goes double & blurry , there's the usual irritating & pointless slow motion scenes & as a general rule Shapeshifter is a bit of an eyesore . There's some cheap gore , a few people have their guts ripped out & someone has their head bashed in , these scenes are pretty brief & sound batter than they actually are . There's no atmosphere , no tension & certainly no scares . The special effects are terrible , the actual hairy creature thing looks absolutely awful in every respect . Even with Lemkin trying to keep it in the shadows as much as possible can't disguise how bad this thing looks . With a supposed budget of about $200 , 000 this was a low budget film & it show's , it's pretty bland , dull & incompetent . Shot in Los Angeles . The acting is terrible by no-one you've ever heard of plain & simple , enough said . Shapeshifter is one of those awful horror films where nothing works , it's one of those films where after the first twenty odd minutes you just sit there waiting & hoping it will finish . Soon . Definitely not recommended .
Deadly Invasion : The Killer Bee Nightmare is set in the small Californian town of Blossom Meadows where Chad ( Robert Hays ) & Karen Ingram ( Nancy Stafford ) along with their three children have recently moved to after buying a local farmhouse & apple orchard . Also moving into Blossom Meadows are far more unwelcome African killer Bees that are sweeping across the US , although essentially the same as the common European Bee they are much , much more aggressive & attack in thousands . Chad soon realises that the primary nest is in his apple orchard & after local teenage idiot Tom Redman ( Ryan Phillippe ) shoots it with a shotgun the killer Bees get very upset & attack the nearby farmhouse where the Ingram family barricade themselves in as the killer Bees swarm outside trying to get in & sting everyone to death . . . Co-written & directed by Rockne S . O'Bannon this is yet another nature runs amok tale complete with some flavour of the month environmental message . The film opens with some outdated ( since this was made in 1995 outdated by almost fifteen years ) text about the advance of the African killer Bee across the US & that ' this COULD be a true story ' although considering the following eighty odd minutes on reflection that's a real LOL moment . Killer Bee films are rarely any good , I point you towards efforts such as Bees ( 1998 ) & Killer Bees ! ( 2002 ) although there are one or two good ones around such as The Deadly Bees ( 1967 ) & The Savage Bees ( 1976 ) . Unfortunately Deadly Invasion : The Killer Bee Nightmare is one of the crap ones , the pace is slow , the plot is stupid even for a film about killer Bees & the Bees are quite passive here & not as scary or threatening as they should be ( e ) . I just see these Bees which are presented as they are in reality ( no mutations or genetic experiments gone wrong ) as no real threat & I don't understand why they would surround a house & then spend all night trying to kill the people inside , there's no explanation for it other than they are killer Bees . Some of the plot doesn't make any sense like the way these Bees manage to disable the phone lines , how did they manage that exactly ? There's a shot of them crawling over the phone line but not ' doing ' anything to it that would account for the phones going dead . Also when the Bees do get inside the house they don't really attack anyone inside anyway so what's the point ? This is basically an isolated location cut off from civilisation with stranded human beings trying to survive some sort of creature or threat type film with little in the way of a credible threat . The film is slow & the first three quarters of the film is very talky with lots of very forced speeches about Bees & killer Bees by all sorts of Bee experts & Government officials , who would have thought the ordinary Bee could be so dull ! At one point some Bee expert giving some Bee speech says that Bees are prepared to die to defend themselves since when they sting something they die but that got me thinking do Bees actually know that they will die if they use their stings ? I wouldn't have thought so , why would they know ? If they did know would they really sting something ? Who knows but it's a more interesting topic than this film . Bees are not really scary & this film isn't scary either & it's all rather dull predictable stuff . Made-for-telly this looks pretty cheap although it's reasonably well made , there's no CGI work or special effects . The most notable thing about this film is that it was one of Ryan Phillippe's earliest roles & he has since gone to bigger & better things in Hollywood . Deadly Invasion : The Killer Bee Nightmare is a pretty poor killer Bee film that tries to stick to reality in the way it presents it's Bees which just doesn't work at all , a really slow moving dull made-for-telly ' Creature Feature ' that has no redeeming features that I could see .
Haunted Honeymoon is set in the 1930's & starts in a radio studio where ' Manhattan Mystery Theatre ' is going out live , actor Larry Abbot ( Gene Wilder ) & his co-star Vickie Pearle ( Gila Radner , Wilder's then wife & her last film before she died ) are soon to be married . However the engagement to Vickie has set a screw loose in Larry's head & he often can't control himself on-air . The shows sponsor Charlie ( Lou Hirsch ) is about to fire him when Larry's psychiatrist Brother Dr . Paul Abbot ( Paul L . Smith ) assures Charlie that he can cure Larry by literally scaring the condition out of him when the entire Abbot family meet up together at their large ancestral mansion to celebrate Larry's engagement . As the guests begin to arrive strange things start to happen , Larry's Aunt Kate ( Dom DeLuise ) talks of a Werewolf , a family member ( Roger Ashton-Griffiths ) is murdered shortly after being told the contents of rich Aunt Kate's will , Larry begins to start seeing ghosts & quickly discovers not everything is as it appears . . . Staring , co-written & directed by Gene Wilder this is one tragic mess of a film , just about a complete failure on almost every level . The script by Wilder & Terence Marsh is supposed to pay homage to the old dark haunted house mysteries from the 30's like The Cat and the Canary ( 1939 ) among others . Unfortunately it also tries to mix other genres as well , comedy , musical & horror , quite simply it doesn't work in the slightest . The comedy elements are so unfunny I couldn't believe it , I did not laugh once during this film . It tries far too hard with all out slapstick , comedy sound effects & sequences which probably looked OK on paper but ended up being far from OK in the finished product . Scenes of Wilder trying to pass a dead body off as a living person by dancing with it in front of two idiotic cops ( Billy J . Mitchell & R . J . Bell ) is embarrassing to watch , or a scene in which Wilder is sitting on top of a stuffed moose head hiding from a snake is just dumb & Dom Deluise in drag as Aunt Kate is a truly hideous & laugh free image . Not one single moment of supposed comedy in Haunted Honeymoon worked for me , the jokes are far too drawn out & predictable . The mystery elements are better but are all but lost amongst the lame attempts at humour & nothing is explained , the killer is revealed but how he achieved certain things are unclear like them walking down a wall & those crazy mirror effects . There is even a brief musical interlude as Vickie & Aunt Kate perform a little number , once again it just comes across as embarrassing to watch . I also hated the ending , it makes a mockery of everything that precedes it & is just lazy & clichéd . One area in which Haunted Honeymoon does succeed is with it's good atmosphere , the period production design & sets are excellent & really capture the feel of those old horror mysteries . The cinematography & special effects are good & generally speaking Haunted Honeymoon is very well made with that Hollywood polish about it . The acting is pretty bad by all involved including Wilder whom I usually like , perhaps he was more concerned about behind-the-camera activities as director rather than acting in front of it , Dom Deluise is highly annoying & irritating as Aunt Kate . As far as I'm concerned Haunted Honeymoon is a complete failure as either a horror mystery or a comedy & I just can't see what sort of film goer this would appeal too & enjoy it . Haunted Honeymoon was Wilder's last directorial effort to date which says it all really , you have been forewarned !
El Retorno de Walpurgis , or Curse of the Devil as it's more commonly known amongst English speaking audiences , starts in Medieval Europe where Irineus Daninsky ( Jacinto Molina under his usual Paul Naschy pseudonym ) has a sword fight with some evil spawn of Satan bloke & ends up decapitating him . That night the evil blokes wife Elizabeth Bathory ( Maria Silva ) & some Satan worshippers hold a sacrificial black mass but are rounded up by Daninsky & his men , as Elizabeth is burned alive at the stake she puts a curse on Daninsky & all future Daninsky's . Centuries later & Waldemar Daninsky ( Jacinto Molina again ) accidentally shoots a Bathory descendant which sets the curse in motion . A gypsy witch ( Elsa Zabala ) holds yet another black mass in which some strange guy dressed head to toe in black has his wicked way with various naked women , hey all this gratuitous nudity is an essential part of the story telling process . One of the women Ilona ( Ines Morales ) is discovered unconscious lying in the middle of the road by Daninsky & his servant Maurice ( Fernando Sanchez Polack as Fernando S . Polack ) . They take her back to Daninsky's castle to nurse her back to health , Daninsky's maid Malitza ( Ana Farra ) is suspicious of her . One night Ilona pulls some sort of animal skull out & bites Daninsky's nipple with it . From that moment on Daninsky is cursed to turn into a Werewolf at every full moon & kill , things become even more complicated when he brutally kills Maria Wilowa ( Maritza Olivares ) the young sister of Kinga ( Fabiola Falcon ) the woman he has fallen in love with . . . Directed by Carlos Aured I thought El Retorno de Walpurgis was a very poor film , both technically & conceptually . The script by star Jacinto Molina is a mess , a dull boring mess as well . After a fairly good & exploitative opening few minutes it quickly goes downhill for the remainder of it's duration . The film feels extremely choppy , characters come & go far too readily , the gypsy , Ilona & the policeman to name but three . No one is given any sort of meaningful character development apart from Daninsky ( talk about giving yourself all the best lines ) & I found it almost impossible to care about anyone or anything . Even though El Retorno de Walpurgis only lasts for 80 odd minutes uncut it felt much longer & I actually started to go to sleep towards the end . The editing is very poor , the film cuts & moves all over the place & at one point a sequence is edited in such a way that it appeared to me that Daninsky wasn't the Werewolf when in fact he was . On the positive side El Retorno de Walpurgis is a handsome film throughout with nice production design , impressive detailed period sets & costumes . Don't expect much blood or gore despite what you read as it's not exactly going to make anyone lose any sleep . A few bites , a scythe through someones body , an impaling & a decapitated head at the start . The blood itself looks very fake , in fact it looks a lot like red paint . There is a fair amount of nudity as well but again it's nothing that's going to amaze or shock you . Forget about the great looking artwork on the DVD / video box as El Retorno de Walpurgis has to feature one of the weakest Werewolves in horror film history , he looks more like a teddy bear with fake perfectly white plastic fangs complete with cute little semi circle ears sticking out the top of his head , bless ' im . The acting seemed poor & the rubbishy English dub probably doesn't do it any favours . Overall I was very disappointed by El Retorno de Walpurgis , I usually really like these cheap Euro exploitation films but I didn't dig this one at all . Despite a good opening sequence & nice period production design there is nothing by which I can recommend El Retorno de Walpurgis as a piece of enjoyable entertainment . Probably one to avoid .
Janghwa , Hongryeon , or A Tale of Two Sisters as it's more commonly known amongst English speaking audiences , starts as two young sisters Soo-Mi ( Su-jeong Lim ) & Soo-Yeon ( Geun-yeong Mun ) return home to their father ( Kap-su Kim ) & stepmother ( Jung-ah Yum ) after spending some time in a mental hospital . Things are not well , they don't seem to get on with their stepmother , their father isn't much help & to add to their anxieties & fears there might be ghosts haunting the house . . . This South Korean production was written & directed by Ji-woon Kim & I'm afraid that once again I have to go against the popular opinion on a film & say that I personally didn't like Janghwa , Hongryeon at all . The script , as is the general feeling , is some what difficult to follow at times & it all leads up to an ending that you can make of which whatever you want I suppose . I found the film incredibly boring & dull , I just found it so slow that I lost interest very early on & the film never did anything to regain it . For most of it's running time I thought it was a complete snooze-fest . It's very limited in the sense that only six people appear in it & that it's set almost entirely within one location , these aren't necessarily problems on their own but when associated with such a dull film I considered switching off & going to bed . I did however stick it out to the end for what it was worth . There are plenty of great films with great twists & turns that excite & entertain , I can understand a slow , measured & exact build up but overall I just wasn't interested in anything that was going on & in my opinion films are there for entertainment value , their there to entertain & for me Janghwa , Hongryeon didn't at all & therefore I have negative feelings about it , it's as simple & straight forward as that . Director Kim certainly likes the quiet approach , you could hear a pin drop during most of Janghwa , Hongryeon . The camera deliberately lingers on shots & it seems like the thing lasted for hours while I was watching it . The narrative is unusual to say the least & I just think life is too short to spend it trying to figure this film out . To it's credit it's well made with a nice sense of style plus there are a couple of creepy scenes although their few & far between . Forget about any gore . Technically the film is top-notch & I have no complaints on this side of things , still don't like the film though . Since everyone speaks in Korean you can't really tell much about the performances but they seemed to do a decent enough job . Janghwa , Hongryeon ( which apparently were the sisters names in the original story & mean Rose Flower & Red Lotus respectively ) wasn't my cup of tea at all , I have better things to do than strip it down & analyse every millisecond or every abstract scene in it . Too long , far too overrated & too dull for my tastes I'm afraid , I'm sure I've offended a lot of people by saying this but I don't really give a damn , I didn't like it & it's as simple & straight forward as that . Set to be remade by Hollywood as A Tale of Two Sisters ( 2008 ) .
Pray for Morning starts as a few teen friends decide to spend the night in the Royal Crescent Hotel , a large rundown long abandoned hotel that was the scene of five gruesome murders back in 1984 . Jesse ( Jonathon Trent ) has always been interested in the hotel & drawn to the mystery surrounding the still unsolved murders , he has convinced some of his high school mates to accompany him , during the middle of the night of course because going there during the day when it was light would just be silly . Once there they decide to check out the rooms in which the five bodies were found , before anyone know's it an evil ghostly spirit has been awakened & is killing the teens off one-by-one & unless they can stop it none of them will live to see the morning . . . Written & directed by Cartney Wearn I watched Pray for Morning last night without knowing a thing about it , the title is rather vague & could have referred to anything so I didn't go into it with any great expectation yet I still found myself disappointed & not particularly having a good time . What we have here is a cross between The Shining ( 1980 ) with it's hotel style setting & The Amityville Horror ( 1979 ) with the now standard haunted house scenario ( spooky property has a dark past , you know the sort of thing ) along with a few boring mystery elements thrown in there for good measure . The film spends far too much time showing annoying American teens wondering around this old hotel in the dark , it just doesn't make for particularly entertaining viewing & gets very boring very quickly . The script is predictable & is nothing more than a teen slasher with some tenuous supernatural elements along with an obligatory twist ending which didn't do much for me at all to be honest as I thought it was pretty ineffectual . There is one amazing scene I just couldn't work out , in it one of the annoying American high school teens examines a twenty year old blood stain & determines that whoever left the stain was trying to hide something ! How on Earth do you work that out ? Also it turns out that whatever the victim was trying to hide they hid inside an nearby air vent so when they were killed how could they have been trying to hide something when they had clearly already hidden it ? Also why didn't the police find that severed hand in the vent only a few feet away ? According to earlier exposition the police had ' torn the place apart ' looking for clues so why not find that severed hand only a few feet away from a murder victim ? The police obviously didn't do a very good job , did they ? There's no explanation as to how or why there's a ghost in the hotel or how it manages to alter reality or how it can transport people back in time & , of course , the annoying American teens mobile phones don't work for no apparent reason either so they get isolated from the outside world in a now obligatory plot device for low budget horror films . The story doesn't engage or entertain , that character's are both poor & annoying , the plot is forgettable & not that much actually happens . The hotel sets or locations ( not sure if they filmed in a real hotel or in a studio ) are quite nice but why are some of the lights on ? Wouldn't the electricity have been turned off ? Horror wise there's not much to get excited about here , there's a few bloody corpses & what looks like a bamboo stick stuck through someone but not much else & there's not much in the way of scares since the less than impressive CGI computer effects have the opposite effect & make things almost laughable . There are one or two bits with a decent atmosphere but it's never sustained for any period of time . The film seems to take itself very seriously & there's no humour or fun to be seen anywhere which doesn't help when the plot feels so stale & lethargic . To give it some credit there are a few period flashbacks at the end which are quite nicely done I suppose . With a supposed budget of about $2 , 000 , 000 this has better production values than a lot of recent low budget horror but that's hardly any sort of recommendation on it's own . Filmed in Los Angeles . The only real cast member of note is cult German born actor Udo Kier who doesn't look interested at all & to my eyes seems to put on more weight in every subsequent film he makes ( the Steven Seagal of the low budget horror world ! ) . Pray for Morning is a dull supernatural teen horror slasher that doesn't satisfy on any level really , never mind pray for morning I would suggest that most audiences will be praying for it to finish not too long after it has started .
Burnt Offerings starts as Ben Rolf ( Oliver Reed ) , his wife Marion ( Karen Black ) & their young son David ( Lee Montgomery ) decide the chance to rent a huge mansion for the summer for a paltry $900 is too good to turn down , the only condition set by current owner's Roz ( Eileen Heckart ) & her brother Arnold Allardyce ( Burgess Meredith ) is that they feed their mother who lives in a room upstairs which the Rolf's agree to . They move in together with their aunt Elizabeth ( Bette Davis ) & Marion starts to clean the place up , Ben settles down to do some work & David explores the house . However it's not long before they strange things start to happen , their personalities start to change , they begin to argue & grow apart , near fatal accidents happen & Marion becomes obsessed with the house in a way that threatens their very lives . . . Co-written , produced & directed by Dan Curtis I have to say that I thought Burnt Offerings was one of the most boring films I've seen in a long time , I mean scenes of people walking around a big house doing nothing in particular just becomes boring after almost 2 straight hours of it . The script by Curtis & William F . Nolan was based on a novel of the same name by Robert Marasco , even though you may automatically think Burnt Offerings is a haunted house flick it isn't really in the sense that there's no ghosts & the major plot point which takes forever to get to is that the house regenerates itself through death & violent acts committed by it's inhabitants which in itself isn't a bad idea I suppose but the film is so slow & boring I lost almost all interest in it before the extremely stupid so-called twist ending which I figured out about halfway through . In fact the ending doesn't really sit that well with the main story & in the end it's just a bit of a mess that goes nowhere very slowly . There are only four character's in it , the Rolf family themselves & none of them are particularly likable , the dialogue is alright but forgettable & for a film that lasts 110 minutes not that much actually happens , or at least it didn't feel like it . Director Curtis is better known as a producer & director of TV show's , in fact Burnt Offerings was his only theatrical feature film & it show's with so much padding it's untrue . The film also looks like a TV show with fairly standard cinematography & a bland uninspiring look to it . This is a debatable point but I didn't think Burnt Offerings was scary at all & had zero atmosphere . The title Burnt Offerings means little as nothing or no-one is burnt although the Rolf family being left to the house's mercy by the Allardyce's could be described as a sacrificial offering . Technically the film is OK but bland & dull which is explained by director Curtis ' TV background . Filmed at Dunsmuir House & Gardens in Oakland in California & it makes a nice enough location although it gets repetitive . The acting isn't great , the kid is annoying , Reed isn't interested & Black is just awful , apparently she was 4 months pregnant when she shot this . Burnt Offerings has a few nice ideas but they are lost in a long , boring , tedious & frankly repetitive film that goes nowhere & takes nearly 2 hours to get there . Not recommended unless you suffer from insomnia .
The Snake King , or Snakeman as it's more commonly known , starts as New York based pharmaceutical company GenTech announces in a press conference that during a recent expedition in the Amazon they discovered a corpse of a man which when analysed showed he died at the age of 300 . Company scientists Dr . Rick Gordon ( Larry Day ) & Dr . Susan Elters ( Jayne Heitmeyer ) are going to lead another expedition into the Amazon to finds his tribe & discover the secret of living for 300 years , what could possibly go wrong ? Well , for a start their helicopter is struck by lightening & crash lands in the middle of the Amazon , then Rick turns out to be a complete dck & to top it off a huge five headed snake wants to eat them all . Can their local guide Matt ( Stephen Baldwin ) lead them to safety & is finding the secret to eternal life really worth being eaten by a huge five headed snake for ? This made-for-TV Canadian American co-production was written & directed by Allan A . Goldstein & is yet another Nu Image produced creature feature flick complete with all the clichés that these films seem determined to include . The script takes itself very seriously & is basically pretty much the same sort of thing as Anacondas : The Hunt for the Blood Orchid ( 2004 ) with it's plot about a youth potion in the Amazon guarded by a snake , in this case a ridiculous looking one of the giant five headed variety . Lets go through the clichés which Nu Image insist on having in their creature features , good guys including a beautiful female scientist & a rugged hero type who end up falling in love , the antagonistic bad guys who want something the creature is protecting / in the way of , the disposable character's who don't say anything & have no opinions on anything because they are there to get eaten , the supposedly dramatic moralistic ending which will leave most viewers wiping away the tears of either laughter or boredom , the single isolated location to keep production costs down & an abundance of awful CGI computer effects . Yep , they're all here present & correct . Unfortunately Snake King is even more lame than a lot of other Nu Image ' classics ' like Cyborg Cop ( 1993 ) , Shark Attack ( 1999 ) , their best film to date Spiders ( 2000 ) , Crocodile ( 2000 ) , Octopus ( 2000 ) , Mansquito ( 2005 ) & a plethora of sequels & other killer Shark flicks , I mean most of the above are pretty bad films but a lot of them at least had fun elements , unintentionally hilarious moments & a sense no one was taking things too seriously but The Snake Kingis just a dull , boring , unoriginal mess of a film that isn't even good for any laughs & doesn't have any good looking babes in it either . At least the five headed snake survives at the end & gets to eat lots of humans but it's still a stinker . Director Goldstein doesn't do anything special here , the pace is slack , the plot is dumb , the editing is awful & the special effects are terrible . The CGI computer effects look awful , unless you have literally million's to spend on them GCI always ends up looking worse than your average Saturady morning cartoon with badly animated monsters that look stupid . The wonderful Ray Harryausen stop-motion animated seven headed Hydra from Jason and the Argonauts ( 1963 ) looks 100 times better & more realistic than the five headed snake here . There's a few gory bit here , there's some severed arms , people are bitten in half & there's a brief scene when someone has their stomach sliced open & their guts spill out . With a supposed budget of about $1 , 000 , 000 the filmmakers were obviously working on a tight budget & it's a surprise they actually managed to shoot the thing on location in Brazil . Awful looking five headed snakes & helicopter crashes apart it's reasonably well made but it's bland & forgettable without an ounce of style . The acting here is bad & Stephen Baldwin is the token ' celebrity ' actor who obviously needed rent money & a free holiday in South America . The Snake King is a pretty awful creature feature which offers nothing new over the countless killer Shark , Octopus , Insect , Lizard & Arachnid type films which seem to be everywhere & it doesn't even any genuine unintentional laughs either . Definitely not recommended , I'm not sure why they keep making these sorts of films other than there are people out there who like them & to satisfy demand Nu Image's next giant killer snake flick seems to be called MegaSnake ( 2007 ) & premiers in July apparently . . .
Quincy M . E . : A Cry for Help starts as troubled & depressed teenager Julie Bonner ( Megan Wyss ) calls her father ( Richard Gautier ) who is too busy with his work to talk to her , several hours later & Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is examining her dead body at the side of a highway . Back in the laboratory & the autopsy confirms Julie died from a gunshot wound to the chest but the blood pattern at the scene of the crime points to Julie's body having been moved , Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) suspects murder & feels Julies boyfriend Joby Kenyon ( Thom Bray ) is responsible . After questioning Joby claims Julie committed suicide , to try & prove Joby's innocence Quincy's fiancé Dr . Emily Hanover ( Anita Gillette ) performs a psychological autopsy on Julie to determine her state of mind . . . Episode 13 from season 8 this Quincy story was directed by Ray Austin & is yet another really bad heavy-handed moralistic episode that I freely admit I have a strong dislike for , I like Quincy best as a series when there's a murder mystery of some sort & Quincy has to use his detective skills & medical expertise to crack , solve or prove a case & I find these moral episode horrible to watch . A Cry for Help opens promisingly as Quincy is called to autopsy the body of Julie & he has his suspicions that her body was moved & I'm thinking this could be a decent mystery episode but then the truth is discovered within ten minutes & the rest of A Cry for Help focuses on teenage suicide & the uplifting message that no matter how bleak things seem there's always light at the end of the tunnel & you just have to make it there . Please . This is pretty much 50 minutes of my life wasted , Quincy barely features & his annoying fiancé Emily takes center stage as she reels off a stream of very unsubtle statistics like the suicide rate in awkward & very forced sounding dialogue between herself & Quincy as they discuss the case . This is a totally unremarkable & forgettable episode in every sense , it's almost entirely exposition based with little or no dramatic incident . You know life is full of problems we have to overcome , our parents have to work & you know they have lives of their own too & I just found this whole episode very outdated , misjudged & preachy like a lot of Quincy from season eight . The acting is below par here , Klugman is being relegated to less & less screen time as season eight continues & surely that's a bad thing ? It just seems Quincy is being hijacked by some other horrible show I don't like & everything that made it a classic & so enjoyable is fast disappearing , lets face it it's no surprise the network pulled the plug on the show after the generally awful season eight . A Cry for Help is another Quincy episode that I really disliked , it has none of the factor's which has made me such a fan of the show for the previous seven seasons & is just awful really . Another disappointment in a very disappointing season so far .
Scorpius Gigantus starts somewhere in Eastern Europe where an incognito U . S . military convoy is ambushed by the Russian mafia in the hope that one of the trucks contains uranium , they slaughter the American soldiers & steal the truck . They drive it to a disused warehouse & open the doors only to discover a genetically created creature that is a cross between a scorpion , water-bug & cockroach , it kills them . Major Nick Reynolds ( Jeff Fahey ) is informed by his boss Colonel Miller ( Ray Hartbarger ) that he & his team will be responsible for going in & sorting the whole mess out , unfortunately Miller doesn't tell Reynolds about the giant bug & some of his team are killed . The Government call in the scientist who created the creature Dr . Jane Preston ( Jo Bourne-Taylor ) to oversee the capture of the bug but as she insists on a live specimen for study Miller tells Reynolds neither he nor his team can use ammo , however the Scorpius gigantus hasn't read the script & kills anyone it comes across & to add to Reynold's problems it seems to be giving birth . . . Directed by Tommy Withrow I can't quite get my head around Scorpius Gigantus , for a start what a cool title but ultimately what a poor film . As I was watching Scorpius Gigantus last night the script by Raly Radouloff & Terence H . Winkless reminded me of another film called Carnosaur 3 : Primal Species ( 1996 ) also made by the same production company New Horizon Pictures & both were executive produced by the king of the rip-offs Roger Corman . It is amazing just how similar the two films are , from individual scenes & sequences which are almost exactly the same apart from the cast & instead of a dinosaur this time it's a mutant insect bug . The arm wrestling scene , the bit when they are examining a dead specimen on a table & it comes back to life with the same revelation that the creatures cells repair themselves , from the ambushing of an American convoy by bad guys who think they're stealing uranium but instead find a dodgy genetic experiment which kills them , the female scientist who wants them alive , the run down warehouse setting to the fact both share exactly the same ending aboard a ship . The thing is I only saw Carnosaur 3 : Primal Species two & a half weeks ago ( My IMDb comment for it is dated 30th July ) so it's still quite fresh & both films really are virtually the same , in fact I'd say this is more of a remake of Carnosaur 3 : Primal Species & follows it more closely than the recent Dawn of the Dead ( 2004 ) remake was to the original Dawn of the Dead ( 1978 ) & looking at the other comments for it I see I'm not the only one whose noticed this . As a film in it's own right it's poor , it's clichéd & extremely predictable , it's far too long at 100 odd minutes , the dialogue is bad , the character's are cardboard cutouts & there isn't an original idea within the whole film . Having said that it moves along at a reasonable pace , some of the dialogue is hilariously bad & there's one or two decent gore scenes , that's still not enough to save it though . Director Withrow doesn't distinguish the film from any-other low budget sci-fi / horror & as a whole it's pretty forgettable stuff . There's little excitement , no scares or atmosphere & serious lapses of logic within the story . The CGI effects are really bad , the creature looks awful & at times just seems an ugly mass of shapes . There's some decent gore though , people are cut in half , someone has their throat slit , there's severed arms , peoples guts are sucked out , someone gets infected & their face & neck swell up which then explode , there are various body parts flying about & a fair amount of blood . Technically Scorpius Gigantus is average looking made-for-TV stuff & won't impress anyone . The special CGI effects are poor although some of the gore effects are OK . The acting is bad , Jeff Fahey looks embarrassed & has every reason to . Scorpius Gigantus is a poor film in it's own right but I'm simply amazed at how closely it resembles Carnosaur 3 : Primal Species , why remake a film which in probability hardly anyone has ever heard of let alone seen . In this respect it might not actually be a big problem because many people haven't seen or heard of Carnosaur 3 : Primal Species , still a terrible film though .
Flu Bird Horror starts as two guy's out deer hunting in some isolated forest are attacked by what look like large reptilian prehistoric birds , one is killed while the other is badly injured . Meanwhile several convicted teens on a trip to the woods with a social worker are also attacked by the birds , with their social worker dead these layabout law-breaking teens have to work together to survive becoming bird food . Back with the fisherman & he is rescued by a local forest ranger who takes him to hospital where the doctor's get very worried as he seems to be infected with a highly contagious & lethal mutant strain of bird flu that could start a worldwide epidemic that could kill billions . . . Great , just what the world needed . Another Sci-Fi Channel ' Creature Feature ' with bad CGI computer effects & a totally lame & predictable story full of holes & bad writing . Issued on DVD in the US under the title of Flu Birds & knew I was in trouble when I saw Nu Image Films produced it & Leigh Scott directed it ( just check out their IMDb resumes & see at how many bad horror films they both have credited between them ) so at that point I wasn't expecting too much which is just as well because Flu Bird Horror isn't that good although I will admit I have seen worse Sci-Fi Channel ' Creature Features ' although that's certainly no sort of recommendation in itself . The script is pretty poor , the teen character's are all clichéd & annoying , there's virtually zero exposition or plot & the makers don't even try to suggest where the birds came from , what they are , where they have been , why no-one has ever seen them before , why there's only six of them , why they have only just started to attack people or why they carry a mutant strain of bird flu . Then there's the fact that Flu Bird Horror tends to focus more on the killer disease aspect of it's story like a zero budget rip-off of Outbreak ( 1995 ) rather than it's monster birds which would be fine but the disease angle is never tied up , the last time we see the hospital it's quarantined & the deadly mutant bird flu is rampant yet this side of the story is never resolved or gone back to again . Having said that it moves along at a reasonable pace , it doesn't outstay it's welcome , there are a couple of OK gore scenes & it's relatively entertaining in a crap sort of way if you don't think about the plot too much . Like all Sci-Fi Channel ' Creature Features ' Flu Bird Horror has plenty of CGI computer effects & I have to say while they aren't particularly good they are better than most of the Sci-Fi Channel output . There's some OK gore here too with a pecked out eyeball , a severed leg , a body bitten in half , some intestine eating & some guy with bird flu who has lots of open bloody sores all over his body . I think the DVD artwork displayed on the IMDb is misleading , this isn't about ordinary birds turning into killers & giving people horrible diseases as there's these prehistoric dinosaur looking creatures the origins of which are never explained in any way whatsoever . The production values are alright , it's fairly well made as far as cheap TV films go . The acting is alright too , even though the character's are poor the actor's are OK & there one or two good looking girls here which helps . Flu Bird Horror is a fairly routine Sci-Fi Channel ' Creature Feature ' that isn't as bad as some of it's type but that ain't saying much , if you know what to expect & can live with the expected & ^ obligatory flaws then you may get something out of Flu Bird Horror , all other's should steer well clear .
Dead Set ( # 1 . 4 ) starts as Riq ( Riz Ahmed ) sees his girlfriend Kelly ( Jaime Winstone ) on the telly in the Big Brother house safe & well & decides he has to get to her , Alex ( Liz May Brice ) isn't keen on the idea but has little choice to agree . By a strange coincidence the house Riq & Alex are trapped in actually has a boat round the back & a river which goes right past the Big Brother house which is sort of lucky really . Kelly & the house-mates manage to rescue Patrick ( Andy Nyman ) & Pippa ( Kathleen McDermott ) who killed the Davina McCall zombie & get them back to the relative safety of the Big Brother house . Now they must try to figure out a way to escape the zombie plague & reach safety . . . This British produced zombie horror TV mini-series was originally shown as five separate parts over a week but it is also available as one long two hour plus edit which I honestly don't think I could sit through , I mean over two straight hours of this rubbish would be hard to sit through . Like the previous couple of episodes the script follows three separate sets of character's although the plot is trying to bring them all together . I have actually thought Dead Set has been a rather dumb & clichéd zombie horror series so far & I would say this is the first episode where the script tries to say anything relevant at all . Patrick has a rant about how he worked he way up to his position of success & that wanting a quick fix to become famous by appearing on a show like Big Brother is just , well , wrong . To be honest I am pretty sure that sitting through over an hour & a half of Dead Set to get to that momentous social message has not been time well spent . At all . Once again at only twenty five minutes in length at least it's short but I didn't enjoy it so what's the point ? The character's are still awful , some of the decision making is awful , every second word is a profanity & why don't the zombies try to smash windows , open the doors or climb over fences which are barely six foot high ? There's a little passage of dialogue which is pinched from Dawn of the Dead ( 1978 ) as the Big Brother house-mates ponder why the zombies seem to be coming to the Big Brother house . After episode three's dull ending there's anther cliffhanger style ending to episode four although it doesn't make me want to watch episode five at all really . I have mentioned in all of the previous comments I have written for the other episodes & again here the cinematography is awful & I hate the way this looks . After complaining about the lack of gore this episode is a little better , the Davina McCall zombie is killed with a pole stuck through the back of her head , there's some blood splatter & a gory bit at the end when Patrick cuts a dead body up with a kitchen knife removing it's insides & there's also a severed hand seen too . But generally speaking it's still fairly tame , when Alex kills the zombie that has bitten her nothing is shown & when Riq kills her before she turns again absolutely nothing is shown . As a seasoned horror film fan I have not been impressed with the gore levels in this so far & you can't see half of it anyway because of the shaky cinematography . Dead Set ( # 1 . 4 ) is another lacklustre episode to a clichéd , predictable & annoying series that I am glad I didn't spend any money on . Can't say I am looking forward to the fifth & final episode but I'll watch it out of commitment rather than anticipation , I mean I have come this far why give up now ?
Monsters : The Legacy is set in a Palm Beach house which an author named Dale ( David Brisbin ) has rented out after he has become convinced it used to belong to horror film legend Faulton Pierce one of the most respected actor's ever to grace Hollywood . Dale is trying to write a book about Pierce & how he managed to create such convincing on-screen character's , while rummaging through the basement Dale finds Pierce's old make-up box & soon learns the truth about Pierce's on-screen creations . . . Episode seven from season one of Monsters this originally aired in the US during December 1988 , directed by Jeffrey Wolf this was based on a story by famed horror author Robert Bloch ( as was Mannikins of Horror ( 1989 ) another story from the first season of Monsters ) & against all expectation is maybe the weakest episode of the first season & if it's not the weakest it's certainly right down there . The story itself isn't that great to begin with & is more of a mystery thriller before a horror type ending which is far too rushed to make sense & have any sort of impact , from a personal point of view I just didn't get the ending at all & I didn't think it worked . It starts off with Dale changing into a monsters & then he's back to normal again & then there's this Vampire standing in the middle of the room who pulls a funny face & then the episode ends . The pace is generally slow & the duration is too short to get over what seems fairly exposition heavy with most of it narrated by Dale as there aren't enough other character's to bounce the various ideas & themes off . As usual there are limited sets & a limited number of cast but it's still quite polished & it looks nice enough . There's no gore in this one & apart from a deformed monster at the end not much in the way of horror or scares or atmosphere . The relatively unknown cast do alright but no-one stands out particularly . The Legacy is maybe the worst Monsters episode from it's first season & I didn't rate it at all , there's just not much of a story , not much horror & a mess of a twist ending .
The Breed starts sometime in ' . . . The Near Future . . . ' where homicide detective Steven Grant ( Bokeem Woodbine ) & his partner Phil ( Reed Diamond ) follow up a lead on a particularly nasty serial killer who's running around at the moment . The lead happens to be a stolen van which they find & in a nearby building discover yet another dead body . The mysterious killer is also there , he most definitely resists arrest & even though Grant repeatedly shoots him he kills Phil by biting his neck . Grant survives but the killer disappears into the night . . . The ' National Security Agency ' contacts Grant about the incident , the agencies director says that what he , & Phil , were dealing with was a renegade Vampire . He carries on to inform Grant that there are about 4000 Vampires worldwide & they revealed themselves to ' us ' to try & live in harmony together , he also says that Vampires are genetic mutations & feed on a synthetic substitute for blood . Grant is assigned a new partner , a Vampire named Aaron Gray ( Adrian Paul ) & they are told to work together to discover the identity of the serial killing Vampire who wants to sabotage the peace between the two races . . . This American Hungarian co-production was directed by Michael Oblowitz & is average at best . The script by Christos N . Gage & Ruth Fletcher is the real problem here . Too many things just didn't work for me , for a start could a high ranking scientist create a virus that has the potential to wipe out the entire human race without a SINGLE person questioning him or finding out ? I mean the guy is even using the ' Nation Security Agency ' laboratories for Christ's sake ! Considering the Vampire race has been around for 1000's of years it seemed strange that there was only 4000 throughout the entire world & that they had never been noticed before . The central relationship between Grant the human & Gray the Vampire was clichéd & really cheesy , I mean at first they don't don't get on & seem mismatched but by the end they are best of friends & have saved each other's lives , we've seen it all before & done a lot better . The whole story is predictable & I can't believe it took Gray over half the film to figure out the painfully obvious . The whole concept just didn't work as far as I'm concerned & the film spent a good 30 minutes explaining it's own set of Vampire ' rules ' as Grant would ask a question like how to kill a Vampire & Gray would tell him thus making sure we , the viewer that is , know as well . The breed also makes a few feeble attempts to say things about racism , trust & acceptance , you know all the clichéd things one would expect . Director Oblowitz thinks he's making a cross between The Matrix ( 1999 ) , Lethal Weapon ( 1987 ) & Vampires ( 1998 ) , well no-one told him that you need a budget to pull that off . He films the fight scenes with people ' flying ' through the air plus shooting & reloading their guns in a ' cool ' way but they come off as looking ridiculous . He films everything with bleached out colours & a greenish tint . As for the films supposed style , you need to do a bit more than tilt the camera , shine a few neon lights & have some mist swirling in every shot . The gore is none existent , one neck biting , a couple of slit throats , a few gunshot wounds & someone explodes CGI style at the end & it looks terrible . With a really low budget of about $400 , 000 it shows . The Breed has reasonable production values but it looks cheap throughout & you can tell it was shot in Europe , in this case Hungary . Even though it is meant to be set in the future the cars , clothes & the like suggest otherwise . I found the acting awful , whats with the gay moustache Paul ? Woodbine gives a terrible performance & just wasn't right for the role at all . Ling Bai is quite sexy looking whenever she appears . I was disappointed by The Breed , it's one of those films that make a fantastic trailer when they show ALL the cool bits in the space of two & a half minutes set against some techno music . Unfortunately there's another eighty seven & a half minutes to sit through if you decide to watch it . Personally I didn't think much of it .
Midsomer Murders : King's Crystal starts in Shanghai in China where businessman Alan King ( David Firth ) is killed in a car accident . Back in the small village of Midsomer Magna six months later & the factory that Alan own named ' King's Crystal ' is now being run by his brother Charles King ( John Castle ) & company accountant Peter Baxter ( Ray Lonnen ) . Alan's widow & his brother Charles have also just married , having sold King's Crystal & the laid off workers finding out that their pensions have been stolen both Charles & Peter find themselves under pressure . Then when Alan's son Ian ( Sam Heughan ) turns up & starts to take an interest in the business a chain of events is started that begins with the brutal stabbing of Peter Baxter , as usual DCI Tom Barnaby ( John Nettles ) has to sort through the lies & back-stabbing to uncover the truth & bring a killer to justice . . . Episode 3 from season 10 this Midsomer Murders mystery was directed by Peter Smith & I have to say I thought King's Crystal was well below par as far as this generally very good detective series goes . There are several aspects of King's Crystal that left me unsatisfied , most of them revolving around the main murder plot . OK so Barnaby discovers that Alan King was murdered in Shanghai but there's no way on Earth he can prove who did it let alone the killer in this instance , also this is one of the few times during Midsomer Murders where the killer doesn't confess & that leaves the episode feeling a little unfinished . I mean the supposed killer says he has an alibi for when Ian was murdered so how did Barnaby get around that ? If there was a pensions black-hole in a company the police would already be involved & why was Jack Tewson aiming for Ian with his rifle in that field ? There's a scene of Jack aiming for Ian but it's never explained why for some bizarre reason unless I missed something which I don't think I did . The motives are poor & the first murder isn't even a proper murder with a motive behind it . There's the usual sub-plots involving Barnaby's family that are actually more entertaining than the murder plot . There's also some nonsense about the Mason's which comes to nothing & will probably baffle most as I am not sure most will even know who or what the Freemason's are . At almost two hours in length it frags & just feels a little unfinished with a far too ambiguous ending that doesn't tie everything together neatly enough for me . There's a small scene set in Shanghai at the start of King's Crystal & it's painfully obvious that the makers just put a road sign up in Chinese somewhere in the UK & have a car drive past it ! This has the usual high production values & looks great with the real life Ironwork Gallery on the Grand Union Canal in Hertfordshire apparently being used as the King's Crystal factory . There are two murders here with neither being particularly imaginative & the second of which doesn't really get much of an explanation . The acting is fine , the regulars are good & the guest cast are also OK . Midsomer Murders : King's Crystal is not one of my favourite episodes , in fact it's probably one of my least favourite . This one falls well below the usual standard in my opinion .
Nola Carveth ( Samantha Eggar ) is under the psychiatric care of Dr . Hal Raglan ( Oliver Reed ) who practise's rather radical unconventional methods know as psychoplasmics & Nola is his star patient . The treatment encourages the patient bodies to manifest their emotions . Nola's estranged husband , Frank Carveth ( Art Hindle ) is at Dr . Raglan's clinic to pick up his & Nola's young daughter Candice ( Cindy Hinds ) after she had visited to see her Mother for the weekend . Back home Frank notices bruises & marks on Candice's back while giving her a bath , after seeking advice from his lawyer ( Larry Solway ) Frank decides to investigate Raglan's clinic & methods to prove he , or one of his patients , was responsible for Candice's injuries . Frank discusses the situation with his Mother-in-law Julianna Kelly ( Nuala Fitzgerald ) as he leaves Candice there for her to look after . Julianna hears the window breaking in her kitchen & banging noises , she investigates & is brutally murdered but Candice is unharmed . Frank is notified by the police & when his Father-in-law Barton ( Henry Beckman ) is also murdered in the same house by a deformed child he knows something is going on ( as you would ) . At Candice's school her teacher Ruth Mayer ( Susan Hogan ) is attacked & murdered by two different deformed children as they kidnap Candice & lead her away . Eventually Frank realises that all the evil he has encountered has originated at Dr . Raglan's clinic , Frank drives up there to see Nola , Dr . Raglan & reclaim his daughter Candice but what he finds instead is a nightmare of terror beyond imagination ! Written & directed by David Cronenberg I really didn't see much to enjoy in the Brood . I just don't get why so many people like this , it's as dull as dishwater for over an hour & contains little in the way of horror . Having said that things pick up towards the end with the revelations & a fairly decent climax . The Brood plods along like some sort of marital drama as very little information is given away , Cronenberg obviously wanted to create an air of mystery which is O . K . but at least have things happening so we care about where the story ends up . I was totally uninterested in anyone or anything by the time all was revealed . Acting is solid throughout as you would expect from a Cronenberg production but even though Oliver Reed is given top-billing in the credits he has very little on screen time . I liked Samantha Eggar in her role , I'm not sure if she was meant to be the villain or not but I liked her . There is one decent gore scene in the Brood at the end , otherwise we don't get anything other than splashes of blood . From a technical point of view the Brood is good enough but not exactly outstanding . Overall I just didn't like the Brood & couldn't get into the story or characters , it all just left me deeply uninterested & cold . Lots of people seem to like it so maybe it's me but I don't personally know anyone who would particularly enjoy this film in my opinion , & certainly not anyone into mainstream films that's for sure . Check it out if you can , just don't expect too much like I obviously was .
Quincy M . E . : Quincy's Wedding : Part 1 starts a mere two week before Los Angeles chief medical examiner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is due to marry psychiatrist Dr . Emily Hanover ( Anita Gillette ) but he seems hesitant & nervous . Meanwhile life still goes on as well as death , the latest body to arrive on Quincy's autopsy table is that of the elderly Roy Brackett ( John McIntire ) who at first seems to have died from heart failure & as such natural causes . But then Quincy gets a visit from his widow Edna ( Jeanette Nolan ) who admits to killing him , Quincy is sceptical at first but feels there might be something to her story when she talks about specialised drugs & techniques for administering them . . . Episode 17 from season 8 this is obviously the two part story where Quincy ties the knot & get married for the second time , you know I have to say I don't like the way Quincy as a series was going particularly in the generally poor season eight as it just felt like the makers were trying to turn the show into a soap opera amongst other things . I'm sorry but that's not what Quincy was about & that's not why I liked the show so much , I'm just not interested in the sort of rubbish moral issues & soap opera style shenanigan's that went on during the majority of season eight . This episode has to be considered a disappointment , there's a bit of humour revolving around the wedding planner Winslow as well as a slow moving & horribly predictable murder mystery which gets very little screen time as to stretch it out over two episodes but otherwise Quincy's Wedding : Part 1 is poor & pretty much typifies most of what was wrong with Quincy at this point & why a season nine was never commissioned . It seems that Quincy is pulling out all the stops for his wedding with a lavish outdoor setting . I feel a little sorry for him having to sell his boat though , over the previous seven & a half seasons it's made clear how much he loves his boat & I see it as another aspect of Quincy that the makers were trying to get rid off & change , another important aspect of Quincy I might add . The acting is alright but the regulars are better than the guests as they always are . Quincy's Wedding : Part 1 is closer to a soap opera as it is a proper Quincy episode & that ladies & gentlemen is why I didn't like it & if I'm totally honest I don't even want to watch Part 2 ( even though I already have ) .
Quincy M . E . : Sweet Land of Liberty starts late one night as LAPD cops Kemper ( Paul Tuerpe ) & DiGregorio ( Bert Santos ) investigate a possible stolen car parked outside a house , they knock on the door of the house & a Japanese woman named Lee ( Nobu McCarthy ) answers . The two cops ask to speak to her husband Steve ( Bill Saito ) who panics & has a violent attack in which he shoots Kemper dead . Kemper ends up on Los Angeles coroner Quincy's ( Jack Klugman ) autopsy table , it seems an open & shut case . But then Sam ( Robert Ito ) notices on the police report who is accused of killing the cop , Steve was like a brother to Sam while he was growing up & Sam refuses to believe that Steve could kill a young cop in cold blood for no reason . Then the next morning & Steve is found hanged in his cell , Sam is determined to clear Steve's name & find out what made him kill a cop & take his own life . . . Episode 6 from season 5 this Quincy story was directed by Robert Loggia & one has to say that I didn't think that much of it . For a start there's no real mystery element in it at all , there's no murder to solve or killer to find & that hurts the overall interest level . Then there's the fact that Quincy takes a back seat for this episode & it's Sam who orchestrates the moral crusade , in the case of Sweet Land of Liberty against the US Army for giving experimental drugs to interrogation victims . This of course raises the issues surrounding human experimentation , the US Army thinking it can do whatever it wants & the after effect of such treatment on it's soldiers which can last for decades . This isn't anything new though , is it ? I mean we have had all sorts of films & telly programmes in which Vietnam vets go mad , go on killing sprees & / or are unable to readjust to normal civilian society . Despite Sam being a good character he usually plays second fiddle to Quincy which is just the way it should be , I mean this episode proves that beyond any shadow of a doubt . Sam's alright but he ain't no Quincy ! Then again who is ? At fifty minutes it's a little slow at times , the story lacks a hook or any intrigue , the character's are pretty clichéd & it's far too predictable . Does anyone out there not believe Sam & Quincy will not prove Steve innocent ? Also the fact that the young cops death seems secondary to everyone doesn't help matters , it's clear that Steve killed the cop & that's that . I don't care whether he wasn't responsible for his actions he still killed him & yet he is talked about like a hero . Didn't sit too well with me at all , just like the episode in general . The climax of Sweet Land of Liberty sees Quincy & Sam in Washington attend a full military funeral at Arlington , this is probably one of the few times they filmed outside California . Unusually this is a Danny free episode , in fact Danny's bar doesn't even feature either . The acting is alright , Klugman is just brilliant as usual ( his arguing with Jim at the end in particular ) but he doesn't get much to do as this episode is all about Sam & I'm sorry but Ito just isn't a strong enough performer to carry a emotionally loaded episode such as this . Ex professional baseball player Stack Pierce makes the second of his three Quincy guest appearances here . Sweet Land of Liberty isn't classic Quincy , in fact one could rename this episode to Sam L . A . ( Laboratory Asisstant ) ! This one didn't do much for me at all & the cop that Steve killed was too easily forgotten .
The first part of Quincy M . E . : Walk Softly Through the Night ( nowhere during the opening titles does it actually ' Part 1 ' ) starts as the dead body of nineteen year old Ted Campbell ( Randy Stumpf ) is dumped outside Los Angeles county hospital . The next morning & Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is called by his close friend Brock Campbell ( Michael Constantine ) who tells Quincy the news , Quincy says he will perform the autopsy personally . The autopsy reveals that Ted died from complications arising from taking drugs & he sets out to understand why no-one at Ted's college knew or did anything about his addiction , where he got his drugs from & to bring those responsible to justice . . . Episode 14 from season 4 this Quincy story was directed by Paul Krasny , the first of a two part story Walk Softly Through the Night is a very much hard hitting moralistic Quincy with minimal detective work . In fact the only laboratory scenes are when Quincy performs the autopsy , other than that this episode takes the moralistic high ground all the way . Obviously drugs are a big problem in our society , they always have been & to be honest lets face it they always will be & I seriously doubt if one fifty minute long episode of Quincy is going to change that many attitudes . I suppose the big difference in Walk Softly Through the Night is that instead of dealers on the street the production team tried to tackle the menace of corrupt Doctor's who proscribe addictive drugs on prescription for money , I am not sure how widespread this issue actually is & I must admit I have never heard of a case such as this here in the UK although I wouldn't be surprised if it does happen . So that's it really , there's the all too familiar message that drugs are bad , the message that society can't look the other way & ignore it forever & that advocate programs in school's work . There's no mystery elements , there's no murder , there's no real detective work & there's really not that much here that is particularly memorable . Brock just happens to work as a child's entertainer , dressed as a clown & it's quite funny to see him in full clown make-up & costume trying to plead with a long line of teenagers in an attempt to get them to stop using drugs . The episode is well made but unremarkable while the regular character's really don't get much to do in this one at all . The acting is alright & as usual the episode is saved by Klugman who is just excellent as always . Wak Softly Through the Night : Part 1 is an average moralistic episode of Quincy , at least it's social issue is still of relevance although it really doesn't say anything any bone head wouldn't already know . Part 2 returns to more traditional Quincy territory as there's a murder to solve .
The Brain Eaters starts with the newly engaged Glenn Cameron ( Alan Frost ) driving his lucky fiancé Elaine ( Jody Fair ) to the small American town of Riverdale in Illinois to break the good news when they see a sudden bright flash . Glenn & Elaine stop to investigate & discover a large metal cone that's 50 feet tall by 50 feet across at it's widest . In Washington Senator Walter K . Powers ( Cornelius Keefe as Jack Hill ) takes full responsibility & flies out to Riverdale where he is met by Glenn who just happens to be the Mayor's ( Orville Sherman ) son , Glenn informs Senator Powers that his Father has mysteriously disappeared & there has been 3 unsolved murders in the area recently . Glenn takes Senator Powers to the cone where Dr . Paul Kettering ( Ed Nelson ) , Dr . Wyler ( David Hughes ) & their assistant Alice Summers ( Joanna Lee ) are busy running all kinds of tests on the unidentified object . Kettering informs Senator Powers that he is baffled by the cone , eventually they all end up in the Mayor's office who has suddenly reappeared . After some macho rubbish between the Mayor & the Senator about who is in charge the Mayor pulls a gun out & makes a run for it but is shot by a cop . Kettering & a somewhat unemotional Glenn examine the body & discover two holes in the back of his neck . Kettering performs an autopsy & discovers that the Mayor was being controlled by an alien parasite previously unknown to man , Kettering puts two & two together & comes up with the startling theory that these parasites have come from the cone . But since the parasites got to the Mayor who else is being controlled ? The mystery deepens even further when an expert in bio-chemistry , Professor Helsingman ( Saul Bronson ) , who has been missing for the past five years turns up out of the blue . Kettering & his team face a race against time to stop the parasites before they take over the entire human race ! Directed by Bruno VeSota The Brain Eaters is nothing to get excited about . The script by Gordon Urquhart supposedly based on Robert A . Heinlein's novel The Puppet Masters fails to make the most of it's obvious potential , the potential for paranoia is wasted . The film makes it perfectly clear who is controlled by a Brain Eater & who isn't . Film's like John Carpenter's The Thing ( 1982 ) & Invasion of the Body Snatchers ( 1978 ) brilliantly uses the mistrust between characters to heighten tension & make us , the viewer , question who we should believe & put our faith in . The Brain Eaters has none of this which hurts the film badly as it's very predictable & doesn't even attempt to try & pull any surprises . The dialogue is clunky , awkward , static & feels dated as is often the case with 50's Sci-Fi but there are a few laughs to be had if you listen closely enough . To give it some credit it moves along like a rocket , there's no boring exposition here even going as far as having a few scenes narrated rather than try & condense the information into an ordinary conversation & at only an hour long it doesn't outstay it's welcome . The Brain Eaters themselves are rarely seen & when they are they look like wigs with antenna's . There's no blood , gore or violence & the special effects are generally poor as you would expect . The acting is very wooden & everyone looks & sounds like they're reading their lines from cue cards , & yes Leonard Nimoy does make an appearance even if it's hard to make him out you'll definitely recognise his voice . Director VeSota fails to bring any scares , atmosphere , style or originality to the film as a whole . Overall I thought The Brain Eaters was an OK way to pass an hour but could have been more & at the end of the day fails to distinguish itself from any other 50's black & white Sci-Fi film of which there are many better ones available . One to watch only if your desperate .
Collateral Damage starts in L . A . where fireman Gordon Brewer ( Arnold Schwarzenegger ) is set to meet up with his wife Anne ( Linsay Frost ) & young son Matt ( Ethan Dampf ) outside the Colombian consulate , unfortunately just as he arrives a terrorist bomb explodes & his wife & son are turned into toast . Obviously he is devastated , a Colombian terrorist called Claudio Perrini ( Cliff Curtis ) AKA The Wolf claims responsibility for the bombing in retaliation against American occupation of Columbia . The CIA or FBI are helpless as the senate orders immediate withdrawal of American troops from Colombia which annoys Gordon , in fact it annoys Gordon so much he intends to illegally travel to Colombia himself & kill Perrini despite the army of guerrilla's Perrini controls . Sounds like a sensible idea to me . . . Directed by Andrew Davis this is far from classic Arnold Schwarzenegger , Collateral Damage is alright & passes the time but just didn't do much for me . The script by David & Peter Griffiths just isn't that involving or interesting , it's rather sedate , the action scenes are flat , forgettable & bland while it has the usual assortment of silly plot holes . The plan to blow the FBI guy's up at the end was so intricate & relied on countless things going to perfection that it stretches the films already thin credibility , you can't make a snake slither down someones throat , the snake wouldn't voluntarily slide down someones throat , what about the guy's gag reflex & the snake would probably die before the person . Then there's the scene at the end when two people are engulfed in flames yet reappear moments later without so much as a singe , you cannot slide down elevator cables with a belt wrapped around your hands because the friction would tear through the belt & then your hands like a knife through butter & I wouldn't advise anyone to break open a metal pipe that carries flammable gas with an axe because the axe hitting the metal pipe would almost certainly cause a spark & ignite the gas which would then explode & blow you to pieces . This could have been a great action flick but lightweight action & fight scenes ( Arnold never fires a gun on screen for heaven sakes ! ) along with the unpleasant depiction of all Colombian's being either drug lords , corrupt or terrorists doesn't help it's cause . Director Davis doesn't really do anything special here , the action scenes are dull & lack excitement or any real mindless violence . Arnold doesn't even get any cheesy one-liners to mumble , so what we have here is an Arnold Schwarzenegger action flick without much action where he doesn't even fire a gun & not a single one-liner is sight , why is the question I ask here , why ? Then of course there's the general theme of the plot about terrorists wanting to blow United States landmarks up , considering world events it just doesn't sit easily or make for particularly pleasant viewing . Collateral Damage was originally to be released on October 5th 2001 a mere three weeks after & it was pushed back until Februray 8th 2002 , despite this it still grossed $15 million at the box-office during it's opening weekend . With a mega budget of $85 , 000 , 000 give or take a few million Collateral Damage doesn't feel like a particularly big budget film , sure it's got Schwarzenegger in it ( rumour has it he was paid in the region of $25 , 000 , 000 to star in this so maybe that's where most of the $'s went , I love his quote when he said ' money doesn't make you happy , I now have $50 million but I was just as happy when I had $48 million ' ! ) & it has that Hollywood polish about it but the action scenes are surprisingly subdued , no-one of any other note is in it & even the special effects aren't exactly brilliant . The acting is OK but largely forgettable . Collateral Damage is an OK time waster , don't take it too seriously or don't expect another Arnie classic then you may find enough here to keep yourself quiet for an hour and forty odd minutes but it's a close run thing . Not one of Arnie's best but it's still a hell of a lot better than Kindergarten Cop ( 1990 ) !
Richard Tarbell ( Franc Luz ) plays the local Sheriff on a small island just off the coast of California called North Port . He is dating a waitress who works in the local diner . However , his ex and Mayor Elias Johnson's ( Robert Lansing ) daughter Elizabeth ( Lisa Langlois ) flies back into town . It turns out the Mayor has allowed a company called ' INTEC ' and Dr . Morgan Hubbard ( Terri Treas ) to conduct genetic experiments , the purpose of which are to create the ultimate pest control that doesn't use pesticides or sprays , genetically altered cockroaches that are supposed to eat other roaches , although it's never explained how these roaches themselves would be controlled , maybe no one thought about that small point . Unfortunately these roaches eat everything else as well . First turning cats and dogs into skinless carcasses , eating all the meat from the local store and all the glue that binds the books together in the public library ! They seem to be everywhere and the local exterminator Homer ( Stephen Davis ) can't cope . The Mayor summons Hubbard from ' INTEC ' and demands she stops her work . They soon discover that these genetically created roaches mutate from generation to generation and are starting to become resistant to all scientific attempts to destroy them , and start to become disgusting hybrids of themselves and what they've eaten . Hubbard convinces Mayor Johnson that she can destroy the roaches , and prevents him from evacuating the town at the expense of wild hysteria even though the entire town has been eaten by the roaches except sheriff Tarbell , the Mayor , Dr . Hubbard , Elizabeth and Homer , but he has already ordered the chemical spraying of the town , fearing the roaches will spread to the mainland , with a lethal dose of poison that would also be fatal to any person still left on the island , and they need to turn the lighthouse on to cancel it , but predictably the light doesn't work . So the remaining survivors must either stop or face both mutant killer cockroaches and a lethal dose of chemical poison ! They must find the roaches nest and destroy the queen before it's too late . Directed by Terence H . Winkless this is a decent , solid effort . The script by Robert King based on a novel by Eli Cantor is a bit on the talky side , and the sub-plot involving the suicide of Elizabeth's mother goes nowhere and is totally unnecessary and irrelevant . Why , when they find the nest , does it contain a box with loads of explosives and a timer ? Where did it come from ? Not the sort of thing you just leave lying around . There is also a bizarre scene toward the end , sheriff Tarbell and Homer are sat in a car discussing the queen and what they might find when they enter the roaches nest , half way through their conversation the sheriff pulls his gun out points it at the dashboard and fires a shot off . Why does he shoot the dashboard when he was in the middle of a perfectly calm conversation with someone ? Why waste a bullet when earlier on he had seen what a couple of the mutant roaches had become ? Why not save the bullet to protect himself against anything he might find in the nest ? I haven't got a clue and I can't think of a reasonable explanation , the scene still baffles me ! The effects are variable , there's one or two good gore scenes , mostly involving skinned animals and mutilated corpses . When a mutant half roach / half whatever it's eaten shows up the special effects are less successful . Their just really stiff and lifeless puppets with one operator on each arm , they have almost no movement whatsoever . Although the human to mutant roach transformation sequence is quite gooey and gross looking . For what it's worth the video released by MGM in the UK has a shot from this sequence on the cover of the box that doesn't actually appear in the finished film , it was probably never included in any released version but proves that more footage of this was shot . Hubbard's death at the hands of her own creation at the end also contains pleasing amounts of slime , gore , blood and a giant monster consisting of a mass of body parts from various humans and animals . Acting , photography , and music are all OK but nothing exceptional , professional enough . Decent horror film , just a little dull and silly in places . Worth a rent for horror fans , or even better watch it on T . V . if it's on , for free .
The Spiral Staircase starts as the dead body of a crippled woman ( Myrna Dell ) is found in her room , the police are on the case but the murderer is still on the loose . The local police track the killer to a specific part of town & decide to warn Professor Warren ( George Brent ) who lives in a large house with his stepbrother Steven ( Gordon Oliver ) , their sick mother ( Ethel Barrymore ) & various servants including a young mute woman named Helen Capel ( Dorothy McGuire ) who hasn't spoken in years . The police feel that the killer is targeting women with ' imperfections ' & that Helen may be their next victim , as a huge thunder storm rages outside the killer is indeed intent on Helen becoming their next victim . . . Directed by Robert Siodmak this was apparently a bit of a hit when originally released back in ' 45 but it's also a film which hasn't really been that well remembered or embraced , personally I think it's well overrated & didn't think it was anything special . The script by Mel Dinelli was based on the novel ' Some Must Watch ' by Ethel Lina White & alternates between a creaky murder mystery & dull soap opera . Most of the running time is spent on building the character's up , unfortunately it all amounts to very little & the last twenty odd minutes feels like any generic slasher flick as a woman tries to evade the attention of a homicidal killer . It may have been one of the first horror / thriller / murder mystery films but that doesn't automatically make it any good , I just found the melodramatics far too dull & lifeless while the horror mystery side of things don't fare much better as I thought the final ' twist ' revelation was far too predictable . On a basic level it's watchable & a few things in it are quite effective but overall I just didn't like that much & it's as simple & straight forward as that . Director Siodmak does OK , there's some wonderfully atmospheric shots of the house in the darkness of night while a thunder storms rages on but are a few nice black and white shots of a house really enough to make The Spiral Staircase a classic ? Or even a good film ? I don't think so , but that's just my opinion & just about the whole world & it's brother seem to rave about it so what do I know ? When it's good it's good but when it's dull it's dull . Technically the film is pretty impressive , the technology & techniques of today obviously weren't available back in the early 40's but The Spiral Staircase still looks good with very effective black and white photography . The acting isn't anything special & I found McGuire to be stiff & unlikable as the heroine . The Spiral Staircase is alright , if you like these old black and white efforts then you'll be as happy as a pig in sht but I didn't think it was anything special . Remade twice , once by Warner Bros . as The Spiral Starircase ( 1975 ) & then as a made-for-TV film The Spiral Staircase ( 2000 ) neither of which are supposed to be as good as the original .
Looking Back at ' The Hills Have Eyes ' is a 55 minute long documentary produced by Anchor Bay Entertainment for their special edition DVD & features The Hills Have Eyes writer & director Wes Craven talking about how he became involved in film-making & how producer Peter Locke convinced him to make The Hills Have Eyes in Apple Valley in the Californian desert , basically because Locke's wife was in Las Vegas at the time . Wes talks about the ideas behind the film & going to the New York public library & reading about Sawney Beane & his feral family who preyed on unwary travellers whom the family in The Hills Have Eyes are obviously based on . Wes also talks about wanting to make the civilised seem uncivilised by the end of the film . The documentary also features director of photography Eric Saarinen who doesn't say anything no one else says except that low budget film making is like a triangle , there's fast , cheap & good at each point & he says that you can achieve two of these but never all three . . . The rest of the interviewees consist of cast members Dee Wallace , Janus Blythe , Michael Berryman , Robert Houston & Susan Lainer whom ramble on about the heat during the day & the cold during the night & the casting , yawn . As a whole Looking Back at ' The Hills Have Eyes ' is an OK watch & is quite informative but it really doesn't go into much depth , particularly the struggle with the MPAA over an ' R ' rating as it's mentioned but not expanded upon & I for one would have liked to know what sort of footage had to be cut to avoid an ' X ' . There are a few anecdotes but nothing that really sticks in the mind , a loose rattle snake scaring the crew , the crew threatening to leave the production if Wes killed the baby & that the camera equipment used was hired from a ' big name ' porn producer & that they got a good deal . There is also far too much back patting & self appreciation , I'm sorry but these people are talking about The Hills Have Eyes not Citizen Kane ( 1941 ) ! There are various clips form the film & a few behind-the-scenes black and white photo's , there are also a couple of clips showing how the location looks now , well back in 2003 when this was produced anyway . Finally , Wes originally called the film Blood Relations which producer Locke hated & one of his friends came up with The Hills Have Eyes , I wonder if this friend could claim some sort of royalty . . . Overall it's not a bad way to pass an hour or so if your a fan of the film or Wes Craven but don't expect any startling revelations .
We open to a Chinese man named Kah ( Shen Chan as Chan Shen ) hiking through the Transylvanian forests in search of Count Draculas ( John Forbes-Robertson ) Castle . He doesn't take too long to find it and proceeds into Draculas crypt . He appears to be attacked by some bats that for some reason don't have to flap their wings as they just sort of glide along , almost as if their on strings ! But then I thought to myself that a classy production like this wouldn't use rubber bats on strings , would it ? Dracula rises from his stone coffin complete with bright red lipstick , white face paint and slicked back hair , and ask's who dares disturb him . Kah says in Chinese " I am the high Priest of the 7 Golden Vampires in Szechwan , China . When the Vampires walked my temple was the centre of all power in the area " Kah then goes on to say the Vampires are sleeping and that he would like Dracula to resurrect the 7 Golden Vampires again . Even though Kah speaks in Chinese Dracula understands every word he has said and gives him the cold shoulder and says he doesn't do favours for anyone and then decides to take Kah's form and travel to China , bring the 7 Golden Vampires back , rule the area by himself and help spread vampirism throughout the world ( and he could probably do with a holiday as well ) . We are then informed we are in ' Chung King 1904 ' . Professor Van Helsing ( Peter Cushing ) is giving a lecture at a local university to a group of young Chinese men on the threat of vampirism . He tells them of a legend where in a nearby village called Ping Wei a local man managed to destroy one of the 7 Golden Vampires before the others slit his throat . The students are unimpressed with such tales . Except one , Hsi Ching ( David Chiang ) who come from the village Van Helsing spoke about . He ask's Van Helsing to go to his village with his brothers , all 6 of them too many to bother listing , and their only sister Mai Kwei ( Szu Shih as Shih Szu ) , hey it's a large family OK ? , to help them rid Ping Wei of the 7 , well 6 now , Golden Vampires . Van Helsing would like too but claims an expedition to the village would cost a lot of money . Just then , as if by luck Van Helsing's son Leyland ( Robin Stewart ) and a rich widow on a world tour named Vanessa Buren ( Julie Ege ) who he picked up in a nightclub , turn up . That's the funding problem solved as Vanessa thinks a " Vampire hunt sounds exciting " . They all set off for Ping Wei to destroy the Vampire menace , their zombie slaves and rid the land of vampirism . Directed by Roy Ward Baker this was Hammers ninth and final film to feature Dracula , and it was made after The Satanic Rites of Dracula ( 1973 ) . The script by Don Houghton tries hard to mix both vampirism and martial arts . It comes across as a little silly at time but is none the less pretty good fun , and at least it's never dull or boring . The fights are OK and contain some decent violence and gore . There's lots of zombies which look OK , the 7 Golden Vampires look silly though , they look like zombies with fangs and a golden mask that cover the top half of the faces . The flying bats look awful as do the the women who ' struggle ' to free them selves from being tied down to sacrificial altars they just move their heads a little and bend their legs a bit , come on girls put some effort into it your about to have all your blood drained by vampires for gods sake ! Acting is OK , obviously Cushing couldn't join in the Kung-Fu fighting so just sort of stands there and seems a little underused throughout the second half of the film . Technically the film is quite strong with nice music , photography , sets and editing . And why does everyone in this film speak perfect English ? Even though just about everyone is supposed to be Chinese . Sit back , don't ask too many questions and enjoy as there are a lot worse ways to spend 90 odd minutes of your time .
Halloween 4 : The Return of Michael Myers starts on the 30th October 1988 as homicidal maniac Michael Myers ( George P . Wilbur ) is about to be transfered from one hospital to another for reasons that are never really explained . Anyway as the ambulance speeds along Michael suddenly wakes up from his comatose state & kills his escort's . . . The next day in Haddonfield , Illinois & it's Halloween as the daughter of Laurie Strode & Michael Myers niece Jamie Lloyd ( Danielle Harris ) is getting on with her life with her foster parents & foster sister Rachel ( Ellie Cornell ) whom she plans to go trick or treating with . Meanwhile Michael Myers is in town & since his sister Laurie is dead he turns his attention to his last remaining blood relative Jamie whom he is intent on killing along with anyone else who gets in his way . Can Dr . Loomis ( Donald Pleasence ) get to Jamie before Michael & save her ? Directed by Dwight H . Little this was the fourth instalment in the Halloween series of films which now totals eight & lets not forget the proposed Halloween ( 1978 ) remake to be directed by Rob Zombie that is due for release sometime in 2007 . . . This particular entry came after the critical & financial failure of the much underrated ( in my opinion anyway ) Halloween III : Season of the Witch ( 1982 ) , the filmmakers obviously felt turning the series into another Friday the 13th ( 1980 ) franchise was the way to go , although it came before they started to add stupid supernatural elements to the plot to try & explain Michaels origins as in a couple of the subsequent sequels . It was written by Alan B . McElroy & I thought the basic story was better than the usual teen slasher film , there's slightly more to it than I expected with fairly decent character's including a child star who isn't annoying or irritating & tight story along with one or two nice scenes . However I have a huge problem with Halloween 4 : The Return of Micheal Myers & that is quite simply that not enough happens in it & is almost totally bloodless . Looking at the ' Trivia ' section for Hallowween 4 : The Return of Michael Myers it says that the film was originally considered too ' soft ' ( their description , not mine ) & that special effects man John Carl Buechler was brought in & shot the films only two gory scenes which , if true , tells you everything you need to know really , this is one seriously tame film & on that front it was a big disappointment . I mean I ain't watching this crap for a deep meaningful storyline that will change the way I look at life am I ? No , I want Michael Myers killing people & half decent story , the decent story is there but the killing isn't I'm afraid . I also want to mention the twist ending which I thought was great & very effective especially if you've seen the previous entries . Director Little shows his action film roots with a few OK car stunts & an exploding gas station , the kills are tame & while there is a decent atmosphere & a reasonable build-up there just isn't any pay-off or reward as it's just all so tame & forgettable . There is a nice style about the film with some nice lighting & use of light & shadow . Gore wise someone has a thumb stuck in their forehead , someone has a shotgun shoved through their stomach ( off screen ) & someone has their throat ripped open ( definitely one of Buechler's added effects scenes ) & a few after-the-fact dead bodies . With a healthy sounding budget of about $5 , 000 , 000 Halloween 4 : The Return of Michael Myers is well made & has nice enough production values , the acting was OK but nothing overly special & I have to mention the young Harris who does a nice job . Halloween 4 : The Return of Michael Myers has me in two minds , I liked the story & character's within more than the usual slasher clone but at the same time the fact that it's just so tame & has a very low body count makes it impossible for me to recommend . Average , there are better entries in the Halloween series & I'd personally take just about any Friday the 13th over this .
Una Libelula Para Cada Muerto , or A Dragonfly for Each Corpse as it's more commonly known amongst English speaking audiences , is set in Milan where some drug addict low life named Franco Perotti buys his latest fix & heads home to inject but once there he is brutally murdered by a hatchet wielding psycho . . . Italy's finest Inspector Paolo Scaporella ( Jacinto Molina under his usual Paul Naschy pseudonym ) is on the case with the only clue being a small Dragonfly left on the body , Franco was the second to fall victim to the ' Dragonfly Killer ' & as the bodies continue to pile up the pressure on Scaporella increases . It seems someone is waging a one person war on the drug users , dealers , prostitutes & the general scum of Milan . Scaporella has little to go on apart from the Dragonfly's & a drawing by one of the victims , a drawing of something that Scaporella can't quite make out but his wife Silvana ( Erika Blnac ) thinks she can which makes her the Dragonfly killer's next target . . . This Spanish production was directed by Leon Klimovsky & I personally thought it was nothing more than a below average murder mystery that tries to spice it's undercooked story up with some nudity & fairly gory ( for the time ) murders . The script by star Jacinto Molina ( under that name ) is your basic who dun-nit & not one that particularly impressed me , it starts off well enough with a couple of decent kills but then all sorts of unlikely things happen to stretch the story out & I found the climactic unmasking of the killer very underwhelming . The film states early on that the killer is trying to ' clean up ' Milan & in the final reckoning that's all it amounts too , so in that respect we know the killers motives from pretty much the first five minutes & after that it's just a case of them being found out which in the end Scaporella's wife does ! Why didn't they just put her on the case in the first place ? Also there's the usual stupid unrealistic character actions , for instance if you knew the identity of a sadistic killer who had brutally murdered at least five people would you try to black mail them & even worse meet up with them in the middle of the night in a completely deserted & isolated location ? I mean that's just asking for trouble , isn't it ? I don't get the roller-coaster escape bit either , if your trying to escape from the police why get on a roller-coaster ? I mean a roller-coaster just travels around the same track & will always end up back where it started , right ? There really is very little chance of escaping anywhere on a fairground roller-coaster . The film moves along at a reasonable pace , it has a fair few murder scenes although they're not that graphic & it's watchable but it's just not very clever , the killer's motives & identity are both disappointing & could have used more thought . Director Klimovsky does OK , the film has that 70's sleazy horror atmosphere to it , there's a fair bit of nudity but it lacks gore or violence . Oh , isn't that title A Dragonfly for Each Corpse just great ? The title is one of the main reasons I bothered with it & as many of you already know you can't judge a film by it's title . The fashions & facial hair are all very 70's & the film has a certain dated feel to it which I liked . Technically the film is alright , it's well made enough with decent production values . The film was shot in Spanish & I can honestly say the dubbing & voice acting is absolutely terrible which gives the film an unintentional & unwanted comedic element . Naschy sports a fine moustache in this one , he's all man . . . Una Libelula Para Cada Muerto is a by-the-numbers murder mystery that can't quite decide whether it wants to be a full on gory slasher or a thoughtful who dun-nit , it's somewhere between the two without totally satisfying in either department . Watch something like Tenebre ( 1982 ) , The New York Ripper ( 1982 ) or Opera ( 1987 ) instead .
City Beneath the Sea is set in the brave new futuristic world of the 21st Century ( it was made in the 20th . . . ) where a city underneath the sea has been built , it is known as Pacifica . Admiral Michael Matthews ( Stuart Whitman ) has been recalled to take charge of Pacifica after a 6 month hiatus away because everyone blamed him for the death of a much loved & respected scientist Bill Holmes ( even though listed in the credits as played by Larry Pennell the character of Bill Holmes is dead from the start & never seen on screen in present time , he is only seen briefly on a video monitor ) , however the president wants Matthews there as the entire gold content of fort knox is going to stored in Pacifica as well as the entire world supply of H1-28 which is the most powerful power source ever created unfortunately it's also highly explosive . To add to Matthews worries it turns out that a meteorite or Planetoid is headed for a collision with Earth & will hit at Pacifica's location in seven hours . . . This made-for-TV remake of the made-for-TV City Beneath the Sea ( 1969 ) was produced & directed by infamous 60's sci-fi filmmaker Irwin Allen & is a silly piece of sci-fi nonsense that is an OK time waster . The script by John Meredyth Lucas moves along at a fair pace & is passable light hearted Saturday afternoon entertainment if your in the right frame of mind , it's a pleasant enough way to spend 90 odd minutes but you'll have completely forgotten about it by the time the day finishes . The character's are pretty clichéd , the heroic hero dude , the bad guy & a blonde woman are all one dimensional stereotypes . The whole double cross & plan to steal the gold & H1-28 is poorly handled without any suspense or tension , the bad guys are revealed straight away so there's no mystery element & a potentially decent twist ending is wasted & they barely do anything anyway . Then there's the meteorite thing , was Matthews the only person on the entire planet who thought about firing nuclear weapons into it to change it's course ? Surely the president & his scientific advisor's would have come up with the same conclusion or is it just that Matthews is the cleverest person on Earth ? Some of the logic just isn't very good & rather clunky , just about worth a watch if you don't expect too much . This is definitely an Irwin Allen film with loads of bright garish sets & hideously dated looking computer banks the size of a small shed complete with random flashing lights & computer screens that feature plenty of bad super imposition . The city of Pacifica is obviously a scale model & a not very good one , the main computer control room set was apparently re-dressed & used in Conquest of the Planet of the Apes ( 1972 ) . What was it with Allen & all those flashing random lights anyway ? They were a trademark of the films he made & I don't see their attraction to be honest . I recognised the yellow model ship thing from Allen's TV series Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea ( 1964 - 1968 ) . Also , why are the fish & marine life so big ? Huge fish that swim past the windows & the like ? Odd . Technically the film is alright , some of the sets & ' futuristic ' equipment are horribly dated these days & wouldn't even convince a 5 year old . Still that's where part of it's charm & fun comes from I suppose . The acting isn't the best even though there's some good character actor's here , Richard Basehart teams up with Allen again to play the president , Sugar Ray Robinson makes an appearance somewhere along with Whit Bissell , Joseph Cotten & Burr DeBenning all of whom are sadly no longer with us . City Beneath the Sea is an OK sci-fi adventure flick that is relatively undemanding fun in a cheesy & dated sort of way , good enough but not great . Not to be confused with the short lived British TV series City Beneath the Sea ( 1962 ) or the underwater adventure film City Beneath the Sea ( 1953 ) about two divers looking for sunken gold .
We start with a shot of the night sky , the moon poking out from behind some clouds . The credits roll . I should mention the music credited to director Tobe Hooper and Wayne Bell , from this sequence is absolutely awful . It sounds like a bunch of five year old's are performing it . The sound of cats being strangled would be nicer . Anyway , Clara Wood ( Roberta Collins ) is working in the local whore house , owned by Miss Hattie ( Carolyn Jones ) , who has awful dress sense . When a punter named Buck ( Robert Englund ) asks for " something different " that requires her to be on her knees and bent over and becomes violent when she says no , she decides she's not cut out to be a prostitute and leaves . The maid Ruby ( Betty Cole ) takes pity on her and gives her some money so she can stay at the old and dilapidated ' Starlight Hotel ' run by a complete loon named Judd ( Neville Brand ) . After finding out Clara was a prostitute he kills her , to dispose of the body Judd chucks her body into a caged off swampy pool beside his hotel where he keeps his pet alligator . Some more guests turn up , Faye ( Marilyn Burns ) her husband Roy ( William Finley ) and their young daughter Angie ( Kyle Richards ) plus her dog snoopy . The dog gets eaten by Judd's alligator and Roy seeks revenge and plans to shoot the alligator . Judd kills Roy and tosses his body to his alligator as well . He then realizes he must silence the mother and daughter . But then Clara's dad , Harvey Wood ( Mel Ferrer ) and sister Libby ( Crystin Sinclaire ) turn up asking questions about her . Judd becomes even more insane as the hole he has dug for himself gets bigger and bigger . Directed by Tobe Hooper this was his second film after the Texas Chainsaw Massacre ( 1974 ) . It's OK , nothing special . The entire film seems shot in a studio , it gives the film a certain atmosphere and look to it . The special effects for the alligator are poor . There's not much blood or gore , some splattered blood , and a scythe through someones throat is about all you can expect . There is some nudity in there as well . The script by Alvin L . Fast , Kim Henkel and Mardi Rustam is dull and quite slow in places , we get endless scenes of Brand mumbling to himself and doing nothing in particular . There's no story either , it just goes from scene to scene with no real purpose . By the time the film finishes not much has really happened . The ending is very predictable as well . And what the hell's up with Roy ? The guys a loon , he starts to bark out loud like a dog , after his daughter had just seen her pet dog eaten alive . And the scene where he stands behind Faye and clenches his teeth and holds out his fist towards her and makes a silly noise , and then after that comes out with a bizarre rant at her for no apparent reason , while she puts a cigarette out he says " Why don't you just take that cigarette and grind it out in my eye , oh was that your eye ? Oh honey I thought it was an ashtray ! " , really strange why he would say that and then get on all four and start looking for his ' eye ' . Luckily he's not in the film for long . This film also has a load of alternate titles including ' Eaten Alive ' , ' Death Trap ' , ' Horror Hotel ' , ' Horror Hotel Massacre ' , ' Legend of the Bayou ' , ' Murder on the Bayou ' and ' Starlight Slaughter ' . Whatever it's called it's still the same average somewhat dull horror film it's always been . Maybe worth a watch , just about .
Jack the Ripper starts at the ' Pike's Hole ' a whore house in the London district of Whitechapel as one of the girls Sally Brown ( Francine Custer ) rejects the advances of a client due to his unusual request & trudges off home on her own . While walking down the narrow back streets Sally is attacked & murdered by the now notorious serial killer known as ' Jack the Ripper ' ( Klaus Kinski ) who then takes the body to his female assistant Frieda ( Nikola Weisse ) who disposes of the messy remains the next morning in the Thames . Chief Inspector Anthony Selby ( Andreas Mannkopff ) of Scotland Yard is on the case but totally baffled & clueless . His only witnesses are a blind man named John Pritchard ( Hans Gaugler ) who seems able to identify the Ripper by use of smell , an old woman named Miss Higgins ( Ursula van Wiese ) , a fisherman named Charlie ( Herbery Fux ) who has found a severed hand & a couple of whores whose friend Jeanny ( Esther Studer ) has become the latest victim of the Ripper's killing spree . Inspector Selby starts to feel the pressure & has next to nothing to go on , feeling neglected his girlfriend Cynthia ( Josephine Chaplin ) decides to help him out . Cynthia dresses up as a whore & puts herself about hoping that she will attract the attentions of Jack the Ripper . . . This Swiss German co-production was written & directed by Jesus Franco & while a lot classier than his usual output his take on Jack the Ripper isn't particularly good . The script & how Franco approaches the story is a problem for starter , the identity of Jack the Ripper is revealed within the first few minutes so there is no mystery element whatsoever which then basically turns the film into a slasher like Halloween ( 1978 ) or Friday the 13th ( 1980 ) . Franco never really develops any aspect of his script to any degree of satisfaction , the incompetent Selby comes & goes & doesn't do much , the blackmailing of the Ripper is given a few minutes & nothing more , nothing about his assistant is explained like the small matter of why she helps him , Cynthia for most of the film doesn't feature until the end where she offers herself up as bait which raises questions in itself . Why ? What if she did meet the Ripper ? No one knew what she was doing so why wouldn't he just slice her up like his other victims ? No one she knew was threatened by the Ripper so why go it alone & risk her life ? The only connection she has to the case is that her boyfriend was working on it , not good enough motivation for me I'm afraid . There are obvious glaring inaccuracies as well , this is definitely not based on any solid evidence & feels like a slasher film with Jack the Ripper as the killer , nothing more . The Swiss locations double up as Victorian London surprisingly well except for the Thames for which Franco uses a stream & as someone who lives in the UK these scenes are actually quite funny to me . The film has an end which feels rushed & as a whole the film is far too slow & frankly dull while the Ripper's motivations are barely touched upon & are lazy & unoriginal to say the least . Director Franco has gained a reputation for sleaze so it may come as a surprise that Jack the Ripper is disappointingly tame , there are three or four scenes with nudity & only one big gore scene when the Ripper stabs a woman , starts to have sex with her & slices her breast off , other than that there is a severed hand , an eyeball & a couple of stabbings . On the positive side it's very well made for a Franco film & he shows that he does have at least some basic talent behind the camera if he puts the effort in . The cinematography by Peter Baumgartner & Peter Spoerri is very good for the most part with some excellent & atmospheric location shots plus a strong sense & use of colour throughout . The sets are convincing enough & pleasantly detailed while the costumes look a little suspicious like Franco stole or hired them from a local fancy dress shop but serve the film well . The dialogue & dubbing are ridiculous & totally remove any credibility the film may have had , people just don't naturally talk like this & you have to listen to some of this stuff to believe it . Basically the story isn't great , it just didn't grip or engage me as we all know who the Ripper is from the start . It's very slow , has a low body count with just three & very little exploitation with barely any nudity or gore & just didn't do much for me overall although having said that it's fairly watchable if your desperate . Stylish & well made but nothing special , probably just about worth a watch I suppose .
The Rookie is set in Los Angeles where auto theft squad cop Nick Pulovski ( Clint Eastwood ) & his partner Powell ( Hal Williams ) are on the trail of the biggest car thief in the state , a German guy named Strom ( Raul Julia ) . After finding Strom & his gang stealing several top end cars a shoot-out occurs & Powell is shot dead by Strom & gets away . Pulovski is given a new partner , a rookie named David Ackerman ( Charlie Sheen ) who does nothing but get in the way . Even though Pulovski is taken off the case he decides to pursue Strom & his gang in order to bring them down & avenge the murder of his partner , but when Pulovski is kidnapped by Strom & held to ransom Ackerman has to grow up quickly & get tough in order to save his new partner's life . . . Staring & directed by Clint Eastwood this comedy action thriller is a fairly routine & distinctly average film , it actually feels like another Dirty Harry flick with Eastwood running around blowing bad guy's away with a Magnum , smoking fat cigars , showing contempt for authority & his superiors & coolly uttering lots of sarcastic one-liners . The script by Scott Spiegel ( strangely better know to horror fans for his involvement in gory films such as Evil Dead II ( 1987 ) , Intruder ( 1989 ) , From Dusk Til Dawn 2 : Texas Blood Money ( 1999 ) , 2001 Maniacs ( 2005 ) & the two Hostel ( 2005 , 2007 ) films so how he ended up co-writing this I don't know ) & Boaz Yakin has all the hallmarks & clichés of a typical Hollywood buddy buddy mismatched partner comedy crime cop action thriller , there's the hardened old timer cop who plays by his own rules with a personal vendetta & the young rookie who whose ethics & methods are completely different , there's a villain who kills someone close to one of the cops & as such makes things personal , there are plenty of one-liners , plenty of shoot-outs , a car chase , some explosions & lots of fist fights as well as a police Captain who shouts a lot & gets upset by said cops unorthodox methods . It's all here , it's pretty much by the numbers all the way with a fairly predictable story & outcome . At two hours in length The Rookie is maybe twenty odd minutes too long & does outstay it's welcome , the action scenes are decent but unspectacular & it just feels very old hat & I felt like I had seen it all dozens of times before . Also since when can a cop walk into a bar , beat everyone up , smash it up , set it on fire therefore burning it down to the ground & not lose his job ? Director Eastwood does an alright job here , the action scenes save The Rookie from being a total waste of celluloid , there's a terrific car chase at the start which is a double edged sword really since it opens the film in spectacular style but the rest of the film fails to live up to it or build on it . There's some good fights & shoot-outs but the rest of the film feels like a disappointment compared to the opening , the final chase through the airport is surprisingly poor , an overweight & out of shape Raul Julia hobbles along with an ageing Clint Eastwood in pursuit & that's as exciting as it gets . Although filmed with competence there's not much style here , the car jumping out of a window as the building explodes behind it is as visually good as it gets . Technically the film is good , it's well made with big budget Hollywood production values , lots of fast expensive looking cars & noisy action scenes . The acting is a mixed bag , Eastwood is alright but he's been playing this cop on the edge role for decades , Sheen is a touch bland but does look & feel like a fresh faced rookie while Raul Julia is simply terrible ! He is supposed to be German but his accent is truly awful , he's out of shape & just puts in an awful performance . The Rookie is yet another variation on the mismatched cop crime comedy action thriller that just isn't varied enough to stand out , sure there are one or two good action set-pieces & Eastwood is decent but you can't help feeling you have seen it all before .
Urban Justice starts as Los Angeles cop Max Ballister ( Cory Hart ) is shot & killed in an apparent drive-by gang related shooting . Max's father & all round hard as nails ex-cop Simon ( producer Steven Seagal ) is obviously upset about his son's premature & violent demise & decides someone is going to pay . Simon rents out a dump of an apartment in a gang controlled neighbourhood & sets about beating the crap out of every lowlife , drug pusher & gang member around until he gets the information he wants . Eventually he finds out who killed his boy , he gets himself tooled up with lots of guns & sets out to kill the shooter & anyone who gets in his way . . . Known as Renegade Justice here in the UK this was photographed & directed by Don E . FauntLeRoy who again teams up with washed-up action star Seagal for the third time after the pair had previously made the equally terrible Today You Die ( 2005 ) & Mercenary for Justice ( 2006 ) , well it seems that it's third time lucky for FauntLeRoy & Seagal as I have to say I thought Urban Justice wasn't too bad an effort at all & certainly a lot better than most of the straight-to-video / DVD abominations Seagal has starred in over the past few years . The script is a fairly routine action revenge thriller , it's nowhere near as gritty as say a vigilante thriller like Death Wish ( 1974 ) or as exciting as some of Seagal's earlier bigger budget films like the two Under Siege flicks but for what it was & what I had expected I was pleasantly surprised . The plot is your basic ' one man army ' seeks justice & revenge after someone he is close to is murdered as Seagal is pitted against the drug dealers & gangs of Los Angeles who are rather stereotypically all black & carry guns . The scenes of Seagal & these gang members facing off trying to look & sound cool as they try to out swear each other are quite funny . There's plenty of fights , shoot-outs & bad language to keep one entertained & pass the time but the story is predictable & if I am honest pretty weak . In these politically correct & overly sensitive times it's interesting to note that the black character's make several racist slurs against Seagal ( calling him a ' white boy ' , etc . ) & the other Caucasian character's yet not one single racist or derogatory term towards a black character is uttered by a white one . The action is mostly confined to some rather good fights , this is Seagal of old breaking arms , kicking , punching & generally hurting the bad guy's . There's several shoot-outs too with a particularly gory one at the end . There's an attempt at a car chase but on a limited budget it doesn't look that great . I wasn't keen on some of the choices made by the makers , in particularly the use of slow motion at points that seem totally random . Apparenty Urban Justice almost got a theatrical release . With a supposed budget of about $12 , 000 , 000 this has pretty good production values & is well made . The acting is average really , Seagal mumbles his way through his part as usual & I think it's looks like he's lost some of that weight & he's more believable in this as a result . Urban Justice is not any sort of masterpiece by any stretch of the imagination & isn't even in the top five Seagal films but it did pass ninety odd minutes harmlessly enough & entertained me in the process . Much better than I had expected & the best film Seagal has made in years .
Psycho opens to some on screen captions that say ' Phoenix , Arizona December the eleventh 1998 two forty-three P . M . ' & cool looking shot which pans & zooms across the city & directly into a hotel room window where Marion Crane ( Anne Heche ) & her deeply in debt lover Samuel Loomis ( Viggo Mortensen , who starred in another Hitchcock remake The Perfect Murder ( 1998 ) the same year ) are talking in bed , they talk about starting a new life together but Sam needs money to clear debts . Marion arrives at work for the day & a client named Tom Cassidy ( Chad Everett ) gives her boss Mr . Lowery ( Rance Howard ) $400 , 000 in cash who in turn gives it to Marion to deposit in the bank . On her way to the bank Marion can't help but think that this $400 , 000 would solve hers & Sams problems & help them start fresh so she decides to steal the money . While on her way to tell Sam Marion buys a new car & stops off at an old motel , the ' Bates Motel ' . There she meets the owner , one Norman Bates ( Vince Vaughn ) , Marion is given room No . 1 & befriends Norman who offers her dinner . Later that night as Marion takes a shower she is stabbed to death . People in Phoenix start to miss her , Sam , her sister Lila ( Julianne Moore ) & Mr . Lowery who hires a private detective named Milton Arbogast ( William H . Macy ) to track her down & discover the truth . . . The much maligned $20 , 000 , 000 remake of Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho ( 1960 ) was co-produced & directed by Gus Van Sant & I actually quite liked it , I didn't think it was a masterpiece but it provided 100 odd minutes of entertainment & that's all I ever ask for . I should also say at this point that as of now I have never seen Hitchcock's original ( there are some of us ! ) so I simply can't compare the two . The script by Joseph Stefano based on the novel by Robert Bloch is a little slow at times but it tells an effective story & tells it in an entertaining way . I love the idea of killing of your lead actress half way through the film , most audiences just won't be expecting it . The characters are likable enough & I thought the twist ending worked well . On the negative side we don't really need a supposed shot-for-shot ( or so I've heard ) remake do we ? Psycho is also a little pedestrian at times & maybe it's a bit easy to see where it's going . It's a dialogue driven film rather than action so don't expect lots of deaths or gunfights either . Director Van Sant does a good job here even if it has the look of a bland somewhat forgettable Hollywood production at times . The production design is interesting as it apparently depicts 1998 but feels almost period at times , I'm sure this was intentional but the look of Psycho feels somewhere between ' 98 & ' 60 which I rather liked . The famous shower murder is pretty cool but don't expect buckets of blood , there is only one other murder besides this so don't expect a big body count . The acting is fine from all involved especially William H . Macy who is great at playing likable , laid-back characters isn't he ? Overall I liked Psycho , it isn't the best film I've ever seen but it's far from the worst no matter what anyone might say , especially on the IMDb where it seems almost every film has been described as ' worst film ever ' at some point . Definitely worth a watch particularly if you haven't seen the original .
Billy the Kid versus Dracula starts late one night in the Old American West where a family of European immigrant's are sleeping in the open , Eva ( Virginia Christine ) & Franz Oster ( Walter Janovitz ) manage to scare Count Dracula ( John Carradine ) off before he bites their daughter Lisa's ( Hannie Landman ) neck . The following day & a stagecoach picks Dracula up from the side of the road , inside brother & sister Mary Bently ( Marjorie Bennett ) & James Underhill ( William Forrest ) tell Dracula about their niece they are visiting , Elizabeth ( Melinda Plowman ) & show him a photo . Dracula takes a shine to Elizabeth & decides he wants her by his side as one of the undead , I guess he's just sort of lonely at the moment . Dracula kills a native Indian girl & in retribution her tribe attacks the stagecoach & kills all inside , apart from Dracula of course . Dracula ends up at the town of Wilksbury & poses as Underhill so he can stay at his Ranch with Elizabeth , however Dracula didn't count on the fact that Elizabeth's current boyfriend is the notorious gunfighter William ' Billy the Kid ' Bonney ( Chuck Courtney ) whose suspicions are raised when the immigrant's point Dracula out as a Vampire Lisa is mysteriously killed that night & cattle keep turning up with they're throats cut open , William believes that a Vampire may be at work but will he figure it out in time to save Elizabeth . . . Directed by William Beaudine I thought Billy the Kid versus Dracula was a fairly fun film to watch if your in the right frame of mind . The script by Carl K . Hittleman mixes the unlikely genres of horror & western , it's not exactly a marriage made in heaven either . The whole film is extremely silly in feel & tone , I doubt anyone these days would take any of it seriously for a second & that's one of the problems as the script takes itself very seriously . However , to it's credit at only 70 odd minutes long at least it's short , it's never boring & it has a certain entertainment value about it . The character's are dumb , not much is made of the fact that Count Dracula is a Vampire , sure he has fangs & drinks blood but he walks around in the daylight & seems more interested in drinking the blood of the local livestock than the pretty young girls . Also what about Billy the Kid ? This guy is far to polite & caring for me to even consider the possibility that he was a hard as nails ruthless murdering gunfighter , ' would you like sugar in your tea Elizabeth ? ' . And what about Sheriff Griffin ( Roy Barcroft ) ? He sure is one understanding decent bloke , being held at gunpoint amongst other things he can still keep his sense of humour & just ' do the right thing ' in any given situation . Director Beaudine does an OK job , the film has a bright gaudy colour scheme to it , did Cowboys really wear pastel coloured shirts ? The sets are all very stereotypical & quaint , it's like an exact representation of what the West would've been like had it been picture perfect . Sure , there's a few rotten eggs about but everyone else are pretty decent blokes who help strangers & give seemingly random people jobs & free rooms for the night , ya right . I'd have imagined Billy the Kid versus Dracula was a pretty low budget film , in fact I'm sure of it . To be fair it looks OK , it has nice bright colourful cinematography , the sets & locations are a little ' Hollywood ' but it has decent production values & is better made than you might have thought . One area of criticism that Billy the Kid versus Dracula can't escape is in the special effects department , the rubber bat the filmmakers use looks totally pathetic & surely one of the worst ever committed to film ! Carradine apparently called this his worst film , I'd have to disagree with old John boy on that I'm afraid . The acting is rather flat & no-one puts much effort in . Billy the Kid versus Dracula is a rare breed of film that tries to mix the horror & western genre , there's plenty of horses , gunslinging , macho posturing & fights , Saloons , ranches , concerns over cattle together with Vampires , neck biting , turning people into the undead , rubber bats , & a strange red glow that engulfs Carradines face every so often for no apparent reason so when I think about it it's not entirely unsuccessful at what it sets out to do . Personally I can't call it a good film but I didn't think it was too bad either , worth a watch if your looking for something a bit different .
The Toxic Avenger starts with a shot of the New York City skyline . A narration informs us that ' New York City , the worlds capital of culture & industry . Here , among the towering skyscraper's , civilisation is guided by men of progress & the wonders of technology . But for all this industrial advancement there is a price to pay . Pollution , the unavoidable byproduct of todays society , every year millions of gallons of poisonous wastes , garbage & radioactive chemicals are disposed of in nearby towns such as Tromaville the toxic waste dumping capital of the world . Our story takes place at the Tromaville health club where a young man named Melvin Furd ( forget what the IMDb says , it's definitely Furd not Junko ) works . Melvin's entire life , in fact entire being was changed by toxic chemical waste . . . ' Melvin ( Mark Torgl ) is a real loser , nerd & all round wimp . Melvin is a mop boy at the the Tromaville health club & everyone makes fun of him , especially four local thugs named Bozo ( Gary Schneider ) his girlfriend Julie ( Cindy Manion ) plus Slug ( Robert Prichard ) & his girlfriend Wanda ( Jennifer Prichard as Jennifer Babtist ) . One day the four decide to play a cruel practical joke on Melvin & humiliate him in front of as many people as possible . However things go wrong , or right depending on whichever way you look at it I suppose , & Melvin ends up head first in a barrel of hazardous toxic waste . As a consequence Melvin mutates into the Toxic Avenger ( Mitch Cohen as Mitchell Cohen ) , wow . After saving an Irish cop named Officer O'Clancy ( Dick Martinsen ) from a gang of three thugs , Cigarface ( Dan Snow ) , Knuckles ( Doug Isbecque ) & Nipples ( Charles Lee Jr . ) Toxie discovers that he enjoyed being a hero & so decides to clean Tromaville up by single-handedly wiping out the evil forces which contaminate the town . Mayor Belgoody ( Pat Ryan as Pat Ryan Jr . ) is as bent as they come & starts to notice a drop in his profit margins from his illegal activity , he puts pressure on the Chief of police ( David N . Weiss as David Weiss ) to find the Toxic Avenger & kill him before Toxie finds & kills them . . . Directed by Micheal Herz & Lloyd Kaufman as Samuel Weil I thought The Toxic Avenger was one seriously brain-dead film made for idiots by idiots , you can take that anyway you like considering that I actually quite liked it . The script by Joe Ritter is as stupid as you can imagine , this thing makes the Police Academy films ( 1984 - 94 ) look like the pinnacle of sophistication ! The jokes are really dumb & moronic , furthermore it stretches the boundaries of acceptability & taste . The Toxic Avenger pokes fun at blind people , beating old ladies up , running children over & going back to crush their heads while later on in the film a woman masturbates over some photographs of the incident & putting a dwarf into a washing machine & turning it on . The sort of comedy you can expect in The Toxic Avenger isn't exactly classy either like someone putting a snake down a fitness instructors top & his class copying his silly movements as he tries to grab it or Toxie's blind girlfriend Sara ( Andree Maranda ) making him a sandwich filled with Draino . Subtle obviously isn't a word in director's Herz & Kaufman's vocabulary . There is some over-the-top violence & gore , a squashed head , ripped off arm , fried hands , shotgun blasted guide dogs , intestine ripping , beatings & a bit where a guy has his head crushed by some weights but it's all rather fake looking & presented in a slapstick sort of way . Tecnically The Toxic Avenger is awful , the acting is terrible as is the cinematography , editing as continuity obviously wasn't an important issue for the filmmakers & overall production values . There are some reasonable , if cheap looking , car stunts in a brief action sequence as well . Having said all that I did actually find some of it quite amusing ( I'm not sure what that say's about me ) & in a fun sort of way it , for the most part , works as a whole . It's very well paced , something is always happening whether it's an outrageous bad taste joke or just some good old fashioned violence & gore . I can't really recommend The Toxic Avenger as a good film but it did keep me entertained throughout & that's all I was hoping for , I mean I didn't expect high art , or an educational thought provoking study of modern society did I ? ! Fun , but an acquired taste & only for those with the stomach .
The Ghost Walks starts late on stormy night as theatrical producer Herman Wood ( Richard Carle ) & his secretary Homer Erskine ( Johnny Arthur ) are being driven from New York to Cragdale by playwright Prescott Ames ( John Miljan ) who is going to read Wood his latest play . However a fallen tree on the road prevents that as their car becomes stranded , the three decide to head to the nearest house for help & shelter . They arrive at a large mansion where Dr . Kent ( Henry Kolker ) lives , he is treating a patient named Beatrice ( Eve Southern ) who has psychological problems after the murder of her husband three years ago in that very mansion . With other assorted guests Ames , Woods & Erskine decide to stay the night but strange things begin to happen & when Beatrice is found dead it seems that there is a killer amongst them . . . Directed by Frank R . Strayer this obscure hard to find old dark haunted house type horror mystery from the 30's is alright but nothing overly special . The script by Charles Belden shoots it's load far too early for my liking , the main plot twist is revealed about 20 minutes in & isn't a bad twist at all but afterwards the films becomes a rather bog standard mystery with an extremely predictable & routine ending which I was surprised the makers went for purely because it is so obvious & because they tried to inject some mystery & suspense in the film which the ending is totally at odds with . Maybe back in the mid 30's audiences hadn't seen too many films like this but then again you would have to be pretty dumb not to figure this one out even back in the 30's . The character's are alright but the comedy relief Woods & his secretary Erskine become extremely annoying , the running gag about being stuck in a play is frankly irritating . On the bright side it only lasts for 63 minutes so at least it's short & sweet , it's watchable I suppose & will pass an hour harmlessly enough but it's not something that I think is anything special or would want to watch again anytime soon . Director Strayer does OK but of course you need to take into account the fact it was made back in the early 30's , just think about that for a moment because that's over 75 years ago . It was released on December 1st 1934 & that's literally a lifetime ago . The scenes set outside at night during a thunderstorm are quite atmospheric but the interior scenes are dull & bland . Unfortunately I think The Ghost Walks is a public domain film & therefore the print is not going to get cleaned up anytime soon , the print quality is atrocious with a huge whacking great white line running down the right hand side of the picture for the first 15 minutes & plenty of scratches , pops , crackles & damage for the rest of it . Even if a big Hollywood company decided to release it would they bother to remaster it ? Would they really spend time , effort & money cleaning the prints up ? I seriously doubt it'll ever happen & therefore The Ghost Walks will probably alway look terrible . Being shot in the 30's this is squeaky clean without any death's , violence or profanity so it's family friendly stuff all the way . Technically the film is fine considering it was made over 75 years ago , the black and white photography is alright although as I've mentioned the quality of the prints make it sometimes hard to sit through . The acting is OK but there are a few wooden performances here , actually now I think about it there's lots of wooden performances . The Ghost Walks is an OK time waster , it passes an hour but I doubt the twists will surprise anyone these days & I doubt it'll live that long in anyone's memory either . If you can actually find a copy & can live with the bad picture quality then it's just about worth a watch .
T . V . newswoman Karen Stone ( Dee Wallace-Stone as Dee Wallace ) has been contacted by and agreed to have a private meeting with a wanted L . A . serial killer Eddie Quist ( Robert Picardo ) , she decides to use herself as bait to trap him with the police's help . Things don't go according to plan however . Before receiving a phone call from Quist in a public call box to let her know where to go and meet him her electronic equipment fails and the monitoring police lose track of her . Quist tells Karen to go to a porno shop and wait in a booth in the back . Violent pornography plays on a screen as Karen is attacked from behind . Two policemen ( Kenneth Toby and Steve Nevil ) , having managed to re-locate Karen , burst in and shoot Eddie dead . Karen is traumatised by the event and cannot remember parts of it and decides to visit Dr . George Waggner ( Patrick Macnee ) who did a profile on Quist and was recently a guest on her T . V . programme . He suggests that she and her husband William ' Bill ' Neil ( Dee Wallace-Stones real life husband Christopher Stone ) take a break from their careers and visit the secluded retreat he has set-up that is known as the ' Colony ' . They agree and head off to the Colony which is situated on the California coast . At night Karen begins to hear an eerie howling noise . Meanwhile two of Karen's journalist friends and colleagues , Terry ( Belinda Balaski ) and Chris ( Dennis Dugan ) locate Quist's apartment and find some very strange drawings of half men half wolf creatures . They investigate further and discover that Quist's body has disappeared from the morgue , eventually the trail leads them to the Colony . After Bill has just rejected the advances of Marsha ( Elizabeth Brooks ) he is attacked by a large unknown and extremely aggressive animal . Soon everything is revealed and Karen finds out the sinister truth behind the howling noises , who Eddie Quist really is and the real purpose of why the ' Colony ' was created . Directed by Joe Dante I was very disappointed by this highly thought of film , I just can't get that excited about it . The script by John Sayles and Terence H . Winkless based on the Novel by Gary Brandner is very slow to start and is full of in-jokes and references . It picks up a little for the last half an hour or so but overall I just wasn't particularly interested in anyone or anything by this point . Why is it that a werewolf can punch through a car roof but can't escape from an old wooden barn while it's burning down ? The one thing this film does have going for it is some excellent special make-up effects from Rob Bottin and his team , Rick Baker who did the equally excellent effects for An American Werewolf in London ( 1981 ) has a credit as consultant too . The transformation scenes are impressive although there isn't a lot of blood or gore , in fact I can't really remember any . There is someone with half their face burnt off with acid and a chopped off arm and that's about it , but it's definitely the transformations that steal the special make-up effects show . There is a scene where two people start to turn into werewolves as they have sex , which is kinky I guess . It's generally well made and looks OK . The acting is fine and there are a few familiar faces in it , there's an extremely old looking John Carradine who can barely walk , Slim Pickens as the local Sheriff , Dick Miller plus director Roger Corman and screenwriter John Sayles also have small cameo's . This is also the only film that has the closing credits running over a shot of a burger being cooked on a grill , at least I think it is . Generally quite slow but there are a few good sequences in here if you stick it out to the end . Not too bad , but not brilliant either .
Humongous starts on Labour Day Weekend 1946 as the Parson family hold a party at their island lodge , their daughter Ida ( Mary Sullivan ) is brutally raped by a guy named Tom Rice ( Page Fletcher ) who is then savaged by the Parson family guard dogs & then fished off by Ida who whacks him over the head with a rock several times . . . Jump forward 36 Year Later & five teenage friends Nick ( John Wildman ) , Eric ( David Wallace ) , Carla ( Janet Baldwin ) & Sandy ( Janet Julian ) are out on a yacht enjoying themselves when they run into fog & get lost . They also run into stranded boater Bert Defoe ( Layne Coleman ) , after generally being stupid they manage to crash the yacht on some rocks on the shore of a mysterious island which has sinister legends surrounding it . Stranded there they have to wait for help but it seems they are on the Parson island where some deformed monster stalks looking for food . . . This Canadian production was directed by Paul Lynch who is also credited with the title design & one has to say Humongous isn't an overly impressive film with which to spend ninety minutes of your life but by slasher standards it's not the worst example out there . The script by William Gray is your typical 80's slasher material , from the teen victims to the isolated location to the mysterious deformed killer . It's all there . Gray seems to spend a lot of the time on the killers back-story & the teens working out the mystery , the problem is any seasoned slasher fan will be way ahead of both Gray & his character's . To be fair the script itself isn't really any worse than any other 80's slasher although there are a few poor decisions which ultimately sink Humongous . For a start there is a criminal lack of blood or gore , there simply isn't any sort of pay-off for sticking with it , the character's are pretty faceless & have no real development to the extent that I found it hard to know who was who simply because most of them had no discernible personality or features , the way the kids end up on the island is contrived to say the least & the vast majority of the film is spent showing these teens wander around the island for what seems like an eternity . I must admit I did think the film opened quite well with a brutal rape & death but that's as good as it gets I'm afraid , it's pretty much all downhill after that & the film never recapture the brutality of sleaziness of that opening sequence . The kills are unimaginative & mostly off screen too which doesn't help . Also I am wondering why is the film called Humongous ? There doesn't seem to be any reason I can think of as to why it's called Humongous at all . Director Lynch ruins any chance the script might have had , everyone but everyone who has seen & commented on Humongous mentions the fact that it is so dark which it is . The daytime scenes are fine so it's not just bad VHS tapes or prints Lynch just must have made a monumental misjudgement with his lighting . The last twenty minutes in particular are so frustrating to watch & more often than not you find yourself looking a totally black screen . I can't see anyone watching Humongous & not noticing how dark & frankly unwatchable it is . Released in the US in both ' R ' rated & ' Unrated ' versions the opening rape & killing of Tom is as graphic as it gets , all of the subsequent murders happen off screen , a mummified corpse is seen , three bodies are seen on meat hooks , there's a bit of blood , someone is impaled on a signpost & , well , that's it . Basically there's a lot of film of teenagers running around with very little reward . All the slasher clichés are here , Lynch often films from the point-of-view of the killer , people jump out of the dark to scare their mates , loud noises are heard at tense moments & the teens keep on separating which makes it easier for the killer . The killers face is only ever shown right at the end although I am not sure if that was on purpose or the fact that it's so dark you can't see anything anyway . There is one odd scene though when a girl collects blueberries & then uses her breast's squished together as a natural ' plate ' to carry them on ! Then after she notices her mate is cold she undoes her top to expose her breast's & lies on top of him in an effort to warm him up ! Technically the film is alright , it's well made I suppose but there's not much style . Apparently filmed on location in Ontario in Canada . The acting is alright considering it's an 80's slasher but no-one in this has exactly gone on to be stars which isn't surprising . Humongous ( Why Humongous ? Why ? ) is an average sort of 80's slasher , the whole deformed killer on an isolated island set-up is quite neat & fairly well done but it was just too uneventful to maintain ones interest for over ninety minutes .
Quincy M . E . : A Ghost of a Chance starts as Harold Markham ( Tom Stuart ) goes under the surgeon's knife for what was meant to be a simple heart bypass procedure , however a few hours later Markham complains of intense chest pains & despite the doctor's best efforts dies shortly after . Harold's brother Ted ( Nicolas Coaster ) is unimpressed by heart surgeon Dr . Stanley Royce's ( Jose Ferrer ) explanation about complications & pays his 575 dollars and 18 cents to the county coroner's office so an autopsy can be performed to discover the truth , Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is on the case & finds out that the surgical technique used on Harold differs from the specialist procedure which Royce is well known for . Quincy believes that Harold was operated on by a ' ghost surgeon ' , an inexperienced intern as opposed to a qualified surgeon who was supposed to operate & in this case happens to be Royce an old friend of Quincy's . Quincy does all he can to uncover the truth & get justice for the Markham's . . . Episode 2 from season 8 this Quincy story was directed by Ray Danton & I must admit I'm starting to become a little bit concerned about season 8 even in this it's early stages because there has been two episodes & both have been pretty poor . I must admit that before I saw this episode I had never even heard the term ghost surgery , I mean I'd heard of ghost writing & Ghost Rider ( ! ) but not ghost surgery . To be brutally honest I don't particularly believe it's a problem , certainly not here in the UK & I just couldn't get into the story because I couldn't relate to it at all . Then there's the fact that I like Quincy when he's running around shouting at bureaucrat's & solving crimes both of which have been sadly lacking during the first two episodes of season 8 , in fact barely any screen time has been devoted to Quincy solving a crime . What we've been left with are two misjudged moralistic episodes which just don't work , I'm sorry but I'm a huge fan of the show & to me this just isn't Quincy & I hope the show gets back on track soon . This story is pretty predictable , has an inappropriate happy ending & comes across as rather dull . This episode looks alright , there are a couple of surgery scenes but nothing graphic . There's a bit more romance between Quincy & Emily as she show's him her none existent guitar playing skills & she gives a stupid psychological explanation to the story when Quincy asks her opinion . The acting here is alright with Star Trek : The Next Generation's ( 1987 - 1994 ) Jonathan Frakes making his second Quincy appearance having changed careers from a cocaine dealing murderer in The Face of Fear ( 1982 ) to a heart surgeon in this ! A Ghost of a Chance is an average Quincy episode at best , the always excellent Klugman still makes it a worthwhile watch for fans but a silly basic premise & a lack of crime solving means this episode isn't anything to shout about . Hopefully season 8 will improve .
Quincy M . E . : Matters of Life and Death starts as Asten ( John S . Ragin ) tells Quincy that he has become unbearable , bad tempered & grouchy . Asten tells Quincy that one of his friends a local small town Doctor named Max Gilliam ( Walter Brooke ) is going away on vacation for a month & he wants someone to take over his general practise for that period which Quincy agrees to . However before he even reaches the town ( hell , before the opening credits even finish ) Quincy runs into trouble , the dead body of Vincenzo Maggiore & if that wasn't enough Quincy finds dealing with the living can sometimes be just as difficult as dealing with the dead with all sorts of problems of it own . . . Episode 14 from season 3 this Quincy story was directed by Paul Kransy & is decent enough but not one of the show's best . This is one of those Quincy episodes where all the action & incident happens outside the traditional laboratory setting for those of you who like these sorts of episodes , it works well enough I suppose but it's just a bit lethargic with a couple of pretty dull story lines about a pregnant woman with twins & the mysterious circumstances surrounding a man's death neither of which are that great or particularly hold your interest , well not mine anyway . It's a bit predictable as well if I'm honest with a pretty lacklustre ending although watching Quincy fighting against & shouting down bureaucrats & red tape is alway fun in it's own right . Don't get me wrong , Matters of Life and Death is alright but nothing special & by Quincy standards nothing to write home about . As one would expect due to largely being set outside the laboratory & outside Los Angeles only one of the regular character's appear until the cheesy comedy happy ending at Danny's . The acting is OK but Klugman stands out as usual & he is just great in the title role . Matters of Life and Death is an average Quincy episode , the two slim story lines aren't really enough to carry it & as it stands it's one of the poorer episodes from the third season .
Quincy M . E . : T . K . O . starts as Danny ( Val Bisoglio ) & Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) are ringside watching the young boxing contender Clarence Hester ( Robert Hardy ) take on his friend & current champion Kenny Mitchell ( Herb Jefferson Jr . ) & win the title . A few days later & Los Angeles coroner Quincy is shocked to see the body of Clarence on his autopsy table , findings show Clarence died of meningitis caused by the nasal bacteria seeping into his brain because of a badly damaged nose . Meanwhile Danny's chef Alfredo Carlotti ( Peter Schrum ) decides to have a simple hernia operation performed at an office clinic but dies due to complications & poor equipment . Upon investigation Quincy finds out that Clarence had seen a Doctor at an office clinic & that was the reason for his badly damaged nose , with two similar fatalities in a short space of time that could have been prevented Quincy sets out to get all surgical procedures regulated . . . Episode 19 from season 5 this Quincy story was directed by Lawrence Doheny & I can't really say it's one of my favourite episodes . After a boxer mysteriously dies I thought we might get another murder mystery themed episode like A Blow to the Head . . . A Blow to the Heart ( 1977 ) from season three but it never turned out that way . The episode starts off with two seemingly unconnected death's , that of the young boxer & Danny's fat chef but Quincy soon finds a connection & enraged he sets out on yet another moral crusade to fight the bureaucracy that won't regulate surgical procedures & the incompetence of Doctor's who think they can perform major surgery without the proper equipment . Yes you've guessed it T . K . O . is a very moralistic based Quincy episode with a somewhat outdated social issue at it's core & no murder mystery in sight , I really don't think the issues raised here are of much relevance today anyway . Then there's the really abrupt ending which comes out of nowhere , the story is almost only getting started when the episode finishes . I must admit I did like the running gag in this episode , Quincy's boss Asten actually gives him a pager so he can bleep him whenever he wants much to Quincy's irritation & annoyance in a rather amusing subplot . Not much to say about this episode really , it's as well made as you can expect from a 70's TV show of the period . I don't know if I should say this but wasn't Danny's chef fat ? I mean I'm not being funny here but instead of cooking the food in the kitchen by the look of the bloke he ate it all didn't he ? The acting is alright but it's Klugman who steal the show as usual in particular a rousing heartfelt speech at the end to a Government committee , this guy could really act . I am not entirely sure but I think the episode title T . K . O . refers to the boxing term The Knock Out but it's never specifically mentioned during the episode . T . K . O . isn't my favourite Quincy episode out there , the two story lines give it a bit of variety & the comedy subplot about the pager is quite amusing too . There are better episodes out there .
Quincy M . E . : The Depth of Beauty starts late one night on top of an eighteen storey Los Angeles apartment block as forty seven year old Sheila Connors ( Joanna Patrice ) commits suicide by jumping off the roof . Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) records the death as suicide but he is puzzled & intrigued by extensive scarring on her face , after speaking to her husband ( Ryan MacDonald ) Quincy learns that his wife committed suicide because of the state cosmetic surgeon Dr . Emile Green ( Garnett Smith ) left her face in . Quincy investigates Green & discovers that he is not a trained plastic surgeon , he has left countless women dead or horribly mutilated & can get away with it as there are no provisions in the law to stop him . Outraged Quincy becomes determined to stop Green operating on people & get the inadequate laws changed . . . Episode 13 from season 4 this Quincy story was directed by Ray Danton & is alright but I can't work up much more enthusiasm up for it than that , The Depth of Beauty is more of a moral episodes where Quincy ends up on some social crusade against red tape , inadequate laws & bureaucracy . Here Quincy tackles the unlicensed cosmetic surgery trade & those who get rich from it but aren't properly trained or qualified , it's one of those stories which is hard to relate to since I really do think things have changed . In the year 2008 I just couldn't see a doctor getting away with some of the things Green does , I mean we live a ' compensation culture ' type society where we sue everyone & everything for all we can get & someone like Green just wouldn't be able to continue operating today in any civilised Western country & I firmly believe that . The murder here is by default , there's no mystery elements & one could say it's a trifle predictable . Still having said that I always enjoy watching Quincy shout at people , get angry & try to blame everyone for everything but sometimes that just isn't enough . It's OK for the type of episode it is but I wouldn't call it a classic . The Depth of Beauty is one of the very few Quincy episodes which doesn't feature Lt . Monahan at all ( despite his name still appearing in the opening credits ) , even at Danny's at the end he is oddly missing . There is a fairly effective scene in this when one of Green's victims reveals the extent of her facial injuries & scars to the camera & it's a pretty decent make-up job with lots of scars & a droopy slanted eye . The acting is alright by all involved . The Depth of Beauty is an average moralistic conscience pricking episode of Quincy , it's watchable & fine for what it is but in my opinion it's not any sort of classic .
Quincy M . E . : Unreasonable Doubt starts as Lillian Preston ( Kres Mersky ) arrives home with her baby son Charlie after visiting a doctor about his rare condition Sturge Weber disease , visibly upset her husband Jerry ( Jim Antonio ) puts Chalie down on a metal tray & goes to comfort her . By the time Jerry gets back an electrical wire from a TV being repaired has electrocuted Charlie , since Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is an old friend of Jerry it is decided to give the autopsy to Walter Ross ( John Rubinstein ) who comes to the conclusion that Charlie was deliberately electrocuted & the fact he had Sturge Weber disease meant there was no way he could have freed the wire that killed him . Quincy refuses to believe it & sets out to prove that Jerry didn't kill his own son but the evidence against him is strong . . . Episode 5 from season 8 this Quincy story was directed by Richard Benedict & is better than that which has come before during season 8 but still not exactly brilliant . At least Quincy gets to investigate something this time & use his medical skills & knowledge to uncover the truth even if the truth ends up being a bit dull & some might say a touch predictable . The episode moves along at a nice enough pace & features an attempt to say something about the pressure of father's on their son's which gets a bit lost but there just had to be a moral issue somewhere . This episode also features a handicapped pathologist although while he walks around on crutches & at times is confined to a wheelchair absolutely nothing is made of it & it isn't even mentioned , his disability is screaming at you in the face from the screen as you can't miss it but the story completely ignores it which is strange . I mean why have a disabled pathologist & then do absolutely nothing with him or his condition ? Unreasonable Doubt is an OK time waster if there's nothing else on the other sides but it's hardly classic Quincy . This episode looks alright , Quincy's soon to be wife Dr . Emily Hanover ( Anita Gillette ) gets a few seconds in this one . The regular cast members besides Quincy seem to be getting less & less screen time & I really don't like what's happening with the show here . Unreasonable Doubt is the best story so far in season 8 , it isn't classic Quincy but it's more like the old days if you know what I mean .
The Town that Dreaded Sundown is set in the small town of Texarkana in Arkansas in 1946 a mere eight months after World War II where two young lovers are brutally attacked by a large man with a sack over his head ( Bud Davis ) , they are found the next morning barely alive . Deputy Norman Ramsey ( Andrew Prine ) is on the case , precisely three weeks later the killer who has become known as ' The Phantom ' strikes again only this time his victims don't survive . Fear grips the town of Texarkana & Texas ranger Capitan J . D . Morales ( Ben Johnson ) is brought in to co-ordinate the manhunt but will the Phantom be caught before he kills again ? Produced & directed by Charles B . Pierce , who also appears in the film as the annoying comedy relief deputy Benson , this is an early attempt at a teen slasher revolving around the real life Phantom murderer who killed five people & injured many other's & to this day his identity remains a mystery although one suspects with the forensic advances we have today if the same crimes were committed today he'd be caught . The script by Earl E . Smith unusually has large chunks of narration as what's going on is spelled out with no attempt to tell the story through proper storytelling or it's character's . I'm not sure how accurate this film is in it's portrayal of the real life crimes it depicts but I would have thought it isn't particularly faithful . I also found The Town that Dreaded Sundown extremely repetitive , the Phantom attacks then there's a large chunk of narration describing the facts & then we see the local police going about their investigations & this is basically how the entire film goes until the end where the Phantom escapes & seemingly gives up his life of crime . Apparently the Phantom was never caught & there were no obvious motives for his crimes although I don't really understand why he was walking around a sandpit with a potato sack over his head & I'm sceptical about the historic accuracy regarding the end ( the trombone bit never happened that's for sure ) . I'm not sure many will like the ending either as nothing is revealed or cleared up & it just ends . The Town that Dreaded Sundown ( I hate that title ) feels like a slasher film as our killer chases & murders screaming teens , I just felt it was so empty & the comedy relief copper played by director Pierce as already noted who can't drive properly just feels very out of place & awkward . Director Pierce does OK but why did he set the first two murders during the night & then use day-for-night filming ? It looks terrible & someone should tell the filmmakers shadows don't appear during the night ! The murder scenes aren't particularly gory although they are quite long & fairly brutal for the time it was made , there's not much atmosphere & I didn't think it was scary either . The period design & setting is OK although it's noticeable that Pierce shoots in woods & country roads where he can avoid anything that could place the film in the 70's rather than the 40's . The killers resemblance to Jason in Friday the 13th Part 2 is very apparent & I'd be surprised if the makers of that hadn't been inspired by The Town that Dreaded Sundown . Technically the film is OK , there's no special effects as such & it's well made I suppose . The acting is alright but nothing special , no-one seems that interested . The Town that Dreaded Sundown is an odd film , I'm not sure who it's meant to appeal to as horror fans will find it dull & predictable with little horror or suspense while anyone looking for a accurate recreation of the real life events depicted will also be disappointed because this ain't it . It's watchable on a certain level but nothing I'd want to see again or am particularly fond of .
Blade : The Series : Hunters starts at a metal club called Brash where a young attractive girl named Jennifer ( Melanie Papalia ) is kidnapped along with Nikki ( Katharine Horsman ) one of the waitresses by Kurt ( Dominic Zamprogna ) the human familiar of a sadistic disfigured Vampire known as the White Prince ( Scott Heindl ) who has a liking for torturing young girls . Meanwhile Blade ( Sticky Fingaz ) is having some trouble with his Vampire informant Krista ( Jill Wagner ) but decides to look into the disappearance of Nikki after her sister Bethany ( Lauren Lee Smith ) contacts Blade's sidekick Shen ( Nelson lee ) for help , Blade goes about his work in his usual style which means if he doesn't get what he wants people get hurt . . . This was episode 10 from season 1 of the made-for-TV Blade : The Series , directed by Brad Turner I thought Hunters was OK but nothing special . The script by Geoff Johns isn't anything inspirational & feels too routine & uninspired for my liking with Blade chasing yet another Vampire which ends up in a climatic fight where Blade triumphs so in that respect you could say it's a touch predictable . Then there's the fact since these are 45 minute bite sized chunks it's difficult to build much momentum up although there are a couple of other plot threads which clearly run throughout the series so if you watch Hunters in isolation there may be the odd part here & there which doesn't seem to make much sense . Worth a watch but it won't change your life . There are a few decent scenes here , the parts where the White prince has Nikki tided up & then makes her watch videos of him torturing Jennifer are quite sleazy & his mask of human skin complete with human teeth still attached around the mouth reminds me of Leatherface from The Texas Chainsaw Massacre films & is quite gross . Unfortunately this is pretty tame , just when you think something nasty might happen it chickens out , the fights are OK but not particularly exciting or extravagant . The only real gore is when someone slices their own hand with a cutthroat razor & when someone has their jaw ripped off . It's generally well made for what it is but it's obvious things had to be scaled down from the films . Hunters is an OK way to pass 45 minutes , it's slick enough , it has some fights , a bit of gore & a good looking cast but I'd still rather watch one of the films again .
2001 Maniacs starts as three college buddies Anderson ( Jay Gillespie ) , Nelson ( Dylan Edrington ) & Cory ( Matthew Carey ) head for Florida & the beaches during the Spring Break , on the way they are advised to take a detour & end up at the inappropriately named deep South town of Pleasant Valley , population 2001 . Shortly after several other teenagers show up also having followed the detour signs & they are all welcomed by Mayor Buckman ( Robert Englund ) & his townspeople , they are all invited to stay & share the hospitality of Pleasnat Valley during the Guts N Glory Jubilee celebrations held there every year for the past century . With the attraction of hot looking locals the travelers decide to stay but the residents of Pleasnat Valley begin to kill their guests off one-by-one in a variety of gruesome ways . . . Co-written & directed by Tim Sullivan who also has a small cameo as the local undertaker Coffin Harry seen making coffins this is a fairly entertaining somewhat kitsch remake of the Hershell Gordon Lewis exploitation gore film Two Thousand Maniacs ! ( 1964 ) . With Hollywood remaking so many classic horror films of late & lavishing huge budgets on them 2001 Maniacs sort of slipped under the radar a bit & as far as I am aware didn't get a theatrical release , certainly not here in the UK or a widespread one anywhere anyway . Two Thousand Maniacs ! is a somewhat strange choice of film to remake , apart from Hershell Gordon Lewis fans I doubt it's that well known & despite being one of his better films ( that's not saying much ) it isn't exactly regarded as any sort of masterpiece . I like the original Two Thousand Maniacs ! & I think 2001 Maniacs is a respectful remake , while the original was quite serious in tone this remake is very light hearted & a bit juvenile . There's lots of schoolboy humour & innuendo , jokes about locals having sex with sheep , inbreeding & the way the locals react to a black dude ( the black guy ask's ' where do black guy's hang out round here ? ' only to be told ' from that tree down yonder ' ) . There's copious amounts of sex , breasts & lesbianism as 2001 Maniacs knows it's intended audience & tries to please them . The story is alright but pretty much follows the original including a twist ending which if you have seen the original is left a bit pointless although 2001 Maniacs has a nice added gory ending . The character's are OK ( even though compared to the original 2001 Maniacs is populated mostly by good looking young teenagers ) , the dialogue is amusing & quite punchy at times & the heady mix of sex , nudity & gore worked for me . The original Two Thousand Maniacs ! was known for it's gory set-pieces & 2001 Maniacs updates several of them including the rock crushing scene & a cool sequence in which a girl is pulled apart by horses . Disappointingly my favourite kill from the original when someone is put in a barrel lined with nails & rolled down a hill is missing here but it does contain a few gore scenes of it's own . There's a scene in which someone drinks acid & his stomach melts away , there's plenty of severed limbs , decapitated heads & sliced up bodies , there's lots of blood , a bit when a gay man has a spear shoved up his bum which then protrudes from his mouth , a girl gives a guy a blow job with a set of metal pointed razor teeth & a neat double decapitation . The film has an over-the-top feel about it which means you can't really take it seriously , basically the makers know it's audience is going to want good looking young actors , plenty of sex & boobs & lots of blood & gore & do their best to deliver . With a supposed budget of about $3 , 000 , 000 according to the IMDb 2001 Maniacs was shot at the end of 2003 but strangely remained unreleased until late 2005 in the US & 2006 pretty much everywhere else . Filmed on location Georgia I would have though something like 2001 Maniacs would have been very commercial . The original Two Thousand Maniacs ! featured an irritating yet extremely catchy folk song theme tune which is reworked here without most of the lyrics . Most of the cast are teenagers but Freddy Krueger himself Robert Englund plays the main villain . 2001 Maniacs is a fun way to pass 90 odd minutes if all your looking for is lots of nudity , blood , gore & crude humour but I just felt there was something missing , perhaps the fact I didn't like any of the character's & they all looked the same didn't help & a good film always needs a good central character . Followed by the sequel 2001 Maniacs : Beverly Hellbillys ( 2008 ) .
Magnum Force is set in San Francisco where infamous cop Insp . ' Dirty ' Harry Callahan ( Clint Eastwood ) is at loggerheads with his superiors over his unique & brutal brand of law enforcement . Carmine Ricci ( Richard Devon ) is allowed to walk free after a judge acquits him from a murder charge on a technicality , the triumphant Ricci drives away from the court house a totally free man but a traffic cop pulls his car over & proceeds to shoot dead everyone inside . Then more big name criminals are assassinated & when the innocent get in the way of these rogue killers plans they are scarified for the greater good , Harry is put on the case & quickly comes the the conclusion that there is an organisation within the department who are acting as judge , jury & executioner & killing all of San Francisco's top criminals & Harry sets out to bring them down . . . Directed by Ted Post , although sources including Eastwwod himself claims that he & second unit director Buddy Van Hoen directed more of the film than Post , this is the second of five Dirty Harry films & I quite liked it & definitely put it above average although I wouldn't call it great or anything . The script by John Millius & Michael Cimino is more of a thriller than a straight action flick & has an interesting premise that is still , perhaps even more so , relevant today as there's barely a news broadcast or edition of a national newspaper that goes by without some sort of criminal getting a ridiculously small sentence ( I can remember one here in the UK recently where a convicted paedophile was let off because there were no prison places near where his family lived & the fact that if placed in a prison father away he wouldn't get any visitors & that would be stressful & cruel on him & his family , I kid you not ) or an interview with a cop who feel like their hands are tied with petty rules , paper work & laws seemingly geared towards protecting the guilty rather than the innocent . You can see where the character's are coming from in Magnum Force , both the rogue cops & Harry who despite not liking the system understands it's the only one we have so ultimately defends it , it's a decent with a moral message so I'll give it some credit for that alone . Unfortunately it isn't all plain sailing here as I thought the film went on for too long & was simply too slow , it's well past the 50 minute mark before Harry is even put on the case for cryin ' out loud & the identity of the rogue killers is far , far too obvious . Basically I felt that Magnum Force was a well written & thought out film which could have used a little tightening up during the editing , this could have been an absolute classic as it is it falls just sort . Director Post does OK , the action is competently handled with the motorbike chase at the end standing out as the best set-piece the film has to offer . I watched a pristine 2 : 35 : 1 widescreen print of this last night & for a film shot over 30 years ago back in ' 73 it sure does look good , if you can please try to watch the widescreen version . There's not much violence here , a few shootings but nothing excessive by todays standards . There's some nudity as well if that sort of thing interests you . I also have to mention the pimp mobile , the big black mother who drives around in a huge pink car with orange tan roof & huge triple exhausts running along the side ! Talk about drawing attention to yourself , a stark lesson in how not to be inconspicuous . . . Technically the film is good , it's well made on location in San Francisco using some of the cities sights as backdrops . The acting is fine , Eastwood is good , David Soul's performance here apparently got him the job as Hutch in the TV series Starsky and Hutch ( 1975 - 1979 ) & Hal Holbrook is decent as Harry's long suffering boss . Magnum Force is a good thriller , those looking for out-and-out action may feel a little disappointed so bear that in mind . This was a sequel to Dirty Harry ( 1971 ) & was itself followed by a further three sequels , The Enforcer ( 1976 ) , Sudden Impact ( 1983 ) & The Dead Pool ( 1989 ) in which Harry finally hung up his 357 Magnum . . .
Joy Ride starts as Lewis Thomas ( Paul Walker ) buys a 1971 Chrysler Newport so he can pick up & impress a girl he fancies named Venna ( Leelee Sobieski ) who has just split up from her boyfriend & wants to get away from things , Lewis sense's his chance & offers to her a ride across country with him to his parents house . On the way Lewis learns that his brother Fuller ( Steve Zahn ) has been arrested , Lewis bails him out & also offers him a lift home . As they pass the time they start to talk to truckers on a CB radio , Fuller goads Lewis into playing a practical joke on one such trucker who calls himself Rusty Nail . It all ends in tears as they send the trucker to a motel room supposedly to meet a woman but instead he finds a fat man who he rips the jaw off , Rusty Nail then sets out to get some revenge on Fuller & Lewis as he pursues them across the long isolated highways . . . Retitled Road Kill here in the UK because Joy Ride is an unpleasant term used over her to describe young people who steal cars for kicks & had various working titles including Candy Cane , Highway Horror & bizarrely Squelch , directed by John Dahl I thought this part thriller , part action , part road trip , part psychological horror flick was pretty good but not perfect . The script by J . J . Abrams & Clay Tarver has a good first hour which builds the story quite nicely but then it grinds to a halt & it becomes a teen road trip film for a while before an improbable ending . For a start you can see the similarities between Joy Ride & Steven Spielberg's classic Duel ( 1971 ) in the sense of an unknown psychopath in a huge truck menacing someone , this film doesn't really have the tight tension & narrative of Duel & the lack of any identity for Rusty Nail can be seen both bad & good depending on your viewpoint . The film also feels similar to The Hitcher ( 1986 ) on occasions , I suppose if your going to steal ideas you might as well steal them from the best . The character's are OK , the pace is erratic & I'd have liked it a little shorter , when all said & done not that much happens & if you think about it too much there's plenty of plot holes . For instance how did Rusty Nail know so much about Fuller & Lewis ? How did he recover the CB radio ? How could he know Lewis would find the CB radio in his car & talk to him before it blew it ? How did Rusty Nail know they would take the highway where he had altered the signs ? If you suspend your disbelief long enough I suppose there's a decent enough film here but I don't think it's one I'd want to watch again in any sort of hurry . Director Zahn does OK , the locations are suitably isolated & the widescreen image captures that isolation nicely . The film is quite tense at times especially at the end as Venna is tied to a chair with a shotgun pointing at her head the trigger of which is connected to the door so the instant anyone opens the door it will go off , there's some humour here as well & it's pretty engaging to . There isn't really any gore or violence so to speak which is obviously a disappointment . Jeepers Creepers ( 2001 ) came out the same year as Joy Ride & both are fairly similar as they feature kids in trouble on isolated roads although Jeepers Creepers is a better film . With a supposed budget of about $23 , 000 , 000 Joy ride had a much bigger budget than I had originally thought , it's well made for sure but I can't really see where all the money went as there are no big stars in it , there are no big action set-pieces or CGI computer effects . The acting is good , the character's are fairly likable . Joy Ride is a good film to watch , it has it's good moments for sure although there's some bad ones in there as well & if you think about it too much the story just doesn't hold up . Worth a watch for sure but maybe rent it or catch it on TV for free as a full blooded purchase isn't a good idea .
Ballistic : Ecks vs . Sever starts as Rayne Gant ( Taliso Soto ) arrives back home in the US after having been in Europe with her son Michael ( Aidan Drummond ) , however her husband & his father ex-FBI turned freelance baddie Robert Gant ( Gregg Henry ) has secretly used his son to smuggle a small robotic device into the US in his bloodstream . Unfortunately it's a miniature electronic assassin which will kill it's target from the inside . . . Things get even worse when Michael is kidnapped by ex-FBI agent ( ex-FBI agents grow on trees in this film ) Sever ( Lucy Liu ) & holds him for ransom , meanwhile burned out ex-FBI agent Jeremiah Ecks ( Antonio Banderas ) is called out of retirement by agent Julio Martin ( Miguel Sandoval ) to find Sever , the kid & the robotic assassin . At first Ecks refuses but when Julio says his supposedly dead wife Vin is still alive & he can find her Ecks has no choice . . . This American German co-production was produced & directed by Wych Kaosayananda under the silly & somewhat childish name ' Kaos ' so not only does it have one of the silliest & dullest titles in action film history it was directed by someone with the worst pseudonym in action film history . While many seem to think Ballistic : Ecks vs . Sever is the worst film in history I didn't think it was too bad , I mean what did these people expect exactly ? The script by Alan McElroy moves along like an absolute rocket & clocking in at about 90 minutes it doesn't outstay it's welcome , in fact one might say it moves along too fast & while there are plenty of large explosions , fights , chases , shoot-outs & action scenes the actual story is severely lacking as are the character's & dialogue which amount to virtually zero . Ecks & Sever are each given a clichéd background where someone they love was killed & despite the ' vs . ' in the title they don't actually end up fighting each other at all & in fact start working together fairly early on the film to take out Gregg Henry's dull ex-FBI villain Gant . The story just doesn't hold up & is given so little attention that Ballistic : Ecks vs . Sever ends up feeling like a collection of unconnected set-pieces albeit fairly impressive ones . I didn't think it was boring that's for sure & there are enough bangs & guns in it to pass the time harmlessly enough but just don't expect anything particularly memorable or deep as this ain't it . Director Kaos ( please ) does alright & there are some spectacular action scenes like when Banderas flies off a motorbike & two cars crash & flip over his head or a scene when a prison bus is attacked on a busy freeway while on the other hand some of the action scenes are a little dumb like the amount of time the prison bus skids for or how Lucy Liu can just disappear after shooting up an entire shopping centre & then freeway . The explosions are big , the martial arts fights are decent , it has fast paced dance music to accompany the action scenes & there are plenty of futuristic looking weaponry which get lots of use , on a dumb action flick level Ballistic : Ecks vs . Sever on the surface is as good as anything out there but it just doesn't quite come off & is strangely lifeless , it doesn't have much energy & apart from the impressive set-pieces there really isn't anything going on at all . With an astronomical sounding budget of about $70 , 000 , 000 I'd have thought the executives at Warner Bros . sht themselves when they saw what their 70 big ones brought , I don't think it did anything at the box-office which isn't a surprise as bad word of mouth probably killed it . It's certainly well made & has that big budget Hollywood polish about it though , it was mostly shot in Vancouver in Canada . The acting is rather flat & nobody seems that interested in it , I will mention Talisa Soto though as I've always liked her & she's looking as hot as ever in this . Ballistic : Ecks vs . Sever is a loud , fast paced action packed flick that could have been great if the makers had actually bothered to give it some sort of interesting story which they didn't so it isn't . I quite liked it if only for the explosions & action though & I certainly don't entertain this idea that it's ' the worst film ever ' because it's far from the worst film ever .
Class of 1984 starts as new music teacher Mr . Andrew Norris ( Perry King ) arrives at an inner city hell hole of a school named Abraham Lincoln High , he is somewhat shocked to discover the pupils carrying switchblades , selling drugs , intimidating other teachers & students & generally behaving in a very anti-social way to each other . He quickly becomes friends with a biology teacher named Terry Corrigan ( Roddy McDowall ) who tells him to just get through the day as best he can , ignore what he sees & not to try & fight it . However Norris can't do that especially when a drug dealer named Peter Stegman ( Timothy Van Patten ) & his gang sell drugs to someone who then dies , Norris tries to bring Stegman to justice but the principal ( David Gardner ) & the police say they can't do anything due to lack of evidence . As the feud between Norris & Stegman grows they become determined to nail each other by whatever means necessary . . . This Canadian production was executive produced , co-written & directed by Mark Lester & I personally thing it's way overrated after hearing so many good things about it , I just didn't think it delivered the goods . The script by Lester , John Saxton & Tom Holland plays like a drama for most of it's running time , I found the first 45 minutes or so pretty tedious although it does set the story up quite nicely I have to admit I was starting to get bored . I don't think the character's were that great & I'm not sure how many people would have put themselves & their family on the line like Norris did , there are probably people out there who would but not many . It's your basic one man who gets screwed by the system , no matter how hard he tries the system lets him down & the thugs who know their rights & use them to the maximum to literally get away with murder . Yes it all sounds very familiar & the world in which we live now over 25 years on from when Class of 1984 was made isn't that dissimilar to the one portrayed in it , in that regard it's a depressing reminder of the way things are & the fact that we knew back then the way things were headed , then again maybe I'm reading too much into a largely dull exploitation film . For what it's worth I thought it was watchable , it told a relevant story perfectly adequately & it moved along at a reasonable pace but overall I felt disappointed when it had finished , I certainly wouldn't want to watch it again & it just didn't grip , engage or do that much for me . Director Lester does OK & fills the film with plenty of social & moral commentary which appears to be quite knowing , he seems to like graffiti covered sets as well . The whole look of the film is a bit post apocalyptic , there are some fight scenes which are OK but not that memorable & there's not much gore either , someone has their arm sliced off with a band saw , there are some skinless rabbits & that's about it . It could have done with a bit more violence I reckon & the sleaze factor was also lacking , the rape scene is as tame as you could imagine , I Spit on your Grave ( 1978 ) or MS . 45 ( 1981 ) this ain't . With a supposed budget of about $4 , 300 , 000 Class of 1984 is well made with decent production values . The acting was alright , McDowall pops up every so often & a young chubby Michael J . Fox gets stabbed in the kidney . Class of 1984 is an OK film for sure , there a far worse out there but for me it was lacking that magical ingredient that turns a good film into a great one & I can't quite put my finger on it . Anyway , it's worth a watch but it's nothing spectacular . Followed by the much better Class 0f 1999 ( 1990 ) which goes for proper horror / sci-fi & a direct sequel to that Class of 1999 II : The Substitute ( 1994 ) which is rubbish .
The version I watched was a UK tape called Alien Terror . A couple named Thelma ( Belinda Mayne ) and Roy ( Mark Bodin ) are keen potholers and along with six of their friends , Bert ( Michele Soavi ) Maureen ( Judy Perrin , this is where the credit information on the IMDb stops and the film doesn't list the characters on the credits ) , Jill , Bill , Cliff and Rod are planning a weekend exploring some caves somewhere in the Californian wilderness . As they drive out of the city ( the closing credits mentions San Diego so maybe that's where these city shots were filmed ) the local T . V . and radio news shows report that a space capsule returning from space has crash landed in the Ocean and it's crew are missing . The potholers stop at a roadside café and Bert ( the idiot of the group ) takes a slash against a wall and notices a strange blue football sized rock , he picks it up and gives it to Thelma , oh and by the way Thelma is a psychic and she has a ' bad ' feeling . Once deep inside the cave they all have a good time until Jill and Thelma goes off on their own . Jill notices the blue thing in Thelma's rucksack is pulsating . Jill grabs it and has a closer look , it bursts open and something attach's itself to her face . Next thing we know Thelma is screaming for help , she explains to the others that Jill has fallen off a ledge and is lying hurt at the bottom . Everyone rushes to help her . Rod is left up top to operate the stretcher and crane to lift her up . Once Jill is up top her face splits open and a snake like alien thing emerges . Rod is taken by surprise and the alien attach's itself to his throat . Rod falls back and his feet get caught in some rope , as he hangs there over the edge the alien does something that makes his head fall off . The others below watching this are understandably shaken and even worse are trapped in the lower levels of the cave . They must use all their experience and know how to find a way out and survive the Alien Terror ! Written , produced and directed by Ciro Ippolito under the pseudonym Sam Cromwell , rumour has it Umberto Lenzi might have been involved too . I have to admit I actually quite liked it , it has it's faults for sure and it certainly isn't a masterpiece but for what it was I thought it was an hour and a half well spent . The script drags a little in places and some of the dialogue is as absurd as we've come to expect from these 80's Italian produced low-budget horror films , but that's half their charm and entertainment . The ending was strange and somewhat of a let-down , nothing is really explained or concluded properly and just sort of ends suddenly it also went on for too long and would have been better served a few minutes shorter , Thelma's apparent psychic powers are never really made use of except her ' feelings ' that she has . I liked the cave setting , I thought it was quite unusual and for the most part helped to create an atmosphere of isolation . The acting isn't up to much but then I didn't really expect it to be . There is some pretty good gore sequences in this too , Rods head oozing off and some of his insides following it down out of his neck stump is a definite highlight as is Jills face splitting open just prior , the special make-up effects are decent enough too . The aliens themselves are never really seen in their entirety , I felt there should be a big alien at the end ( we get an alien point-of-view camera shot that towers above Thelma ) but we never see ' it ' . Mostly they look like mutant snake things . A special mention goes to Guido De Angelis & Maurizio De Angelis who provide the music and hide under the wonderful pseudonym of Oliver Onions ! I don't really know why but this is one of those films that should be absolutely awful , and probably is to most people , but for some unexplainable reason I liked it . It's a film that for me has a indefinable ' X ' factor . Impossible to recommend to the casual viewer and it's probably quite difficult to track down , but there are much worse out there .
Leprechaun 3 is set entirely in Las Vegas where Gupta ( Marcelo Tubert ) runs a shop called ' The Pawn Place ' . One night a man named Lucky ( Richard Reicheg ) walks in & wants to sell a stone statue of an ugly Leprechaun ( Warwick Davis ) , Gupta gives the guy $20 for it but before Lucky leaves he warns Gupta not to remove the medallion from around it's neck . As one would expect Gupta takes the medallion straight away to see how much it's worth & the Leprechaun comes to life & leaves his pot of gold exposed . Gupta decides to take the gold for himself but the Leprechaun kills him to get it back . Meanwhile outside a woman named Tammy Larsen ( Lee Armstrong ) has broken down & good natured teenager Scott McCoy ( John Gatins ) decides to give her a lift to work , the ' Lucky Shamrock Casino ' . Scott is on his way to Los Angeles to go to college but can't resist the temptation to gamble his $23 , 000 college fund , he loses the lot . To try & win some of it back he sets out to pawn his gold watch & discovers one of the Leprechaun's gold pieces which he accidentally finds out can grant the owner a wish , soon other people discover the secret too as the gold passes from person to person who all get a visit from the evil Leprechaun in a search for his gold piece . . . Directed by Brian Trenchard-Smith I thought Leprechaun 3 was OK . The script by David DuBos never takes itself seriously & there are a few amusing moments dotted throughout the film like the bit where the Leprechaun meets an Elvis impersonator . Obviously part of a franchise the Leprechaun character swears & rhymes his way through various one-liners , I have to admit I quite like the little fellow . The film moves along at a nice enough pace & is never boring or dull . The horror is somewhat diluted & the way the Leprechaun dispatches his victims all comes across as very silly so if you want something deep & meaningful then Leprechaun 3 is most definitely not the film for you . I thought the character's were actually quite likable from the talentless magician Fazio ( John DeMita ) to the vain Loretta ( Caroline Williams ) . For whatever reason I found Leprechaun 3 entertaining & at the end of the day that's all I really want from a film . Director Smith gives a nod to one of his previous film Turkey Shoot ( 1982 ) with a bit when the Leprechaun bites someone's toe off . He directs with competence & the Las Vegas setting is cool but nothing really stands out . There's not much gore , a toe & ear biting scene , someone explodes ( but strangely there's no blood ) , someone is bitten & the films best moment when Fazio the magician is cut in half on stage by the Leprechaun , with a chainsaw . Technically the film is fine with good production values & it's generally well made considering the budget must have been pretty small & went straight to video . The acting is alright & Davis seems to enjoy his role as the evil Leprechaun , a special word for Armstrong as Tammy who is one fine looking lady & gets to wear a great outfit for the majority of the films duration which is fine with me . I liked Leprechaun 3 overall & it's far better than than the crap second film Leprechaun 2 ( 1994 ) . Three more straight to video Leprechaun films followed this , Leprechaun 4 : In Space ( 1997 ) , Leprechaun in the Hood ( 2000 ) , Leprechaun : Back 2 tha Hood ( 2003 ) . Definitely worth a watch .
Midsomer Murders : Four Funerals and a Wedding is set in the small village of Broughton in which a feud between the sexes has divided the village since Word War One , the feud has been passed down the generations where the pro-feminist female side call themselves the Skimmington's while the misogynistic males call themselves the Rider's . Mildred Danvers ( Ann Morrish ) returns to Broughton after several decades for the funeral of her one time close friend Vivienne Marwood . It's the day of the annual Skimmington Fayre & DCI Tom Barnaby ( John Nettles ) has been dragged along by his wife Joyce ( Jane Wymark ) & his mother-in-law Muriel ( Daphne Oxenford ) only to called into official action when Mildred is found dead in her hotel room . Barnaby suspects foul play & when later in the day local Rev . Anthony Gant ( Richard McCabe ) is shot in the head & murdered during a Donkey race ( ! ) Barnaby has a double homicide on his hands . . . Episode 5 from season 9 this Midsomer Murders mystery was directed by Sarah Hellings & is a pretty decent episode although I found it a little silly at times & isn't up there with the series classics . The title Four Funerals and a Wedding is obviously a pun on the smash-hit British comedy Four Weddings and a Funeral ( 1994 ) & as the title suggests there are four death's although ( only one funeral is shown ) & a wedding at the end of a fairly by-the-numbers Midsomer Murders episode , it isn't bad by any stretch of the imagination but if I had the choice to watch any Midsomer Murders episode again I doubt very much I would pick Four Funerals and a Wedding . It starts off quite good with a couple of quick fire murders & yet another comic relief subplot about Barnaby's in-law including an amusing one where someone is shot through the head while riding a Donkey ! The killer's motives are alright & the back-story is decent too although I don't understand why they didn't kill Dr . O'Dowd when they had the chance & when he clearly saw them & therefore identify them to the police , I am not sure if it was meant to be obvious why they didn't kill the doc but if it was it passed me by . I wasn't too keen on the silly plot about Broughton being divided into two separate feuding factions , a bunch of guy's against some ladies just seemed a little whimsical to me . As usual there is lots of exposition & dialogue so you need to concentrate & have patience with it , those with a short attention span need not bother with it . Four Funerals and a Wedding is one of those Midsomer Murders episodes which features a village fête , I must admit I have lived in England all my life & have never seen a village fête in reality & I am starting to wonder whether this staple film & telly cliché is just that . There are three murders although two are off screen with the third not showing anything graphic . Filmed in Buckinghamshire the photography is as nice as usual & the production values are high . The acting is pretty good although no-one stands out particularly . Four Funerals and a Wedding is a good solid Midsomer Murders episode that features a decent body count & a reasonable plot but a slightly silly premise & an overall feeling that it's no more than average ultimately prevents it from being regarded as a classic in my mind .
The Fiend starts at a meeting of a strict religious cult known as the ' Christian Children Evangelical Crusade ' whose sermons are performed by a nut-case minister ( Patrick Magee ) who is as fanatical & crazy as they come . One of the congregation is missing , that of Kenny Wemys ( Tony Beckley ) who happens to be a serial killer , his strict religious Mother Birdy ( Ann Todd ) has taught Kenny that sex is evil so Kenny becomes a messed up avenging angel type character as he stalks the streets & alleyways of London in search of morally corrupt girls like prostitutes who he then brutally murders . Kenny also likes to tape record his handiwork & listen to the tapes back home which is used as a base for his Mother's religious sect . District nurse Brigitte Lynch ( Madeleine Hinde ) pays regular visits to the Wemys house & becomes both concerned & suspicious about Kenny & his Mother so ask's her reporter sister Patricia ( Suzannah Leigh ) to do some investigating with the possibility of a big story for her , Patricia soon discovers the shocking truth but will she live long enough to tell anyone . . . This British production was produced & directed by Robert Hartford-Davis & is an OK watch I suppose but I didn't think it was brilliant or anything approaching it . First off I have to mention that a prostitute in The Fiend clearly says that she charges a mere £2 for a ' play-about ' in the back of a truck , well all I can say is that you wouldn't get prices like that anymore , bleedin ' hell that's as cheap as chips , that's inflation for you I guess . The script by Brian Comport takes itself very seriously & moves along at a fair pace , it has a pleasing amount of exploitation elements with it's fair share of dark alleyways , prostitutes , religious nut-jobs , murders & classic cockney dialogue but the story as a whole didn't quite grip or engage me enough , I never really cared about anything or anyone on screen & for the first hour or so The Fiend is all set-up with a few decent murders but then it's almost as if Comport knew he had to wrap things up quickly & introduced the female reporter to uncover the truth just so they had a convenient way to round the story off . The nut-case minister doesn't really feature until the end either when everything sort of comes together , oh & what happened to the CID inspector ( David Lodge ) ? I mean the film starts off with him as the investigating officer dealing with the murders & then features him again in one more scene about half way through questioning a suspect after which he completely totally & utterly disappears from the rest of the film , as do the police as a whole . I suppose that The Fiend is trying to say something about religious fanatical-ism & the power it has over some people , unfortunately it means little as I think anyone watching The Fiend will be more interested in the murders , violence & nudity rather than any heavy handed moral message , I know I was . The Fiend is a decent exploitation film although I found it a bit dull & I couldn't really get into the somewhat erratic story or character's . Director Hartford-Davis does a good job & The Fiend has a really sleazy atmosphere to it , from the dirty alleyways & backstreet's of London , prostitution , murder , nudity as every victim is naked at some point or other & just the whole look & feel of the film which has to be put down to the grimy , oily , dirty , nasty , depressing , grey London location shooting , I live in the UK & things haven't improved that much . . . There's a fair amount of nudity but the violence isn't as strong as you may think , there's not much blood in it that's for sure . Some punches , a strangulation , a few dead bodies with one hanging up on a meat hook & that's about it actually . Technically The Fiend is solid British exploitation at it's best , it's well made & has a great sleazy feel to it . However , the gospel style songs that the congregation sing are cringe inducing . The acting isn't up to much , Magee lets his eyebrows & moustache do the acting , Beckley appeared in films such as The Italian Job ( 1969 ) , Get Carter ( 1971 ) & Revenge of the Pink Panther ( 1978 ) while all the females in the cast are pretty cute . The Fiend is a film that I thought was OK , it kept me watching until the end but it didn't really grab me & as a result I wasn't that interested in it or where it was going . The sleaziness of it is worth checking out since they just don't make ' em like this anymore . Worth a watch but nothing spectacular .
Mary Shelley's Frankenstein begins with some scrolling text that reads ' the dawn of the Nineteenth Century . A world on the brink of revolutionary change . Alongside political and social upheaval , scientific advances that would profoundly change the lives of all . The lust for knowledge had never been greater . Among the pioneers , Captain Robert Walton , an explorer , obsessed with reaching the North Pole . As the prize drew closer his voyage would uncover a story to strike terror in the hearts of all who would venture into the unknown . . . ' An on screen caption informs us that it's the ' Artic Sea 1794 ' , a boat is tossed about by giant waves during a ferocious storm . The crew spot an iceberg , despite their best attempts the boat becomes grounded on an icepack & completely frozen unable to move . Captain Robert Walton ( Aidan Quinn ) orders his men to free the vessel . As they work a shadowy figure walks towards them out of the mist , it's a Dr . Victor Frankenstein ( co-producer & director Kenneth Branagh ) . But there is also something else out there , something both hideous & dangerous . Inside the Captain's quarters Frankenstein begins to tell a tale , a tragic & unbelievable tale . . . A tale which starts in ' Geneva 1773 ' , Victor lives in a very big posh house & is the young teenage son of famous physician Baron Frankenstein ( Ian Holm ) & his wife Caroline ( Cherie Lunghi ) who also have an adopted daughter named Elizabeth ( Helena Boham Carter ) & a natural daughter named Justine ( Trevyn McDowell ) . ' Three years later ' , Victor is studying to become a Doctor , like his Father . His Mother is expecting a baby but dies during childbirth , this is Victor's first experience of death & leaves a big impression on him . Victor & his adopted sister Elizabeth are now engaged to be married after Victor returns from University to further his education & research . Now it's ' Ingolstadt 1793 ' , Victor arrives at the University of Ingolstadt & almost immediately upsets one of his teachers Professor Krempe ( Robert Hardy ) with his unorthodox ideas , another teacher named Professor Waldman ( John Cleese ) looks & listens on in the shadows . Victor befriends another medical student named Henry Clerval ( Tom Hulce ) as he continues to upset the establishment with his ideas . Professor Waldman decides to have words with Victor , Waldman also shows him some of his experiments that regard the re-animation of dead tissue with electricity . Victor is fascinated & when Waldman is murdered he finds his notes & decides to save Waldman's brain by transplanting it into another body & bringing it back to life . Victor succeeds , but only in creating a twisted vengeful creature ( associate producer Robert De Niro ) with only one thing on his newly transplanted mind , revenge against the man who created him . . . Starring , co-produced & directed by Kenneth Branagh I thought this was a good solid adaptation of Mary Shelley's famous novel Frankenstein by screenwriter's Steph Lady & Frank Darabont . It has wonderful production design credited to Tim Harvey , Frankenstein's laboratory equipment & dark brooding Gothic surroundings have surely never looked better . The Swiss locations look beautiful as well . I didn't think the cinematography by Roger Pratt was particularly special though & the film as a whole looked a little flat & unadventurous . The acting is good by all concerned , although Helena Bonham Carter as Elizabeth didn't impress me as much as everyone else ( sorry Helena ! ) . Robert De Niro as the monster is terrific , he looks just like I would imagine a crudely stitched together man would look like in reality helped greatly by the impressive make-up effects De Niro is buried under . Unfortunately Frankenstein has a great opening half that is well paced , interesting & entertaining but a poor second half that just goes nowhere fast . After Frankenstein has created his monster character motivations & actions are somewhat underdeveloped . To be honest not much actually happens during the second half , although one or two moments keep things moving along & helped to maintain my waining interest throughout the two hour running time . And that's another problem , it's far too long & this film could have done with being edited down by at least twenty minutes , I mean the opening & closing sequences that bookend the film are unnecessary in my opinion so that's ten minutes straight away Mr . Branagh ! There isn't much gore in it , a ripped out heart , some gruesome looking cadavers & some stitching with needle & thread . There are also a couple of graphic hangings , too . Overall a good horror with maybe a little to many soap-opera melodramatics for my liking & a definite poorer second half than first . Certainly worth a watch & I'd imagine it would be pretty easy to find a cheap copy somewhere or watch it on T . V . for free , not bad at all .
Quincy M . E . : An Unfriendly Radiance starts as Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is having a night off at Danny's , however laboratory assistant Sam ( Robert Ito ) calls him with a puzzling case , that of the dead body of Donald Bigelow ( Joby Baker ) who apparently died in a car crash but whose body is loaded with deadly amounts of radiation . Quincy agrees to cut his night off short & come in , there he ends up as puzzled as Sam was . It seems that Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) has arrested Ray Sanchez ( Ronald G . Joseph ) for manslaughter since he was driving the car which he claims was forced off the road by another , Quincy says that Donald was a dead man walking & that the radiation was going to kill him anyway & they should be looking for the source . Then Quincy finds out Donald worked for the San Miguel Nuclear Facility which is where he thinks he will find the answers . . . Episode 10 from season 2 this Quincy story was directed by Corey Allen & is a pretty good Quincy murder mystery , it's not one of the show's finest fifty minutes but it's still watchable . Here one of the main problems is that the killers are revealed immediately , in fact within the first fifteen seconds so that sort of takes a lot of the mystery element out of the programme & I just sat there waiting for Quincy to find the proof to nail them which predictably he does with the help of a dead goldfish . There's the usual red tape , unhelpful people in authority & bureaucracy that Quincy has to fight to get to the truth but it just all felt a little too routine & like everyone was just going through the motions . The issues surrounding the danger of radiation isn't touched upon at all & is only used as a backdrop & means of murder rather than the moral issue of the week like it surely would have been in later seasons of Quincy . Also I'm not happy about Donald Bigelow not going to see a Doctor , I mean if he was really that ill as he couldn't stand up surely any normal , sane person would have sought medical treatment ? The secretary specifically says he came in during the morning & barely made it to his desk so that means he was badly ill all day long , I'm sorry but most of us just know when we have a cold or are just under the weather a bit & instinctively know when there's something more serious the matter with ourselves . I just don't & can't believe that someone that ill for that amount of time would not have sought medical help . There's a half decent car chase & crash at the start of An Unfriendly Radiance otherwise it's fairly standard exposition based point the camera in the right direction & shoot type stuff . I'm not happy about Ray's wife's verbal attack on Quincy either , I'm not being funny here but it wasn't Quincy's fault that he confessed to murder was it ? It wasn't Quincy's fault that Ray already had a record as long as his arm was it ? It wasn't Quincy's fault that all the evidence pointed to Ray's guilt was it ? No offense but if I was Quincy I would have had Pete the security guard chuck her out on her ear ! Quincy was the only person even trying to prove Ray's innocence so I think she should have been a little bit more grateful ! The acting here is good especially the regulars as usual . An Unfriendly Radiance is a decent enough Quincy episode with a slightly hard to swallow plot & a somewhat routine feeling about it . Fans of the show should still like it but it's not a classic episode .
Quincy M . E . : Guns Don't Die starts as a drug addict named Benny robs a man in a park at gunpoint , the man resists & the gun goes off . The next morning & Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) performs the mans autopsy & finds a cut & dry case of death by 22 calibre bullet . Having dumped the gun Benny is picked up by police but a member of a local street gang finds the discarded weapon & uses it to shoot & kill a 14 year old boy who also ends up on Quincy's autopsy table . Two needless death's in the space of a few hours by the same gun really hits Quincy hard , Quincy realises that the US has a huge gun problem & sets out on a personal crusade to locate & destroy the gun that killed two innocent people & he soon has the backing of the entire LAPD when the gun is used to kill a third person , this time a cop doing his job . . . Episode 10 from season 7 this Quincy story was directed by Bob Bender & while Guns Don't Die is largely moralistic & social issue based the story is actually quite good & compelling for a change . Usually these moralistic Quincy episodes become a total bore with very heavy handed preaching that is often outdated anyway & no murder or mystery elements but int he case of Guns Don't Die the narrative is quite clever as the gun itself becomes the main guest star in the sense the episode follows the gun around , it follows it as it is used in various crimes & how one gun in the wrong hands can cause so much pain , suffering & needless death . The gun passes from thieving drug addicts to gang members to pawn shop owners to illegal arms suppliers to killers to a woman who supposed has it for protection before it is finally returned to it's lawful owner where it causes more tragedy when his young children get hold of it & one shoots the other by mistake in a rather sombre & downbeat ending . As I said I think the plot is quite clever as it follows this one gun around as it brings nothing but misery & death to those around it . A nicely effective anti-gun story really this & much , much better than the usual dull as dishwater moralistic Quincy episodes . I liked it & if only all the moralistic episodes were as interesting as Guns Don't Die , even though it is an episode with a social issue at it's core it doesn't forget about being a TV show or entertaining . During Guns Don't Die Quincy states that one person dies from gun crime every fifty minutes ( the same length of time as an episode of Quincy actually ) & while I can't find out the exact corresponding number for 2008 I would suspect that has dramatically increased . Of course here in the UK guns are illegal , all guns are illegal so Guns Don't Die when seen over here feels like it is preaching to the converted . Maybe because we don't have significant gun crime over here I enjoyed Guns Don't Die more than if I lived in the US & the events portrayed might feel a bit too close to home . Likable character actor Tom Atkins appears as a firearms expert while Klugman is as good as ever . Guns Don't Die is one of the best moralistic Quincy episodes , it hasn't dated that much & the themes & ideas are still relevant . The nice story following the gun around is also better than usual & quite original .
Quincy M . E . : Death by Good Intentions starts as a misdiagnosed patient at Pratt Hospital undergoes seemingly successful surgery by Dr . Matthews ( Brock Peters ) to repair a hemorrhage , however a short time later the patient goes into cardiac arrest & dies . Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) performs the autopsy & together with the patients medical records decides that he has an unlawful death on his hands , his suspicions immediately fall on Dr . Eric Taylor one of his good friend Dr . Matthews protégé's . Dr . Matthews defends Taylor & says that he has no idea how the patient died , meanwhile the politics of the situation leads the Hospital administrator Dr . Banning ( Pernell Roberts ) to suspend Taylor which could finish his career unless Quincy can prove his wasn't responsible for the death despite all the evidence saying otherwise . . . Episode 4 from season 4 this Quincy story was directed by Ronald Satlof & after the horrible A Test for the Living ( 1978 ) the previous episode things get back on track here with a nice mix of murder mystery , detective work & politics for Quincy to get worked up about as well as having time for a bit of a moral message too . In fact I think Death by Good Intentions has a bit of everything , murder , mystery , detective work , obtrusive politics & a moral message ! Unlike a lot of Quincy episodes one could say Death by Good Intentions is sort of relevant today as it deals with racial issues of black Doctor's facing prejudice & the politics of running a Hospital . Luckily it doesn't forget that it should entertain first & foremost so there's a decent mystery element here too with Quincy having to do lots of detective work & plenty of laboratory experiments to catch a killer . The killers motives are little bit more interesting than usual as well , I'm not saying they're overly original or surprising but it makes a difference from the usual money , love or hate motives . A good episode slightly bogged down with a bit too much moral nonsense but otherwise a good way to pass fifty odd minutes . The one thing I noticed most about Death by Good Intentions was the size of actor Brock Peters nostrils , they are huge & your eyes can't help but be drawn to them . They are huge gaping holes & his nose looks like he has been punched square in the face too many times . The acting is alright with again the regulars coming off better than the guests . Death by Good Intentions is a good solid Quincy episode & it's a relief to get back to what makes the show so enjoyable for me after A Test for the Living , a must for fans & armchair detectives everywhere .
Quincy M . E . : Mode of Death starts as Los Angeles chief medical examiner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is called to a seedy cheap motel room where the body of evangelist & founder of the Devine World Church religion Franklin Osborne ( Byron Morrow ) has been found dead with a half empty bottle of Scotch Whiskey & a half empty bottle of pills found nearby . At first Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) suspects suicide , Quincy's autopsy proves inconclusive since the amount of alcohol & drugs in Osborne's system is marginal both ways & could have been a deliberate suicide or a simple accident . Quincy decides to delve further & orders a psychological autopsy to be carried out to find out Osborne's mental state & whether it was an accident , suicide or maybe even murder . . . Episode 7 from season 5 this Quincy story was directed by Rob Holcomb & is a good solid Quincy episode that entertains & is perfectly watchable although it's doesn't stay too long on the memory . The script was in part written by Jack Klugman's sister Deborah ( keeping it in the family . . . ) & starts off reasonably well with a dead body found in mysterious circumstances in a motel room that at first looks like a typical case for Quincy to get his investigative teeth stuck into but after about the ten minute mark the episode shifts rather suddenly into moralistic message mode as Quincy orders a psychological autopsy & we follow Dr . Chase around as he treads very carefully around Osborne's friends & family to try & decide if he committed suicide or not hence the title Mode of Death . During this period Quincy takes a back seat & he's barely in it , apart from a classic scene between him & Asten over money & who is paying for the psychological autopsy as Quincy waves a dollar bill in his bosses face . Then about five minutes before the end Quincy does what he should have in the first place & proves Osborne was murdered . There's a fair amount of preaching about suicide & those who are contemplating it , it's the usual ' they need help ' message with a bit of ' if they didn't need help then they wouldn't be trying to commit suicide ' thrown in there as well . At only fifty odd minutes the episode moves along at a decent pace , the murder mystery element is packed into the last five minutes with a fairly dull psychological autopsy subplot taking up much of the duration & overall it's watchable if ultimately a bit forgettable . As usual this episode is well made & competent but hardly going to win any awards for style . There's some nice humour like usual & the killer isn't too obvious . The acting is alright , as usual the regular's outshine the guest star's by a large margin . The guy who plays Kenneth Ross in particular is poor with a terrible accent & voice . Mode of Death isn't the best episode of Quincy out there but it's still perfectly watchable & entertaining , maybe the fact Quincy isn't in it that much doesn't help & there are other Quincy episodes I would rather watch over Mode of Death but even average Quincy is still better than most telly show's at their best .
Quincy M . E . : Semper-Fidelis starts at 2AM early one morning in Camp Pendleton US Marine Corp where Gunnery Sgt . Alistair Adams ( John Karlen ) wakes his squad up for an unexpected training mission over rough terrain & a river , however tragedy strikes & a young recruit named Charles Casey is found dead face down in the river . Wanting independent verification of his findings Capatin Harry Collier ( Allan Miller ) contacts his close friend Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) who agrees to autopsy the body & give a second opinion . What started out as a simple case of neglect & accidental drowning turns into a full blown murder investigation as Quincy finds proof that Casey was deliberately & premeditatedly killed . . . Episode 20 from season 4 this Quincy story was directed by Tony Mordente & is a nice little mystery based episode which has one or two decent twists like Quincy having to change his mind several times about what really happened to Casey as conflicting & confusing evidence piles up . Like a lot of Quincy episodes this tries to have a moral message about the establishment & bureaucracy although it doesn't get in the way of the main story that much . What I didn't like about Semper-Fidelis is the eventual outcome , without wishing to give the ending away completely the medical & physical probability of what is supposed to have happened is rather small . If you drop an egg from waist height onto concrete it will smash , right ? Of course it will . If you drop a man off a 30 foot plus high bridge & his head lands smack bang on a solid granite rock what do you think will happen ? The writers of this episode would try & have us believe that the man would sustain a small bruise behind his ear & nothing else , I think not guy's . This is one of those Quincy episodes where the majority of the action takes place out of the laboratory environment & out of Los Angeles , in this case Camp Pendleton in San Diego which is probably where some of it was actually filmed . For those of us who don't know the strange sounding title Semper-Fidelis is actually Latin for ' Always Faithful ' & is the motto of the US Marine Corp . One of the few totally Lt . Monahan & Danny free episodes . The acting is alright here with the regulars better than the guests as usual . Semper-Fidelis is an OK Quincy episode let down by some very shaky medical & physical explanations that I struggle to find credible . It's a decent enough watch but a little sloppy at times .
Quincy M . E . : Welcome to Paradise Palms starts as Los Angeles medical examiner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) gets a call from Roberta Wanaka ( Silvana Gallardo ) saying that her son & his foster son Chester ( Eddie Garcia ) is badly ill & ask's him for help . Quincy sets off for the town of Paradise Palms where Roberta & her son Chester lives nearby on a native Indian reservation , once there Quincy quickly diagnoses Chester with the bubonic plague , also known as the Black Death . Then more bubonic plague cases start being reported , with the grand opening of a new hotel & golf course Quincy & local doctor Paul Minnara ( Ronald Joseph ) face a race against time to find the source of the bubonic plague before the guests arrive & an epidemic occurs but local officials don't want any bad publicity & are very unhelpful . . . All the six's episode 6 from season 6 this Quincy story was directed by Georg Fenady & one has to say that while it's alright it's nothing amazing & is a fairly standard ' race against time & bureaucracy ' type plot , considering it's set on or near a new golf course it's all rather par for the course . Welcome to Paradise Palms is one of those Quincy episodes which ditches the traditional & familiar Los Angeles laboratory setting & takes place almost entirely in the small town of Paradise Palms where Quincy's foster son Chester lives . After a potentially deadly outbreak of botulism in Deadly Arena ( 1980 ) from the end of season five here Quincy has a race against time to find the source of bubonic plague & prevent an epidemic & again much like Deadly Arena Quincy works with another doctor & they both come up against unhelpful officials who are only interested in money rather than public health . Instead of the football stadium in Deadly Arena it's a hotel here , instead of the football spectators who are in danger in Deadly Arena it's the hotel guest's here , instead of botulism in Deadly Arena it's bubonic plague here , instead of the little girl Pele in Deadly Arena it's the young boy Chester here & instead of the unhelpful stadium manager refusing to start a panic & seemingly only interested in money here it's the unhelpful hotel manager who has the same motivations . To be honest the whole episode feels very familiar & there really isn't anything new here although it is fun & passes fifty odd minutes harmlessly enough . This episode also has a stab at highlighting the exploitation of native Indians , their land & the evils of big business which is also rather unoriginal but at least it tries . As usual this episode is well made but unremarkable , I would have imagined the shooting schedule was tight & it was a pretty much ' point the camera in the right direction & shoot ' type policy on Quincy . The scenery is quite nice I suppose if nothing else . The acting is alright & there's a nice sentimental moment for Quincy as he speaks with his ill foster son Chester referring to why he never had children of his own . Welcome to Paradise Palms is a pretty good ' race against time & bureaucracy ' type Quincy episode although Deadly Arena is better , there's a moral & social message which gets in the way at times but overall this is well worth a watch especially if you like the show anyway .
The Wizard of Gore starts as stage magician Montag the Magnificent ( asisstant editor Ray Sagar ) prepares to wow a captive audience ( that counts anyone watching at home out then . . . ) , he ask's for & gets a female ( Karin Alexana ) volunteer from the audience . Montag the Magnificent claims he will saw her in half before the audience's eyes , however he won't be using a handsaw or a wooden box to obscure the trick . No , Montag the Magnificent shackles the woman down on an ordinary table & then proceeds to cut her in half with a chainsaw . From the audience's point of view nothing happens & the woman gets up seemingly unharmed , unfortunately later that night while at a restaurant the woman makes a mess on the floor when she drops down dead having mysteriously been sliced in half . Daytime TV talk-show host Sherry Carson ( Judy Cler ) & her newspaper reporter boyfriend Jack Ward ( Wayne Ratay ) are the first to discover a link between Montag's performance & the woman's death so begin an investigation to find out whats going on , oh & Sherry wants Montag on her TV show . . . . Produced & directed by the so-called Godfather of Gore Herschell Gordon Lewis this was one of his later efforts but The Wizard of Gore is still as inept , badly made , amateurish & silly as most of his other gore flicks . The script by Allen Kahn runs true to form for a Gordon Lewis flick & is nothing more than an excuse to show girls being brutally killed in over-the-top gory ways so in that respect don't expect anything deep or meaningful ( as if ! ) . Unfortunately the padding , erm sorry I mean story between the killings isn't very good , in fact the term ' isn't very good ' is a bit of an understatement . There are all sorts of strange , unnecessary , dull & frankly weird scenes which the film could have done without . For instance meaningless scenes of Montag the Magnificent ( I feel he's overselling himself a bit with the ' Magnificent ' moniker ) stealing bodies & then placing them in a crypt for no apparent reason , the bumbling cops investigation , sherry & Jacks character building scenes & one of the most bizarre twist endings I have ever seen . I'm still trying to figure the ending out , no matter how many times I look at it it just never seems to make anymore sense ! The undoubted highlight of The Wizard of Gore though is predictably the gore , it's not particularly realistic but Lewis dwells on it , has his camera zoom in on it , has Montag stick his hands into open wounds , fiddle about with people's insides & pull them out & there's plenty of fake blood splashed around . When all said & done I quite liked The Wizard of Gore as it's certainly a bit different if nothing else , it's not art but good often bizarre very gory fun . Director Lewis really can't direct at all , The Wizard of Gore is so sloppily made , edited & shot it looks like a high school production . I loved the opening scene where Montag takes the clichéd magic trick of sawing a woman in half & twists it so Montag cuts a woman in half with a chainsaw in a sequence that's gorier than anything seen in The Texas Chainsaw Massacre ( 1974 ) which was made several years after this . There's also sword swallowing , a woman has a huge metal spike driven into her head before having her eyeballs popped out , someone gets her body squished with a power press & Montag even cuts his own head off with a guillotine all with gory results . The special effects are poor , there's no other word to describe them really . There's no style , the sound quality is appalling & the cinematography barely manages to capture what happening . The abrupt change in music to signal a shift between illusion & reality is poorly handled & the scenes showing a close-up of Montag's eyes every time someone is supposed to be hypnotised is rather jarring . With a supposed budget of about $65 , 000 this has horrible production values , poor special effects , some of the worst editing ever , grating music yet for some strange reason it sort of works . The acting sucks , on the DVD commentary Lewis reveals Sagar got the part of Montag because the guy they initially hired never turned up for filming ! The Wizard of Gore isn't a film your supposed to like , from a production point of view it's an absolute disaster but I did like it , I liked the imagination on show , it's something different , I liked the basic premise & I loved the over-the-top splatter filled gore effects . I can't recommend it wholeheartedly but I liked it on a personal level , basically if you have seen any of Lewis ' other flicks & liked them then you'll like this . Like his Two Thousand Maniacs ! ( 1964 ) which was remade as 2001 Maniacs ( 2005 ) someone has also seen fit to remake this as The Wizard of Gore ( 2007 ) not that anybody wanted it . . .
Elvira , Mistress of the Dark starts with cable TV horror show hostess Elvira ( Cassandra Peterson who also co-wrote ) having a run in with her new boss Earl Hooter ( Lee McLaughlin ) & getting herself fired . However Elvira doesn't care as she is about to star in her own show in Las Vegas , that is until her manager Manny ( Charles Woolf ) says she needs to raise $50 , 000 of the production costs herself . Elvira thinks she's screwed , that is until she learns that her great aunt Morgana has recently died & left her something in her will . Elvira senses money so heads for the small town of Fallwell in Massachusettes where Morgana lived . Once there Elvira discovers that she inherits Morgana's house , dog & cookbook . With no money Elvira decides to stick around & sell the house but the conservative locals think Elvira is immoral , cheap & bad for the town so lead by the righteous Chastity Pariah ( Edie McClurg ) they start a campaign to oust her from Fallwall . Meanwhile Elvira's evil Satan worshipping uncle Vincent ( William Morgan Sheppard ) is plotting to get his hands on Elvira's cookbook , which is in fact a book of powerful spells , by any means necessary . . . Directed by James Signorelli I thought Elvira , Mistress of the Dark was a decent watchable family comedy horror . I have to state straight away that I am perhaps at a disadvantage as here in the UK we have no exposure to the character Elvira unlike in the States where I think she gave introductions to horror films , right ? Anyway I'm not sure as we don't , & never had , have anything like that here & I have never seen the Elvira character in anything before this . The script by Sam Egan , John Paragon & Peterson is silly & really plays the comedy elements up , I'd have perhaps preferred the horror angle to come through a bit more , I mean wasn't she a horror film hostess ? Having said that it provides fair entertainment & a some mildly amusing moments here & there & at least it knows what it is & has no aspirations to be anything else other than a collection of puns , boob jokes , sexual innuendo & slapstick . As a whole Elvira , Mistress of the Dark works quite well with likable character's , just enough horror to maintain my interest & Elvira herself is pretty charismatic , very sexy in her skin tight low cut dress , high heels & I wouldn't mind her introducing my horror films . Look out for her Las Vegas show at the end where she twirls some tassel's attached to her breasts , even managing one at a time . Director Signorelli keeps things moving at a nice pace , the jokes & puns come thick & fast & it never becomes dull or boring . There is one effective jump scene that involves a slimy creature that feels like it belongs in a different film . Forget about any violence , someone has their hand cut off with an axe & Elvira throws her high heeled shoe at someone & the heel becomes impaled in their forehead ! I did think he overdid the sentimentality a little at the mushy feel good ending though . With a healthy budget of about $7 , 500 , 000 I must admit I'm not sure where all the money went , there are few special effects , no big name actors or huge action scenes . Anyway , it's well made & Elvira's spooky house , inside & out , looks cool which probably cost a few quid to make . The acting is OK & everyone comes across as likable enough , Elvira obviously steals the show with her outfits & attitude . Elvira , Mistress of the dark is a nice enough way to pass 95 odd minutes & offers a few amusing moments . A lot of the jokes feel dated & the overall story is weak but I still think it's worth a watch .
Tale of a Vampire starts with immortal Vampire Alex ( Julian Sands ) reminiscing about the way things used to be , about his one true love Virginia ( Suzanna Hamilton ) who he lost many years ago . Alex then picks a cat up & drinks it's blood . . . Alex is currently writing a thesis on religious marters , those burned at the stake for their beliefs & that sort of thing . Alex regularly frequents a library full of the reference & old manuscripts he needs but the library only has one employee at the moment Denise ( Marion Diamond ) so she plans to advertise for an assistant when Anne ( Suzanna Hamilton again ) walks in & offers her services despite the job not being formally advertised yet , seeing it as a stroke of luck Denise gives Anne the job . Alex instantly recognises the resemblance Anne has to Virginia & starts to get close to her , taking her to dinner , walking her home & having strange cryptic conversations with her . Anne knows something isn't right about Alex & her fears are seemingly confirmed when a man named Edgar ( Kenneth Cranham ) suddenly shows up & explains to Anne that Alex is a Vampire & that he must be destroyed . . . This English production was written & directed by Shimako Sato & I saw some nice ideas & elements in here that were ultimately lost amongst the sedate pacing . The script really is about as threadbare as one could imagine , the whole first forty minutes of Tale of a Vampire is nothing more than Anne getting the job at the library & meeting Alex , that's it . Alex is a bit of a dull Vampire , all he does everyday is sit in a library reading books which in the end has no real relevance to the story & pine over Virginia . On the positive side Tale of the Vampire is a quite emotive film & I ended up feeling for the character's , I started to feel somewhat sorry for everyone involved & a little sad for Alex at the downbeat climax . The story of Virginia unfolds through flashbacks that Alex has so that subplot punctuates the slowness of the main story at times . Tale of a Vampire is a different sort of Vampire film , it's very story & character driven , there's no big action or horror scenes even though it is gory on occasion & it's not very traditional in the sense that Alex never grows fangs , he's not afraid of the daylight & he doesn't sleep in a coffin . There are only two or three main character's in Tale of a Vampire & the dialogue is kept to an absolute minimum which may be a problem for some as it definitely doesn't help the pace of the film . Japanese director Sato has created a visually stylish film , because of the minimal dialogue & story Tale of a Vampire relies heavily on it's imagery . The cinematography & lighting are both great & Tale of a Vampire is a nice looking film with some cool shots , lighting & angles . Having said that where did that kid who falls from the sky with a sword stuck in him come from ? Anyone whose seen it will know the scene I'm talking about , I couldn't work out what was supposed to have happened in that scene . Set in London the dark back alleys make for a grimy setting & give the film a nice familiar & modern but sinister & creepy atmosphere throughout although there aren't many libraries like that in London , if any . There is some nice gore , most of it involves fountains of blood pouring from wounds , someone has their throat slit , people are stabbed with swords & old piping , cats are mutilated & someone has their head bashed against a wall which results in gallons of blood spurting everywhere . Technically Tale of a Vampire is top notch considering the budget it must have had , the photography , production design , special effects & music are all impressive & it's generally well made throughout . The acting was OK , I liked Sands as Alex , the way he looks & his subdued lonely performance worked well . Hamilton as Anne didn't do much for me but she was alright . Tale of a Vampire isn't a film for everyone , it's a challenging piece of film-making . Sure it's just about as slow as a film can be but the way it's filmed & put together I found it watchable & I actually cared for those on screen for a change .
Frankenstein Reborn starts with a woman named Jessica Halverson ( Sarah Lieving ) arranging to meet Victor Franks ( Rhett Giles ) at an old warehouse / factory which he uses as a makeshift laboratory , inside Jessica is attacked by something which chains her to a table & rips both of her legs off . . . A one Victor Franks has been arrested in connection with multiple murder & the disappearance of two people associated with him , since Victor keeps on rambling about his bizarre experiments & a hideous creature he has been institutionalised where Dr . Emily Hertz ( Amanda Barton ) & Dr . Robert Walton ( Thomas Downey ) are analysing his mental state to determine whether he can stand trial . In various lengthy interviews Victor begins to tell the terrible tales that will supposedly explain everything & prove his innocence . Victor says he was working on various experiments in the field of ' biological nanotechnology ' in an attempt to cure spinal injuries & to ultimately re-animate the dead . He talks of being addicted to cocaine & having threesomes with his two female lab assistants Elizabeth Weatherly ( Eliza Swenson ) & Rebekkah Clarke ( Christina Rosenberg ) , he recalls how the experiments with a patient named Bryce Daniels ( Joel Hebner ) took a turn for the worse & how he convinced his brain surgeon friend Dr . Hank Clerval ( Jeff Denton ) to help him continue them illegally & how they lead to betrayal , murder & the creation of a monster . . . Co-edited , written & directed by Leigh Slawner who also has a role in the film as Dr . Cadaverella I personally thought Frankenstein Reborn was a decent film . The script plays more like a contemporary Re-Animator ( 1985 ) film rather than Mary Shelly's classic novel which is no bad thing as we get a modern day tale of a mad scientist dabbling with bizarre experiments with the hope of re-animating the dead & all the problems that would bring . His friendships suffer as nothing will stop him in pursuit of his ultimate goal , the woman he loves ends up dead & he will do just about anything to further his experiments . The way Frankenstein Reborn tells it's fairly entertaining story is both an asset & a disadvantage , just about the entire film is told in numerous flash-backs . The flash-backs are sometimes hard to follow as they show the same ones but from different angles or mix them up so their not in chronological order or repeat them but in a slightly extended version to reveal a bit more of the story that wasn't present before . While this approach gives the film a nice originality & it plays out like a mystery it can become a bit annoying & confusing as it jumps back & forth in both time & location without much regard for the viewer . The character's are better drawn & fleshed out than usual for these ultra low-budget independent films which makes a nice change with various affairs , rivalry & personal angst amongst the carnage . This particular version of Frankenstein offers up plenty of blood & gore with ripped of legs & arms , heads being sawed off , surgical scenes with bodies being sliced up with scalpels , a woman has her breast sliced open with a razor , someone is impaled on a huge shard of glass , hearts are ripped from chests , someone has their brains blown out plus there are lots of intestines , internal organs , body parts & blood splattered across the screen to keep most horror fans quiet for it's duration . There is also a pleasing amount of nudity , sex , swearing & drug usage . According to the IMDb Frankenstein Reborn was shot between 22nd April & 2nd May ( less than 2 weeks ! ? ) 2005 on a minuscule budget of about $500 , 000 & when you take that into consideration this is a surprisingly good & competent film . The cinematography is actually quite good , the special effects are very good with the Frankenstein monster itself looking very impressive & pretty gross as well , music , the sets & overall production design give the impression of a better funded film & it is generally well made throughout with director Slawner obviously using his budget with good effect & he luckily resists the temptation to use annoying fast editing techniques & keeps the gimmicky tricks down to a minimum . The acting was also quite strong for a film with these low budget origins . Don't get me wrong as Frankenstein Reborn is far from the best horror film ever made , far from it in fact , but as a way to pass 84 minutes I found it a surprisingly enjoyable & well made little film . Persoanally I think it's well worth a watch especially if your a horror fan but then that's just my opinion .
Salem's Lot is set in the small American town of Jerusalem's Lot & starts as writer Ben Mears ( David Soul ) returns to his childhood town where he is going to write a horror novel based on a creepy old mansion that sits high on a hill & overlooks the town of Jerusalem's Lot & is known as the Marsten House . At the same time the mysterious Mr . Richard K . Straker ( James Mason ) rents the mansion from local estate agent Larry Crockett ( Fred Willard ) & ask's him to send a couple of removal men to pick a large crate up from the docks , which he does . Crockett sends Ned Tebbets ( Barney McFadden ) & Mike Ryerson ( Geoffrey Lewis ) who deliver the crate to the Marsten House & notice how cold the crate feels . That same night Danny Glick ( Brad Savage ) disappears without trace & both Straker & Mears are suspected by Constable Gillespie ( Kenneth McMillan ) . But Danny soon turns up again outside his friends , Mark Petrie ( Lance Kerwin ) , window as a Vampire . More townspeople start to go missing , people are attacked & turned into Vampires as Mears becomes convinced that Straker & the elusive Mr . Barlowe ( Reggie Nalder ) are responsible for the terrifying events . Together with the local Doctor , William Norton ( Ed Flanders ) & his daughter Susan ( Bonnie Bedelia ) Ben sets out to rid Jerusalem's Lot of the evil that threatens to destroy it . . . Directed by Tobe Hooper I need to say that the version I saw was the theatrical version that probably cuts an hour or so out of the original TV edit & features the alternate scene where Crockett is forced to put the shotgun in his mouth & loses the end where Ben tracks Susan down to somewhere in Mexico , I have seen both ( I own both actually ) but can't remember the longer edit at all because it's been literary years since I saw it last so unfortunately I can't compare the two . Salem's Lot was Stephen King's second novel & this film was the second King screen adaptation following the success of Carrie ( 1976 ) . The script by Paul Monash is quite slow burning even in this shorter variant but manages to grip the viewer , the characters , situations & set pieces work very well . The problem I have is that characters come & go far too readily , the love triangle between Crockett & his secretary is shown & then complete discarded for the rest of the film & we never know what happens to any of them , the end in which Susan is totally ignored as she literary disappears never to be seen again although she is in the TV version . It's obvious conversations & scenes are haphazardly & awkwardly cut or shortened , again this may not be the fault of the original version . Having said that Salem's Lot really picks up from about the halfway point & features some terrific sequences like the Vampires outside people's windows , a scene in a kitchen when we see Barlowe for the first time as he rises from the floor & the absolute fantastic Marsten House sets at the end that look run-down , battered , grimy , atmospheric , stuffed animals littered everywhere , rat infested , dusty cobweb strewn & just the perfect place for a Vampire to live . The Vampire make-up is great with these Vampires looking very pale faced with glowing yellow eyes & Barlowe in particular stands out even though he barely gets any screen time & doesn't even get a decent death scene as he lies there when Ben finds him & stakes him through he heart & that's it . There is next to no gore in it , someone is impaled on antlers & a few neck bites is all the red stuff we get , disappointing . The acting is OK but since the film chops so much out of the characterisations it's hard to give an accurate opinion . Technically Salem's Lot is bland but very functional , the cinematography is static , the effects basic , the sets look fake but director Hooper manages to create that unique horror atmosphere that counts for so much . I feel strange writing about Salem's Lot as the version I watched last night was severely different to the way Hooper intended it to be but is a film in it's own right still so warrants a review . I liked the second half much more than the first , above average & definitely worth watching & I will have to watch my old Warner Bros . tape of the full 180 odd minute version sometime soon & possibly update my review .
The Tomb of Ligeia starts with the chance meeting of Lady Rowena ( Elizabeth Shepherd ) while out fox hunting & the recently widowed Verden Fell ( Vincent Price ) , she becomes interested in the mysterious Fell & despite him trying to strangle her once it's not long before wedding bells chime & the two are ' happily ' married . Verden lives in a large Abby with his previous wife Ligeia buried nearby but Verden doesn't believe she's dead , he is obsessed with his dead wife & neglects Rowena who to be fair to her has problems of her own as a sinister black cat keeps turning up & she starts to have nightmares & hallucinations which she believes may be the ghost of Ligeia haunting her . . . This British production was directed by Roger Corman The Tomb of Ligeia was the eighth & last of his Edgar Allan Poe adaptation's coming after The Masque of the Red Death ( 1964 ) & while I don't claim to have seen them all I would imagine that The Tomb of Ligeia is probably one of the lesser films of the eight . The script by Robert Towne is based on the story by Edgar Allan Poe which was apparently entirely narrated & had a significantly different ending so I would guess that this filmed adaptation bears little resemblance to the story bar the title & character's . It's rather ponderous & slow with very little happening within it's short 80 odd minute duration . I also felt the film was far too predictable , if there's anyone out there who can't guess the basic outcome of this I'd be pretty surprised . It's not particularly scary & as a whole I felt the story lacked a hook , it didn't engage or draw me in & a lot of it goes relatively unexplained like the stray cat which has something to do with it but Corman never explains what exactly . Director Corman does a great job here & it's the films rich visual style & appearance that saves it from being a complete dud . The Gothic spiderweb encrusted Abby sets are brilliant & provoke real atmosphere , the period production design is first class & this has to be one of the best looking horror films of the 60's . However seeing the character's run around these impressive sets not really doing much isn't actually that much fun I'm afraid although I would actually probably watch The Tomb of Ligeia again just for the cool sets . There's no blood or gore so don't worry about that & unfortunately it's not scary either . Technically The Tomb of Ligeia is top notch with wonderful production values , good special effects & it's very well made with nice attention to the period detail for the probably low budget . This was shot in England in Norfolk using the Castle Acre Priory & Stonehenge also gets a few scenes shot there . Vincent Price puts in his usual over-the-top performance minus any facial hair which makes him look really strange when your used to seeing him with a beard , everyone else puts in a decent shift . The Tomb of Ligeia looks great but the story just lacks punch & it didn't entice me into it at all , overall I'd say The Tomb of Ligeia was a disappointment although it's nice to look at . Worth a watch but just don't expect too much substance .
Masters of Horror : The V Word starts late one night in the American town of Collingswood as Justin ( Branden Nadon ) convinces his best friend Kerry ( Arjay Smith ) that it would be fun to drop in on his cousin James who works at a funeral home & look at a ' real ' dead body , hell that sounds like a whole load of fun to me . Once there they break in & are shocked to discover James body , they are then brutally attacked by guy ( Michael Ironside ) who tears Kerry's throat out as Justin manages to escape through a window . Later that night Justin hears a knock on his front door & is surprised to see Kerry standing there covered in blood , Kerry dies in front of Justin & returns as a Vampire . Will their friendship be enough to save Justin from ending up with the same fate ? This Canadian American co-production was episode 3 from season 2 of the Masters of Horror TV series , directed by Ernest R . Dickerson this is an alright Masters of Horror episode but nothing overly special . The script by the show's regular producer Mick Garris is the first time this show tackled the overused theme of Vampirism , it starts off quite promisingly but soon descends in a sickly sentimental drama about two friends & their unusual relationship a bit like The Lost Boys ( 1987 ) only not as good . I must admit I liked the way Michael Ironside portrayed the initial Vampire as some faceless , brutal , primitive killer with no emotion or regard for mind games but during the second half of The V Word drops this initial impression of him & goes into standard villain mode complete with bad dialogue . I didn't like how the two main teenage leads were written & the way they're character's developed either , do people really call each other ' dudes ' these days ? At 60 odd minutes this feels strangely boring at times & a tad dull as well , it just doesn't have much pace & the lacklustre storytelling doesn't help matters . This is alright I suppose but overall it's a touch forgettable . Director Dickerson does OK , I think a lot of it's a little dark at times & it's not scary or exciting either . There are a few homages to other Vampire & horror films including the original Dracula ( 1931 ) , Salem's Lot ( 1979 ) & Night of the Living dead ( 1968 ) . There are a few good moments though mostly courtesy of some more top notch special make-up effects by the boys at KNB effects , there are a couple of torn out blood spurting throats , someone has their eyes punctured with a needle , a bloody leg , a scene when Kerry tries to drink some water after he had been bitten & the water literally pour out of his ripped open throat & a gory decapitation by medical saw . Technically this is well made with good production values although it's a little flat & bland to look at without much in the way of style . The acting is alright , I never really cared for anyone to be honest & it totally wastes the fantastic Michael Ironside . The V Word is a perfectly watchable 60 odd minutes with some good gore but there wasn't much here that stood out , I don't know but while this isn't the worst Masters of Horror episode it's certainly not the best either . Still worth a watch especially if your a fan of the series or horror in general .
Deadly Blessing tells the tale of Martha Schmidt ( Maren Jensen ) whose husband Tom ( Jonathon Gulla ) is killed in an apparent accident late one night on their farm , after the funeral two of Martha's friends Lana ( Sharon Stone ) & Vicky ( Susan Buckner ) decide to visit & support her through a bad time . Unfortunately things don't get any better for Martha as she is pestered by Tom's strict religious family who disowned Tom when he decided to marry Martha , they are part of a community known as the Hittites who reject all modern ways of life . Tom's Father in particular Isaiah ( Ernest Borgnine ) is a bit of a nutcase , he loses it even if one of the community even looks at a tractor the wrong way , it's a shovel & the clothes they stand up in for these guys & nowt else . Did one of the Hittites kill Tom in an act of vengeance ? Maybe but it becomes unlikely when a Hittite named William Gluntz ( Michael Berryman ) is found murdered in Martha's barn , as suspicions , untrust & the body count grow the feeling between Martha & the Hittites becomes worse & the Sheriff ( Kevin Cooney ) warns that if anything happens he'd only get there in time for the clean-up . . . Co-written & directed by Wes Craven I thought Deadly Blessing was an OK little horror film but didn't quite reach the heights of greatness for me . The script by Craven , Glenn M . Benest & Matthew Barr takes itself 110 % seriously & plays like a Friday the 13th ( 1980 ) type slasher for the most part with someone scaring & bumping off various cast members at random intervals , I suppose the only thing that's different is the background setting . The farming community & the strict religious sect , the character's are well fleshed out , the dialogue is alright & Deadly Blessing as a whole entertains up to a certain point . I found some of the story dull especially the religious nonsense , it's a little on the slow side although I thought the double twist ending was quite effective & probably the films major saving grace . I only watched it a few hours ago & to be perfectly honest I'm struggling to really remember it , it's one of those films which is OK to watch & it passes the time harmlessly enough but I doubt it would stay with you of any significant amount of time . Director Craven made Deadly Blessing a few years before he hit the big time with A Nightmare on Elm Street ( 1984 ) & over a decade before he hit the jackpot again with Scream ( 1996 ) & it's sequels , he does an OK job & it's well made with some pretty good scenes , Sharon Stone's walk through a creepy cobweb encrusted barn being one & a cool bit when someone tries to outrun a fire in a car . However Deadly Blessing is renown for one huge mistake , the scene in the bathtub when you can clearly see Jensen has a bikini on , it's so obvious when you see it you can't quite believe it . The film has that isolated backwoods community feel to it , it makes me glad I live in a city . . . Forget about any blood or gore as there isn't any really , a few stabbings & a bit of blood is yer lot . With an estimated budget of about $2 , 500 , 000 Deadly Blessing was a fairly well funded film , it's certainly well made & put together , the embarrassing bathtub scene apart . This features an early appearance from Sharon Stone , in fact it was her third screen appearance & her first substantial role . Personally she didn't impress me that much . A word for Ernest Borgnine , this guy is great value for money in these sorts of films & Deadly Blessing is no exception . He gives an intense over-the-top eye bulging performance as he get to utter lines like ' you are a stench in the nostrils of God ! ' to his own son . Class . Deadly Blessing is a decent fairly effective horror film , I thought it was watchable but it didn't exactly knock my socks off . I was there to be impressed , sadly I wasn't . Worth a watch for sure but just don't expect a masterpiece as it's far from Craven's best , although it's far from his worst either .
Air Force One starts in Russia three months after General Ivan Radek ( Jürgen Prochnow ) the self proclaimed military leader of Kashakstan has been captured by American & Russian forces , the president of the United States James Marshall ( Harrison Ford ) & the Russian president Petrov ( Alan Woolf ) speak to the worlds media & affirm their tough stance on terrorism & terrorists . Afterwards Marshall & his people head back to his plane Air Force One & take off . Shortly into the flight General Radek loyalist & terrorist Ivan Korshunov ( Gary Oldman ) & his men hijack Air Force One & take complete control of it , Marshall makes it down to the baggage compartment & the escape pod which he ejects . Korshunov thinks he has lost the president but Marshall is still on board & is determined to save his family , the other passengers & not give in to Korshunov or his demands . . . This American German co-production was co-produced & directed by Wolfgang Petersen & while it's not up there in the higher echelons of the big budget action film genre alongside the likes of Die Hard ( 1988 ) , Terminator 2 : Judgment Day ( 1991 ) or Speed ( 1994 ) for instance it's an entertaining enough big budget action spectacle with which to pass a couple of hours . The script by Andrew W . Marlowe really rams home the all American hero plot with the president of the United States turning into an action star as he single handedly takes on a bunch of terrorists , it's all very patriotic & a bit sentimental as it tries to makes all you Americans out there feel a little bit better about your foreign policies & stance on terrorism . Air Force One repeatedly states that America & it's stance is right & everyone else is wrong . However take away some of the more questionable political aspects of Air Force One & we are left we a action packed thriller with a familiar hijacking plot but plenty of fights , shoot-outs , explosions & action to pass a couple of hours with the minimum of fuss . The character's are your usual cardboard cut-outs & clichés , the dialogue is functional & the pace does drag at times but if you like big budget Hollywood action flicks then I am sure you will like Air Force One . Director Petersen does alright , there are maybe a couple of plot holes like how did known terrorist Korshunov & his men get through the fingerprint security check at the start ? There's some stuff about inside help but it's never really explained to any satisfactory degree & then there's setting all those explosives off on the plane which in reality would be a really bad idea . Then there's the secret service traitor , why does he just stand by while the terrorists plans go down the toilet ? Why does he not try to rectify them ? Why remain anonymous ? It just seems weird that he would stand by & let all the plans that he was involved with go to waste , I just don't really get it . The action scenes are well handled but a little repetitive . There's a fair amount of violence & blood splatter . The final plane to plane mid air rescue is apparently an almost shot-for-shot copy of the same type of rescue in Airport 1975 ( 1974 ) . With a supposed budget of about $85 , 000 , 000 Air Force One is well made with big budget Hollywood production values , some of the CGI computer effects look a little dated these days but they still suffice . The lead role was originally written for Kevin Costner but he did The Postman ( 1997 ) instead , big mistake Kevin big mistake . The acting is good , Harrison Ford makes for a decent all American hero , British actor Gary Oldman playing a Russian terrorist turned down the bad guy role in Speed 2 : Cruise Control ( 1997 ) to do this ( good choice ) & makes for a good villain while the likes of Glenn Close , Dean Stockwell , William H . Macy & Tom Everett having supporting roles . Air Force One ( if they ever made a sequel would they call it Air Force One Two ? ) is a entertaining if ultimately somewhat shallow big budget action film set aboard a plane , to be honest I think Con Air ( 1997 ) is still the best hijacked plane action flick out there but this isn't too far behind .
Planet of Dinosaurs starts deep in uncharted space where the spacecraft Odyssey has run into problems with it's reactor , which explodes but not before Captain Lee Norsythe ( Louie Lawless ) & his crew manage to escape in a spare shuttle designed for just such an occasion . The craft lands on the nearest planet which helpfully has exactly the same atmosphere as Earth so everyone can breathe & walk around properly , in fact the planet looks very much like Earth . As the stranded survivors wait to be rescued they discover the planet is infested with prehistoric dinosaurs which want to eat them & communications officer Cindy ( Mary Appleseth ) is the first to end up as dinosaur food . They must learn to adapt to their surroundings in order to survive as they wait for the rescue party to show up , but being in uncharted space will a rescue team ever turn up ? Produced & directed by James K . Shea Planet of Dinosaurs is a bit of an obscurity , certainly here in the UK it is anyway but like any good good sci-fi / horror / monster film fan I finally managed to track a copy down after a pretty long search . Unfortunately like most films you look forward to seeing for such a long period the final product didn't live up to my hopes but I still found it an enjoyable piece of sci-fi . The script by Ralph Lucas tries to be different & succeeds to an extent but it is a bit uneven as it can moves along at a nice pace & then suddenly become frustratingly dull . There are good ideas here , the usual soul searching , having to cope without technology & the lack of clichés although I think that might be down to the filmmakers not being able to write proper characterisation as most of the character's in Planet of Dinosaurs seem lifeless , surplus to requirements & undistinguished . I wasn't convinced by the logic that if they killed the T-Rex everything would be alright & that it was the only living T-Rex on the planet , surely there would be more than one T-Rex ? When it's good it's very entertaining but when it's bad it's embarrassing . However , I would recommend it to sci-fi / monster fans who I'm sure would enjoy it to some degree . Director Shea must have been working on a low budget & I think he did a pretty good job . The real star of Planet of Dinosaurs are the special effects which are extremely impressive when all is considered , I mean don't expect it to be on a par with the latest multi million CGI work but their very good in their own right . The stop-motion animation is great & so is the interaction between them & the human cast . From T-Rex's to a Stegosaurus & from a Brontosaurus to Triceratops & the filmmakers even manage to stick a giant spider in there . There's some cool dinosaur sequences that impressed me , it's just a shame that the rest of the film isn't quite as impressive suffering from a somewhat repetitive story which doesn't really go anywhere . Technically the film varies , from the impressive special effects & dinosaurs to the awful sound as it's painfully obvious that the entire film is badly dubbed throughout . The acting is pretty poor which doesn't help but the dinosaurs are the real stars here . . . Planet of Dinosaurs was something that little bit different , the special effects are good & I found it a very watchable way to pass just over 80 minutes . Definitely worth a watch if you can find a copy . Footage from Planet of Dinosaurs was edited into no less than four other films , The Phantom Empire ( 1986 ) , Wizards of the Demon Sword ( 1991 ) , Galaxy of the Dinosaurs ( 1992 ) & Teenage Cavegirl ( 2004 ) while it uses the monster from The Beast from 20 , 000 Fathoms ( 1953 ) in one of it's scenes .
Ginger Snaps Back : The Beginning is set in Canada , the year is 1815 & in it's push Westward the Northern Trading Company has established a fort in the middle of nowhere , it's been over two months since any kind of supplies have reached the last few remaining men still manning the outpost . However one day two orphaned sisters named Bridgitte ( Emily Perkins ) & Ginger Fitzgerald ( Katharine Isabelle ) arrive looking for help & shelter after Bridgitte's leg was caught in a bear trap . Chief of the fort Wallace Rowlands ( Tom McCamus ) allows them to stay although both Bridgitte & Ginger notice a real unease & lots of tension amongst the men . There are many graves , many men have been lost to creatures of the night , Werewolves who attack the fort & try to kill everyone inside . The men are trapped hoping fresh supplies & more manpower will arrive but thus far none has . That night Ginger is bitten by what she at first thought was a young boy but was in fact a Werewolf , Ginger herself slowly begins to change . As suspicions grow & the arguing becomes more intense it's every man , or woman , for themselves as it's not only the Werewolves outside they have to worry about . . . This Canadian production was co-produced & directed by Grant Harvey , Ginger Snaps Back : The Beginning was the third entry in the Ginger Snaps series of films & is a prequel to the previous two . I personally think this is a decent enough film , while maybe not quite as good as the original Ginger Snaps ( 2000 ) I think it's better than Ginger Snaps : Unleashed ( 2004 ) which didn't do much for me . The script by Stephen Massicotte & Christina Ray is a little slow going at times although the basic story is solid , the dialogue is good & the character's are well fleshed out although the relationships between people , especially Ginger & Bridgitte , isn't quite as deep or complex as the previous installments . It was a bit strange at times watching the character's of Bridgitte & Ginger in the 19th century when I remember them from the contemporary Ginger Snaps films , the filmmakers don't really try to explain or connect the events in Ginger Snaps Back : The Beginning with the other two . There's a fair amount of action & Werewolf attacks so it's never boring although I didn't like the spiritual Indian nonsense about seeing into the future . One thing I must say is that I loved the 19th century setting , I thought it provided a brilliant & atmospheric backdrop to the story & is probably my favourite thing about Ginger Snaps Back : The Beginning . Director Harvey does a great job of giving Ginger Snaps Back : The Beginning a cool visual style to it , the indoor scenes are lit by the warm dull yellows of candles while the outdoor scenes are filmed with an almost total lack of colour , in fact it's not far off black and white which gives the whole things a stark , basic , cold & hostile feel to it which is sits perfectly along with the on screen action . The films drips with atmosphere & I love any period set horror film , the costumes , the sets , the props & isolation of the fort helps make Ginger Snaps Back : The Beginning feel like a proper horror film from start to finish . The Werewolves only really make an appearance at the end & they look pretty cool if not entirely convincing . There isn't much gore , a few Werewolf bites , some spurting blood , a fountain of blood spraying from someones neck wound at the end , various mauled dead bodies & someone is shot through the head . Technically the film is great , obviously I wasn't around in 1815 so I can't give a first hand account of how accurately Ginger Snaps Back : The Beginning recreates the period but it seems like a lot of time & attention went into the look of the film . It has good production values & it's generally well made throughout . The acting was pretty good but the spark between Perkins & Isabelle wasn't quite as bright this time around . Ginger Snaps Back : The Beginning ( am I the only one who thinks that's a clever title ? ) is a good solid horror film that I liked , it's not perfect but it provides 90 odd minutes of solid entertainment & that's about all you can ask for really . Definitely worth a watch . Shot back-to-back with Ginger Snaps : Unleashed .
The Wicker Man Enigma is a 35 minute-ish documentary that features on quite a few DVD editions of the classic horror film The Wicker Man ( 1973 ) , as far as these sorts of documentary's go it's a good ' un . A lot of the films production team are featured in the documentary , from the director & writer to the stars . It's basically a chronological story in which the cast & crew detail the making of the film & it's distribution problems starting with writer Anthony Shaffer who goes into the inspiration behind the film saying that he wanted to write a horror film but something significantly different from the likes of what Hammer studios were churning out . Various people talk about the making of the film & there's a neat montage here of locations from the film as they were in 2000 , I'd have said as they are now but this documentary was made 7 years ago & it's not unreasonable to think the locations might have significantly changed again . Christopher Lee again claims that he got paid nothing for making The Wicker Man & he still has his contract to prove it . Then it goes into the problems they had with the distributors & that the head of EMI told Christopher Lee it was one of the ten worst films he'd ever seen , it had chunks edited out of it & placed on a double bill with Don't Look now ( 1973 ) which the company also hated . Then there's the tragic story of how all the negatives , cut footage & outtakes were buried under the M3 by mistake before it goes on to discuss how the film is thought of these days & it's ' revival ' . Now , The Wicker Man Enigma would have been a great documentary as it's very informative , the interviewees speak freely & it's not a back patting self congratulatory promotional piece if not for the bizarre presentation . We have all seen films in widescreen on our TV's where there are black bars at the top & bottom of the screen which is fine but on The Wicker Man Enigma there are horrible distracting black bars on all four sides of the frame , why is the question I ask here , why ? It's almost like there's a TV ' within ' your TV & I am at a loss to see why the makers put a huge black frame around the picture , I personally found it irritating beyond belief but there you go . Overall this is a great documentary but why the black frame ? It's a very odd film-making decision & it bugged me more & more as time went by , I suppose it's a small grumble though when you consider it's a free extra on a DVD . Definitely worth a watch if your a fan of the film .
Phantasm II sees Mike ( James LeGros ) now residing in ' Morningside Psychiatric Clinic ' after his tales of the Tall Man ( Angus Scrimm ) & mutant midgets fail to explain & convince the authorities why his friend Reggie's ( Reggie Bannister ) house was blown to pieces during the opening sequence . After 7 long years & lots of lying to the Doctors Mike is set free & immediately heads for the nearest graveyard where he discovers that all the bodies have been dug up & stolen & the prime suspect is the Tall Man . Mike also meets back up with Reggie who then invites Mike back to his ( new ) house to meet his family , unfortunately as they approach Reggie's house explodes , again . Since Mike is a bit of a psychic he knows that the Tall Man was responsible so he teams up with Reggie to track him down & put an end to his corpse stealing , mutant slave midget creating & murdering ways . Oh , & they would probably like to stop him blowing anymore of Reggie's homes & family members up too . They eventually track him down to a small town in Oregon called Perigord where he is in the middle of wiping out the entire town , together with a hitchhiker named Alchemy ( Samantha Phillips ) & an attractive woman named Liz ( Paula Irvine ) who both feature heavily in Mike's psychic visions he sets out for a final showdown to the death . . . Written & directed by Don Coscarelli this , the second of four Phantasm films so far , is probably as good as the series gets . The script is fast paced ( not one but two house's are blown up within the first 15 minutes ) , never boring or dull & doesn't seem to treat itself too seriously which considering the overall silliness of it is a good thing . The character's aren't developed that much & are a little one-dimensional but they just about come across as likable enough for us to care about them . Phantasm II feels very 80's with everything done to excess , the car they drive around in , the over-the-top weapons they construct like the home made flamethrower & the double double barrelled ( or maybe that should be quadruple barrelled ) sawn off shotgun ( wouldn't the recoil alone break your arm ? ) , a chainsaw fight , lots more make-up effects than the original & , of course , the hairdo's . I'm not sure about the psychic stuff & if the Tall Man can make a house explode why can't he just , for example , make the car that Reggie & Mike are driving in explode ? I liked the idea that the Tall Man travels across America robbing small town's of the contents of their graveyard's & as a whole the film worked well & has a certain engaging narrative . Director Coscarelli piles on the atmosphere & manages to film some cool horror sequences , the death of Father Meyers ( Kenneth Tigar ) by the series trademark silver sphere is memorable as it slices his ear off then drills into his forehead & there is a creepy scene when a worm like creature emerges from someones back & starts to talk . The girls look nice & even nicer without their tops on as we get a fair amount of nudity , in terms of gore there is the aforementioned death of Father Meyers , a sphere impales someones hand forcing them to chop it off with an axe & one works itself into someone's back & semi exit through their mouth , people are burned alive , embalmed with acid , a rat is blown to pieces & some unlucky guy has a chainsaw shoved between his legs , ouch . Made for about $3 , 000 , 000 Phantasm II easily has the biggest budget of the series , technically it shows with a very well made solid film throughout with some neat special effects , nice cinematography , good music & better than expected production values . The acting is OK but then again look at what these people had to work with , on a side note apparently according to the IMDb's ' Trivia ' section Brad Pitt auditioned for the role of Mike . . . I liked Phantasm II , sure it's silly & ultimately isn't going to change anyone's life but it is entertaining & fun & as far as I'm concerned that's the only reasons I watch films , to have fun & be entertained . There are much worse ways to spend 90 odd minutes , definitely worth a watch .
Phone Booth is set in New York where Stu Shepard ( Colin Farell ) lives & works as a celebrity publicist , Stu calls a girl named Pamela ( Katie Holmes ) who he is stringing along from the last public phone booth in New York on the north side of West 53rd Street between Broadway & 8th Avenue . When done he puts the phone down but it starts to ring as he is about to leave the booth , curious Stu picks it up only to discover some real psycho on the other end ( Kiefer Sutherland ) who has a high powered sniper rifle aimed right at him & will kill him or an innocent bystander unless he does exactly what he wants . . . Directed by Joel Schumacher I have to admit that against all expectations I thought Phone Booth was a great thriller . It's Larry Cohen's smart fast moving & original feeling script which is the films main strength , set almost entirely in one location the premise which revolves around a guy stuck in a phone booth doesn't initially sound that promising but the script is really absorbing & pulls you into the intense situation Farell's character finds himself in which plays out during the film in real time like the TV series 24 ( 2001 ) . It manages to have a swipe at the media & the police while it makes you question just who is the bad guy , I mean Sutherland's character is obviously doing wrong but he's doing it with good intentions . At less than 80 minutes in length the time flies by , it never lets up for a second & once it has you hooked on the interesting premise it doesn't let you go right until the very end & even then you'll still be thinking about the ending as the end credits roll . The character's are very well written , the situation is maybe a little silly & one could debate that it would be virtually impossible to emulate in reality . A much better film than I had expected & a really smart little thriller that'll pass 80 odd minutes like they were 80 odd seconds . Director Schumacher goes for sped up scenes , split screen techniques so more than one person can be seen on screen at once & goes for a bleached look as the film has a blue washed out tint throughout . There's also a really cool opening & closing sequence which show's what you can do with CGI computer effects if they are done properly . Apparently the film was shot pretty much in sequence & took a meagre 12 days to shoot overall . According the IMDb's ' Trivia Section ' the sniper was originally played by Ron Eldrad but was replaced by Sutherland in re-shoots . With a modest sounding $10 , 000 , 000 budget ( it made something like 15 million on it's opening weekend ) this is well made essentially in the same location , shot on location in New York & in Los Angeles . The likes of Will Smith , Mel Gibson & Jim Carrey were all attached to Phone Booth at one point or another but I think it works well with a relatively low key unknown cast . Phone Booth is a really cool fast paced thriller that I enjoyed immensely , it's short , smart , gripping & original . I was impressed , very impressed .
Bad Dreams starts in the 70's where the Unity Fields cult , who believe in a perfect society created by love & trust , lead by a nutter called Harris ( Richard Lynch ) decide to make the ultimate sacrifice & commit suicide together . Except that is for a girl named Cynthia ( Jennifer Rubin ) who understandably isn't too keen on the idea , so while all the Unity Fields members are burning she manages to escape & is saved by the local emergency services . Jump forward thirteen years later & Cynthia wakes from a coma she has been in for all those years , having to adjust to late 80's culture & come to terms with the situation she is put under the care of psychiatrist Dr . Berrisford ( Harris Yulin ) & his assistant Dr . Karmen ( Bruce Abbott ) & regularly take part in therapy sessions . However it's not long before her old cult leader Harris comes back from beyond the grave to claim her & reunite her with those who sacrificed themselves . . . Co-written & directed by Andrew Fleming when I sat down to watch this last night I had never heard of Bad Dreams before & thought it sounded like some recent cheap generic low budget shot on videotape horror flick & expected the worse , as the film started the 20th Century Fox film logo came up & my interest instantly peaked & I thought ' wow , a major Hollywood studio , this might be decent ' , the titles ran & I noticed a few familiar names like Bruce Abbott from the Re-Animator ( 1985 ) series of films , Gale Anne Hurd who produced a lot of James Cameron's films like The Terminator ( 1984 ) & Aliens ( 1986 ) produced it while Steven E . de Souza who had only a few years previously wrote the likes of 48 Hrs . ( 1982 ) , Commando ( 1985 ) & The Running Man ( 1987 ) co-wrote it in the same year he would write the absolute classic Die Hard ( 1988 ) so there was definitely some pedigree both in front & behind the camera here & it show's as Bad Dreams is a surprisingly little known decent horror flick . The script by Souza & Fleming borrows heavily from the A Nightmare on Elm Street series of films , a main villain who is burned & as a ghost comes back from beyond the grave to terrorise & kill people although one has to say despite the title he never turns up in people's dreams as he appears as a ghostly entity . The similarity with A Nightmmare on Elm Street 3 : Dream Warriors ( 1987 ) in particular is striking , the group of psychiatric patients fighting against a villain from beyond the grave , the doctors who won't believe them & the two films in general feel & look very alike . Then just when you think you have it all worked out as a simple Elm Street rip-off the film springs an effective if unlikely twist ending which comes out of nowhere & no reasonable explanation for it is given but it's certainly memorable . The character's are good , the dialogue is amusing & sharp , it moves along at a decent pace & there's one or two nicely gory set-pieces too . Much better than expected although I went into it with zero expectations so that wasn't exactly difficult . Director Fleming makes his directorial debut here ( his only other horror film of note would be The Craft ( 1996 ) ) & does a good job , the film looks nice enough with some nice sequences . The scene inside the Unity Fields house where everyone is set on fire is very effective & the special effects during this scene are also very good . There's some gore here , someone jumps out of a window & splats on the pavement below , someone slices their arms with scalpels & then stabs themselves in the stomach , there are burned faces , there's a ventilation system full of blood that spurts it out everywhere & there's a severed hand . With a very healthy sounding budget of about $4 , 000 , 000 this is well made with good production values & the special effects are impressive . The acting is good from a competent cast . Bad Dreams sounds like some cheap dull horror flick & at first it seems like an Elm Street film rip-off but it's more than that & once it's got you thinking you know exactly what's going to happen it springs a twist ending out of nowhere , I just wish it made a bit more sense . Definitely well worth a watch I reckon .
Sometimes They Come Back . . . Again starts in the small American town of Glenrock where an old lady falls off a chair & dies in mysterious circumstances . . . Cut to Los Angeles & her son Jon Porter ( Michael Gross ) in informed of his Mother's death , together with his daughter Michelle ( Hilary Swank ) his goes back to his childhood town to attend the funeral & sort a few things out . However once back strange things begin to happen , a sinister figure from Jon's past in the shape of Tony Reno ( Alexis Arquette ) comes back to haunt his daughter . As past memories come flooding back to Jon a series of brutal murders take place all of which seem to come back to him & his daughter in someway . Only another figure from Jon's past seems able to help , an old priest named Father Archer Roberts ( Willaim Morgan Sheppard ) who talks of demons & sacrificial rituals . . . Co-written & directed by Adam Grossman Sometimes They Come Back . . . Again was the second film in a series of three which started with the Stephen King inspired made-for-TV Sometimes They Come Back ( 1991 ) which I have not seen & continued after this with Sometimes They Come Back . . . for More ( 1999 ) which I have seen & liked . The script by Grossman & Guy Riedel moves along at a nice pace & has a certain air of mystery about it , I mean it won't take a genius to work things out but at least it tries to do something a bit different & keep you guessing which is a hell of a lot more than a lot of dull boring horror films even attempt . The character's are OK & no one annoys , the main villain reminded me of John Travolta as Danny from Grease ( 1978 ) & I was half expecting him to break out into a ' feel-good ' pop tune at any moment ! I also must say that I'm a little surprised by all the negative comments & the disappointingly low user rating on IMDb , personally I have seen far worse & I thought this was a decent way to spend 100 odd minutes but it seems I'm in the minority & no one has ever accused me of having a particularly good taste in films so you may want to bear that in mind . Director Grossman does an OK job & the film looks fine throughout . There isn't much gore but what's here is decent , there's a cool scene in which someone has their head run over by a lawnmower with the expected blood spraying results & Sometimes They Come Back . . . Again is probably the only film to feature a literal death by Tarot card ! The demon make up is alright . With a supposed budget of around $3 , 000 , 000 Sometimes They Come Back . . . Again is a competently made film with a certain polish to it , I mean it ain't brilliant but it's far from bad . The acting is good although Arquette is a bit campy as the main villain & I think we could have done without a lot of the tacky one-liners which start to creep in towards the end . A pre fame Hilary Swank does an OK job & makes for a likable leading lady . Sometimes They Come Back . . . Again was , in my opinion , a pretty good film & better than I had expected . Personally I think you could a lot worse , sure you could do a lot better but not every film can be a Citizen Kane ( 1941 ) , can it ?
Funny Man starts as Max Taylor ( Benny young ) & his mates are playing poker , serious poker for serious stakes . One of the other players Callum Chance ( Christopher Lee ) runs out of cash so puts up his English ancestral home worth about £1 million & promptly loses it . Max , his wife Tina ( Ingrid Lacey ) & children Harry ( Harry Heard ) & Jammie ( Jamie Heard ) pitch up there one night to check it out & wait for his brother Johnny ( Matthew Devitt ) who is driving there along with a load of weird hitchhikers to drop some of Max's stuff off to store there . However once there Max & his family are terrorised by a strange demonic Jester known as the Funny Man ( co-producer Tim James ) who comes from a place called Sod's Law , the Funny Man twists the things that people say & use it to come up with cruel & unusual ways to kill them . I have no idea why though . . . This English production ( this is the sort of thing which makes me proud to call myself an Englishman . . . ) was written & directed by Simon Sprackling & without quite knowing why I rather liked it for what it was . I should also say that according to the IMDb's ' Alternate Versions ' section Funny Man was cut for a US ' R ' rating & that I definitely watched the longer uncut version complete with the brains shooting out of the girls head , so bear that in mind . The script for Funny Man is a strange one & I don't quite know what to make of it , there's little in the way of story & it has a habit of switching tone from straight horror to comedy to slapstick to deadpan humour to downright crudeness & it's frankly weird at times & there's even enough time for it to be a musical as well but I thought it all came together rather well to create an enjoyable comedy horror that never takes itself seriously , it moves along like a rocket so it's never dull or boring & I actually found it quietly amusing at times although I think you will need a slightly twisted sense of humour to get the most out of it , I'm not sure what that says about me . . . The best way I can describe Funny Man is to liken it to a comedy sketch show where the Funny Man creates little mini films within the overall film to dispatch his victims in a ironic & gory way , yeah I'd call it the first horror orientated comedy sketch film that I've seen & for what it is & what it tries to be I found it good fun & good entertainment . Director Sprackling does a good job , I don't think I've seen another film quite like it . The Funny Man ( who lives in a place called Sod's Law , nice touch ) looks like an ugly Jester although he occasionally changes outfits & he regularly turns to the camera & ' talks ' to the audience a bit like a stand up comedian . I have no idea why there is a character in this who is obviously modelled on Velma from Scooby-Doo , here called Thelma . I'd imagine the gore is probably restrained in the cut American version but here in the UK it's always been uncut with such delights as decapitated heads , brains blown out , the top of some guys head is blown off & there's a nice shot of him on the floor twitching with the top half of his head missing spurting blood , the Funny Man burrows through someones stomach , he sticks a stiletto heel in someones eye , someone is battered to death with a baseball bat & more . With a supposed budget of about £1 , 000 , 000 Funny Man is well made with good production values although the film takes place almost entirely with the confines of one house . Some of the special effects aren't that great but they'll do considering . The acting is OK & there are one or two pretty funny performances here , while looking at the credits list on the IMDb I noticed one listed for ' Crap Puppeteer ' & I must admit I'm struggling to know who this refers too . . . Arsenal football club fans should note that ex-striker Ian Wright makes a voice cameo . For about two lines of dialogue . I was surprised about how much I liked Funny Man , it has a certain style & originality . This definitely isn't just another boring slasher & the attempted start of a soulless franchise , I personally think there's more to Funny Man than that . Not everything works , not everything is funny in it but it certainly gets points for effort & enthusiasm , not bad at all & if you like your horror light & mixed with laughs then you could do a hell of a lot worse than Funny Man you really could . . .
Wilderness starts in Moorgate Prison for young offenders where a lad named Dave ( John Travers ) is found dead one morning in his dorm after having slit his wrist's during the night . The Guvenor ( George Shane ) isn't happy & is aware that Dave had been bullied & abused by other unmates so in his anger he sends these other inmates on a free holiday to a picturesque isolated island just off the coast for some fun ( some punishment ! ) . Prison guard Jed Walker ( Sean Pertwee ) gets the job of babysitting them but things get out of hand when the mutilated body of a tramp ( Colin Nicolson ) is found , one of the inmates Callum ( Toby Kebbell ) is accused but the group quickly discover they are not alone on the island as some unseen psycho killer begins to pick them off one-by-one . . . This British production was directed by Michael J . Bassett & I have to say that I was impressed with Wildnerness , I didn't think it was perfect but it's certainly an effective little British horror flick with an edge . Wilderness is a well put together sort of mix of survivalist , horror , action , thriller & teen slasher film all rolled into one & it's very similar to Severance ( 2006 ) another British survivalist horror film made the same year but without the comedy elements . Wilderness takes itself very seriously in fact , there's a fairly disturbing opening sequence showing the bullying & subsequent suicide of a young offender in prison ( with which his tormentors are given a free holiday for as punishment ! ) & it's fairly grim going right through until the end with some brutal murders , some really unlikable character's who do some really nasty stuff & a pretty bleak atmosphere . The film has a good pace , there's plenty going on & there's some very memorable moments here but it's not perfect , the fact that all of the character's are so unlikable is a problem because you end up wanting them to die rather than rooting for them & I was disappointed by a fairly lacklustre twist at the end & an all too predictable killer . The film looks good & there's none of that awful slow-motion , fast-motion , quick cut editing , shaky hand-held camcorder cinematography or any colour bleaching which is great , it's nice to see a film shot pretty much ' as is ' rather than have lots of pointless & often annoying post-production techniques inserted . There's some nice gore here too , there's a fair amount of blood splatter , someone is shot with arrows , dogs tear the side of someone's face off & bite his chest & stomach open leaving his insides hanging out , there's a severed head on a spike , there's a slit throat , a guy has his foot sliced off by a bear trap , there's a severed arm , there are stabbings & the violence levels are up to the required standards . There are one or two really great scenes here , the bit when Callum stands looking around by sees nothing then moves away only for the leaves on the ground to move or when the killer slashes someone's throat from behind without them even noticing them there are very effective . With a supposed budget of about £3 , 000 , 000 this was shot in Scotland & Nothern Ireland here in the UK & the locations are nice enough . The acting is pretty solid although some of the accents are a little off putting & feel very forced & at times dubbed . Sean Pertwee is the only cast member of any real note here . Wilderness is a very good film that will have most gripped , the plot is good & the action & gore is great . Definitely well worth a watch as far as I am concerned .
Quincy M . E . : A Night to Raise the Dead starts late one stormy Los Angeles night ( or very early one morning whichever way you look at it ) , as a ferocious thunderstorm rages outside Alan Turner ( Frank Aletter ) has to go to his car when he remembers he left some important paperwork in it . Alan puts his coat & wellies on & venture into the pouring rain & over to his car , then he is horrified to see a dead body on the ground . Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) notifies Los Angeles coroner & chief medical examiner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) who attends the scene , after the autopsy back at the laboratory Quincy becomes worried after he confirms the man died from a severe form of typhoid . Then more bodies are found in the area , it turns out that the Park Knowles cemetery collapsed in the torrential rain & lots of coffins & bodies were washed downhill . Quincy faces a race against time to find the bodies infected with typhoid before an epidemic occurs but finds his progress hindered by red tape , bureaucracy & a cover up . . . Episode 9 from season 4 this Quincy story was directed by Gene Nelson & is yet another great episode from a very strong season four . I think by the time season three & four went into production the production team were very comfortable with the ideas & themes behind the show & were prepared to experiment & try different things . It's an urban myth that every Quincy episode revolves around a murder & the title character Quincy solving it , that's absolute nonsense as the show did indeed start that way but there really are a lot of diverse & imaginative stories & the basic concept of the show allows for this as well . Here A Night to Raise the Dead is a prime example , there's no murder here & it's a race against time to prevent an epidemic of a dangerous disease & it's a great episode . The set-up is very good & I really liked the idea of a cemetery collapsing scattering bodies & coffins all over the place which leads to Quincy uncovering corruption & fighting red tape & bureaucracy in order to prevent an epidemic . The one aspect of A Night to Raise the Dead that doesn't quite work is the slightly anti climactic ending , I mean after all this build up & constant hammering home about the threat of a dead body with typhoid the program just finishes with the body being found & that's it . It's like the makers realised they were running out of time & just decided to have someone find the body & close the case . Still , a very entertaining & different episode , I liked it . I have to say I always like to see a good thunderstorm in a film or TV show , they are just so atmospheric & evocative . Here Lt . Monahan goes for a different look , he wears a trilby 1940's detective type hat & long overcoat which is different from his usual tight fitting suits . By contrast Quincy spends a large majority of this episode in a bright yellow plastic anorak & wellies ! The acting is fine but as usual the regulars are better than the guests , the scene when Quincy passionately argues with Morales is a prime example as Klugman is just excellent while the guy playing Morales is flat & very poor by comparison . A Night to Raise the Dead is another excellent example of Quincy & it's variety of very flexible & diverse story lines which don't always revolve around a murder . A must for fans & I could see more casual viewers liking it as well .
Midsomer Murders : Blood Will Out is set in the Midsomer village of Martyr Warren where traveller Orville Tudway ( Kevin McNally ) & a few of his friends arrive , they park their caravans on Will ( John Duttine ) & Muriel Saxby's ( Elizabeth Garvie ) land which annoys & irritates rich local magistrate & Falkland's war hero Major Hector Bridges ( Paul Jesson ) . When one of the Major's Geese mysteriously disappears he calls in DCI Tom Barnaby ( John Nettles ) & Sgt . Troy ( Daniel Casey ) to investigate , the Major points the finger at Orville . Then another group of travellers pitch up on a green outside the local Church , during a pony chariot race organised by the travellers Major Bridges is shot dead in his own manor house & a simple PR exercise to keep a powerful magistrate happy becomes a full blown murder investigation for Barnaby . He has to sort through all the lies to find the killer , a task not made any easier by the fact the entire village seemed to hate the Major who was a pretty nasty piece of work . . . Episode 4 from season 2 this Midsomer Murders mystery was the final story from the second season & out of the first two seasons which contain nine stories there hasn't been a bad one yet , while Blood Will Out doesn't quite reach the lofty heights set by some of the earlier stories it's still a great crime drama & it's as simple & straight forward as that . Directed by Moira Armstrong & written by Douglas Watkinson this story has all the essential parts for a terrific mystery , there's the usual assortment of fine character's many of whom could have done it , there's the careful well thought out back-story & various red herrings which are thrown in there to confuse us & the part I like best it has a great twist ending which I admit I did guess before it was revealed although I doubt many will , maybe I was just lucky . One part of this story I didn't think worked that well was the second death of John Smith the traveller , once it has been committed Barnaby almost seems to ignore it on purpose & continues to exclusively concentrate on the Major's death & I'd almost forgotten about it by the time an explanation for it was given . Also why didn't Barnaby charge Orville for cruelty to animals or theft in regards to the Goose he stole & ate ? Still , they are small quibbles as the Major's murder was at the center of everything anyway so it doesn't matter a whole lot . This is yet another top murder mystery from this quality crime drama that's as good as anything out there in this genre , as usual I liked it & found it both engrossing & intriguing which is one of the show's real strengths . This story features a humorous subplot about Barnaby being forced to diet by his wife & daughter , it doesn't get in the way of the main story but is a light hearted & amusing addition to the script . The English locations are nice to look at , the real life village of Hambleden in Buckinghamshire was used as Martyr Warren . This would be a great show to film in HD ( High Definition ) as the extra detail on the beautiful locations would make it worthwhile right down to the individual blades of grass . There's a scenes when someone is killed with a shotgun which has some blood splatter & there's a dead body with a head wound so if you don't like the sight of blood be warned . The acting as always is top notch . Blood Will Out doesn't quite reach the standards of the earlier Anthony Horowitz written / Jeremy Silberston directed episodes but is still a great Midsomer Murders & isn't too far behind them . This is the last episode of season 2 & there hasn't been a bad one yet !
Saw IV starts as Detective Hoffman ( Costas Mandylor ) , SWAT team leader Officer Rigg ( Lyriq Bent ) & their team find the dead mutilated body of Detective Kerry ( Dina Meyer ) in one of notorious killer Jigsaw's ( Tobin Bell ) traps . FBI agents Strahm ( Scott Patterson ) & Perez ( Athena Karkanis ) both feel Jigsaw has some sort of accomplice & are determined to find out who it is , meanwhile with Detective Eric Matthews ( Donnie Wahlberg ) still missing & the bodies continuing to pile up Officer Rigg just can't let it go & somehow feels responsible & helpless . Later that night in his apartment Rigg is knocked out & comes round in his bathroom faced by Jigsaw on his telly as Rigg finds himself part of the horrific games that Jigsaw likes to play . Jigsaw gives Rigg ninety minutes to save both Detectives Matthews & Hoffman who are now both at the mercy of Jigsaw in one of his deadly traps but Jigsaw makes sure it's not easy for Rigg who has lots of difficult decisions to make along the way . . . Like Saw II ( 2005 ) & Saw III ( 2006 ) this third sequel to the surprise sleeper smash hit horror thriller Saw ( 2003 ) was directed by Darren Lynn Bousman & I have to say that at this point I am still enjoying the Saw franchise . While maybe not quite as good as Saw II or definitely not as good as the rather excellent Saw III one has to say that I enjoyed Saw IV , it moves along like a rocket , there's a few decent twist's & turns although if you have seen the previous Saw films they will perhaps seem a little familiar but they are still good twist's . Now , I think the main problems with Saw IV are that it tries to shoehorn too many bit part character's from the previous three films into the script , there were a few times when I was confused about who was who & what connection they had to the series if any . While Saw IV works as a stand alone film for the majority of it's 90 odd minute duration it's definitely an advantage if you have seen the other films prior to watching this & then there's the ending which I liked but it could have been scripted a little better so it was a bit clearer about what had actually happened & this is the one aspect of the film that pretty much relies on you having seen at least Saw III . Basically the twist is that the film is actually a flashback after the gruesome opening autopsy which makes the audience think they are watching a straight chronological sequel to Saw III when in fact you are not , the events of Saw III & Saw IV take place simultaneously in a rather neat & clever twist that a lot of viewers ( judging by the IMDb message board for Saw IV & a few of the User Comments I have read ) don't seem to understand , get or even comprehend which is partly down to the filmmakers as I have already said since the ending is a bit abrupt , a little underwritten & relies on the audience having seen ( & remembering ) Saw III . Overall though I liked Saw IV , the character's are good with yet more back-story for the character's especially Jigsaw & the relationship between him & his ex-wife , the plot is pretty clever & it does all come together nicely at the end without any apparent plot holes & there's some more crackingly gory set-pieces that I personally just can't get enough of . Well one has to say if your looking for some blood , sadism & gore then you could do a lot worse than Saw IV , it starts off with an extremely graphic autopsy sequence the likes of which I have never seen in a major film before . I was amazed at how nasty the autopsy scene is , from the skin on Jigsaw's scalp being pulled back over his face to the top of his skull being sawed off & his brain removed to his chest being sliced open , his ribcage opened up & his stomach removed . It's actually pretty gruelling stuff & if your easily squeamish you may want to give Saw IV a miss . Other gore highlights include mutilated rat infested bodies , a woman having her scalp torn off , a guy getting his eyeball pierced , some guy's head being crushed between two huge blocks , two people are skewered with metal spikes with predictably bloody results & a scene which even made me wince a little when a guy has to free himself from a trap by pushing his face through two columns of razor sharp knives therefore slicing his face to bits . If that wasn't enough the poor guy then falls into a cage full of barb wire ! Ouch . Having said that I don't think this is quite as gory or brutal as Saw III though . Apparently Saw IV was given the green-light before Saw III was even made or released as both were commissioned at the same time shortly after Saw II opened to huge box-office business . With a supposed budget of about $10 , 000 , 000 & apparently shot in just 32 days in Ontario in Canada Saw IV took over $31 , 000 , 000 during it's opening weekend at the box-office , the production values & special effects are slick & I particularly liked some of the neat editing transitions between scenes . The acting is fine if nothing spectacular , quite a few of the cast return from previous instalments . Saw IV is another great entry in a pretty good horror franchise which I suppose you will either love it's twist's & scenes of brutal torture & gore or simply hate it as sick pointless rubbish , in my opinion I'd vote for the former any day of the week . Being such a big financial hit Saw V ( 2008 ) was guaranteed while yet another sequel Saw VI ( 2009 ) is in production .
Quincy M . E . : Stolen Tears starts as Jew & Holocaust survivor Issac Koviac ( Tha Wyenn ) is run down & killed in what seems like an open & shut case of hit-and-run , however before he was killed Issac managed to get a written note to his friend & fellow Holocaust survivor Hyam Sigerski ( Martin Baslam ) saying that he saw one of the sadistic German prison guards from the Auschwitz concentration camp where they were held during World War II somewhere in Los Angeles . Hyam believes Issac was killed deliberately by this German guard to silence him & prevent his exposure , Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) & the LAPD aren't interested so in desperation Hyam talks to Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) who performed Issac's autopsy to try & convince him it was murder . Meanwhile an organisation lead by Cornelius Sumner ( Norman Lloyd ) is on a campaign to discredit people like Hyam & spread the filthy propaganda that the Holocaust never happen & it was all lies , doctored video footage & photo's plus false confessions . . . Episode 18 from season 7 this Quincy story was directed by Georg Fenady & is one of those Quincy episodes where he has to use his medical expertise & detective skills to solve a crime as well as use his stiff moral backbone to confront & tackle a serious issue & I guess they don't come much more political , serious or sombre then the systematic extermination of over 6 million Jews in German concentration camps during the second World War but this is Quincy & he doesn't shy away from anything even an issue as heartfelt & emotional as this . To be honest this is quite a heavy issue & a surprising subject matter for the show to deal with but the one thing I really like about Quincy is the diversity of subjects & issues it can & does tackle , of course I think the show is at it's best when it mixes a solid social issue around an intriguing & entertaining murder mystery which Stolen Tears does quite effectively . I couldn't help thinking that maybe the issue of German concentration camps might be a little heavy for Quincy & at only 50 odd minutes in length it doesn't quite have the time to address some of the issue it raises but as a big fan of the show I still liked this episode all the same & it's as simple & straight forward as that . As usual the show is competently made if a little cheap looking , I doubt the makers had much of a budget or a lot of time . This particular episode also gives the viewer a rare chance to see the inside of Danny's restaurants public toilets which I think has never happened before or since ! The acting here is OK , Klugman as Quincy is just class & I could watch him all day while the guest stars do OK but aren't anything special . Stolen Tears is a pretty sombre Quincy which deals with a difficult & still quite sensitive subject , I can't say it does it complete justice but it tries & there's time for a neat little murder mystery in between all the politics as well .
Quincy M . E . : The Two Sides of Truth starts in court as Los Angeles chief medical examiner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is called as expert witness in a court case to determine the way a man died , Quincy is sure that he is right but his mentor & teacher Professor Herbert Stone ( Barry Sullivan ) is on the defence & disputes Quincy's findings . Then Quincy is called to a fire at PetraChem oil refinery where a body has been found , it is initially thought it is the body of the president of the company William Farrell ( Michael Callan ) & the evidence seems to point to that but Quincy is unsure as the body cannot be identified through normal means because it is so badly burnt . An inquest is called & again Quincy finds himself up against his old pathology Professor , his loyalty & friendship is called into question as he searches for the truth no-one else seems interested in . . . Episode 5 from season 2 this Quincy story was directed by Ronald Satlof & The Two Sides of Truth is yet another great early example of Quincy & that it can successfully mix it's story lines & be varied yet still be entertaining . Here Quincy has to deal with personal conflict as his idol , teacher , mentor & the man he admires so much Dr . Stone seems to be selling his medical expertise to the highest bidder & will say just about anything in court for money . There are obviously other issues brought up as well like using expert witnesses who have something to gain from a certain outcome & how they might seek to suppress the truth & while not blatantly lie certainly not tell the complete truth or maybe omit a few facts here & there . Overall though those side issues don't overshadow a good solid murder mystery plot that Quincy uses his medical knowledge & skills to solve & the fact that most of the moral issues brought up involve Quincy himself in personal conflict means I found them more meaningful . The outcome of this episode is maybe a little bit too predictable & slightly too ' happyily ever after ' but it's fitting & works well enough . After the different set of opening titles as seen in the previous episode Visitors in Paradise ( 1977 ) the production team reverts back to the traditional titles which would remain the same for the rest of the entire run of six and a half more seasons although the main theme music would get revamped from time to time the actual titles stayed exactly the same . There's a very silly sub plot in The Two Sides of Truth about a clumsy laboratory assistant named Alice who Sam fancies breaking everything she touches who was promptly dropped & never seen again . The acting is alright although the regulars are better than the guest stars as usual . The Two Sides of Truth has a strong storyline about finding out the truth & not settling for anything less , a strong basic concept which would run through Quincy as a series & as a series would largely base itself upon that one single specific concept .
Species starts at ' U . S . Government Laboratories Dugway , Utah ' where a young girl named Sil ( Michelle Williams ) has been created by altering human DNA by Dr . Xavier Fitch ( Ben Kingsley ) & his team who are using a blueprint in a message sent by extra-terrestrial life from outer space . The decision has been made to terminate the experiment , that means Sil has to be killed which is an idea she isn't keen on so breaks out of the lab & disappear into the darkness of the night . Sil manges to make it to Los Angeles by train having now reached adulthood ( Natasha Henstridge ) where she becomes intent on completing her life cycle by reproducing & having a baby . Fitch assembles a team to find & kill Sil , a professional hit-man called Preston Lennox ( Michael Madsen ) , a molecular biologist named Dr . Laura Baker ( Marg Helgenberger ) , Dan Smithson ( Forest Whitaker ) an empath & finally Dr . Stephen Arden ( Alfred Molina ) . Together they trace Sil to Los Angeles where they must find & stop Sil before she mates & infects the human race with the strain of deadly alien DNA . . . Directed by Roger Donaldson I thought Species was a good solid horror Sci-Fi film . Why does the IMDb list Species main genre as drama ? Horror is the last one it lists when it should be the first . The script by Dennis Feldman moves along at a fair pace although I must admit my interest started to wain towards the end & there are some gaping plot holes that annoyed me . For instance why is it so hard for Sil to have sex ? I'd have thought having the looks of Natasha Henstridge would mean she could have sex morning , noon & night if she wanted ! I don't know about Los Angeles but where I live we'd be queueing up round the block ! Also when she knows that Fitch & his team are after her why does she deliberately seek them out , even after she has faked her own death ? Why attract the attention of the only people on Earth who know who she is & want to kill her ? On a positive note Species provides good entertainment & Natasha Henstridge naked , what more do you want ? With an estimated budget of $35 , 000 , 000 director Donaldson does an OK job but fails to create much tension or atmosphere , Species looks & feels rather bland & forgettable throughout . A sequence when Lennox & Baker are trapped in a isolation chamber with some mutant alien DNA falls particularly flat & is distinctly ineffective . The special effects are a mixed bag , some of the CGI Sil alien effects at the end are poor by todays high standards although the special make-up & creature effects look better . The alien Sil was designed by H . R . Giger complete with exaggerated red nipples one of which shoots out & acts like a tentacle isn't exactly a million miles away from the look of the alien from Alien ( 1979 ) which Giger also designed . There is some violence & gore here as Sil leaves behind a steady supply of bodies , a ripped out spine , tentacles bursting through the back of peoples heads & a chopped off thumb . The acting is OK by all involved although Kingsley isn't given that much to do , Madsen makes for a likable hero . The sequel Species II ( 1998 ) came three years after this & in my humble opinion is better . Species is definitely worth watching although I think it plays a little longish at times & I doubt I'll be sitting through it again anytime soon .
Tales of the Unexpected : A Sad Loss is set in the sunny climes of the Caribbean where lovers Dave Brigham ( Stuart Wilson ) & Claire Hawksworth ( Haley Mills ) run a not very successful hotel . They are mortgaged up to their eyeballs & are months behind on the repayments & risk losing the hotel , however Claire's rich aunt Alicia ( Lally Bowers ) has promised to leave all her money to them when she dies so there is some light at the end of the tunnel . Unfortunately it seems Alicia's daughter has given birth & Alicia decides to leave all her money to the baby instead & begins the process of changing her will , Dave convinces Claire that Alicia must not be allowed to change her will & that they should give her a helping hand to die . . . Episode 3 from season 6 this Tales of the Unexpected story was originally aired here in the UK during April 1983 , the ninth of eleven Tales of the Unexpected episodes to be directed by John Gorrie this is easily one of the best stories from this show's later seasons that didn't have anything to do with Roald Dahl & a nice way to spend 25 minutes in it's own right . The story by Patricia Moyes was dramatised by James Andrew Hall & is one of those Tales of the Unexpected stories based around a crime that has surprising consequences , the success of this story is entirely down to it's twist ending which I think is one of the best this series had to offer . It's a short , sharp & highly effective little twist that rounds the story of perfectly . The build up & character's are also better than usual for this series , everything just works very well & as a one off 25 minute drama with a neat twist I liked it a lot . Just putting a few palm trees in an English hotel garden won't convince me this is set in the Caribbean & I doubt it'll convince you either ! This is well made enough but like most episodes from this show it's utterly bland & lifeless without a trace of style . Again there's a good cast here , Disney child star Haley Mills turns up here as the most recognisable of them . A Sad Loss is one of the best Tales of the Unexpected stories because there is a cool unexpected twist ending , definitely well worth a watch & at only 25 minutes in length it won't take too much of your life up .
Falling Down starts on a gridlocked Los Angeles freeway , the seemingly ordinary William Foster ( Michael Douglas ) is stuck in his car on a swelteringly hot day , the noise of car horns & people shouting begins to bother him , then there's the fly which is buzzing around his head . Finally he snaps & gets out of his car & decides to walk home , on the way he wants to call his ex-wife Beth ( Barbara Hershey ) & check on his daughter Adele ( Joey Hope Singer ) . However he runs out of change , he goes into the nearest shop to ask for some but the owner ( Michael Paul Chan ) won't give him any . William completely flips & smashes the shop up with a baseball bat but still pays for his Coke , he sets off on foot across L . A . & gets into more trouble as he fights back against the things in society which annoy him . . . This French American co-production was directed by Joel Schumacher & is an interesting film that almost works , as it is it's a watchable piece of moralistic exploitation but it isn't quite the classic that it could have been . The script by Ebbe Roe Smith has a fascinating premise that many of us have probably thought about doing ourselves that of an ordinary man lashing out against the petty bureaucracy & the pressures of everyday life in a spectacular way . It's starts out terrifically with Douglas just leaving his car in the middle of a traffic jam because walking would be quicker & I just love the scene in the burger restaurant where he makes a impassioned speech about the difference in the picture of a burger & the one he actually gets as it's a scene I can really relate to ! However while Falling Down starts out as a dark comedic attack on consumerism & has a nice social commentary running through it the film doesn't do anything with it at all & quickly jettisons it in favour of a standard psycho on the loose & the police who are tracking him down type scenario which is nothing new & Douglas's character becomes like those he was initially targeting . By the time Douglas is using bazooka rocket launchers to blow freeway construction sites up the film has run out of steam & feels like it's forgotten it's own purpose . The ending where Douglas suddenly realises he has become the bad guy would have been good if the film had maintained it's attack on consumerism & petty law making but it doesn't so it isn't . Director Schumacher does alright , he keeps things moving along I suppose & there are some funny moments together with the more violent ones . I wouldn't call Falling Down an action flick but there are a few set-pieces here . The film starts out so well I'm not sure what happened to it but somewhere along the line it loses it's initial appeal . There's some violence , someone is stabbed in the shoulder , there's a drive by shooting , people are beaten with baseball bats & a construction site is blown up . The film also has racist overtones , Douglas comments on the Korean shop owner not being able to speak proper English as he smashes his shop up , all the gun wielding gangs are of Mexican origin , there's anti gay dialogue , one character is a Nazi who hates gays , blacks & foreigners , the homeless are portrayed as aggressive lying beggars & Douglas has a rant about the rich at the end in which he lets someone die because he's playing golf . Technically the film is very good with on location L . A . shooting , it certainly has that big budget look about it & it has high production values . The IMDb says that Falling Down was filmed between 29th April & 4th May 1992 , so the IMDb are saying Falling Down was shot in a week ! I think they need to find more reliable sources . . . The acting is OK , Douglas is alright as the anti-hero while Duvall is alright as the cop tracking him down . Falling Down could have been a classic had it been consistent throughout , as it is it's still an entertaining film with a dark humorous streak that I liked . It's a good film for sure but it could have been even better .
Intruder is set in Wallnut mini supermarket store where store owners Danny ( Eugene Robert Glazer ) & his partner Bill ( Danny Hicks ) have decided to sell up after two consecutive years of making a loss , they tell the unfortunate night crew that they will be losing their jobs & that they have to stay all night to mark all the products up on the shelves as half price . A young cashier named Jennifer ( Elizabeth Cox ) has an unpleasant visit from her violent ex-boyfriend Craig ( David Byrnes ) which turns nasty & the police are called but Craig disappears before they arrive , the market is closed for the night & the crew carry on with their work . However someone inside the market is killing everyone off one-by-one in a variety of gruesome ways . . . Originally filmed under the title Night Crew this delightfully gory 80's slasher flick was co-written & directed by Scott Speigel who played the guy who delivered the bread & got a knife stuck in his back Intruder is surely one of the true slasher greats from the 80's , it just ticks all the right boxes with distinction . The script by Speigel & producer Lawrence Bender who played one of the two cops at the end is like a cross between Dawn of the Dead ( 1978 ) with it's supermarket setting & Friday the 13th ( 1980 ) with it's gory killing of various teens , lets be honest here what more do you need for a great horror flick ? I mean it's got the isolated location & it's got plenty of victims so the only thing left to wonder about is whether the blood & gore is excessive enough & Intruder passes the test with flying colours as it features some of the greatest & goriest on screen deaths ever in a slasher flick . From people literally having their heads sliced in half with industrial band saws , eyes impaled on spikes , meat cleavers in heads , people hung on meat hooks , enough severed limbs to fill a butchers shop & my personal favourite when someone has their head literally squashed to pulp in a trash compactor . I also liked the ending where , it seems , the bad guy actually gets away with it in a sense . The character's are reasonably likable for a slasher flick , the story is decent although I think it spends too much time trying to implicate Craig as the killer so it's not that surprising when it turns out it isn't him . On the negative side I thought the films pace was a bit uneven , the first 30 minutes is all set-up & no-one is killed at all during this period & in fact it's sometimes hard to remember your actually watching a horror film , then it bursts into life with a constant stream of gory highly entertaining killings for the next 30 minutes & then for the final 20 it goes into standard stalk & slasher mode as the killer plays a game of cat & mouse with the one surviving teen . Director Speigel does a fine job & injects some life & style into what could have turned out to be a dull film , his camera angles are interesting & some of his shots are cool like showing someone on the phone from inside the phone looking up at her , the shots from inside a trolley as it is wheeled around the market are fun & there's even a shot from the perspective of a door knob as it's being turned . A visually enjoyable film . Then again shots like those are merely there to fill the time up between the gore effects from the boys from KNB . The murders are all pretty gory & look incredibly good , the band saw scene is a real shocker as is the part when the guy has his head crushed by a trash compactor . They are pretty brutal scenes & rank amongst the best deaths ever seen in any slasher film ever . The trailer for Intruder ( on all the DVD releases ) contains a bit of extra gore from the scene when the guy is impaled on a meat hook , it show's the a close-up of his & chin the hook actually entering it along with a close-up of his face & blood pouring from his mouth . The trailer also features an unaltered shot during the scene when the woman is talking on the phone looking up at her but without the transparent dialler over the screen to signify that we are looking at her from inside the phone itself . It is amazing to think that Intruder had a budget of about $100 , 000 which is frankly peanuts . This looks good with extremely impressive gore effects & is well made , the makers certainly got the most out of the meagre budget . Low budget killer doll auteur Charles Band was an executive producer on this & was going to distribute it under his Empire label but that went bankrupt & Paramount picked it up for distribution , they cut it down to get an R rating & every gore scene was completely cut or edited in some way so make sure you stay away from that version . The acting is fine , Rene Estevez has gone on to star in the political TV drama series The West Wing ( 1999 - 2006 ) & is the younger sister of Charlie Sheen & Emilio Estevez . Sam Raimi is an accomplished director in his own right responsible for the Evil Dead & recent Hollywood Spider-Man series of films & Bruce Campbell has a small cameo at the end as a cop . Intruder is one of the very best 80's slasher films , it has the gore , the isolated location , a decent killer , some visual style between the killings & is enjoyable on many levels . A must for slasher fans & anyone who likes their films nice & gory , the band saw head slicing & trash compactor head crushing scenes are worth the price of rental alone .
Hammer House of Horror : Rude Awakening tells the tale of successful estate agent Norman Shenley ( Denholm Elliott ) who is contacted by a Mr . Rayburn ( James Laurenson ) who wants a nearby property called Lower Moat Manor put on the market & sold , Norman agrees to take a look at the property & drives out there to discover a large rundown house . Inside things turn strange when he hears a voice which says he shouldn't have killed his wife Emily ( Pat Heywood ) & he is horrified when her seemingly dead body falls out of a service elevator in the wall , Norman then wakes up & is relieved to discover it was only a nightmare . However things go from bad to worse as the vivid & terrifying nightmares continue as Norman's line between fantasy & reality becomes ever more blurred . . . Rude Awakening was episode 3 from this unfairly short lived British anthology horror series produced by Hammer studios for TV & this story originally aired here in the UK during September 1980 , the second of three Hammer House of Horror episodes to be directed by Peter Sasdy ( this was sandwiched between The Thirteenth Reunion & Visitor From the Grave ) I thought this was a great episode . The script by Gerald Savory is an excellent psychological horror thriller that manages to blur the lines between fantasy & reality really well which isn't easy , usually when a large proportion of a film or TV program is either a dream or fantasy it becomes difficult to relate to it & the constant ' is this real or not ' becomes annoying & sometimes confusing but Rude Awakening handles it as well as anything else I've seen . It helps that at only just over 50 minutes in length it moves along at a great pace , it never becomes boring & it never outstays it's welcomes & everything that's here seems relevant in a proper structured framework & it comes together very well at the end . The character's & dialogue are both good & as a whole this is a neat piece of psychological horror . As usual the low TV budget didn't help & out goes the traditional Hammer Gothic period setting & in comes a early 80's English setting ( those bright red phone boxes brings back some memories I can tell you ) , this helps in the fact that you can relate to it but obviously it loses a fair amount of atmosphere . There's no gore in this one but there is a bit of nudity although the strong well developed story definitely kept me interested . The acting is good & this is very well made with a cinematic feel to it which is no surprise when you learn director Sasdy made several feature films for Hammer including Taste the Blood of Dracula ( 1970 ) , Countess Dracula ( 1971 ) & Hands of the Ripper ( 1971 ) . Rude Awakening turned out to be a great compact 50 minute piece of horror themed British TV , why don't they make show's like this anymore ?
Cube Zero starts , like the original , in the cube itself . A man named Ryjkin ( Jasmin Geljo ) enters a red room & is sprayed with acid which turns him into a puddle of blood , bones & bodily fluids on the floor . Two cube technicians watch on as Ryjkin becomes the latest victim of the cube , Eric Wynn ( Zachary Bennett ) starts to question the motives behind the cube even though his superior Dodds ( David Hubband ) tells him not to think about or question it . The cube has five new volunteers , Rains ( Stephanie Moore ) , Haskell ( Martin Roach ) , Meyerhold ( Mike ' Nug ' Nahrgang ) , Bartok ( Richard McMillan ) & Jellico ( Terri Hawkes ) who all must survive it's lethal bobby traps & try to figure a way out . Wynn starts to question the reasoning behind these people being in the cube especially Rains who opposes the government , he thinks that Rains might be there purely because of her political views . Wynn develops a conscience & sets out to save as many of the five as possible by entering the cube itself but his superiors , the men who really run the cube , aren't happy & send the sinister Jax ( Michael Riley ) to make sure no one makes it out of the cube alive . . . This Canadian production was co-executive produced , written & directed by Ernie Barbarash & I enjoyed it almost as much as the original Cube ( 1997 ) . I have read that Cube Zero is meant to be a prequel to the original , well I have absolutely no idea why anyone would think this as it makes no reference to anything that happens in Cube , this has no connection to it at all & if it was set 100 years after the original no one could argue . The script moves along at a great pace & is never boring or dull . The same fascination in how the people stranded in the cube are going to get out & the fascination in how the people who don't make it are going to die . At first I didn't like the fact that we know who is behind the cube but it grew on me & I liked how it all came together . I liked most of the character's especially the villain Jax , however I really disliked Rains the obligatory stereotypical ' strong female ' character . The film tries to say various things about big business & the workers who are there to merely push buttons , do as they are told & not think about it compared to the people in suits who wield absolute power over everything & everyone , even over life & death . Director Barbarash does what he can with limited sets , the film has a nice style & look to it although the rooms in the cube are different in appearance this time around compared with the original . There is some terrific gore in Cube Zero as well which helps , there's a cool scene at the start when a guy literally melts as messily as you can imagine into a puddle of goo , another cool bit where someone is sliced into little bits by razor wire , someone explodes & some impalement's . Technically Cube Zero is pretty impressive with nice production design & it's well made throughout . The special effects are good . The acting is fine & Riley as the bad guy is fun although Moore got on my nerves . I really liked Cube Zero , I didn't think I would as I also thought the original was a brilliant film & I couldn't see this being anywhere near as good but it was . If you liked the original then this is a must , if you didn't then avoid at all costs . Definitely worth a watch in my opinion .
The Texas Chainsaw Massacre starts on ' August 18th , 1973 ' as five friends , lovers Erin ( Jessica Biel ) & Kemper ( Eric Balfour ) along with Andy ( Mike Vogel ) & Pepper ( Erica Leerhsen ) plus Morgan ( Jonathan Tucker ) who is all on his own romantically speaking , are on they're way back from a trip to Mexico . As they drive through the American countryside they almost hit a girl ( Lauren German ) wandering in the road so they stop & find her in a distressed state , they offer her a lift & they all drive off together . As they drive the girl becomes more agitated & scared at which point she then pulls a gun out & commits suicide , shocked the friends decide to go to the nearest town & report the incident to the police . It's not long before they come across a gas station where they try to report the suicide , this is just the start of a living nightmare for the friends as they soon discover that the locals aren't friendly including a huge guy known as Leatherface ( Andrew Bryniarski ) who likes to slice people up with a chainsaw . . . Directed by Marcus Nispel this is obviously a Hollywood remake of Tobe Hooper's 1974 classic The Texas Chainsaw Massacre which I personally think is an extremely overrated film & one that I don't actually like that much so would I be more impressed with this remake ? The answer is , quite simply , yes . In fact I'll go as far as to say I prefer this version in every single aspect & that it's become one of my favourite Hollywood horror films of the past few years . The script by Scott Kosar takes the basic premise of the original but adds enough variation & twists so that it's sufficiently different to stand on it's own . I liked some of the new elements , there's actually a decent reason why Leatherface wears a mask made of human skin & the whole hitchhiker scene from the original is altered plus this time around it is far better & much more effective , the new ideas actually add to the film & story & I also think it makes for a better flowing film . The script takes itself 100 % seriously so there's none of those lame self referential jokes that have littered teen horror since Scream ( 1996 ) , there's a time & place for stuff like that & The Texas Chainsaw Massacre remake isn't it & I'm glad the filmmakers agreed . The film moves along at a nice pace & is never boring & it actually seemed a very short film until I realised it lasted 100 minutes , it flew by it really did . I also really liked the police footage that bookend that film & the cool shock final shot which I thought was particularly effective . I really like this one & I'm not usually a big fan of Hollywood horror let alone remakes . Director Nispel does a great job , while the film looks a bit ' staged ' at times there's a great atmosphere & some great scenes . I loved a lot of the background detail like all the butchers hooks , jars of body parts , skin hanging from the ceiling , shafts of light that burst through gaps in the wall panels , the look of the house & Leatherface's basement chamber of horrors are spot on & it can be a pretty intense ride at times . The film seems shot with a slightly bleached colour scheme & that also works great , there is a cool shot just after the girl commits suicide where the camera zooms back through the hole in her head & out of the hole in the back window & continues to pull back . You always felt that the gore was probably going to be somewhat tame & there is gore here but more flashes than anything else , someone is impaled on a hook in reference to a corresponding scene in the original , there are various severed limbs & body parts , someone has their leg sawn off & the scene when the girl blows her brains out is pretty nasty . With a supposed budget of about $9 , 200 , 000 , which I don't think is big budget as far as Hollywood goes , The Texas Chainsaw Massacre is very well made & has great production values & special effects . The acting is surprisingly good as well , everyone plays it straight & put in a good performance . R . Lee Ermey as the Sheriff is intense . The Texas Chainsaw Massacre remake was a hell of a lot better than I was expecting , as probably just about the only person on the planet who doesn't like the original I'm sure there are many out there who will disagree with me but I think Chainsaw ' 03 is better than Chainsaw ' 74 in every way . I was impressed , definitely worth a watch for those with the stomach . The other Chainsaw films are , The Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2 ( 1986 ) which I think is a fantastic black comedy horror , the decent but not outstanding Letaherface : Texas Chainsaw Massacre III ( 1990 ) which tried to be serious again with mixed results , the truly awful The Return of the Texas Chainsaw Massacre ( 1996 ) & the soon to be released The Texas Chainsaw Massacre : The Beginning ( 2006 ) .
Great Quincy episode . Rating 8 This comment may contain spoilers Quincy M . E . : Requiem for the Living starts late one night as Los Angeles chief medical examiner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) & his assistant Sam ( Robert Ito ) are finally able to leave the laboratory after a long day & head to Danny's for a game of poker with the boy's . However while in the parking lot Quincy & Sam are taken hostage at gunpoint by mob boss Vincent DiNardi ( John Vernon ) , escorted back into the laboratory DiNardi reveals that he has just found out he is dying from lung disease & has less than twenty four hours to live , DiNardi claims that he has been poisoned & that he wants Quincy to perform an autopsy on himself while still alive to determine the cause of the poisoning & who was responsible at which point DiNardi will order that persons death as one final act of revenge . . . Episode 20 from season 3 Requiem for the Living was the final episode of the third season of Quincy & it was a cracking last episode , directed by Rowe Wallerstein this is yet another story which proves how versatile the premise of Quincy actually was & how varied the stories could actually be & certainly during it's first five or six season were . The main gimmick of Requiem for the Living is that Quincy is ordered to perform an autopsy on a living person rather than a cadaver which is a nice twist & one that the series used a number of times as during the eight season run Quincy autopsied animals including horses & goldfish , Egyptian Mummies , murder cases , suicides & even nothing more than a few bones . I enjoy the crime based Quincy episodes much more than the moralistic ones & it's great that there's a murder mystery element here , there's the personal threat as Sam & Quincy are held hostage at gunpoint & there's even a nice little twist at the end which I for one didn't see coming , the killers motives are not exactly brilliant ( why kill someone who has just brought you an entire apartment complex ? ) but it's only a fifty minute episode , what do you want ? This one has a great pace about it , there's some nice interplay & dialogue between Quincy & DiNardi as he tries to convince Quincy that despite his line of work & who he is he is an honourable man . All in all a great episode that Quincy fans should love . As usual this episode of Quincy is not going to win any awards for style but the terrific story more than makes up for the slightly dull visuals . Set almost entirely in the laboratory , we never actually find out what happens to Chuck the security guard . He isn't shown being rescued so maybe poor old Chuck starved to death tied up as everyone forgot about him & his skeleton is lying around somewhere in the Los Angeles county coroner's office ready to be discovered & have a Quincy like pathologist poke around it trying to figure out if it was murder . . . There's some great casting here as the late prolific John Vernon plays the heavy role he is so good at although I can't decide if I liked him better in Requiem for the Living or the amazingly loopy & brilliant Killer Klown from Outer Space ( 1988 ) , Jack Klugman as Quincy is superb as usual but I come to expect no less from such a terrific actor . Requiem for the Living is an absolutely terrific classic episode of Quincy with a great plot , a solid murder mystery where the victim is still alive & some good twists which help make this one of my favourite Quincy episodes .
Mars Atttacks ! starts as the president of the United States of America James Dale ( Jack Nicholson ) is informed that the Hubble telescope has photographed 100's of Martian spacecraft orbiting Earth , he makes an announcement to the nation on national TV to inform the public . The Martians broadcast a message which is translated into English & are discovered to be landing co-ordinates in the Nevada Desert , a welcoming committee is organised to greet the Martians when they land . At first all indications seem to point to the Martians being peaceful but that doesn't last long as they begin to zap & kill anyone within sight & then mount an all out attack to take over the Earth ! Co-produced & directed by Tim Burton I remember Mars Attacks ! being one of the very first DVD's ever released here in the UK , in fact I think it was in the very first wave of releases by Warner Bros . over here who along with Colombia were the only major studios to support DVD upon it's initial launch in the UK & I also remember I got it free when I brought my first player all those years ago ( I can also remember how impressed I was with the picture quality which we now take for granted ) & frankly I loved it then & I still do now . Anyway , the script by Jonathan Gems is funny , smart , fast paced & a whole lot of fun . Now I think you need to be of a certain disposition to enjoy Mars Attacks ! as it's going to appeal to horror / sci-fi fans & not just films of that type from the 50's either although one senses that's where most of the inspiration for Mars Attacks ! comes from . To ' get ' Mars Attacks ! I think you will need to have a basic knowledge of sci-fi films & actually like them otherwise this is not going to appeal to you at all , there are some very funny scenes here as well as some exciting ones in particular the Martian invasion at the end . One major problem is that the script tends to go from character or set of character's to another very haphazardly without giving much time for them to develop & never really settles on any particular person or group so it's difficult to get attached to anyone . Still Mars Attacks ! is more about the Martians than humans , I think it's absolutely fantastic with a weird sense of humour & is great fun but I seem to be in the minority unfortunately . Director Burton does a great job & he obviously has lots of fun here , the design of the Martian flying saucers to the big brained Martians themselves , to the 50's look of the Army even though it's set in the late 90's which is a contrast I rather liked . I liked all the little touches in this film & the sneaky little homages , how the Martian rays guns would strip peoples skin & leave behind a red or green skeleton , the way the Martian dressed as a woman infiltrates the Whitehouse & it glides along rather than walk & countless other little touches here & there that you probably need to be a fan-boy geek to appreciate . The CGI computer effects are excellent & are more or less as good as anything that has been made since . With a budget of about $70 , 000 , 000 Mars Attacks ! bombed at the box-office making less then $10 million back over it's opening weekend which is a shame as it is well made with high production values , great effects , an eerie 50's inspired score by Danny Elfman & some fabulous 2 : 35 : 1 widescreen ( please , please see it in widescreen if you can ) cinematography . The all star cast do OK but they sort of ham it up a bit too much , Jack Nicholson , Pierce Brosnan , Sarah Jessica Parker , Michael J . Fox , Natalie Portman , Danny DeVito , Annette Benning , Glen Close , Martin Short , Rod Steiger , Joe Don Baker , Jack Black , Pam Grier & Welsh singer Tom Jones go to make up an impressive cast list . Mars Attacks ! is , in my opinion , a wonderful playful & fun sci-fi homage that stands up as a pretty darn fine film in it's own right . Unfortunately not everyone agrees with me & I'm aware more people dislike Mars Attacks ! than actually like it so while I give it an it's an impossible film for me to recommend . Probably made by fans for fans if you know what I mean .
Friday the 13th Part 2 starts with the surviving Alice Hardy ( Adrienne King ) having a nightmare about the events of the original Friday the 13th ( 1980 ) in which she beheaded mass murderer Pamela Voorhees ( Betsy Palmer ) with a machete & had a close encounter with her supposedly dead son Jason . It's been several months since the gruesome events at Camp Crystal Lake & Alice is trying to get her life back on track , however her progress is cut short when one night she finds Mrs . Voorhees severed head in her fridge & is then brutally killed by having an ice pick shoved into the side of her head . It's now been 5 years Camp Crystal Lake has been closed & abandoned , the surrounding area is trying to forget about the horrific legacy left behind by Mrs . Voorhees killing spree . Two teenagers , Jeff ( Bill Randolph ) & Sandra ( Marta Kober ) drive into town looking for a new counsellor training centre that has recently opened in the area , just across the lake from Camp Crystal in fact . A old man known as Crazy Ralph ( Walt Gorney ) warns them both that they're " all doomed " , Jeff & Sandra ignore his ramblings & continue on their way . The new camp is run by Paul Holt ( John Furey ) & his girlfriend who doubles up as his assistant Ginny Field ( Amy Steel , apparently her character Ginny Field is named after Virginia Field this & the original Friday the 13th's production designer ) , there is a good turn out & things start well . After some initial light training Paul says that the hard works begins tomorrow & anyone who wants to have a big night out do it now . Half the group go & half stay behind , those staying include the attractive Terri ( Kirsten Baker ) & her unwanted admirer Scott ( Russell Todd ) , Terri's friend Vicky ( Lauren-Marie Taylor ) , a guy in a wheelchair named Mark ( Tom McBride ) plus Jeff & Sandra . But there is someone else there as well , as the rain begins to fall & lightening starts to strike a mysterious hooded figure is stalking the camp brutally killing everyone one-by-one . . . Produced & directed by Steve Miner Friday the 13th Part 2 is a solid entry in the Frday the 13th series of films which have become my favourite horror film franchise & Jason my favourite killer , I have to say that I really missed the iconic hockey mask Jason has for the remainder of the series though as here all he gets is a bag over his head . The script by Ron Kurz is not a huge departure from what has gone before , or indeed since . It isolates a group of typical teenagers deep in the woods & has Jason kill them off in various ways . I found the stalking & slashing in this entry pretty neat , director Miner manages to create some decent tension & a few scares . The script throws in a bit more motive for Jason's killing spree than usual as it suggests that Jason is out for revenge after witnessing his Mother's death & whose head he still has on a table surrounded by candles . But what it basically all boils down to is that these films are all about the kills & they're pretty good in Friday the 13th Part 2 even though it's obvious that they are censored , which is a shame . There's an ice pick in the head , a machete slitting a throat , a double impalement , someone has a hammer whacked into the the back of their head , Jason cuts someones throat with some wire & someone ends up with a machete planted in their face . While none of these murders are particularly graphic I liked them , as usual Jason is unmasked at the end & here he looks like a deformed man rather than the rotting zombie he would latter become . The teenage character's are clichéd for sure but having said that I thought they were surprisingly all quite likable & no one really annoyed me , well except Jeff I suppose but then there's always one isn't there ? The cinematography by Peter Stein in Friday the 13th Part 2 is very stylish & classy , the daytime shots are very rich in colour & the nighttime shots are well lit to create a good atmosphere . As a whole the production values on Friday the 13th Part 2 are above average & it has a nice polish about it . The cool sounding score & especially the main theme by Friday the 13th regular Harry Manfredini is unmistakably Friday the 13th & I think adds a little something all on it's own . Overall I'm a huge fan of the Friday the 13th series of films & this is a good one , while not terribly original it goes about it's job with professionalism & turns out to be an enjoyable slasher . You know what to expect so have a reasonable level of expectation & I'm sure most slasher fans will find something here to entertain & enjoy .
