Incredibly , foolishly silly sequel to the 1976 version of " King Kong " in which the colossal gorilla is being kept barely alive after plummeting from the World Trade Center in the previous movie . It's determined that Kong needs a transfusion , and wouldn't you know it , wise-guy adventurer / opportunist Hank Mitchell ( Brian Kerwin ) has accidentally discovered another Kong of the female persuasion . The two Kongs ultimately get together , escape , and head for the wilderness and mate . Hank hooks up with dedicated doctor Amy Franklin ( Linda Hamilton , wearing a " WHY did I sign up for this ? " expression on her face throughout ) and they try to save the two Kongs from extermination by gonzo , trigger-happy military villain Col . Nevitt ( John Ashton , better known as " Sgt . Taggart " from the first and second " Beverly Hills Cop " films ) . The film-makers seem to have taken themselves seriously , and more's the pity . The movie is just too darn absurd to work , with its dumb characters , unintentional humor ( at least I THINK it's unintentional ) , and sometimes laughable special effects . If you are so inclined , feel free to watch this movie and catch bad cinema at its " finest " . I'm surprised that movie was nominated for only one Razzie !
Hordes of genetically enhanced killer bats lay siege to a rural Texas area . Bat lover / scientist Sheila Casper ( Dina Meyer of " Starship Troopers " ) and local sheriff Emmett Kimsey ( Lou Diamond Phillips ) , with the help of her assistant Jimmy ( Leon ) work to save the day . That's all that this movie has in the way of plot . A glorified B-movie that at times wallows in lousy dialog and characters ( and performances ) ; it starts stinking like a great steaming pile of guano . Whenever the bats attack it gets a bit more entertaining but this is routine , formula horror stuff that does little more than take up space on the video store shelf . Even the creature effects are below par for the K . N . B . EFX Group ; the bats look somewhat ridiculous at times . In the featurette on the DVD , the actors seem to be trying to convince themselves that they were appearing in something of merit . Well , let me tell you , if this movie had gone more over the top , or gotten more campy , or tongue-in-cheek , or something like that , it might have been more fun ( for me , anyway - at least the stupid lines would have been more tolerable ) , but the film-makers take it seriously as a visceral , make-you-squirm-in-your-seat kind of movie . Once it's over , you'll forget all about it .
A lame , witless , utterly flat horror movie parody in which a silly family move into an inherited house that has been cursed for ages ; the son picks up an old book , " The Book of Evil " , and , not knowing any better , opens it and thereby unleashes an assortment of monsters on the house ; two ' Addams Family ' / ' Munsters ' types ( Jeffrey Tambor and Nancy Lee Andrews ) arrive on the scene , followed by wacky Van Helsing ( Severn Darden ) . Personal taste may dictate how this works for you ; I can only tell you that I found it boring and unfunny . I had a few scattered chuckles throughout , but that was it . Obviously a low , low-budget product ( from Roger Corman's New World Pictures ) , that helps to amp up the cheese factor . The acting is also probably intended to be bad as well , but that didn't work for me , either . The cast includes real-life couple Richard Benjamin and Paula Prentiss , Kevin Brando - noteworthy as the voice of Schroeder in several Peanuts related projects , Tambor in what was actually only his second feature film , sexy cult actress Roberta Collins in a rather small role , and film veteran Rosemary De Camp as a miserly and venal aunt . I couldn't really hate it - it's harmless ( remember the PG rating , kind of unusual for Corman's canon of films ) and mildly likable , but I still would have liked to have laughed a lot more . Again , I guess it will just come down to one's own sensibilities as to how much or little they enjoy it .
Rebecca Carlson ( Madonna ) is picked up by the cops and prosecuted for murdering her wealthy lover in order to get a portion of his money . The gimmick in this case is that she used her own body to kill him - their sex was so kinky that it put too great a strain on his already weak heart . Frank Dulaney ( Willem Dafoe ) is the stupid patsy of a lawyer who takes her case . Dull , sleazy , and stupid in equal measure , this film adds up to very little . Most of the cast is fine ; however , Madonna continues to supply evidence that if she wants to continue acting she should stick to supporting roles ( i . e . A League Of Their Own ) . She is just plain poor in this one . Not worth more than a rental on a slow night . Those hoping to be aroused may not even find it worth the effort ; it's not that sexy . .
Regarded by many critics as one of the biggest stinkers of all time ( certainly the biggest stinker of director Brian De Palma's career ) . Sherman McCoy ( Tom Hanks ) is a smug rich boy whose life goes to pieces when he and his lover Maria Ruskin ( Melanie Griffith ) are involved in a hit-and-run . His story is chronicled by another smug guy , reporter Peter Fallow ( Bruce Willis ) . Well , as I said in my summary . . . What is this movie supposed to be ? It seems to combine comedy , drama , and satire , but it sure doesn't add up to much . It's undermined by unimaginably loathsome , one-dimensional characters who you'd never want to have the displeasure of meeting in real life . I'm no big fan of the novel ( I started reading it once , but couldn't finish it because it wasn't to my liking ) but it's obvious to me that those who did / do enjoy the novel consider this film to be a complete travesty . I've never seen so many talented actors strive to hard to give a below-average movie some semblance of quality and fail . What a waste . The problems start with casting nice guy Tom Hanks in a role that is clearly supposed to be UNsympathetic . And the role of Peter Fallow in the novel was that of a Brit . Bruce Willis is badly , BADLY miscast in the role . What was the thinking there . Alas , not even Morgan Freeman can escape the film with his dignity intact , being obliged to deliver a lame , heavy-handed lecture on ' decency ' after the climax . This movie ends up turning into an absurd farce . I liked the assemblage of talent ; for that I will give it , but I'm sure some people will say a MUCH better movie could have been made from the source material .
Tommy Jarvis , the preteen hero of the previous entry , is now a mentally disturbed teenager who ends up transferred to a halfway house located deep in the woods . Shortly after he arrives , one patient savagely attacks another , and soon after that , a new killing spree officially begins . Formulaic and routine slasher material ; the film-makers deliver the sex and violence that the core audience demands yet also fail to deliver any real scares . Further hampered by truly annoying characters and truly annoying dialog . The script overall really falls short , even for an F13 movie . At the very least , there are a few likable characters ( including some would-be victims who fight back with a vengeance ) who are worth rooting for . And John Shepherd does a good job of convincing me that Tommy became very emotionally unstable after his encounter with Jason . Also , the only series entry to actually feature a performer with the last name Voorhees . I only own it in order to have a complete F13 collection .
Third " Jaws " sequel in which the now widowed Ellen Brody ( Lorraine Gary ) receives news of the worst sort : her son Sean ( Mitchell Anderson ) , now the deputy police chief of Amity , has been gobbled up by yet another hungry shark . Ellen becomes convinced that it is the fate of the Brody family to be forever pursued by hungry sharks . She spends some time with her older son Michael ( Lance Guest ) , a marine biologist , in the Bahamas , and wouldn't you know it . . . guess what shows up ? The recipient of some of the worst reviews and ratings of all time , this forgettable and ludicrous " nature-run-amok " thriller occupies a place of dishonor on IMDb's bottom 100 . While I am not going to sit here and extol virtues of this movie that don't exist , I must confess that I myself don't hate it . The movie really suffers from screenwriter Michael de Guzman's ridiculous contrivances - which many people simply cannot tolerate - but for me it's not a horrible way to spend ( or kill ) time . I think it's passable , although that's mainly due to the film-makers . Acting is tolerable ( I wish people wouldn't rip poor Gary to pieces ; she's not THAT bad ) ; however , I will agree that Michael Caine is wasted in the unimportant role of Hoagie , the airplane pilot . Shark effects are variable ; in some scenes it's all too obvious the shark is a fake . Best scene is probably the one where the shark pursues Michael through the shipwreck ( ask yourself this , though : how did the shark get inside the shipwreck ? ) . Yeah , all in all , it's really the writing more than anything else that fails to measure up in this , the least of all the " Jaws " movies . This was one of the very few film roles for adorable young Judith Barsi ( as Michael's daughter ) ; she was senselessly murdered by her stupid lowlife father . Both Mario and Melvin Van Peebles have roles in the film ( as Michael's associate Jake and Mr . Witherspoon , respectively ) .
Depressed former FBI agent Jeremiah Ecks ( Antonio Banderas ) , mourning the loss of his wife , is tricked into performing another service when his former superior tells him that lethal , efficient operative Sever ( Lucy Liu ) will be able to tell where his wife is . Turns out , Sever is not the real villain of the story , and is instead actually seeking revenge . I had to sort of weigh the good and the bad here : This is a routine action thriller made with some competence ( be on the lookout for lots of gun battles , tons of fiery explosions , and a bevy of martial arts fights and vehicle chases ) but it doesn't really have a brain , heart , or soul . I've seen worse action thrillers but I also must say that I HAVE seen better . Banderas seems half asleep , and Liu is monotonous ( then again , she usually is ) ; the supporting cast is either acceptable ( Gregg Henry , Ray Park , Terry Chen ) or drab ( Talisa Soto delivers a flat performance that I just didn't like ) . It doesn't really deserve it , but I gave it because I felt charitable .
Incorrigible womanizer Jack Jericho ( Robert Downey , Jr . ) who pursues practically every attractive woman he sees on the street , meets his match in strong-willed Randy Jensen ( Molly Ringwald ) , a museum tour guide with an alcoholic loser father ( Dennis Hopper ) who owes a mobster ( Harvey Keitel ) a LOT of money . You could say that he gets in over his head . Hard to categorize this film as it tries to be both a romantic comedy and a seedy drama . The cast is good enough to keep it watchable , and it moves along well enough . Downey , Jr . and Ringwald are impressive , especially Downey - then again , when has he ever delivered a truly BAD performance ? His talent has never been in doubt . Overall , it's interesting , maybe not quite what I would call a GOOD movie , but I kind of liked it , and it is full of familiar faces . It is also a surprisingly short movie at 82 minutes . The one scene that I thought made no sense was the mugger ( or was he a mugger ? ) who sings like Elvis . What on Earth was the point of that scene ? ? ?
The Israeli-born producer / writer has been involved with a number of made-to-order B-grade movies - creature features and otherwise - over the last several years . In " Octopus " , a Russian nuclear sub sunken in 1962 has contaminated local cephalopod life and the latest eight-tentacled freak of nature is making life a nightmare for a modern-day sub transporting a prolific terrorist . What I do when watching a film of this kind is to go in with low expectations - I expect that effects will be cheesy , that the writing will be flamboyantly ridiculous , the acting will be less than inspired , and so on . " Octopus " is , like the film " Crocodile " that I reviewed just days ago , very mild escapist fare . It's not exactly a good film , but I don't exactly hate it . I would only hate a film of this kind if it aimed low and failed anyway . At least it wasn't boring . Sexy blonde co-star Carolyn Lowery looks completely out of her depth ( pardon the pun ) as ANY kind of scientist - she's the unlikeliest female scientist I've seen since the days of Denise Richards in " The World Is Not Enough " . The octopus itself is completely unconvincing throughout . I can only hope that if film-makers continue to use animation in their products , that the animation itself will be improved upon as time goes on . It's kind of a low-budget " Deep Rising " , I think . Not as entertaining as that film , or even " It Came From Beneath the Sea " , but it's fairly amusing nonsense nonetheless .
Okay slasher movie has a familiar plot of sorority pledges being obliged to take part in a stupid prank as an initiation - sneaking into a shopping mall after hours and swiping a security guards ' uniform - but being preyed upon by a vicious killer . Before this even happens - in the second half of the movie - we get a story of a college girl ( gorgeous Daphne Zuniga , in the role that " introduced " her ) plagued by nightmares , and being helped by her kindly - and conveniently hunky - psychology instructor ( James Read ) in dream therapy sessions that may remind viewers of the more mainstream slasher hit , " A Nightmare on Elm Street " . Average of its type ; it's fairly typical stuff , once it gets going : put the victims in peril , then knock them off one at at time . Those of you who like plot twists , and heavy back stories to go with the blood letting , might be amused by what you get here . ( Perhaps in reference to top-billed Vera Miles co-starring in " Psycho " , there's a " Psycho " - like plot development about a third of the way through . ) Gore hounds can take some satisfaction from some very graphic killings . And voyeurs may be pleased by a gratuitous dose of full frontal female nudity . As for the film itself , I consider it passable at best . The curious will note the presence of these very familiar faces ( Clu Gulager of " The Return of the Living Dead " , " A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 : Freddy's Revenge " , and " The Hidden " also co-stars ) and may want to check it out for that reason . The mall setting isn't a bad idea but the picture really doesn't deliver in terms of any real scares or suspense . Still , it should more or less satisfy the average slasher fan ; one could do worse than this .
Underwhelming B horror about a particularly vicious werewolf pursuing cutie pie waitress Josie ( Samaire Armstrong ) because it needs to mate with her . Hunky detective Steve Turley ( Ryan Alosio ) , who actually works the werewolf beat if you can believe that , vows to protect her . To start with , this movies ' attempt to build a mythology behind its plot just comes off as lame and oh-so-cheesy . The dialog is full of groan-inducing lines and the acting from the attractive young cast is just about what one could expect . Producer / director Richard Friedman goes for a real razzle-dazzle approach ( at least the movie's got some energy going for it ) , with a full-steam-ahead pace . The problem there is that too often it goes with the choppy style of editing common to so many modern movies , rendering some scenes a little incoherent . The real marvel of it is wondering what could have possessed veteran actress ' Tippi ' Hedren to appear in this ; it also makes an appalling waste of the cool Steven Williams , who's bumped off after the first few minutes . In any event , on to some good stuff : there may be enough gore here to satisfy those who crave it . Kane Hodder has a sizable role as the biker dude who is the human incarnation of the werewolf ( anyone who's ever wanted to see the guy in the buff will get their wish ! ) , and as always he has just the right amount of intimidating physical presence . But what most happily heterosexual guys will delight in most is the proliferation of nudity . One erotic scene in particular stands out ; it's protracted and certainly doesn't move the movie forward at all , but , really , who's going to complain ? And the werewolf is genuinely ugly and nasty and formidable . Too bad the excessive CGI distracts from the effect . It is what it is , and as cheesy B horror goes , it's really not all that bad . It just ain't very good either .
So-dumb-it's-fun type sequel to the infamous slasher flick of 1984 , this movie has Ricky Caldwell ( Eric Freeman ) picking up where his brother Billy left off . The film opens as a psychologist ( James L . Newman ) is analyzing Ricky , who's been on the path to madness ever since the conclusion of the original film . It becomes clear that the only way to really enjoy this is to just revel in its stupidity . In the style of Roger Corman-type film-making , where sets , special effects , and sequences can be used ad nauseum to save as much money as possible , debuting co-writer / director / editor Lee Harry utilizes as much footage from the first film as he possibly can , justifying it by having Ricky recite his back story to the shrink . Freeman is one of the silliest , goofiest , funniest slasher villains I've ever seen ; just watch as he laughs his way through all of his murders . His acting is priceless . I can't say much of the supporting cast ( naturally ) ; Lilyan Chauvin is conspicuously absent as the Mother Superior , played this time by an actress named Jean Miller . There's just so much here to chuckle at ; one of the most brilliantly bad moves is to use footage from the first SNDN for the movie that Ricky and Jennifer watch in the theater . Now that's being frugal . Then again , I always enjoy it when film-makers realize the silliness of their product and just have fun with it . Recommended to lovers of bad-good films everywhere .
Owen Wilson plays Chris Burnett , a Navy navigator whose plane is shot down over Bosnia when he and his pilot ( Gabriel Macht ) veer off course while on a recon mission . Burnett's superior ( Gene Hackman ) spends the rest of the movie trying to figure out how to rescue him even though it's not in his best interests to do so . Meanwhile , Burnett is being pursued by murderous Serbs while he attempts to reach a safe pickup point . The film-makers try a couple of gimmicks to get you hooked : speeded-up action , slowed-down action , freeze frames , and quick cuts , but it's not altogether successful . Despite their attempts to deliver non-stop excitement , this doesn't add up to anything special for me . I also think there are some continuity problems as well as problems with the characters as written ( don't these men act just a little too emotional for a group of military men ? ) . At least it's not boring , though . I give it , which I think is reasonable for a movie that's at least an average representation of its genre .
Among the many things that movies teach us is that trespassing on Indian burial grounds is a fatal mistake . Try telling that to the dummies here : a macho professor and his airhead students who go poking around the area , despite the warnings of a local . Tartu , a " witch doctor " who existed 400 years ago , rises from the grave and takes the forms of various animals - a snake , a gator , a shark - to dispatch his victims . If Florida-based veteran B movie director William Grefe accomplishes one thing , it's to show that the Everglades don't make a bad location for a horror movie . The director manages to create some tension out of his pursuit scenes . The death scenes are usually not convincing , but Grefe ought to get some credit for coming up with some stuff that must have been shocking back in its day ( a shark in fresh water ? ) , and that includes the little doses of gore to accompany these deaths . The actors ain't so great , and the characters are all just annoying enough to make one root for their demise rather than hope they escape . But I think what really hurts the movie is bad pacing ; it's just too protracted too much of the time . While certainly good for some laughs , it wasn't as much fun as I would have liked , even on the level of an enjoyably bad movie . Not that it doesn't have its moments . But overall I think I prefer another Grefe movie from this period , the hilariously absurd Jellyfish Man movie " Sting of Death " .
Supposedly based on actual events , this silly little movie played out for me not so much as horror but a low level survival-of-the-fittest yarn . A troupe of repellent city kids are on vacation in the deep woods . They make the fatal mistake of mixing it up with your standard-issue repulsive and psychotic hillbilly villains , who of course don't take kindly to having their territory trod upon . This was very tough to stick with for a while . The " heroes " are such an inane and worthless bunch that the end result is not caring who lives and who dies . ( In fact , it wouldn't have bothered me one bit to see everybody buy the farm . That's how bad the characters and performances are . ) The script ( by director Anthony Indelicato , who also plays the sheriff , and veteran character actor Frank Adonis , who plays Bubba ) is dull and routine . The film-makers do spice it up with some graphic gore and much-appreciated nudity ( at least there are some lovely young ladies on hand to serve as eye candy ) but all of this barely adds up to much when the movie is over . The final nail in the coffin is the ridiculous ending , the one last indicator of how clichéd and unimaginative the whole enterprise is .
A combination of surreal horror and " psychological drama " in which Claire Cooper ( Annette Bening ) quickly unravels as she becomes linked to a truly insane sicko ( Robert Downey , Jr . ) through her dreams , in which she can see events that will take place in the future . " In Dreams " starts off very strongly with a memorable opening title sequence in which divers search for a murder victim inside an underwater town that was deliberately flooded in order to create a reservoir . Elliot Goldenthal's wonderful music also contributes to the haunting feeling of this portion of the picture . The film has a pretty good look created by cinematographer Darius Khondji ( who also shot " Seven " ) and overall this is a suitably intense and disturbing thriller - maybe just too oppressive at times - a not-bad mystery as well as a vivid portrait of human insanity . The cast is fine , with both Bening and Downey opting for more subtlety than one might expect . There's not a lot of over-the-top screaming fits or anything like that . I didn't really like the characters played by Aidan Quinn or Stephen Rea at all , although that wouldn't really be the actors ' faults . Unfortunately , the balance of the film really fails to live up to that opening . It's reasonably entertaining , but I didn't find it wholly satisfying , mostly because I found that overall I couldn't bring myself to care that much about the story or the characters . Still , it's better than some of the junk out there . You could do worse .
" He Knows You're Alone " is a slasher movie style thriller from 1980 about a silent & deadly serial killer ( Tom Rolfing ) whose choice of victims is brides-to-be , presumably because he was once dumped by a girlfriend who went on to marry somebody else , and apparently it scarred him for life . Pursuing the killer ( who is only referred to by name once ( Ray ) ) is fanatically determined detective Len Gamble ( Lewis Arlt ) , whose murdered bride , incidentally , was the woman who dumped the killer once upon a time . Now the killer , after a period of inactivity , slaughters one poor girl in a movie theater in a sequence later imitated in " Scream 2 " . Then he sets his sights on the really pretty Amy ( Caitlin O'Heaney ) , who despite her upcoming nuptials , is actively being pursued by her nerdy but likable ex-boyfriend ( Don Scardino , who acted in " Squirm " for the same guys who executive-produced this film ) . Clearly , the fact that this marked future screen star Tom Hanks's film debut ( he plays a jogger / college psychology major who's only on screen for about seven minutes ) may be the one thing that some people may find interesting about this film . " He Knows You're Alone " completely lacks imagination for the most part , the opening sequence notwithstanding . It copies " Halloween " pretty fervently , right down to a similar musical theme and having the killer lingering in the background in many shots ( of course , one major difference is that you get a damned good look at the guy's face ) . It's not very stylish - debuting feature film director Armand Mastroianni shows some competence but no real flair . Writer Scott Parker ( who's only got one other credit to his resume ) and Mastroianni do show some restraint in terms of the killings . Very little blood is shown despite the graphic nature of the killings . ( Of course , there is one decapitated head that looks ridiculously phony ) . There is some expected ( partial ) gratuitous nudity , which Mastroianni and Parker supposedly weren't happy about , but filmed due to the producer's insistence . The characters are more likable than usual for slasher fodder , which was refreshing . Familiar faces in the cast also include soap actress Patsy Pease ( Search for Tomorrow , Days of Our Lives , The Young and the Restless ) , character actors James Rebhorn and Paul Gleason , and 1980's horror mainstay Russell Todd ( Friday the 13th Part 2 , Chopping Mall ) . I can't say that it's very scary ; occasionally there's a little bit of suspense , and some okay " jump " moments , but nothing to get excited about . Overall , it's a tolerable 1980's horror product and I think that you could do worse than this .
Obnoxious , irresponsible George Kuffs ( Christian Slater ) leaves girlfriend Maya ( Milla Jovovich ) after learning she is pregnant . In need of money , he hits up brother Brad ( Bruce Boxleitner ) for a loan but ends up taking over his brother's privately owned police precinct in San Francisco after Brad is coldly gunned down inside a church . Using the supposedly true-to-life hook of these privately owned and funded police precincts in San Francisco , the rest of the movie is pure movie-universe comedy : a terminally offbeat , silly , who - cares - about - being - realistic affair with some good laughs ; thankfully , for me , the best ones tended to occur more towards the end , especially when Kuffs is trapped in the laundry with Thunder the dog . Performances are generally entertaining ; despite the nature of the George Kuffs character , at least thanks to Slater's work I can at least laugh at ( and with ) him . ( To that end , it's now a worn-out cliché to have the lead character of a movie address the audience directly , but I have to admit that I did laugh at some of his dialog . ) Jovovich provides interested viewers with the requisite amount of eye candy , and is able to convey the essential sweetness of her character . Tony Goldwyn , following up his career-breakthrough performance as the " friend " in 1990's " Ghost " , is obliged to engage in some truly silly comic relief as the grouchy cop saddled with babysitting Kuffs as punishment for his indiscretions . Finally , there's the offbeat casting of a ballet dancer - George de la Pena - as the smug , businessman-type villain , and the amusing presence of Leon Rippy ( " The Patriot " ( 2000 ) , ' Deadwood ' ) as the thug with the wackiest wardrobe since the days of Ralph Furley . Boxleitner is very good in his brief time on-screen . Harold Faltermeyer , best known for his highly memorable " Beverly Hills Cop " music , contributes another funky , likable electronic score , even though it does sound a little familiar . People here seem a little divided ; most reviewers either love it or loathe it . I don't think it's any comedy classic but it's good for some entertainment . Pay close attention and you'll see Ashley Judd cowering behind a paint store counter .
Veteran police detective Edward X . Delaney ( Frank Sinatra , in his last starring role ) hunts down elusive psycho killer Daniel Blank ( David Dukes ) while his fragile wife ( Faye Dunaway ) lies in a hospital bed with a serious illness . Delaney is so distraught over his wife's condition that he starts bending and breaking rules in order to weed out the killer . As far as " Cop Vs . Killer " movies go , this movie is not like more recent studio efforts that put the accent on flash and style and gimmickry . This is more old-fashioned , subtle , character-driven material that I confess to have found a little boring at times but at least it doesn't go out of its way to be sleazy or contrived . Sinatra is quietly authoritative , and some of his supporting players ( James Whitmore , Brenda Vaccaro , and especially Martin Gabel ) do a solid job . I liked Gabel's character , a museum curator bored with his job who enjoys helping Delaney and playing amateur detective . It was good , as always , to see the great character actor Joe Spinell , who starred in the horror sleaze-fest " Maniac " that same year . Dunaway , sadly , is criminally underused in a role that requires her to do next to nothing . While you watch , keep A VERY SHARP EYE out for Bruce Willis ; he plays a non-speaking bit part in his film debut .
As part of his " thumb " series of humorous takeoffs , comedy writer / director / actor Steve Oedekerk did this frequently funny spoof of the indie horror sensation " The Blair Witch Project " . An aggressive , ambitious female thumb hooks up with a surfer dude thumb cameraman and a wimpy thumb sound man and hightails it for the woods to investigate the mystery of the " Blair Thumb " . It started off so well - I haven't laughed like that for a while - that it was a little disappointing that this short film didn't maintain the same quota of laughs throughout . I guess I could say that the joke wears thin quicker than I would have liked . That said , there are still enough good lines and moments throughout for me to appreciate it . The vocal performances by Megan Cavanagh , Jim Jackman , and Oedekerk are right on the money , and the direct references to " The Blair Witch Project " hit their targets as well . I liked jokes like the sign that read , " same exact spot " , and lines like " What's the Vic short for ? Victor ? " " No . . . Victim . " Best thing about it is that it can work for you whether you're a fan of the film's target or not . A pretty good comedic short ; I give it .
Admittedly unpleasant by nature , this film has " Home Alone " star Macaulay Culkin as Henry , a pre-teen sociopath untroubled by conscience . His cousin Mark ( Elijah Wood ) , already an emotional wreck over the premature death of his mother , has come to stay with Henry's family while his father is away on business . Only Mark gets to see what a demonic little creep Henry is , as he seems to everybody else on the planet to be the perfect angel-faced little kid . Just a passable little thriller , an adequate time-filler at best . The major difference is having children as the protagonist and antagonist , and the film is quick to point out the fact this sometimes inherent distrust that parents and other authority figures have of children ; how they are so quick to disbelieve or dismiss whatever a child has to say . In fact , you could look at this as being a child's eye point-of-view of a thriller type story . Most of the adults are in the background , with little to do except look concerned . Wendy Crewson's role as the mother / aunt is a little more pronounced , as she becomes something of a surrogate mother to Mark and eventually wises up to the true nature of her own son . Elijah Wood is the real young star here ; I think that he has the better role , and , in my own opinion , gives the better performance . If his role weren't likable or sympathetic enough , this may have been harder to sit through . Culkin just kind of does okay as the diminutive villain . The ending is not just contrived , it is downright ugly , leaving a bad taste in the mouth as the film draws to a close . I liked some of the acting , and despite the film's flaws , it is still technically well made . The photography is impressive at capturing the landscape . Two other Culkins can be seen , as Macaulay's sister Quinn plays his character's sister , and younger brother Rory can be glimpsed in a photograph .
Jim Wynorski directed this remake of a 1957 Roger Corman flick in which a " Mr . Johnson " ( Arthur Roberts ) , really an alien being with killer eyes , arrives on Earth to collect blood for the dying population of his war-torn home planet . He recruits an affable human slimeball named Jeremy ( Lenny Juliano ) as a personal assistant to handle various duties , and hires sexy nurse Nadine Story ( Traci Lords , here making her big leap to mainstream movies after her stint as a prominent under-age porno actress ) to administer blood transfusions on a daily basis . There's one good thing about Wynorski movies : there are no artistic pretensions of any kind that I can sense ; they're just straightforward , sleazy fun . While many viewers may understandably bemoan the fact that our vivacious star doesn't disrobe as often as might be expected , there's still plenty of female flesh and bouncing breasts on display . Rebecca Perle , Roxanne Kernohan , and Becky LeBeau , among others , deliver the goods and then some in this regard . As for the movie itself , the plot ( what there is of it ) is actually not too bad . It's a fairly well paced movie that is over pretty quick . It goes without saying that it's very cheesy , but that is part of its mild charm . As one of his several projects for Roger Corman , Wynorski is able to utilize ample stock footage from the New World catalog , especially during the opening credits sequence . Lords does a respectable job as the heroine , Roberts is amusingly deadpan as the unemotional alien , with Juliano and Roger Lodge ( as Lords's boyfriend ) offering likable supporting performances . Wynorski regulars like Ace Mask and Kelli Maroney are fun as well , although gorgeous Monique Gabrielle is wasted and completely unrecognizable in a very brief and highly offbeat cameo . Michael Delano , as the vacuum salesman , was most amusing in the way that he reminded me of longtime Corman regular Dick Miller ! " Not of this Earth " is a fairly engaging and fun bit of schlock ; if you're partial to this sort of thing , you may enjoy it .
Thoroughly average but basically watchable thriller about young wife Ann ( Kari Wuhrer ) , whose husband commits suicide after being passed over for a promotion that he badly needed . Ann decides to save the bulk of her wrath for the career woman , Nicole ( Barbara Crampton ) who inherited her late husband's job . She connives her way into Nicole's household by murdering their housekeeper , Karina ( Peggy Trentini ) and setting herself up to take Karina's place . She ingratiates herself with most of the family , even going so far as to seduce both husband and son ( at least she kept it in the family ) . Although it's got enough goofs to push credibility past the breaking point , I found it entertaining . Not good at all , but entertaining . It's at least a very sexy film ; the sex scenes and nudity are a prime asset . Director Jim Wynorski , using his pseudonym Jay Andrews , at least keeps that asset prominent and moves his trashy , melodramatic , ridiculous " The Hand That Rocks the Cradle " variation along at a respectable clip . The actors fill out their roles adequately enough , and it's all a fair bit of sleazy fun . That's provided one can turn off their brain before watching , granted , but it's possible to be amused by the whole thing . As a vehicle for the stunning Wuhrer , it's a success on that term . She's very easy to watch throughout . It's also nice to see Wynorski and Crampton working together several years after the film " Chopping Mall " . I had a good enough time watching this one .
I just saw this film and I will say this : it IS a reasonably creative imagining of what goes on inside a person's body . Bill Murray plays a slovenly , disgusting guy who doesn't care what he puts in his mouth . When he eats an egg that has been infected with germs , he puts himself at risk , and the animated portion of this film , taking place inside his body , shows everything that happens . Personally , I liked the movie . I thought all the animated scenes worked . They were entertaining and the actors providing the voices ( Chris Rock , Laurence Fishburne , David Hyde Pierce , William Shatner , and others ) do spirited work . It's the live-action scenes in the movie that don't measure up . They are just typical Farrelly brothers scenes involving some EXTREMELY disgusting gross-out humor . There are scenes involving pus and vomit but I know I can't say anymore than that . Overall , this is a mixed bag . It's not for everybody . But if you can stomach the live-action scenes , you may be reasonably entertained . I was .
Goofy , corny , clichéd 1980's horror thriller about derelicts in NYC , living underground , who have mutated into monsters after being exposed to toxic waste . They come up to street level at nighttime to eat their human victims . I may not have enjoyed it right from the start , but " C . H . U . D . " did sort of grow on me . It's not exactly high quality stuff , but it is possible to be entertained if you don't take it seriously . Maybe that was the problem the first time that I watched it - I took it too seriously . Amusing monsters ( standard men-in-costume creations , but not bad ) , cheesy 1980's style electronic score , some hilariously dumb lines , and some decent performances are the highlights of this picture . " C . H . U . D . " was a true family affair , with friends and family of the principal contributors working either on or off screen . It may not be technically GOOD , but it was made with heart and the cast and crew clearly were having a good time with it . One major point of interest with " C . H . U . D . " is playing " Spot The Familiar Face " . You might be amazed at how many of the actors you will recognize . If you listen to the commentary on the DVD , it gets even better . The actors do a hilarious job of just ripping into the movie - and teasing each other . Surely it's noteworthy as one of the filthiest , mangiest , dirtiest movies I've ever seen . It captures on film what have got to be some of the most unattractive parts of NYC . I gave it .
Teen exploitation / sleaze drama about 15-year-old high school honor student Molly Stewart ( Donna Wilkes ) , who walks Hollywood Boulevard at night as a hooker named " Angel " . She acquires a mentor in compassionate detective Andrews ( Cliff Gorman ) while an ultra-creepy psycho killer ( John Diehl ) is killing off her associates . Oddly enough , this film isn't as tasteless or raunchy as you might expect ( although it does throw in obligatory female nudity ) so some people may be disappointed . Moderately enjoyable movie indulges in a little melodrama , as we get Molly's background story , but for the most part just tells a simple little story without wasting a lot of time . Film attempts to draw viewer in by introducing us to Molly's quirky friends : drag queen Mae ( Dick Shawn ) , faded cowboy actor Kit Carson ( Rory Calhoun ) , and butch landlord Solly ( Susan Tyrrell ) . All the actors are fine - I genuinely enjoyed their work ( as a matter of fact , it is their performances more than anything that made me enjoy this picture ) ; Wilkes was actually in her twenties at the time but looked young enough to more or less pull off playing a teenager . Diehl leaves a strong impression as the bad guy , despite having almost no dialog at all . It did offer a first for me : seeing the bad guy on the run , being pursued by the vengeful heroine , who is brandishing a gun in full view of dozens of people . R . I . P . Dick Shawn and Rory Calhoun .
All through history a run-down country home has taken its fair share of human lives ; together a young priest ( James Houghton ) and a cynical , grumpy detective ( Albert Salmi ) try to put an end to things in the present day . Passable genre fare with performances that are basically tolerable ( however , although those two girls playing the daughters of incoming resident George Leahy ( Larry Pennell , a . k . a . " Kemosabe " of the more recent " Bubba Ho-Tep " ) may be lookers , they are just awful ) . It boasts some atmosphere and a sense of foreboding , but what this fairly obscure 1980's entry is offering you are a few memorably over-the-top graphic murders - death by microwave , window pane , and runaway saw blade are all outlandish set pieces . ( Truth be told , though , the gore hounds interested in watching should note that the filmmakers seem to want the viewer to actually be interested in the STORY . There are large gaps in between the bloody mayhem . ) The climax is actually decent although the concluding moments are rather subdued . The lengthy flashback , involving the 1692 execution of a genuinely repellent disciple of Satan , is pretty good and , considering that this sequence doesn't ladle on the gore , I found that it kind of stuck in my mind as well . " Superstition " is worth a look for curiosity's sake . I would not go in with a lot of expectations , but I will say that the hardcore horror fan may derive some pleasure out of it .
From director Umberto Lenzi comes this mildly enjoyable variation on the standard zombie movie . Human beings get exposed to radiation and slowly rot into putrid killers that slaughter uninfected folks with a wanton aggression . TV journalist Dean Miller ( Hugo Stiglitz ) and his wife Anna ( Laura Trotter ) , a doctor , try to escape as the world starts to get over-run by the decaying monsters . Intended by the director as a meditation on the horrors of radiation , and inspired by a real-life incident , this can also be seen as a parallel to insidious diseases such as AIDS and cancer . He didn't want the movie , or the killers , to be too similar to what audiences had already seen in the works of George A . Romero and Lucio Fulci , and wanted it to have some basis in reality with touches of fantasy . Ultimately , though , the movie doesn't offer us much that we're not already familiar with . The good intentions just outweigh the results here . It does offer some lively scenes ( it's particularly amusing to see a televised dance routine broken up by an attack ) and the killers are pretty ferocious . However , it's not as gory or outrageous as I was led to believe . It has its moments , but comes up short in terms of delivering the truly , deliciously repulsive from-beginning-to-end violence that I was hoping for . I enjoyed seeing performers such as Eduardo Fajardo ( " The Killer Must Kill Again " , " Ricco " ) and Stefania D'Amario ( " Zombie " ) , and Trotter is appealing enough as the female lead . Hugo Stiglitz is adequate at best as a gruff , no-nonsense type of hero ( Lenzi was hoping for either Franco Nero , Fabio Testi , or John Saxon for the role , but the casting of Stiglitz , popular in Mexico at the time , was a decision forced on him by his producer ) . I was a little disappointed by this one , although the cyclical quality of the story struck me as an interesting touch . Zombie cinema has certainly been better served than this .
A bunch of dumb teenagers ( including " Gremlins " lead Zach Galligan , Deborah Foreman , Michelle Johnson , and Dana Ashbrook ) attend the midnight showing of a waxwork exhibit - seemingly just for something to do . These displays have the ability to trap each viewer in another time and place where , once they become victims , they become part of the display . Displays include a werewolf , Count Dracula ( the always hilariously wooden Miles O'Keeffe ) , zombies , the Marquis de Sade ( a campy J . Kenneth Campbell ) , and others . Eventually , somebody has to be left to do battle with evil waxworks owner David Lincoln ( David Warner ) , in a full-out final battle royale . I'll admit that I enjoyed " Waxwork " to a certain extent . It's a highly amusing 80's product , marking the film-making debut of writer / director Anthony Hickox ( son of director Douglas Hickox ) , made as a knowing and fanciful tribute to classic characters of horror . Portions of it drag , unfortunately , and it's really a lot more amusing than scary . But speaking as a horror fan , it's nice to see a mass congregation of these characters . The film does offer some genuine fun ( veteran actors Warner and Patrick Macnee are more enjoyable than their youthful co-stars , although John Rhys Davies has precious little to do as the werewolf ) . Good production design and costumes and plentiful gore also add to the entertainment value . The " Night of the Living Dead " homage sequence is in black & white , which was another nice touch . Overall , the movie has a playful approach that gives it some appeal . As an 80's update of the " wax museum " subgenre including such earlier films as " House of Wax " , it works out alright . Reasonably entertaining . Director Hickox appears on screen as the English Prince .
Bobby ( Paul Le Mat ) is a mechanic , and Rose ( Dianne Hull ) , a single mom . Neither of them has much in the way of prospects , and when they find each other , it's love almost at first sight . Their first date goes well until a bad joke turns deadly , and , convinced that no-one will believe their story , Bobby convinces Rose that they will need to start running . What made this work well for me was that Le Mat and Hull were very down-to-earth and appealing . They made their characters utterly real ; their relationship was poignant . And the supporting cast does fine : Martine Bartlett as Rose's loving mom , Robert Carradine as Bobby's ambitious friend Moxey , Noble Willingham as Bobby's helpful uncle Charlie , Cliff Emmich as an obnoxious loudmouth , and Edward James Olmos in a prominent bit as a pool player . But it's Tim McIntire who ultimately steals the show as the outgoing Buford , an acquaintance Bobby and Rose make on the road . The film is a great time capsule of L . A . and other California locations in the 70's . The eclectic soundtrack ( largely featuring early Elton John tunes ) is a big plus . The film has an interesting , gauzy sort of look courtesy of cinematographer William A . Fraker . Writer / director Floyd Mutrux gives some style to the presentation ; one example would be the car crash that happens to be set to the song " The Loco-Motion " . It's an appealing little movie leading to an effectively downbeat ending . With its good performances , sights and sounds of mid-70's California , and sensitive script , it's entertaining through and through and deserves to be better known .
Unrelentingly trashy hicksploitation flick with the novelty of plunking an African-American lead ( Leslie Uggams ) into redneck country . The lovely Ms . Uggams is jazz singer Liz Wetherly , who goes on vacation , only to fall victim to car trouble and get isolated in the back of the beyond . She stays at a cabin run by Bertha ( Shelley Winters ) , whose young companion , the title character ( an engaging Michael Christian ) who's an ambitious Elvis wannabe , takes quite the fancy to Liz . He's determined to have her , no matter what he has to do ! This is so far the only film I've seen where a rape is intercut with a scene of people watching two dogs get it on , all to the tune of a melodramatic song on the soundtrack . Oftentimes more stylish than expected , it's sometimes creepy , sometimes extremely sordid , and frequently downright hilarious . The film-makers completely immerse us in this little world , with great , flamboyant characterizations by much of the cast . Winters is right at home in the kind of part that seemed to be made for her in her latter days , Christian walks a fine line between being a real cretin and a real charmer , Ted Cassidy ( Lurch of ' Addams Family ' fame ) is the hulking and sullen Keno , and Dub Taylor is hambone judge and pool hall owner Floyd . In an interesting change of pace , Uggams ' character isn't altogether sympathetic , although she does a good job especially as the film goes on and her situation starts taking a toll on her . Far and away , the most priceless work is done by the great Slim Pickens , the sheriff who sucks on tomatoes while interrogating Uggams and asks such delicate inquiries as " Did he bite ya on yer beeps ? " The film ultimately gets quite ugly , but is nonetheless an amazing slice of trashy , obscure 70's B fare . With its rogues gallery of characters , its palpable atmosphere , and flair for the seedily nightmarish , it's something that one simply has to see for themselves . It's grim , gritty , and overall quite grandiose .
An official prequel to " The Amityville Horror " , this movie is loosely based on the fate of the real-life DeFeo family who moved into the notorious Long Island home . The horrific actions of the homicidal eldest son Sonny ( Jack Magner ) are blamed here on demonic possession . Heroic priest Father Adamsky ( James Olson ) realizes what he's up against and actually goes against the wishes of the church , taking it upon himself to exorcise Sonny . After giving " Amityville II : The Possession " a new viewing and a re-assessment , I can appreciate it more . Screenwriter Tommy Lee Wallace and director Damiano Damiani deserve credit for going for a truly dark and disturbing approach . They tackle such sensitive topics as child / spousal abuse , incest , and mental illness and while these elements are going to make the movie too unpleasant for some viewers to stomach , they nevertheless add a strong amount of real , disconcerting horror to this material . The movie does a better job than the first film at establishing an atmosphere . It's a genuinely creepy film with an intense variety of supernatural phenomena . The hidden room in the basement is another fine touch ; it plays a part in a fairly good sequence late in the picture . The makeup effects are well done and Lalo Schifrin's memorable music score is as effective as ever . Impressive camera-work succeeds in conveying the feeling that the demon responsible is everywhere at once . The acting is variable . Burt Young portrays the monstrous father quite believably , and Diane Franklin is very cute and appealing as the teenaged daughter . Jack Magner as the possessed Sonny and Olson come off very well , but Rutanya Alda's histrionics as the high-strung mother are a little too much , and Andrew Prine is wasted in a minor role as Adamsky's associate . Moses Gunn is good as Detective Turner as is Leonardo Cimino as the disapproving chancellor . Aside from an ending too obviously inspired by " The Exorcist " , this is still a reasonably entertaining horror film with some fine moments .
. . . I'll admit that I find it crazily endearing in its own thoroughly ridiculous way . Based on the comic book character created by Steve Gerber , this film works as a time capsule of over-the-top 80's cheese . The look of the characters and especially the music could only have fit into this era . Howard is a resident of a planet where ducks evolved instead of apes ( those who do embrace this film have got to love some of the Duckworld gags , such as a poster of " Breeders of the Lost Stork " , spoofing executive producer George Lucas's production of " Raiders of the Lost Ark " , not to mention the men's mag " Playduck " ) . He's zapped down to Earth by an errant ray beam , and tries to fit in , while forming a tender friendship with aspiring musician Beverly ( the always incredibly appealing Lea Thompson , looking quite fetching here ) . A sympathetic scientist , Dr . Jenning ( Jeffrey Jones ) , comes forward and admits that he's responsible , but in his efforts to send Howard back home , brings down an evil monster dubbed a " Dark Overlord " which intends to destroy the planet , along with others of its kind . It's a certifiably flaky affair that alternates more poignant moments with uproariously dumb comedic ones . A good deal of the dialog is lame , but I just had to laugh at it . The performers are really good sports : Tim Robbins has one of his earliest roles as the goofy wannabe scientist Phil ; listening to him talk like Donald Duck to Howard was just priceless . And Jones is obliged to go under heavy makeup and talk in a hilariously bad evil growl . They're all fun to watch , and a bunch of familiar faces ( Richard Edson , Paul Guilfoyle of ' C . S . I . ' , Tommy Swerdlow , Nancy Fish , Miles Chapin , David Paymer , Virginia Capers , and Miguel Sandoval ) play small parts , with Richard Kiley providing the voice of " The Cosmos " . Chip Zien is good as the voice of Howard . Part of my key to enjoying " Howard the Duck " is my refusal to ever take it too seriously . With its sometimes less than special effects ( The Dark Overlord is ugly but not that convincing ) , irresistible theme song , engaging title character , and plethora of lovably ridiculous moments and dialog , it makes for a pretty good time . ( One problem some viewers have is the potential for interspecies intercourse between Howard and Beverly , which admittedly is pushing things a bit for a movie with a PG rating , but it ultimately amounts to little more than flirting . I just find it one more likably off-kilter element of an overall amiable bit of pop-culture entertainment . ) Although infamous for being a major box office dud , this film has found its audience , and I'm not ashamed to admit that I'm part of it .
Dark , southern-Gothic thriller about young widow Annie ( Cate Blanchett ) who has psychic abilities and does readings for various people . Her testimony in a murder trial puts away a repulsive wife-beater ( Keanu Reeves ) , but she soon feels that the wrong man is in jail after receiving a number of supernatural clues . The kind of thriller I would describe as average , nothing more . It certainly has a fantastic cast ( even Keanu offers a decent performance ) , and it's made with style . I wasn't too surprised when the killer's identity was revealed , even though there's no shortage of suspects . Doesn't quite measure up to Sam Raimi's other films ; I think his best work will remain the Evil Dead films ( although I did like his film version of Spider-Man ) . I gave it .
Based on the novel by Graham Masterton , " The Manitou " gives us a story of a young woman ( Susan Strasberg ) with an enlarged tumor on her neck that is determined to be a rapidly growing fetus . Furthermore , it's the current incarnation of an Indian medicine man who has lived on for 400 years and counting . While I usually give so-bad-they're-good films , this picture is so bizarre , fanciful , and schlocky , it takes on such a you've - gotta - see - it - to - believe - it quality , I felt I would boost the rating . If it's not one thing , it's another - an old lady levitating and careening down some stairs , hospital floors that turn into walk-in freezers , the creepy little Indian spirit Misquamacus ( played by little people actors Joe Gieb and Felix Silla ) and his striking orbs , a cheesy final act involving a 1970's era light show , and more . The way I see it , what's not to like about a campy , outrageous horror thriller that actually seems to be taking itself seriously ? I don't see films like this every day . The swan song for cult director William Girdler ( who tragically died in a helicopter crash while scouting locations for a follow-up film ) , he sure gave us one heck of a spectacle to sign off with . An amazing troupe of high-profile stars ( Tony Curtis , Ann Sothern , Burgess Meredith , Stella Stevens ) perform with amazingly straight faces , supported by such folks as Jon Cedar ( who acted in Girdlers ' " Day of the Animals " ) , Paul Mantee ( " Robinson Crusoe on Mars " ) , and Lurene Tuttle ( " Psycho " 1960 ) . Michael Ansara is Indian medicine man John Singing Rock , in a standout performance . Effects are dodgy , especially a lizard being guaranteed to induce some chuckles . But I have to tell you that that final act just beats it all . It's all punctuated by a nice Lalo Schifrin music score that , again , is incredible for sounding serious , as if you were watching a different kind of film . I'll say it - I enjoyed this film . As a guilty pleasure , this would have to rank as a new personal favorite .
Based on a story by Peter Key , this Jimmy Sangster-scripted science-fiction / horror shocker is about a cloud resting atop a Swiss mountain named " The Trollenberg " that happens to be hiding a monster that looks like a tentacled eye and which kills its victims by decapitation . Nothing great , but offers a genuine dose of fun . It starts off as slow and talky , like other films of its kind , but gets better as it progresses , and the monster is not even shown on camera until the film is almost fifteen minutes from finishing . Legendary American actor Forrest Tucker is the lead , a heroic scientist , and an attractive pair of actresses , Jennifer Jayne and Janet Munro , play a pair of sisters with a novelty act who are vacationing in the area . Munro's character , it turns out , has real psychic abilities and seems to have a link with the monster . I've seen well-meaning , talkative , know-it-all scientist characters like Dr . Crevett ( Warren Mitchell ) in films like this one - I guess this kind of character had become a cliche pretty quickly . Also known as " The Crawling Eye " , I first heard of this film in the pages of Stephen King's epic-length novel " It " , believe it or not ! When I read that it was one of the few films to genuinely scare one of the characters , that made me interested enough to want to see it .
A young pre-stardom Robert Vaughn stars in this early Roger Corman effort in which Vaughn plays a young member of a prehistoric tribe . He begins to question everything , including the rigid set of rules set down by the tribe long ago , and yearns to venture " beyond the river " to unravel the mystery of the area . This , despite warnings that a " god " that the tribe fears brings the touch of death to those it encounters . I was rather pleasantly surprised by this one . It has intellectual aspirations that transcend it being merely just a cheap prehistoric epic . It explores issues such as the stubborn adherence to classic traditions , the inability of some individuals to open their minds , and how fear , paranoia , and ignorance can prevent people from moving forward or making connections with other people . I couldn't talk about too many more of its messages without revealing the ultimate , last-minute twist , which I rather liked and fits right in with other films from the same era . It's one of those cases where the cheapness / cheesiness of the whole affair ends up not so much of an issue . There's a goofy monster present that would seem to be much more at home in one of Roger Corman's sci-fi films of the period ; the revelation regarding this creature does not come as a surprise given its incongruous presence , but considering how it fits into the film's overall scheme , I was able to accept it . I found the acting generally decent . Vaughn does well as the inquisitive and philosophical young man , with Leslie Bradley as his " symbol maker " father and Frank DeKova as an antagonistic member of the tribe . Corman regulars such as Jonathan Haze , Beach Dickerson , and Ed Nelson appear as other tribe members . Darrah Marshall is very , very attractive as the blond maiden who becomes involved with Vaughn . " Teenage Cave Man " is reasonably interesting entertainment and clocks in at just over an hour , so even those who don't care for it won't have to stick it out for very long . Remade for T . V . as part of the " Creature Features " series in
Oddball fantasy-adventure from Hammer Studios begins as a sea voyage , as a Captain Lansen ( Eric Porter ) is transporting , along with assorted passengers , illegal explosives that he intends to sell to make enough money to retire on . They travel into dangerous weather and are eventually forced to abandon ship . Then the movie really gets crazy . They sail into waters containing living seaweed capable of devouring a man . Then they come across an island ruled by a strange tribe of people ruled by a child king . The fact that this movie is so unabashedly cheesy is part of the charm . The variety of gnarly yet quite goofy sea monsters is unconvincing enough to provide good laughs . Yet , as directed by Hammer executive producer Michael Carreras , it's not lacking in style . It's a good looking movie with some fine visuals . Moody photography and decent pacing also work in its favor . A professional cast makes the most out of their silly material . Porter is an efficient presence , while Hildegard Knef has some good scenes as her character relates her back story . Sexy Suzanna Leigh and well-endowed Dana Gillespie provide fine eye candy , and Tony Beckley , Nigel Stock , Neil McCallum , and James Cossins provide fine support . Overall , I thought it was agreeable schlock that would make for amusing rainy afternoon viewing .
" Malevolence " is a nasty , bleak picture every step of the way . With very few characters that could legitimately be considered " innocent " , it sets up a disturbing back story involving a child's abduction and what that child is forced to witness . Several years later , a no-count quartet of criminals ( including a husband and wife who unfortunately owe a lot of money to the kind of people to whom one shouldn't owe money ) stage a bank robbery . A series of incidents lead to a scenario wherein most of the main characters end up in a back-of-the-beyond residence . And this area has a deadly , deadly secret in the form of a truly frightening maniac who makes this place his home . Writer / producer / director Stevan Mena ( who also composed the effectively scary music ) does definitely wear his influences on his sleeve , such as " The Town That Dreaded Sundown " , " Psycho " , " The Texas Chain Saw Massacre " , and as the film goes on , it's clear that he's acquainted himself well with the " Friday the 13th " series . His concept of a " heist gone awry " plot eventually segueing into a out-and-out horror movie is a pretty good one , and he gives this movie the kind of atmosphere that some horror movies definitely lack . Right from the start , it's clear that his film will be played straight , with no irony or self-referential dialog ; I don't believe he's really acting as if his film sparkles with originality but it's what he does with the material that matters . There's an excellent sense of melancholy established immediately , and a fair number of the scares are genuine . Granted , some of Mena's " jump " movie cues are highly reminiscent of what John Carpenter did for " Halloween " , and he trots out the clichés a little too often ( especially in the final scenes ) , but his movie is definitely worthy of some respect . While it may leave gore lovers less than satisfied , it's an interesting change of pace that he never really throws that much blood in the viewer's face . The characters often behave in a typically stupid fashion ( leading us to quite enjoy their inevitable demise ) , but it is refreshing that a majority of them are indeed far from being squeaky clean . And I'm of the mind that the performances are better than what some people might expect . Brandon Johnson and Heather Magee conflict well as the husband and wife ; she's made up her mind to commit to being ruthless , while his conscience continues to nag at him . Richard Glover as Kurt and Keith Chambers as Max are quite convincing as lowlife scum in their time on screen , and Samantha Dark and Courtney Bertolone elicit enough sympathy as the imperiled mother and daughter who get drawn into the nightmare ( although Dark's incessant screaming is bound to annoy some viewers ) . It fades a little in the stretch ( it's actually at this point where we get fed some exposition ) but in general I believe it's a very solid effort and that Mena and company deserve credit for their efforts .
Paul Marsh ( Ezra Godden ) is thrust into a nightmare in a coastal Spanish village named Imboca , when a horrible storm does severe damage to a friends ' boat , anchored offshore . When he makes it to the village , he finds that the locals are a very off-putting sort , and of no help whatsoever . As the rain continues to fall , he gets the history of the place from " crazy drunk " , and seemingly the only normal person in the village , Ezequiel ( Francisco Rabal , who is great ) and discovers not only the incredible secrets of the locals , but the truth about himself . Stuart Gordon once again delivers decent B level horror taking its title from a very brief H . P . Lovecraft short story , but being based more closely on another tale titled " The Shadow Over Innsmouth " . The result is a nicely done tale with heavy atmosphere . Production design / art direction and cinematography are excellent ; this is definitely a film with good visuals . The music is quite suitably ominous and the film just builds in intensity as it goes along . It has quite a good feeling of mystery and a heavy accent on mythology and the ultimate revelations are interesting , to say the least . I haven't seen anything quite like " Dagon " , which is definitely a good thing . Godden makes for an enjoyable lead in the sense that he's not quite a conventional variety of hero . He's nerdy , jittery , and not really all that likable , but it's easy to share his befuddlement at his situation . Rabal is quite delightful as provider of some of the exposition ( this was one of his final roles , and the film is dedicated to him ) , and Macarena Gomez is lovely and bewitching as the character of Uxia . The effects are a decent combination of traditional makeup and CGI , and the film has a solidly grim and nasty tone that gives it an extra bit of kick . It's good and engaging outrageousness ; with the help of his old cohorts , producer Brian Yuzna and screenwriter Dennis Paoli , Gordon adds another fine H . P . Lovecraft adaptation to his filmography . Godden and Gordon , of course , would go on to work on another Lovecraft adaptation , the ' Masters of Horror ' entry ' Dreams in the Witch-House ' .
This rural slasher centers around Melissa ( Aleisa Shirley ) , a supposed 15-year-old beauty who figures prominently in a rash of killings ; the victims are young guys with the fatal tendency to lust after her . The local good ol ' boy sheriff ( Bo Hopkins , in the kind of role that he was seemingly born to play ) not only has to try to solve this baffling mystery , he has to deal with a detective junkie daughter ( " Friday the 13th Part III " cutie Dana Kimmell ) who keeps sticking her nose into the case , as well as local racist toughs ( particularly hulking Don Stroud as Billy ) who want to believe that the local Indians are responsible . The whole element of adding racism to a standard slasher story is one factor that makes this something unusual . Also , it's amusing to see a slasher with such a high mystery quotient . The movie follows one path most of the way through the movie , only for it to be revealed as a red herring with a last minute revelation that's unexpected since it comes from out of nowhere . Those expecting more of a typical slasher could very well be disappointed . Voyeurs will love seeing a protracted shower sequence no less than two minutes into the movie . The body count is awfully low , and although the murders are very violent , they may not be shown in enough detail to satisfy gore hounds . The cast is way above average for this sort of thing . The strong list of actors includes Patrick Macnee , Susan Strasberg , Don Shanks ( portrayor of The Shape in the fifth " Halloween " movie ) , Sharon Farrell , Michael Pataki , Henry Wilcoxon , and Larry Storch . My major beef is that drippy ballad that got to be way too much for me way too soon . Otherwise , this is a decent enough movie of its type and slasher enthusiasts / completists may want to check it out .
Sentimental and farcical comedy from writer / producer / director John Hughes , who previously had had success with his teen-oriented growing pains movies , about uptight marketing executive Neal Page ( Steve Martin ) who is trying to get home for Thanksgiving and runs into one aggravating problem after another - especially after he makes the acquaintance of loudmouthed , lovable " Shower Curtain Ring Guy " Del Griffith ( John Candy ) . The only thing that gives the film its R-rating is Martin's hilarious , rapid-fire use of the f-word in a tirade against a too-chipper car rental agent ( Edie McClurg ) . Otherwise , it might make for decent family viewing , and it teaches us that old lesson : not to always go on first impressions . As Neal Page himself remarks at the end , he says he has become wiser through his experiences . Martin and Candy are / were old pros , and they handle their roles just right . Hughes does not take the film over the top , and instead treats these characters as real human beings , making us the audience care about them as well . In fact , I would dare to say that Candy was rarely better , in one of the best roles I think that he ever had . We are all truly less well off for not having him in this world any longer . The film doesn't quite do for me what it used to ; there truly are good laughs and inspired moments ( in particular , I have the rant in the hotel room memorized almost word-for-word ) but I think that overall too many viewings in the past ( and therefore , too much familiarity with the material ) have blunted my feelings somewhat . Ira Newborn's music score is at times so utterly stupid it ought to make you laugh out loud . I used to think that the ending was perhaps TOO sentimental , but then , I now think , how could it end any other way ? Look for funny roles for guest star Kevin Bacon ( as the " taxi racer " ) and " Spider-Man 2 " co-star Dylan Baker ( in his film debut ) . Jeri Ryan was also supposed to have appeared in this but her scenes were cut . A MUST for fans of Martin , Candy , and Hughes .
The always fun Andrew Prine memorably plays the title character , Simon Sinestrari . He's a warlock who lives in a storm drain , of all places . The plot is set into motion when he makes the acquaintance of Turk ( George Paulsin ) in prison . Turk brings him to a party presided over by mover-and-shaker " Hercules " ( Gerald York ) where he's asked to perform for them . The problem is that often people just don't take Simon seriously . But they learn their lesson soon enough . He's the real deal , and doesn't take it well when anyone crosses him in any way . Things truly begin unraveling when he realizes he's attracted to Linda ( sexy Brenda Scott , to whom Prine was actually married prior to making the picture ) , the pill-addicted daughter of the district attorney ( Norman Burton ) . While ultimately I felt that the film went on a little long , it's still fair to say that this is a quite interesting and unconventional experience . The screenplay is courtesy of Robert Phippeny , a real-life warlock who provides it with plenty of juicy and florid dialog , which Prine delivers with relish . It does have some fine scenes , not the least of which is the ritual highlighted by group nudity ( including even those people who have no business being nude ) . One of its most appealing aspects is the sense of humor throughout ; a case in point is Turk needing to be de-stimulated , if you know what I mean . The special effects sequences lend a particularly trippy quality to all of it . Director Bruce Kessler definitely succeeded in doing this film his own way , subverting typical film-making techniques ( for one thing , saving all of the credits for the end of the film certainly wasn't very common back then ) and giving his cinematographer David L . Butler ample opportunity to put his own stamp on the film . But the main reason to seek this film out is to watch its star in action . Prine truly shows here what an under-appreciated talent he is , investing himself 100 % in his flamboyant role and doing a fine job of carrying the film . " Simon , King of the Witches " is worth a look for cult film fans everywhere .
Two young insurance company employees , Larry ( Andrew McCarthy ) and Richard ( Jonathan Silverman ) discover an instance of fraud and report it to their boss Bernie ( Terry Kiser ) . Unfortunately for them , Bernie is the one behind the fraud , and he asks his mobster associate to take them out . Unfortunately for Bernie , the mobster sends his hit man to eliminate Bernie instead . Larry and Richard arrive at Bernie's gorgeous beach house for the weekend and , after discovering that Bernie is dead , manage to make it look like he is still alive so that they can enjoy the rest of the weekend . An uncomplicated , very slightly plotted farce that is actually pretty fun if it hits you in the right frame of mind . The whole thing is extremely silly and yet extremely funny at times . McCarthy and Silverman are very lively , but Kiser completely steals the movie as the title corpse . I first noticed this amusing actor on a hilarious episode of ' Three's Company ' , and have remained amused by his performances ever since . However , I think that sad-eyed cult actor Don Calfa ( " Chopper Chicks in Zombietown " , " The Return of the Living Dead " is also worth mentioning , in a good comedy performance as the hit man who grows increasingly flustered in his attempts to kill Bernie once and for all . Catherine Mary Stewart is attractive and appealing enough as the girl Richard is interested in . It also seems to be part satire : a commentary on self-absorbed rich jerks who are so into what they themselves are doing that they can't notice ( or even sense ) that Bernie is dead . The movie's Canadian director , Ted Kotcheff , appears on screen as Richard's father . All in all , a good comedy . I give it .
Hunky paleontologist Kevin Hall ( Michael Sopkiw ) hitches a ride with another expedition to a locale deep in the Amazon jungle . Their plane crashes , killing some of the folk on board . Among the assorted troubles that the others will endure are leeches , piranha , a fierce local tribe that pray to a dinosaur god , and miners / slave traders . A handful of the expected elements combine to make this an agreeable time killer . There's the expected doses of sex and nudity ( and the ladies in question , Suzane Carvalho and Susan Hahn , are so delectable as to make this quite a pleasing asset ) . There's also a fair helping of gory violence , a lush tropical setting , an upbeat electronic score that is hard to resist , and a high body count . There's even some actual intentional humor . This exploitative trek through the jungle may not be on the level of " Cannibal Holocaust " , but it does just fine as a no-brainer adventure . Sopkiw , whose looks and personality are reminiscent of Bruce Campbell , makes for a pretty engaging hero . The acting / dubbing is naturally and typically unimpressive , but , really , who watches this sort of thing hoping for Oscar-worthy performances ? The characters are perfectly annoying and it's amusing to watch them succumb to a variety of nasty fates . Overall , it's a purely fun picture . Silly , to be sure , but a real hoot . Too bad we don't see more of this type of picture nowadays . Don't expect any actual dinosaurs , though .
In this low-budget Italian picture , the Bronx has become a decrepit " no man's land " where gangs are left to their own devices . The man in charge of it all is ultra-smooth Ogre ( Fred Williamson ) . The story kicks off when Ann ( Stefania Girolami ) , the daughter of the boss of an arms-dealing corporation , runs away and hightails it to the Bronx . She falls in with Trash ( Mark Gregory ) and his biker gang , becoming attached to Trash in the process . The corporation responds by sending hired thug Hammer ( the great Vic Morrow , in his next to last role ) to retrieve the girl . " 1990 : The Bronx Warriors " won't get any points for creativity , as it liberally borrows from earlier films such as " Escape from New York " and " The Warriors " . But what it lacks in originality is made up for by a fair amount of visual style and action . Granted , I was disappointed in that I think that it could have used more action than what was on display . It's also easy to see where the movie was padded ( drumming on the beach , anyone ? ) . Gregory is stiff beyond belief as the gang leader , although some of his supporting cast - George Eastman as Golan and Betty Dessy as Witch - is fun to watch . Williamson , projecting a mighty sense of bad-a cool as always , and Morrow , in fine nasty form , definitely steal the show . Filmed in both Rome and the Bronx , the movie gets a lot out of some great locations . Captured on screen is a perfect atmosphere of desolate and gritty decay . Also , the many gang members sport much weaponry and add a lot of color to the proceedings with their cheesy-as-all-get-out costumes . All in all , the movie is certainly great to look at . The funky pop score is easy to listen to , as well . I was left less than satisfied with the too-abrupt ending , but generally had fun with this flick . Yes , it definitely qualifies as trash , but it's agreeable and entertaining enough trash .
Likable enough Keith Colouris plays Harry Spencer , instructor at the title place of " learning " where people are basically taught how to have fun in the sun . Keith is visited by his highly animated younger brother Billy ( Corey Feldman ) in time for their uncle Gene ( Al Lewis ) , a shameless horndog and gambler to get in deep with local mobster Johnny Staccato ( James Hong ) . The solution is to have a girls ' beach volleyball game with the Academy , which Gene owns , on the line . It's pretty much a 90's update on the cheerfully stupid sex comedies of the 80's geared to young males . We do get a nonstop bevy of stunning ladies ( conveniently , all of the team members are babes ) and a healthy assortment of bare breasts on display . It's all just amiable enough for undemanding viewers to just go along with it . No great shakes ( as if anyone would expect that ) in terms of script or direction ; the " twists " are easy to predict , all the way down the line . But it's fairly hard to resist nonetheless . At least everyone seems to be having a good time . The rock soundtrack is definitely enjoyable , and even if the movie is primarily aiming for the titillation factor , it's certainly not as raunchy as some other films of its kind . Feldman as usual displays an easygoing attitude , although truth be told he may well have been hired for name value ; Colouris is the actual main character . Old pros Lewis and Hong are both fairly funny in stereotyped roles , while Elizabeth Kaitan is an appealing love interest for Colouris . Especially amusing is seeing Ron Jeremy pop up in a small part as an aggressive club owner . This might not size up to be anything special , even for its genre , but it's all agreeably silly and sexy .
Robert Morgan ( Vincent Price ) is the title character , left all alone after a germ turns all other people into shambling creatures exhibiting both vampire and zombie traits . Eking out a precarious day-to-day existence , he spends his time either searching for these creatures and destroying them , or searching for other survivors . Taking an appropriately grim , despairing , and downbeat tone , this was the first adaptation of Richard Mathesons ' novel " I am Legend " to reach the screen . Matheson himself co-wrote the screenplay , using the pseudonym " Logan Swanson " . It captures a sense of isolation and loneliness - the sometimes deserted , sometimes corpse-strewn locations are utilized frequently to great effect . One memorable plot device is the dispatching of the creatures in a blazing pit that creates a nicely hellish image . Comparisons to George Romeros ' " Night of the Living Dead " are certainly apt ; one can look at a number of films from the era and see where the director might have gotten some inspiration for his later horror film . Refraining from ever getting really hammy , Price delivers an engaging performance and is a solid anchor for the film . This film being shot in Rome , the rest of the cast is made up of Italian actors , including Giacomo Rossi-Stuart ( " Kill , Baby . . . Kill ! " ) and ravishing beauties Franca Bettoia and Emma Danieli . Fine set decoration ( note the look of Prices ' house ) by Brunello Serena Ulloa and cinematography by Franco Delli Colli give the picture a good look . " The Last Man on Earth " is an entertaining little film even if the creatures themselves don't come off as very threatening or scary . It makes for an interesting comparison to the later cinematic adaptations , namely " The Omega Man " ( 1971 , starring Charlton Heston ) and " I am Legend " ( 2007 , starring Will Smith ) .
Extremely far-fetched , outrageous but somewhat fun escapism with thoroughly vile serial killer Karl Hochman ( Ted Marcoux ) sucked into a computer mainframe when his body is being scanned at a hospital during a thunderstorm . In his new form he proceeds to terrorize Terry Munroe ( Karen Allen ) , the single mother whom he never got the chance to slaughter when he was still alive . Allen is appealing as always , although her character's apparent cluelessness as to the serial killer's existence is hard to swallow . Film also gives prominent character player Chris Mulkey , as a former outlaw hacker attempting to start a legitimate career , a rare shot at a heroic role . Look also for Richard Schiff , whose brother Paul produced the picture . All in all , this techno-thriller delivers some good excitement and tension , and is made competently enough . One thing it delivers in very large doses is an assortment of computer graphics and other visual / makeup effects . It's pretty entertaining , albeit in a be - prepared - to - suspend - your - disbelief kind of way . It moves well and is wrapped up fairly quickly . ( One touch that is kind of welcome is an actual LACK of sexual chemistry between Allen and Mulkey . It would have slowed the film down if the film-makers had tried to develop a potential relationship between the two , so at least there's no digression from the main story . )
In modern-day London , a tunnel excavation intended to add extensions to the existing subway system unearths some strange finds . First , a series of skulls and skeletons neither ape nor man , but something in between , possibly dating as far back as five million years ( ! ) . Next , a strange object , possibly a spaceship , containing some locust-like creatures . Dr . Matthew Roney ( an engaging James Donald ) and stolid Professor Bernard Quatermass ( a truly excellent Andrew Keir ) , in between quarreling with stubborn military man Col . Breen ( the highly enjoyable Julian Glover ) , probe the mystery of these discoveries . While for me it took some getting used to the very slow and steady approach of this film , it still provided genuinely intriguing ideas in a thoughtful and intelligent matter . Most intriguing is that science and religion are linked in the concept of a spiritual evil that could be ready to cause destruction on Earth . The increasing sense of desperation and concern that our protagonists feel culminates in a slam-bang finale as the film-makers finally let spectacle take over and give us a doozy of an ending . Better known more for their series of period horror films , Britains ' Hammer Studios did a very respectable job with their foray into the realm of science-fiction . This is a chilling movie with an exemplary music score by Tristram Cary , good underground sets , a fine cast , solid direction by Roy Ward Baker , and an original and provocative script by Nigel Kneale . It's an entertaining movie worth seeking out for discriminating sci-fi / horror fans .
Adaptation of Edgar Allan Poe story in which evil and decadent Prince Prospero ( Vincent Price , obviously enjoying himself tremendously ) presides over a court of equally decadent revelers . Not only that , but he and his female companion ( Hazel Court ) are Satan worshippers as well . In contrast to other Roger Corman films adapted from Poe's works , this is pretty elaborate and benefits from a bigger budget and longer shooting schedule than his other Poe-based films . The film has some atmosphere , is nice to look at , and also has an enjoyable cast . It's a decently entertaining picture all around . Best of all , Price makes his villainous character thoroughly entertaining . One effect that this picture has had on me is a desire to seek out and read Poe's classic stories and poems ; it's a gleeful celebration of depravity and the macabre . I haven't seen many of the Poe adaptations ( I saw " The Raven " quite some time ago , but don't remember much about it . ) but this was obviously a good place to start .
Nicolas Cage plays Jack , a Wall Street whiz , who makes the acquaintance of a mysterious stranger " Cash " ( Don Cheadle ) . Cash ends up showing Jack what his life would have been like if he'd made different choices in life . In this alternate reality , Jack is a family man and tire salesman , and he reacts with horror ( at first ) until he sees the joys of working-class , family life . Like I say , this film definitely has good intentions , and it's more or less believable ( some viewers may have doubts about some of the details ) . In any event , it's predictable but doesn't work out quite the way you might expect . I wouldn't say anything more because I know I can't give it away . That actually works , though , because a lot of movies go for a conventional ending , and this movie has the brevity to " swim against the tide . " Fantastic cast , too . I enjoyed it , maybe you will too . .
The always delightful Vincent Price stars as Warren Chapin , a surgeon / scientist who makes an incredible discovery . It turns out that fear causes a creature slightly resembling a lobster to grow on human spines . The only thing that defeats it is screaming . Legendary master showman Castle was absolutely great at coming up with marketing ploys in his low-budget horror movies . In this movie , he came up with " Percepto " , wherein selected theater seats would have buzzers attached and people in those seats would get shocked and yell out and get other theater patrons going . This little means of ensuring audience participation allows for a real sense of fun to come into play . Price is as solid as he's ever been , and gets a chance to ham it up during the notorious LSD trip sequence , supposedly the first ever portrayed on film . Judith Evelyn , in a marvelous performance hearkening back to silent film acting , is a deaf mute whom Price figures will be the best means possible to obtain one of the creatures , since she's incapable of screaming . Darryl Hickman is likable as Prices ' assistant , and Patricia Cutts perfectly snippy as Prices ' unfaithful , rotten , conniving wife . In addition to the LSD trip , there's a fine set piece with Evelyn hallucinating and getting scared to death ; the bright burst of red in the otherwise completely black & white movie is quite captivating . The climax with The Tingler at loose in the theater ( while the silent film " Tol'able David " is being shown ) is also most enjoyable . Granted , you'll have to be able to gloss over the less than special effects ; you can clearly see the wires manipulating the creature , but this is basically a spirited and infectious dose of horror movie gimmickry . Seeing it nowadays , I'm sure , just isn't the same as it would have been back in 1959 . I can't help but think how much fun it would be to go back in time and see this with an audience in a packed theater . Still , I enjoyed it . It's hard to resist the kind of enthusiasm Castle obviously felt making these pictures .
Follow-up to " Kiss the Girls " , based on another Alex Cross story by James Patterson . Depraved criminal Gary Soneji ( Michael Wincott ) is determined to surpass the Lindbergh kidnapping of 1932 and have people everywhere marveling at his cleverness , so he abducts young Megan Rose ( Mika Boorem ) , a senator's daughter , from a private school for the children of diplomats . Because he desperately wants to be documented , he draws Cross into the case , and Cross ( Morgan Freeman reprises his role ) investigates the case with young Secret Service agent Jezzie Flanigan ( Monica Potter ) . Decent , acceptable follow-up to the original hit is , like " Kiss the Girls " , professionally handled and noticeably slick . It has interesting plot twists and a couple of exceptional actors . Best scene has Cross being led all over Washington , D . C . in order to make a ransom drop . I will say some things , though : Cross is so knowledgeable , savvy and intuitive he almost seems unreal - there is nothing this guy can't figure out , and he's the kind of movie cop who makes most of the other cops look like morons in comparison . It will also be unpleasant for some people to watch , seeing a child in jeopardy like that ( although this particular child actually proves to be a tough little cookie ) .
Cold War era science-fiction / political paranoia thriller about computerized intelligence ( the titular " Colossus " ) designed to defend the U . S . However , no-one , including system creator Charles Forbin ( soap opera mainstay Eric Braeden ) could have foreseen just how intelligent this system would become , when it becomes determined to link up with its Soviet counterpart and control the balance of world power . A slow , quiet , and methodical movie that is a true product of its time ( and also a forerunner of movies like " War Games " and " The Terminator " ) , this movie would probably not appeal to the modern viewer , with its less advanced technology and a notable de-emphasis on quick pacing and action sequences . Nevertheless , it does its job pretty well . It's reasonably intelligent and disquieting , exploring a common movie theme of the dangers of turning our lives over to artificial intelligence . This is a well cast ( there's a number of familiar faces present ) and well directed movie . It does maintain interest , although people with shorter attention spans might be inclined to let their minds wander . All in all , a thoroughly decent movie that leads to a downbeat , almost kind of non-ending ( there's no big melodramatic finale ) which helps to make it more memorable than the kind of movie that would order up a happy ending ; this makes it more typical of the kind of iconoclastic , cynical films that would start to appear in the 1970's .
Dedicated scientist Alec Holland ( Ray Wise ) is working on a revolutionary formula when sexy government agent Alice Cable ( Adrienne Barbeau ) is sent to watch over him . When arrogant megalomaniac Arcane ( Louis Jourdan ) and his bevy of henchmen step in , poor Alec is doused with his own formula , set on fire , and runs outside to plummet into the swamp . Soon , Alec is reborn as the title character ( now played by stuntman Dick Durock ) . Still in love with Barbeau , he sets out to rescue her from the bad guys ( and she needs a lot of rescuing throughout ) and takes them on . " Swamp Thing " , an adaptation of the cult DC comic , may very well be cheesy stuff , but it's still very likable entertainment . Key to its success is that it's got a lot of heart to go with its goofier moments . The relationship between Alec and Alice is handled very sensitively . However , that's not to say that writer / director Wes Craven ever takes the whole thing too seriously . It also has plenty of very amusing moments . ( For one thing , young Reggie Batts as Jude displays a nice aptitude for deadpan delivery of his lines . ) The monster suits - both Swamp Thing himself and the abomination that Arcane turns into - are a real hoot to look at . On-location filming in South Carolina really helps ; the local atmosphere is very potent . Craven even goes so far as to use comic book style scene transitions , including frequent " wipes " . Harry Manfredini supplies the music score , which sounds awfully close to his compositions for the " Friday the 13th " series at times . It all adds up to a good time . Both Wise and Barbeau are very sincere and very appealing . David Hess , " Krug " in Craven's " The Last House on the Left " , is a gas as Arcane's headband-wearing primary goon , as is Nicholas Worth as the bumbling Bruno . Durock does a fine job of acting under his makeup and suit . But Jourdan is definitely the most fun with his flamboyant portrayal of the villainous Arcane . " Swamp Thing " may not be one of the most notable pictures of Craven's career , but it shouldn't be forgotten , either . It may be lighter in tone than the horror pictures that he has given us , but that's part of its charm . Trivia note : the cut on the original DVD was in actuality the European cut of the film , featuring topless shots of not just Barbeau but some bit players as well . It got pulled from the market , to be replaced by a true PG cut on DVD years later .
Indeed . Intriguing tale of modern-day pirates living on a Caribbean island who take journalist Blair Maynard ( Michael Caine ) prisoner - along with his son Justin ( Jeffrey Frank ) , whom they successfully manage to turn against him . These blokes are true leftovers from centuries past , are true primitives , and speak the strangest dialog . This is based on a novel by Peter Benchley , of " Jaws " fame . Benchley scripted himself , fashioning a sometimes nasty adventure that is impossible to take seriously 100 % of the time . Just check out the sequence where the pirates pillage the boat of some drug dealers and you'll see what I mean . In any event , I sure don't see movies like this everyday - or nowadays , for that matter . Surprisingly violent at times , and comical at others , it tells its odd little tale with the assistance of an able cast , all managing to maintain incredibly straight faces . David Warner , as the leader of the tribe , Angela Punch McGregor , Frank Middlemass , Brad Sullivan , and Zakes Mokae co-star , each delivering an amusing performance . Lush island cinematography , stirring Ennio Morricone music , and Albert Whitlock matte shots all qualify as assets as well . Although close to two hours in length , I didn't find it boring at any time , as it moves along rather well , moving towards a very bloody final showdown . Again , you will have to see this to believe it . Yes , I will reiterate that at times it is laughable , but give Benchley credit for his fanciful story . It's still a pretty entertaining piece of work .
This slasher picture begins as a rural legend told around a campfire about a demented farmer who supposedly butchered his whole family and survived a lynching so that he could return to stalk and kill anyone foolish enough to enter his domain and utter his name above a whisper . " Madman " may have slipped under my own radar for a while , but I can say after seeing it ( more than once now ) , I can say that it is one of the better efforts in its genre . It plays out in a typical enough way , giving in to clichés such as characters splitting up so they can make better victims . That said , this film actually plays it both ways - delivering real suspense as well as grisly splatter - and pulls it off . ( The head under the truck hood is undeniably the highlight , although Madman himself gets a pretty good look . ) It's got a hilariously cheesy romantic hot tub scene ( that , believe it or not , bares more male flesh than female ! ) , and interesting touches here and there to prevent it from being merely just another slasher film . James Momel's nighttime cinematography is impressive , with a heavy , heavy accent on the color blue . He helps director Joe Giannone develop some good backwoods atmosphere ; the film really looks good overall and maintains an ominous mood from start to finish . The characters and performances aren't much to speak of , although it must be said that Giannone and co-writer / producer Gary Sales clearly display a sense of humor by naming a character " T . P . " I rather enjoyed Carl Fredericks as Max , although it's nice to see " Dawn of the Dead " female lead Gaylen Ross here , acting under the pseudonym " Alexis Dubin " . Paul Ehlers , making his only film appearance to date ( he also created the title graphic ) , does the appropriate lumbering and grunting as the massive , disfigured Madman Marz . The electronic music score is rather decent ; there's even a catchy little theme song for the movie sung at the opening and over the closing credits . " Madman " is overall an amusing summer camp slasher romp with some good twists and turns , gore and suspense . It adheres to the standard slasher formula with skill and conviction , and is fun to watch .
Washington Irving adaptation , given typically arresting Tim Burton touches , about NYC-based constable Ichabod Crane ( Johnny Depp ) who is sent to upstate New York to investigate a series of decapitation killings . The culprit is a spirit known as " The Headless Horseman " who comes out at night , rides a big black horse , and brandishes a mean sword . Depp is fun and funny as Crane in this horror / action / thriller with fantastic Gothic flavor : it has some of the most fabulously creepy sets and photography you're likely to see in a film of this kind . I thought that it was exciting and thrilling , even chilling , even if I wasn't completely SCARED . Depp is well supported by a superior cast of British and American actors , Danny Elfman contributes another of his great scores , and the special effects are good . Overall , there is much to like about " Sleepy Hollow " . Christopher Walken has a cameo as the previous incarnation of the ghostly killer , and stuntman / actor Ray Park ( whom you may also know as " Darth Maul " in " Star Wars Episode I : The Phantom Menace " and " Toad " in " X-Men " ) is the one playing " The Headless Horseman " in stunt sequences . It's also great to see to see horror legend Christopher Lee in a pre-credits cameo ; Martin Landau has an uncredited , non-speaking cameo right at the beginning . I definitely recommend " Sleepy Hollow " .
12 years after a pet alligator is flushed into the sewers , it becomes a ravenous giant after feeding on dead dogs that had been injected with a growth hormone . It goes on to terrorize the city of Chicago - both under the streets and at street level . Dedicated cop ( Robert Forster ) teams up with reptile expert ( Robin Riker ) to try to stop it . Spirited and exciting B-movie from almost a quarter century ago . Written by the great John Sayles ( based on his and Frank Ray Perilli's story ) , the film benefits from better-than-usual dialog and memorable in-jokes . Not a horror comedy , but more a horror movie with a sense of humor . Despite all of the gore on hand , the film manages , like the Sayles-scripted " Piranha " , to avoid being very unpleasant . It's all in fun , although the R rating should be taken seriously . Forster is well cast in the lead , and the supporting cast benefits from the presence of old pros like Michael V . Gazzo , Dean Jagger , Henry Silva ( getting some good laughs as a big game hunter with an ego ) , and Jack Carter . Highlight is an energetic climax where the giant gator wreaks havoc at a wedding . " Alligator " is actually a gem of a B-movie : good entertainment that deserves to be better known . It's short and sweet with a fantastic , fearsome monster , brought to life by reasonably convincing special effects . If you don't think you've ever seen a good giant-reptile-on-the-loose movie , give this one a try and see what you think .
Eight months after the " Miskatonic Massacre " , Drs . Herbert West ( Jeffrey Combs ) and Dan Cain ( Bruce Abbott ) are at it again . This time , West isn't content to re-animate the dead . He wants to take their wacky experiments a step further , and the aim is now to create life . Assembling a collage of body parts , West intends to breathe new life into Meg Halsey ( the ill-fated love interest in the first film played by Barbara Crampton ) by making her heart the centerpiece of his macabre new creation . Brian Yuzna , who'd produced the first " Re-Animator " for Stuart Gordon , knew that it would be a tough act to follow . Fortunately , he succeeds in giving us an oftentimes over-the-top sequel , combining the H . P . Lovecraft story and characters with a pertinent homage to " Bride of Frankenstein " , that gives us the elements that we loved about the first film - the wild and crazy horror , the delightfully ghoulish onslaught of squishy splatter , and the gleefully dark humor - while adding some new ideas to the mix , preventing it from being merely a " more of the same " type movie . It goes without saying that it isn't quite as good as the first movie , and doesn't really break any new ground , but it's still a well made and fun movie for fans of the original . Dr . Wests ' basement lab , not to mention the adjoining crypt , are great examples of moody and stylish production design , and it's all excellently photographed by Rick Fichter . Richard Band returns to supply us with another great score , highlighted by the memorable main theme . The gore and creature creations show some definite ingenuity ; the melding of various body parts ( an arm and a leg fused together , a crawling eye with fingers for legs , a re-animated dog with a human arm substituting for a severed leg ) provides for some great moments . Combs steals the show with his delightful , hammy histrionics , while Abbott once again fulfills the duty of trying to keep his head in the face of so much chaos . David Gale , who wasn't originally supposed to have a part here , returns as the now vengeance-crazed decapitated head of Dr . Hill ; he's just so much fun that one might wish that he had more to do throughout . Claude Earl Jones plays a relentless police detective who's actually got an agenda that doesn't have everything to do with merely solving a case . And knockout actresses Fabiana Udenio and Kathleen Kinmont are respectively a new potential love interest for Dr . Cain inevitably thrust into the ensuing bloodbath , and a terminal patient who will become " The Bride " for the rousing conclusion . Kinmont doesn't have too much to do until then , but she elicits some real sympathy as this unfortunate science experiment . It's a fine horror film in its own right , with enough good stuff to make it solid entertainment for horror fans .
This is a spoof of Star Trek , and the pop culture phenomenon it started , using the has-been actors of a Trek-like TV series who now do no more than make personal appearances at conventions . However , they are forced to take on the roles of real space adventurers when they are approached for help by genuine alien beings who are being slaughtered by a merciless enemy . It works , this movie , it actually works . Even if you're like me and are not a Trek fan to begin with , I think you'll be able to appreciate this comedy . It's smart , likeable , and once again - - I know I say this an awful lot - - made great by a perfect cast . Genuinely entertaining , with characters who are actually funny . I give it .
The Baldwin family - dad / husband Harry ( Ray Milland , doubling here as director ) , mom / wife Ann ( Jean Hagen ) , son Rick ( Frankie Avalon ) , and daughter Karen ( Mary Mitchel ) - are going for a camping trip in the country . While driving through the country , they find out that nuclear war has devastated Los Angeles , and they head into an all-too-plausible every-man-for-himself situation . Hoping to find a secluded enough location where they can hole up , they struggle to deal with their predicament , while having to defend themselves from some predatory young toughs . As long as the threat of nuclear warfare exists , the message of movies like this will always be timely . There's no melodrama here , merely a realistic portrayal of determination , courage , selfishness ( there will always be those who will get greedy and otherwise capitalize on human desperation ) , ruthlessness , and societal breakdown . It's handled very capably by Milland as a director . Working from a smart script by Jay Simms and John Morton , he gives us a convincing depiction of a world coming unglued , making the interesting move of focusing on this one low-key , likable family . The acting is good from everybody involved , including teen star Avalon . Richard Garland , as a hardware store owner , and Richard Bakalyan , as the leader of the young thugs , stand out among the supporting cast . Sharp black & white photography ( by Gilbert Warrenton ) is an asset , while the jazz music score by Les Baxter makes for a striking and unusual choice . Milland , cast , and crew deserve credit for opting to be as grim as possible . The overall tone is pretty dark yet a feeling of hope does come through . It's overall an effective and entertaining thriller , with a strong , no-nonsense performance by Milland at its core .
Leigh Michaels ( Lauren Hutton ) is the new director of live TV at a small time station who receives the attention of a frighteningly persistent psycho who continuously phones her . With her likable new love interest Paul Winkless ( David Birney ) and friendly co-worker Sophie ( Carpenters ' ex-wife and frequent performer Adrienne Barbeau ) to offer support , Leigh ultimately decides that she will have to take matters into her own hands . Carpenter had only had his debut " Dark Star " and " Assault on Precinct 13 " under his belt when taking the helm of this thriller . Mostly during the 1970's , he was a screenwriter for hire ( one example was the 1978 thriller " Eyes of Laura Mars " ) , but he proved to be up to the task of crafting this genuinely spooky and riveting story . Good jump scares and suspense sequences combine with good performances to make it a really entertaining film , showing that Carpenter could do solid work in the medium of television . It's well shot by Robert Hauser ( Carpenter had yet to form his partnership with ace cinematographer Dean Cundey ) and the music by Harry Sukman is excellent . Hutton is a likable and refreshingly loopy and neurotic heroine often given to talking to herself , at least in the early going . She even does her own potentially dangerous stunt at one point . Birney is very pleasant as her new boyfriend , and Barbeau very cute as the co-worker ; this was her first time working for Carpenter . In supporting roles , familiar faces like former Carpenter regular Charles Cyphers , James Murtaugh ( " The Howling " ) and Len Lesser ( ' Seinfeld ' ) can be seen . This marked a very busy period in Carpenters ' career , as he worked on this movie , filmed " Halloween " , and started work on ' Elvis ' all in the same year - very solid output over a short span of time . This is clearly not one of Carpenters ' better known works , but hopefully I and others can help to remedy that . It's now available on DVD and I hope that helps it to develop a larger audience . It's chilling and believable ( with a nice little nod to " Rear Window " at one point ) and a lot of fun .
Failed hockey player Happy Gilmore ( Adam Sandler ) is persuaded by disabled former golf pro Chubbs Peterson ( athlete-turned-actor Carl Weathers , in an amusing character role ) to turn his attention to golf instead . When Happy's grandmother ( Frances Bay ) loses her home to the IRS , Happy has added incentive to start golfing so he can win a lot of money in a short amount of time . His biggest problem is his temper , which earns him notoriety on the greens , and his fiercest rival is a snobbish , arrogant golf pro ( Christopher McDonald ) who acts like he's God's gift to the game . The character of Happy Gilmore may not appeal to some viewers ; like other Adam Sandler characters , he's an infantile grouch with a tendency to blow his top and attack people . He even goes after the golf pro with a busted beer bottle at one point . Not a good sign . A publicist ( Julie Bowen ) finally convinces him to chill out but I'm still left wondering what is going to set Happy off next . Ultimately , though , the film does its job in making me laugh . It is pretty funny throughout , and the award-winning fight between Sandler and game show host Bob Barker is the highlight of the film . That's Sandler's frequent cohort Allen Covert as the windshield-washer who he hires as a caddy . Definitely one of Adam Sandler's better movies ; I give it .
Several innocent people in NYC get slaughtered by a mysterious figure dressed as a cop . Police officer Jack Forrest ( Bruce Campbell ) is conveniently singled out to be the prime suspect , while detective Frank McCrae ( Tom Atkins ) tries to identify the real culprit . Solid , chilling little movie is an enjoyable guilty pleasure ; a sleazy and amusing combination of a standard cop movie and a standard slasher movie . It features a number of reliable B-movie veterans , although it is really veteran actress Sheree North that stands out . Character actor Robert Z'Dar , who plays the movie's disfigured villain , happens to have been a real-life Chicago policeman himself . It's certainly cool to have Bruce " Don't call me Ash " Campbell as the hero . Some additional scenes have been added featuring Ken Lerner and Leo Rossi ( you can also see them in the films " Hit List " and " Relentless " , director William Lustig's next two pictures ) . Lustig features his uncle , legendary boxer Jake La Motta , in a cameo , and also look for a cameo from director Sam Raimi as the reporter at the parade . I have to admit that I liked it . Another trivia note : after calling it quits as a director , Lustig went to work for Anchor Bay Entertainment , procuring titles and producing documentary shorts and DVD packages . He then went on to form his own company , " Blue Underground " , a company that specializes in bringing cult films to DVD . I was reasonably impressed to find that out . Followed by two sequels .
Actor Laurence Harvey made his final feature film appearance in this interesting mid-70's shocker which he also directed ( and also apparently helped to edit while on his deathbed ) . The Oscar nominee plays Jason Henry , living in seclusion with sister Grace ( the beautiful Joanna Pettet ) . Into their lives comes young hippie / hitchhiker Robbin ( the absolutely stunning Meg Foster , in one of her earliest roles ) , who while wandering their house discovers Jason's secret predilection : butchering ( and supposedly eating ) human victims . The solid supporting cast includes John Ireland as an uptight sheriff up for a re-election , Stuart Whitman as his deputy , Gloria LeRoy as ill-fated hooker Ginger , David Macklin as the kindly hospital employee who helps Robbin , Altovise Davis as Deputy Molly , and Jesse Vint as the reckless hot rodder whose actions get the movie off to a lively start . The movie then settles down as it establishes a certain sordid and trashy atmosphere ( Jason and Grace are more than siblings ) and general feeling of doom and gloom . Aside from one rather stylish and in-your-face killing that doesn't skimp on the blood , the movie isn't as explicit as one might think . Its pace is on the slow side but at least this allows for the three main characters to make a memorable impression . Foster is quite appealing and sympathetic ( even taking off her clothes at one point ) , while Harvey is good as the sort of person who manages to hide their disturbed nature under a veil of warm hospitality . Good theme song ( sung by Lou Rawls ) is another nice touch , although its presence is incongruous . This seemed to be a little bit of a theme for the decade . This and other elements definitely establish this film as a period piece , but that also helps it to be something of a real curiosity . It's an effectively seedy film and well worth a look for fans of this sort of thing .
Entertaining PG-13 extravaganza for the kid in all of us . Dracula ( a dapper Duncan Regehr ) materializes in modern times , rounding up other such horror movie icons as The Mummy , The Wolf Man , The Gill Man , and Frankensteins ' monster ( Tom Noonan ) . Dracula is in search of a special amulet and needs his fellow creatures ' assistance in pursuit of his goal . However , he didn't count on the title group - a rambunctious group of pre-teens who have devoted themselves to the horror genre . Would I say that this is all that good ? Not really , but there's just something very endearing about it , especially if you yourself became a horror junkie at a reasonably young age , as I did . It's full of some truly hysterical jargon that had me laughing out loud : " dweeb " , " feeb " , " jerkoid " , etc . I didn't take this too seriously , and I had fun with it . The young cast is nicely exuberant , adding to the overall good vibes that the movie provides . ( Ashley Bank as Phoebe and Michael Faustino as Eugene are just adorable . ) The adult co-stars , while largely in the background , offer some solid support , with Stephen Macht as the Squad leaders ' ( Andre Gower ) detective dad , Mary Ellen Trainor as his mom , Jon Gries as the Wolf Man's human alter ego , Stan Shaw as the detectives ' partner , David Proval as a pilot , and two guys in particular who are wonderful and steal the show : the afore-mentioned Noonan , and Leonardo Cimino as Scary German Guy ( that is one of the funniest character names that I've heard in a while ) . Stan Winston and his team crafted the genuinely cool-looking creature characters , and Richard Edlund and his Boss Film Corporation provided the razzle-dazzle special effects . Bruce Broughton also gives the movie an appropriate music score . Filmed in the wider-than-usual Panavision aspect ratio , the picture looks pretty good overall . A lively , affable ode to vintage horror , made from a childs ' wide-eyed perspective , " The Monster Squad " may come off as too lame for some peoples ' tastes , but it's a real hoot for those who remember what it was like to enjoy the horror genre as youths . Oh . . . and the " Wolf Man's got nards " moment is hysterical . I thought that this was really cute , and really amusing . I wouldn't call it bland at all .
Inventive , silly-as-can-be B movie that has simple , no-brainer fun with a ridiculous premise . Nasty alien beings that look like clowns arrive in the woods outside a small town . They have a variety of ingenious methods of disposing of their dumber-than-dumb human victims ( popcorn guns , anyone ? ) . Amiable goofball Mike ( Grant Cramer ) is an unlikely hero who teams up with his sweet girlfriend Debbies ' ( Suzanne Snyder ) policeman ex-boyfriend Dave ( John Allen Nelson ) to save the day . Of course , that's not to let out Mikes ' even goofier buddies the Terenzi brothers ( Peter Licassi and Michael Siegel ) who use an ice cream truck to pick up girls . The Chiodo brothers ( creators of effects for movies such as " Critters " ) hit upon as many circus-related gimmicks as they can . What other movie is going to give you a death by pies-to-the-face ? This movie is such spirited and tongue-in-cheek stuff that it's hard to resist . Genuinely gnarly looking clowns , excellent visual design , an efficient pace , and great gags add to the mix . And let's not forget a delightful title tune by The Dickies . Even in light of enjoyable performances by the leads , the show is stolen by the too briefly seen Royal Dano in a scenery-chewing part as an ill-fated farmer , and the great John Vernon who delivers his lines in a hilarious way . One fine moment has his line " you're not gonna make a dummy out of me " coming back to haunt him . While this is inevitably just going to come off as stupid to some viewers , I see it as a fun and easygoing kind of stupid . I have a good time watching it . Look for comedian Christopher Titus in a small part .
Terry ( John Savage ) has been in prison for two years for a sex crime . He returns home to his doting mother Thelma ( screen legend Ann Sothern ) , but it's obvious his mind has taken a fateful turn for the worse . A sullen , withdrawn , and brooding individual , Terry develops an unhealthy fixation on Thelmas ' new tenant Lori ( Cindy Williams , a long way from ' Laverne & Shirley ' ) , while he himself becomes an object of interest for repressed neighbor Louise ( Luana Anders ) . More than just simple low-budget exploitation , this obscure film from Curtis Harrington sometimes succumbs to conventions of a revenge thriller as Terry strikes back at both the girl ( Sue Bernard ) whose testimony put him away as well as the lawyer ( Ruth Roman ) whom he feels failed him . However , it's the performances and the interactions of the characters that really sell this film . A sad , sordid air of melancholia permeates this film ; it got under my skin and stayed there . An unnatural relationship between mother and son is nothing new to film , but it takes on a real potency here . The film is also full of such striking and disturbing scenes as Thelma photographing Terry in the shower , Terry demonstrating to elderly tenant Ms . Orland how a mouse trap works , Terrys ' truly creepy dream of lying in a crib on the beach and being doted on as if he truly were still an infant . Sothern and Savage deliver exceptional , memorable performances , with Williams , Anders , and Roman fine in support . This picture really needs to be better known . More interesting and thoughtful than one might expect it to be , it really hits a nerve . I can't recommend it enough .
Jane ( Pamela Franklin ) and Cathy ( Michele Dotrice ) are two comely young British nurses on a cycling trip in rural France . After they have a row spurned by Cathy's desire for an extended rest , Jane pedals off and leaves Cathy on her own . Before long , she's feeling guilty , and when Cathy never turns up anywhere that Jane goes , an increasingly nervous Jane finds that getting help from the locals is no easy task . Director Robert Feust ( " The Abominable Dr . Phibes " ) crafts an impressively taut thriller that works mainly because of its steadily escalating level of tension . Setting it in such a desolate region is another major plus considering the way that Cathy could have vanished into any number of places . There's no shortage of strangers that could conceivably be responsible . ( Sandor Eles is quite prominent as the scooter-riding Paul , although Jane can't be certain whether he's a help or a hindrance . ) Add this factor of paranoia and suspicion into the mix , and the ingredients are well mixed for a thriller that maintains a hard grip and doesn't let the viewer go until after the harrowing conclusion . Laurie Johnson's score strikes an amusing balance between more upbeat pieces ( like the opening titles theme ) and eerier ones . And the picture has very good atmosphere for a thriller set in the daytime ; it may as well be taking place at night considering how much in the dark Jane is figuratively . An interesting thing to note is that even though without English subtitles for the French dialog , it's not too hard to get the gist of what characters are saying . The cute Franklin does a fine job of engaging sympathy from the viewer , while even though she disappears early , Dotrice provides a fine contrast to the more serious-minded Franklin , making a strong enough impression in her time on screen . Eles is quite good in support , with equally effective contributions by John Nettleton as the gendarme , John Franklyn as the old man , Clare Kelly as the schoolmistress , and Hana Maria Pravda as Madame Lassal , essentially playing the part in horror fare of the older person with the warning ( when she manages to get out two English words : " Bad road " , it sends chills down the spine ) . This is very good stuff and recommended to thriller fans everywhere .
Foul-mouthed , hot-tempered criminal Seth Gecko ( George Clooney ) and his disgusting , idiotic brother Richie ( played by writer Quentin Tarantino ) leave a trail of bodies in their wake as they head for Mexico . They take a vacationing family ( Harvey Keitel , Juliette Lewis , Ernest Liu ) hostage and arrive at their intended rendezvous point : a phenomenally seedy , sleazy bar called " The Titty Twister . " Before long , they have learned the truth about the bar : all the staff are vampires who regularly prey on the customers . While the excesses of this movie are too much for conservative folk ( and especially film critics ) , this action-packed , spectacularly gory movie was fun for me ; it's like being in an intense , gruesome haunted house ride . The cast is enjoyable ; it's particularly noteworthy that Tarantino and director / editor Robert Rodriguez chose an interesting , off-the-wall collection of performers , including former " blaxploitation " star Fred Williamson , makeup effects expert Tom Savini ( as a biker named " Sex Machine " ! ) , and veteran movie heavy Marc Lawrence . It also provides an amusing showcase for Cheech Marin , who plays three small roles . The visual / makeup / creature effects design is impressive , although I must repeat that this movie is more for hardcore horror fans and some of you may find it repulsive ( and pointless ) . However , I say good job ! I give it !
Paula Powers ( Nancy Morgan ) defies snooty , filthy-rich jerk father Bigby ( Barry Cahill ) by taking off in his prized Rolls Royce , intending to marry lover Sam Freeman ( Ron Howard , also making his directorial debut here ) . As more and more people take off in pursuit of the two , it turns into a circus , especially when obnoxious super-DJ Curly Q . Brown ( Don Steele , in fine form as always ) makes the whole affair a media event . Ron is joined by actor-father Rance , with whom he wrote the script and whom also acts and takes an associate producer credit , and younger brother Clint , playing one of the many pursuers . Ron had taken the lead in the Roger Corman-produced " Eat My Dust " with the proviso that he get to direct a picture , and this was the result , a frenetic , energetic , and blatantly humorous B flick filled to the brim with plenty of action , stunts , and crashes . It's particularly fun to see Howards ' ' Happy Days ' mom Marion Ross as a foul-mouthed , high-society type with terrible driving skills and a surprising contempt for the law ! Paul Linke , as the annoying would-be fiancée , and Hoke Howell , as a preacher lured by the promise of a substantial monetary award , also get a mention here for their blustery portrayals . Other familiar faces in small roles include Ken Lerner , Paul Bartel , Garry Marshall , Leo Rossi , and the long-ago co-star of " Boys Town " turned reverend , Bobs Watson . It's very simple , unpretentious , mindless nonsense that , for what it is , is quite enjoyable . Howard particularly piles on the wreckage and chaos for a true slam-bang finish . It sure as heck ain't fine art , and that's the whole point . Deftly edited by Joe Dante , photographed by Gary Graver , and accompanied by a fun and funky music score by Peter Ivers , " Grand Theft Auto " is purely silly lowbrow action movie hijinks , and recommended to action and comedy fans everywhere .
A very affable Nathan Baesel plays the title character , an aspiring slasher aiming to take his place among the greats - Jason , Freddy , Michael . His every move is followed by a documentary film crew - Angela Goethals , Britain Spellings and Ben Pace - as he makes preparations for his first mass slaughter . " Behind the Mask : The Rise of Leslie Vernon " is as clever and engaging a skewering of the slasher genre as I've ever seen . Superb dialog ( " You have to do lots of cardio to make it look like you're merely walking when everybody else is running ! " ) and situations do an excellent job at establishing a methodology behind murder sprees . Leslie plans everything down to the last detail , including expectations on how characters will act and re-act . He figures out who his " survivor girl " will be , and is delighted when he attracts an " Ahab " ( genre icon Robert Englund , doing a funny riff on Donald Pleasence's signature role of Dr . Loomis ) . He also finds the time to hook up with his mentor , now supposedly retired , played by the wonderful and under-rated veteran Scott Wilson . Wilson's dialog is particularly solid as he talks about the act of murder and considers it both a business and an art . There are also discussions about the nature of sexual symbolism , both phallic and yonic . Eventually , the movie shifts into another gear and reveals the grave seriousness behind Leslie's outgoing demeanor . Then we're in slightly more traditional slasher territory , but the movie continues to successfully subvert the genre's conventions , as Leslie is able to adjust admirably when his carefully constructed scenario seems to be going awry . There's a twist during the climax that is pulled off quite humorously . There's also an ultimate revelation to come although it doesn't come off as that surprising given the way the film-makers so gleefully play with us , and so well establish Leslie's cunning intelligence . Throw in an enjoyably gratuitous breast shot , a fair bit of graphic mayhem , and a cameo appearance by Zelda Rubinstein of " Poltergeist " fame , and the result is a movie that provides a welcome deconstruction of the slasher genre . It's both smart and entertaining and should provide some amusement for the genre's fans . Be sure to watch for the fleeting Kane Hodder cameo , and to stay through the end credits .
Steve Martin plays brilliant brain surgeon Dr . Michael Hfuhruhurr ( when he says it , it sounds like Huh-FURRRR ) , renowned for his " screw top " method . He makes the mistake of falling for self-serving , vampish Dolores Benedict ( Kathleen Turner ) , but finds reason to live when he falls even harder for disembodied brain Anne Uumellmahaye ( voice of Sissy Spacek ) , and he decides to find a gorgeous woman in which to house Anne . Made back in the day when Martin was still more or less the " wild and crazy guy " and his starring vehicles were pretty silly , " The Man with Two Brains " , kind of a spoof of mad scientist movies , is absolutely HILARIOUS at times . I was pleasantly surprised to find myself laughing so much . Martin once again establishes himself as a top comedic talent , and is well supported by Turner , playing a comedic variation on her " Body Heat " role , and David Warner , playing a wacko doctor who provides Hfuhruhurr with the means to realize his dream . Familiar faces like James Cromwell and Paul Benedict can be seen in small roles . One of the most inspired touches in the film has to be the identity of the Elevator Killer , although the running joke of Warner's condo having walls as thin as tissue paper is amusing ( although it stops just short of being beat to death ) . A very funny comedy , and I would advise any Steve Martin fan who has yet to see it to check it out . This is one of his best . Written by Martin , director Carl Reiner ( Martin's frequent collaborator in the late 70's and early 80's ) , and George Gipe .
Two young newlyweds on vacation in Haiti ( Madge Bellamy , John Harron ) fall victim to the machinations of sinister Murder Legendre ( the great Bela Lugosi ) . Murder is a sugar plantation boss who controls a legion of zombie helpers with the help of some zombie powder ; when the young couples ' host ( Robert Frazer ) decides to act on his overwhelming passion for the girl , he strikes a Faustian deal with the evil zombie master that leads to dreadful repercussions . Brothers Victor and Edward Halperin truly make the most out of a minuscule budget and a brief shooting schedule . This modest little fright feature is certainly as atmospheric as any of the Universal classics of the period , and is ambitiously arty , to boot . Director Victor gives it great touches ; his use of framing , " wipe " transitions , sound , and light and shadow is quite commendable . He moves it at a slow and steady pace , getting a most enjoyable performance out of Lugosi ; although most of the supporting roles are either over-played or under-played , it doesn't distract too much from a movie with a mesmerizing , moody feel and palpable sense of doom . Even the effect of having Lugosi look directly into the camera can make a viewer feel as if they are a part of the proceedings . The zombies themselves convey a certain sense of creepy menace ; whether there truly is any element of the supernatural involved in their existence is intriguingly kept ambiguous . Noteworthy as the first zombie movie , as well as a movie with no primary existing source material unlike " Dracula " or " Frankenstein " ( the film utilized a few different sources , including a factual book on Haiti ) , " White Zombie " - which was a commercial success in its time - is a nicely done early terror tale worth discovering . As you may guess , rocker / film-maker Rob Zombie took the name of his former band from this film .
This is a genuinely gripping movie about abandoned dogs on a forest island which form a pack and go on a rampage . It's up to marine biologist Jerry ( an engaging Joe Don Baker ) to save his own family as well as some bankers and company who are on a fishing vacation . Comparisons to the previous years ' " Dogs " are appropriate , but this is definitely the better movie . Director Robert Clouse , whose credits include the martial arts classic " Enter the Dragon " , and who would go on to direct the rat-themed 1982 movie " Deadly Eyes " , maintains a deadly serious tone . The movie always creates the right amount of tension ; isolated settings and inclement weather also help to enhance the atmosphere . Unlike " Dogs " , this movie has better writing , a superior cast ( the fine supporting actors include such folk as Richard B . Shull , R . G . Armstrong , and Bibi Besch ) and more likable characters . Baker does a solid job as an amiable yet no-nonsense sort of action hero . Plus , the animal action is exceptional ( veteran trainer Karl Miller did a great job with these dogs ) and the attack scenes are well staged . The music score ( by Lee Holdridge ) is good , and the finale is fairly rousing . " The Pack " is good fun for fans of the killer animal genre . I myself enjoyed it very much . Just the way that it had something to say about human irresponsibility and its possible consequences adds to the overall impact .
Back in 1983 , Stephen King was such a popular author that this film adaptation went into production before the book was even published . King had been satisfied enough with producer Richard Kobritz's TV miniseries adaptation of his novel " Salem's Lot " to send him a few manuscripts . One was " Cujo " , another was " Christine " . Kobritz decided he liked the latter more , and pursued it as a film project . Accomplished film-maker John Carpenter , who at the time was still suffering the effects of the critical and commercial failure of his previous film , " The Thing " , agreed to take the helm , and Bill Phillips was hired to write the screenplay . Phillips eliminated much of the material of the novel ( especially the central character of the malevolent spirit Roland D . LeBay ) and both he and Carpenter agreed to more or less focus the film on Christine herself . In the film , Christine is possessed with a murderous , vengeful personality , seemingly for no reason at all . She is simply as evil as an inanimate object can get . Before she even comes off the assembly line , she's injured one man and killed another . Eventually , she comes into the life of hopeless high school nerd Arnie Cunningham ( Keith Gordon , in his first top-billed role , and offering a dramatic tour de force ) and helps to transform him from pathetic dweeb to dangerous 1950's style rebel - complete with 1950's style wardrobe . As the car sets about methodically eliminating most of the characters who cause Arnie grief , Arnie's loyal , level-headed jock friend Dennis Guilder ( John Stockwell ) and beautiful , would-be girlfriend Leigh Cabot ( Alexandra Paul ) try their darnedest to save Arnie and get rid of the car once and for all . While I myself found this movie to be rather lacking in terms of scares , suspense , and atmosphere , it's still a pleasantly well-crafted and stylish film . Carpenter contributes another of his marvelous electronic scores , and the film is peppered with vintage rock ' n ' roll songs . Approximately 25 different cars were used for the film - many of them ended up completely destroyed - and the special effects are admirable , especially in all scenes where Christine is repairing herself . One standout scene has Christine pursuing pudgy thug Moochie Welch ( Malcolm Danare ) into an exceptionally narrow loading dock , and then SQUEEZING herself inside so she can annihilate him . The wonderful cast is a heavy asset . Stockwell and Paul were certainly okay , but even better are the familiar faces in the character parts - Roberts Blossom as George LeBay , Robert Prosky as Will Darnell , and Harry Dean Stanton as Detective Rudolph Junkins . Kelly Preston appears in an early role . Bill Ostrander , as lead bully Buddy Repperton , has always struck me as a great casting choice ( Gordon and Carpenter remark in the DVD commentary that he seems to be partly channeling John Travolta in his performance - appropriate , because the film takes place in 1978 , when Travolta was experiencing his original bout of stardom ) , because he looks EXACTLY like I'd always imagined Buddy Repperton would look when I visualized the action while reading the novel . Here's an interesting thing to take note of : the actors playing Arnie's rather unlikable parents are named CHRISTINE Belford and Robert DARNELL . Just coincidence ? I myself don't know . Like I said , I don't really find it to be all that scary but it certainly offers a fair amount of fun . It's not a top-drawer King adaptation but it's definitely not one of the worst ones either .
A ski-mask wearing , barbaric psychopath butchers the lovely young ladies in an L . A . apartment building utilizing the various implements to be found in his trusty toolbox . Now , this unquestionably trashy , nasty , and flashy slasher flick doesn't exactly end there . If you think that's all the plot that the movie has , think again . After a couple of murders are out of the way , the killer kidnaps an adorable teenager ( Pamelyn Ferdin ) , intending for her to replace the daughter that he lost in a car crash . The incredibly extended sequence where he is revealed ( most people will probably be able to figure out who he is before they even watch this ) and soothes the bound and gagged girl turns out to be rather heartfelt , completely taking the movie out of slasher flick territory . It's a jarring but , I have to say , interesting turn of events . It ultimately resolves itself in a fascinatingly ugly , melodramatic and disturbing finish . Veteran actor Cameron Mitchell , who after a very prestigious start to his career , would start to turn up in more and more low-budget junk as his career went on , is a marvelously scuzzy lead . Ferdin projects the appropriate amount of childhood innocence and naiveté , while other youthful actors from the period , Wesley Eure ( ' Land of the Lost ' ) and Nicholas Beauvy ( " The Cowboys " ) play good friends , one with a deadly secret ; veteran Aneta Corsaut ( ' The Andy Griffith Show ' , " The Blob " ' 58 ) and Tim Donnelly as one hell of an incompetent detective round out the cast . The film has a wonderfully disgusting opening act , as the blood is piled on and the scantily clad victims scream their hearts out . Most unusual is that , despite the beautiful eeriness of George Deatons ' music score , what actually accompanies these great murder set pieces are a couple of slow and soft country songs ! ( The killer , obviously a music lover himself , is often heard humming along ! ) The best moment occurs when Marianne Walter , a . k . a . 80's porn actress Kelly Nichols , is seen pleasuring herself in a bubble bath before the toolbox murderer comes calling . Overall , it's a fetid piece of celluloid junk that hits just the right spot , a raw and depraved vintage example of prime 1970's exploitation horror fare .
Paul Verhoevens ' first American English-language movie is set in 16th century Europe during a time of unrest . ( It's also a time when bubonic plague is ravaging the countryside . ) A team of mercenaries , led by Martin ( a smooth , charismatic Rutger Hauer ) , is hired to help an ousted nobleman . However , when he goes back on his word to them , they strike back in a big way . Agnes ( Jennifer Jason Leigh , fine in more ways than one ) , the young woman arranged to be the wife of the noblemans ' son , is kidnapped by the gang and becomes a part of their depraved celebrations . While the American accents - and a stream of profanity - heard give this movie more of a modern flavor than other movies of its type , " Flesh + Blood " is still striking , visceral entertainment . Verhoeven truly delivers both components of the movies ' title . Leigh does some appreciable full frontal nudity ; there are even fleeting glimpses of male nudity ! The level of debauchery is high ; this gang knows how to have a good time . The doses of graphic violence give the movie a hearty kick . Granted , this movie isn't for the faint of heart or the easily offended , but it's fun for those with certain tastes . Typically stylish cinematography by Jan De Bont captures the countryside very well . Basil Poledouris's score also impresses . The top-notch international cast is clearly having a good time with the material . Susan Tyrrell as Celine and Ronald Lacey ( you may remember him as the bespectacled , creepy Nazi thug in " Raiders of the Lost Ark " ) particularly tear up the scenery . Solid supporting turns by Tom Burlinson , Jack Thompson , Brion James , John Dennis Johnston , Bruno Kirby , and Fernando Hillbeck add to the entertainment value . Nancy Cartwright , voice of Bart Simpson , has an especially amusing role wherein she actually shows the virginal Leigh how to have sex ! At two hours and eight minutes long , this does go on a bit , but it's never at any time ever boring . It's just fun from beginning to end .
A long-defunct prison , shut down for over 20 years , is re-opened and Ethan Sharpe ( the late , great character actor Lane Smith ) , once a guard there , is put in place as warden . As the prisoners are put to work fixing the place up , they're instructed to break into the old execution room . This unleashes a fierce spirit that wreaks merciless havoc upon both guards and prisoners ; cool-as-can-be low-key prisoner Burke ( Viggo Mortensen , showing real poise in an early role ) is thrust into the role of hero . I know it's a no-brainer to praise the film for its atmosphere ( it was shot in an actual abandoned penitentiary near Rawlins , Wyoming ) , but it elevates this horror film to a higher level . It's got a great sense of foreboding , established right at the outset . Director Renny Harlin made his fourth directorial effort here ; it got him the " Nightmare on Elm Street 4 " directing gig and effectively began an impressive career in mainstream action movies , thrillers , and horror films . It may have stock characters , but it's got a capable cast bringing them to life : Chelsea Field as the young woman vying for prison reform , Lincoln Kilpatrick as weary veteran convict Cresus , Tom Everett as restless con Rabbitt , Ivan Kane as the outgoing Lasagna , Tommy " Tiny " Lister as soft-spoken giant Tiny , and Arlen Dean Snyder as Captain Horton . It's also worth noting as an early acting credit for Kane Hodder ( as the vengeful spirit ) that helped him land the gig of playing Jason Voorhees in the " Friday the 13th " series . Decent special effects , moody lighting courtesy of prolific genre cinematographer Mac Ahlberg , spooky music by Richard Band and Christopher Stone , great visuals , the incredibly gloomy location , and an overall flashy and intense presentation help to make it quite entertaining . It's nasty , gruesome , and good fun for a horror fan .
Captain Hickock ( David Beecroft ) is sent to investigate a strange death resulting from experiments conducted in seclusion in the desert . The scientists in charge , Van Fleet ( ever wonderful character veteran James Hong ) and Erhardt ( Louise Fletcher ) are experimenting with advanced stages of sleep and this has caused an opening in an alternate dimension through which a violent , shape-shifting creature emerges and starts decimating the hapless crew . " Shadowzone " is noticeably better than other movies of its ilk . It's actually fairly well done ; writer / director J . S . Cardone establishes a dead serious tone , begins his movie on an ominous note , and creates some reasonable suspense throughout . Never does this intriguing tale get too cheesy or laughable at any point ; it's easy to get caught up in the story and be immersed in the dingy and claustrophobic atmosphere . Calling to mind past sci-fi / horror favorites like " Alien " and " The Thing " , it has great sets , superb music by Richard Band , and decent splatter by Mark Shostrom . The cast is also better than usual for this sort of thing , with Fletcher given the best part as the too-dedicated scientist . Miguel Nunez , whom genre fans will recognize from " Friday the 13th : A New Beginning " and " The Return of the Living Dead " , is good as computer technician Wiley , with the late character actress Lu Leonard stealing her scenes as the crusty cook . Those interested can also take note that there's a dose of both female and male nudity on display here . " Shadowzone " is an entertaining little movie worth checking out . In fact , I think it deserves to be better known .
" Cruising " became an extremely controversial film in its time ; whether it would continue to offend and repel viewers I don't know , but I feel that writer / director William Friedkin and his cast and crew deserve credit for taking viewers on such a morbidly compelling journey . It was never intended as any sort of commentary on this subculture ( much less an indictment ) , yet it rubbed many people the wrong way regardless . While officially based on a novel by Gerald Walker , Friedkin incorporated true-life elements into his screenplay , most notably the movement towards heavy leather and S & M inside the gay community . There were a series of murders in this environment , and this would form the core of the film ( real-life former detective Randy Jurgenson , a longtime technical consultant and bit player in films , was the man on the case who did just what Pacino's character does in this film ) . Al Pacino is patrolman Steve Burns , who agrees to infiltrate this community to find and apprehend the killer . He reports to his boss , Captain Edelson ( Paul Sorvino ) , while Karen Allen supplies the only genuine female presence in the film ( in an unfortunately undeveloped part ) as his girlfriend . " Cruising " is fascinating to watch in spite of itself . There's such an overpowering sense of seediness to it that it really hits a nerve . Friedkin and company completely immerse us in this environment ; they really did their homework and it shows . It may be a murder mystery at its core , but the setting in which it takes place definitely makes it something different . Fine NYC location work , an awesome soundtrack , and Jack Nitzsche's interesting music score all add to the overall effectiveness of the film . The cast really gives it 100 % . The always excellent Pacino and Sorvino are well supported by Richard Cox , Don Scardino ( horror fans may recognize him from " Squirm " and " He Knows You're Alone " ) , Joe Spinell ( as one monumentally creepy cop ) , Jay Acovone , and Gene Davis . Several prominent character actors and future stars have small parts : Barton Heyman , Ed O'Neill , James Remar , William Russ , Mike Starr , Leo Burmester , and Powers Boothe . " Cruising " presents us with a world where we can never be too sure of anyone or anything . It's undeniably lurid and likely to provoke strong reactions in many viewers . In the end , the element of danger in this world is suggested to be a constant . Friedkin takes a real matter - of-fact approach to all of the material ; things hardly need embellishing when much of them will already come off as outrageous to a fair portion of the audience . It's a well-crafted , risky , intense and provocative thriller that maintains an icy cold grip all the way through .
Based on a Ray Bradbury story published in the Saturday Evening Post , this 1950's atomic age creature feature is about a giant rhedosaurus , freed from an icy tomb in the Arctic by an atomic bomb test ; it swims down the Arctic current and ends up on the rampage in NYC . A good , enjoyable cast , competent direction and script , and Ray Harryhausen's impressive stop-motion animation mingle in this little classic that delivered more for me after a second viewing . I have actually changed my opinion on some of these types of pictures . At first , I was a little impatient with the slowness of some scenes and the heavy emphasis on dialog , but now I'm better able to appreciate this film as well as " It Came From Beneath the Sea " , Harryhausen's giant-octopus-on-the-loose thriller . If I were rating ICFBtS today , I would give it . For low-budget pictures such as this , they actually deliver a fair amount of spectacle . So far I haven't seen many of the films that Harryhausen worked on ( 16 in total ) , but I'll get around to the rest of them sooner or later . Squinty-eyed Western veteran Lee Van Cleef is the soldier at the climax who fires the shot that kills the beast . James " Roscoe P . Coltrane " Best also has a tiny role .
Young Janet Freeman ( Jennie Linden ) has been a nervous wreck ever since she discovered her father slain by her mother , who had gone crazy . Years later , she is suffering repeated horrible nightmares , upon which she is sent home from her girls ' school to live with guardian Henry Baxter ( David Knight ) . Things aren't any easier at home for this poor girl , unfortunately , even with the kind and loyal staff at hand , as well as new companion Grace Maddox ( Moira Redmond ) . To fully appreciate this twist-laden chiller from the legendary Hammer Studios , one must go in fresh with only a bare amount of information like I've relayed here . It's a genuinely spooky and atmospheric movie , well shot in Hammerscope ( by John Wilcox ) and directed by Freddie Francis with his venerable understanding of the genre . Night scenes are often shot in vast pools of darkness , setting a bleak and unsettling mood . One good example of solid suspense is the opening sequence in an eerily quiet asylum , and the music is nice and subtle here , making it work even better . Solid acting from the cast , especially Redmond , is another enjoyable aspect of the movie ; they all keep it interesting . Lindens ' performance allows for a sufficient amount of sympathy towards her character . Particularly striking is Clytie Jessop as the mysterious woman in white , with that scar on her cheek and her blank stare . An effective modern ( well , 1960's era modern , anyway ) spin on " old dark house " and Gothic type melodrama , this clearly isn't one of the better known Hammer movies . There are no vampires or mad doctors anywhere in sight , and there is a conspicuous absence of Hammer movie regulars . However , it's a move that pays off . An ultimately satisfying little movie with a cyclical quality to it , I hope I can help to make others discover it .
Reluctant traveling companions George ( Ray Lovelock ) and Edna ( Christine Galbo ) get caught up in a proliferation of recently deceased folks rising to stalk the living . It would seem that a revolutionary new agricultural machine using radiation to eliminate insect pests is responsible . The local police inspector ( Arthur Kennedy ) , an exceptionally grumpy and cynical type , refuses to believe them and , going on Georges ' hippie-ish appearance alone , is more inclined to believe that George and Edna are responsible . While Jorge Graus ' " Let Sleeping Corpses Lie " ( also known by numerous other titles ) doesn't pile on zombie carnage , it's what the director does with the atmosphere that matters . A stark , moody , ominous mood is established almost from the get-go , with the overcast skies of Britain ( where the story is set ) helping immensely in this regard . It's a nicely creepy story with lots of sequences shot in almost complete darkness , and such hair-raising moments as an attempted escape from a tomb . Released just a few years after George Romeros ' original zombie classic , " Night of the Living Dead " , this film does up the ante in terms of on-screen violence . There's a fair bit of blood spurting and gut munching to enjoy here for fans of gore . The dismemberment of the hospital receptionist is particularly juicy . The picture moves at a fairly deliberate pace , slowly setting up what proves to be a magnificent finale indeed , and a highly enjoyable " last minute surprise " type ending . Lovelock and the stunning Galbo are engaging leads , with Kennedy turning in a solid performance as the hostile Inspector and Fernando Hilbeck , with his distinctive mug , doing a nice turn as the most prominent zombie of the picture . A chilling little Spanish-Italian co-production with a nice British feel to it , " Let Sleeping Corpses Lie " delivers its shocks and scares with skill and conviction . It's a good little zombie gem that merits attention and admiration .
Seymour " Sy " Parrish ( Robin Williams ) is a pathetically lonely guy , a photo shop employee at a Sav Mart whose job seems to be his basic reason for living . He obsesses over one set of customers , the Yorkin family ( Connie Nielsen , Michael Vartan , Dylan Smith ) whom he thinks of as a perfect family and he even imagines himself as one of their kin . Things go from creepy to outright dangerous when Sy's boss discovers his litany of transgressions and fires him , sending Sy over the edge . " One Hour Photo " is a refreshingly subtle and genuinely creepy drama / thriller that does not subscribe to any thriller formulas . Writer / director Mark Romanek has fashioned a movie that got under my skin and generated real uneasiness as I waited for Sy to lose it . The movie also features a shocking nightmare sequence sure to get your attention ( it actually seems more appropriate for a horror film , yet doesn't hurt the overall impact of the film ) . Best of all is William's restrained and efficient performance , which anchors the film . Supporting cast is fine , too . All in all , it's nice to see a good film like this come out of Hollywood every once in a while . One more word about Williams : I do tend to get tired of his comic persona , and find that he delivers his best actual performances when he's required to get serious . This is definitely one of the better things that he's done .
Jonathan Harker ( John Van Eyssen ) goes to Count Dracula's ( Christopher Lee ) castle under the guise of being his librarian , but is really there to destroy the Count . When he becomes a victim , his smooth and efficient colleague Dr . Van Helsing ( Peter Cushing ) arrives on the scene and proceeds to go after the blood-sucker himself . Good-looking ( with nice sets and nice photography ) , this in-color adaptation of Bram Stoker's legendary novel tells the story somewhat differently , but it is entertaining . It's one of those horror films that , while failing to really scare me , is a fine piece of work nonetheless . Cushing and Lee excel as the two adversaries . I don't think that there's much I can say about this except that it's a great choice for fans of the Gothic horror that Britain's Hammer Studios served up for many years . I would recommend that you see it sometime .
An obviously distraught young man ( Zeljko Ivanek , in the role that " introduced " him ) attempts suicide and is subsequently taken to a state mental hospital . There , a sympathetic psychiatrist , Gail Farmer ( Kathryn Harrold ) tries to get through to him , and discovers that they are now linked telepathically . And not only that , but he clearly has strange powers that he cannot control and which cause no end of problems for the staff and fellow patients . The solid cast also includes Shirley Knight , highly enigmatic as the mysterious woman claiming to be the young man's mother , and Paul Freeman ( Belloq in " Raiders of the Lost Ark " ) as Gail's boss who argues with her about the proper way to treat this John Doe . " The Sender " has a highly intriguing scenario offering no easy answers and details that can be quite open to individual interpretation . Seeing that it was released during the slasher movie boom , it's easy to see why it might have slipped through the cracks . However , it's worth discovering or re-discovering , as director Roger Christian ( an Academy Award winner who was set decorator on " Star Wars " and art director on " Alien " ) does a very credible job at crafting it . It has a palpable sense of doom , gloom , and mystery , with a large number of genuinely effective nightmare sequences . Trevor Jones's music is excellent as well . This overlooked and efficiently disturbing film is definitely worth catching . It was released on DVD this year so hopefully that will help it gain more recognition .
The late , iconic , and " cool " movie star Steve McQueen ( billed here as " Steven " for the only time in his career ) plays earnest lead Steve Andrews in this likable 1950's sci-fi favorite , in which a pulpy mass from outer space crashes to earth and immediately starts devouring any human it comes into contact with . It's up to Steve and girlfriend Jane ( Aneta Corseaut ) to rally the townsfolk ( starting with his good buddies Tony , Mooch , and Al ) and save the day . Performed and executed with ingratiating sincerity , " The Blob " gets off to a goofy start with the catchy opening credits ditty composed by a young Burt Bacharach . We can already tell that we're in for a good time , and that's exactly what this movie delivers . Even the obligatory scene in movies of this kind where the hero or heroes have to convince the skeptical local police force that there is a danger , it's actually amusing to watch knowing that this kind of scene certainly couldn't have been as much of a cliché back then . That's also the case with the discovery of the menace by the obligatory first victim , played here by Olin Howlin , who was at this point a veteran with many film appearances under his belt dating all the way back to the silent era . It's a pleasure to see such a great character face in a small role ; in fact , director Irvin S . Yeaworth Jr . tried to go for performers who had at least familiar faces even if they weren't " name " performers . The low , low-grade special effects , which would spell disaster for some movies , are actually part of the appeal here . The oozing , slimy , disgusting creature was original for its time - no face , no appendages , no set shape to it - and it's virtually impossible to kill - all anyone can do is contain it . It was a cool idea then and it's a cool idea now . The far more technically glossy remake of 1988 is I think a fine movie in its own right , but it does owe a lot to this movie , copying themes and images ( like that great shot of the blob preparing to engulf the theater ) with respectful devotion . The characters here are often believable and not one-dimensional , and the acting really isn't all that bad . My only regret is having been born a few decades too late ; had this movie been a part of my childhood or young adulthood , I'd probably appreciate it even more . It's a great capsule of 1950's small-town America and the comparative quaintness of the time . One of the most enjoyable aspects is the " Thing from Another World " style ending ; I'll say no more , but if you've seen that other movie , you'll know what I'm talking about . This movie for me is just plain fun . It's a must see for anyone who enjoys 1950's era genre fare .
This was written by an actual teacher ! Dedicated NYC teacher Trevor Garfield ( Samuel L . Jackson ) is stabbed by a student and ends up relocating to LA . However , his problems are not over ; he still has too many disruptive , hostile youngsters in his class . While he attempts a relationship with fellow teacher Ellen Henry ( Kelly Rowan ) , he is forced to confront the worst miscreants in his class ( Clifton Collins , Jr . ( aka Clifton Gonzalez Gonzalez ) , Lobo Sebastian , Jonah Rooney ) . I loved this movie ; I just thought it was so compelling . It was topical and interesting throughout . Cast is excellent , especially the always first-rate Jackson . I'd be hard-pressed to find the flaws with this film , although I must say that the switch in Garfield's personality seems sort of sudden . Talk about being typecast : Karina Arroyave , who plays Rita , was also cast in two other " Dedicated Teacher " movies - " Lean On Me " and " Dangerous Minds " - as troubled teenage girls . I also like the film for not being ENTIRELY predictable . Most of the time , it really hurts a movie if you can automatically guess what will happen at various stages in the movie . There was ONE incredibly predictable event in the movie , however , and for that I am disgusted . Overall , I think that it is quite potent ( if not original ) and excellent . My vote is for .
One of the ultimate cautionary mad scientist tales of all time , Mary Shelleys ' legendary story received this extremely memorable film adaptation in 1931 , courtesy of the highly esteemed director James Whale . Anyone familiar with this story ( and how many people are not ? ) will not need me to summarize it , but the tale of the much-too-ambitious Henry Frankenstein ( Colin Clive , in a wonderfully florid performance ) contriving his own inhuman being ( Boris Karloff in the signature role of his career ) in his windmill laboratory has proved to still have much life in it all these years later . I'm hardly qualified to go into an in-depth analysis of this cinema classic , but I'll do my best to state what I think makes it work so well . Even with the obvious absence of a music score ( it's solely confined to the opening and closing credits ) , atmosphere is established quickly ( the opening graveside sequence looks magnificent ) and maintained . Director Whales ' meticulous direction and attention to detail pay off well ; the Gothic look is impressive thanks to the art direction of Charles D . Hall and cinematography of Arthur Edeson . Overall , it's good storytelling and the images captured on film remain indelibly etched in peoples ' memories . The soft-spoken and cultured Karloff became a star due to his expressive and heartfelt performance of a misunderstood creature of no genuine ill intent ( much like another tragic monster in the form of The Wolf Man ) . Ultimately , that is a large part of why this story resonates so strongly : we pity the monster as much as we are intimidated by him . The Jack Pierce makeup also helped tremendously in giving us the definitive screen appearance of The Frankenstein Monster . American actors Mae Clarke and John Boles do fine in support , despite being rather outshone by their co-stars . Edward Van Sloan and Dwight Frye , who had just appeared in the other Universal horror classic of 1931 , " Dracula " , as Van Helsing and Renfield , make very welcome appearances as Dr . Waldman ( the moral center of the film ) and Fritz ( the scuzzy , mean-spirited hunchbacked assistant to Henry ) . While in this day and age it doesn't pack as much of a punch as it would have back in the 1930's , it's still an interesting and thoughtful story and is worthy of a great deal of respect , especially considering its continuing influence . Always worth seeing , and appreciating .
Genre icon Lee plays Kurt Menliff , the black sheep of the Menliff family . He's returned to their mansion after some time away , which displeases most of them , with the exception of Nevenka ( the quite sensuous Daliah Lavi ) , with whom he'd had a rather kinky relationship . She still finds herself drawn to him . Soon after his arrival , he is murdered , but returns as a ghost armed with a whip , putting Nevenka in mortal terror and confounding the rest of the family . It isn't often that one can use both the words romantic and sadomasochistic in describing any movie , but they both fit in this instance . It's equal parts haunting , eerie , kinky , and sentimental , provoking different emotions from scene to scene . The legendary director does typically superior work in terms of mood , atmosphere , lighting , and tension . It has the ability to really put a viewer on edge , and even has a psychological quality to it as well . The acting from the attractive cast is a heavy asset ; Lee is as solid as he's ever been , despite the curious fact that he was dubbed by another actor . Lavi and Isli Oberon are beauties in the classic tradition of foreign horror and deliver good performances to boot . Tony Kendall , Harriet Medin , and Gustavo De Nardo also co-star . An intriguing blend of the whodunit , an old-fashioned ghost story , and a tragic and unconventional love story , " The Whip and the Body " marks a major accomplishment for Bava . It moves slowly and surely towards a twist ending , always maintaining a creepy , somber , and affecting mood . Those new to the directors ' works should definitely check it out .
Most people know this story by now , but I'll just sum it up briefly here : it's a story of one old man's redemption on Christmas eve in 19th century London , thanks to the intervention of several ghostly visitors . Intelligent , emotionally rewarding picture with nothing but the utmost respect for the source material . Every role receives a worthy performance , with leading actor Alastair Sim in the role he'll probably always be most remembered for . " A Christmas Carol " ( or " Scrooge " , as it is also known ) is subtle and has atmosphere to spare . It's hard to watch and not be entertained , although I appreciated the subtitle option on my DVD because sometimes I couldn't understand what the actors were saying . Perhaps most indicative of this picture's simple ability to tell a good story and hold viewer interest is that it holds up after repeat viewings . I must confess , I only just watched it in its entirety for the first time tonight , but I enjoyed the heck out of it . Perfect if you want to get your family together for a quiet evening of holiday movie viewing . Over a half century later , " A Christmas Carol " is still working its little magic .
Dr . Alex Harris ( Fritz Weaver ) has developed a creative artificial brain dubbed Proteus IV which can do its own thinking . Ultimately , it decides to trap Harris's poor wife Susan ( Julie Christie ) in their own home because Proteus has determined that she can give it what it desires most . This knockout 1977 science-fiction thriller is almost a two-character story , a battle of wills between the frightened and angry Susan and the coldly determined Proteus IV ( whose voice is provided by an uncredited Robert Vaughn ) . It's a strange , disquieting , fascinating little movie with a thoroughly engaging performance by Christie , exploring not only the idea of entrusting our lives to computers , but of also what it means to be human . The music and special effects are good , and the dialog is interesting . The screenplay is by Robert Jaffe and Roger O . Hirson , based on an early Dean Koontz novel , and the direction by Donald Cammell , who is sadly no longer with us . Weaver is good in his role , and it's cool to have Gerrit Graham ( " Phantom of the Paradise " , " Used Cars " , " C . H . U . D . II - Bud the Chud " ) on hand as Christie's would-be rescuer , but this is essentially Julie's show , and a good showcase for her indeed .
In this epic length and action packed Western from director Sam Peckinpah , a group of outlaws in the year 1913 realizes that a new world is arriving , one for which they won't really be suited . They decide upon a final heist before packing it in for good , while being determinedly tailed by hired guns representing a railroad . The notorious scenes of violence are impressive for any day and age , I feel , even if it can be said that films have gotten even more violent in the years since . It's all brilliantly edited for maximum impact ; the film's opening and climactic gunfights are some of the best that I've seen for any genre . The characters were a colorful bunch , and the lineup of actors - William Holden , Ernest Borgnine , Robert Ryan , Edmond O'Brien , Warren Oates , Ben Johnson , Strother Martin , L . Q . Jones , Albert Dekker , Jaime Sanchez , Bo Hopkins , Emilio Fernandez , Alfonso Arau , and Dub Taylor - is quite impressive to take in . They're all excellent . The main characters may not be sympathetic for the most part , but they're not dishonest about it , either . They still have a code and will stand by it . What I liked were the two pairings - Oates and Johnson as the Gorch brothers and Martin and Jones as Coffer and T . C . It's as if the casting directors had a feel for how well they would work together , often as comedy relief . Ryan , I felt , was a real standout as the conflicted Thornton , forced into performing a task he's not looking forward to in order to maintain his freedom . Peckinpah certainly knows how to deliver action scenes , and is good with suspense as well . One of the most amusing touches was having an otherwise extremely tense scene thrown off kilter by singing in the street . The director takes his time telling the story , and it's always compelling . When the bunch see a car for the first time and hear talk of airplanes ( of course , they don't refer to them as such ) , they know they will have to say goodbye to the life they knew . The dialog is full of some sharp and memorable lines . An example I'll pick is : " Your word isn't important ! It's who you give it to that matters ! " . It's a great looking , flamboyant , and majestic film ; it just goes to show everyone , that if you're going to go down ( this can apply to the Old West as well as the men who inhabited it ) , why not go down in a blaze of glory ? Highly recommended .
Excellent thriller from 1974 about an incredibly prepared quartet of criminals , led by ' Mr . Blue ' ( Robert Shaw ) , who hijack a subway train and hold its conductor and 17 passengers hostage for $1 million in ransom money - to be delivered in just one hour . A phenomenal cast delivers the goods in a witty , clever , and thoroughly pumped up movie that never lets up . The pace is consistently intense , and the action is often loud and furious . Walter Matthau , as the heroic Lt . Garber , and Shaw as Blue , make for a classy and compulsively watchable pair of adversaries . Shaw's Mr . Blue is the kind of movie villain who always seems to have the upper hand , having thought everything out so well beforehand , and he's also the kind of guy who never is seen to lose his cool . Mr . Green's cohorts are played by the superb veterans Martin Balsam ( the ill-fated private detective from the original " Psycho " ) and Hector Elizondo . Earl Hindman , who would 17 years later catch my attention as the quirky yet wise neighbor Wilson on ' Home Improvement ' , is the fourth and youngest member of the team . An absolutely incredible lineup of familiar faces fills out the other roles : James Broderick ( Matthew's father ) as the motorman Doyle , Dick O'Neill as the hostile Frank Correll , as well as Jerry Stiller , Doris Roberts , Julius Harris , Tony Roberts , Lee Wallace , and Kenneth McMillan . In the tradition of other 1970's classics like " Serpico " and " Taxi Driver " , the movie captures the ambiance of 1970's era NYC very well . You just can't beat authentic location filming for this kind of story . Highlighted by an especially amusing ending , which ultimately pays off a running gag , present throughout , regarding one of the crooks . Exciting and well-made ; one of the high points of veteran director Joseph Sargent's career . Followed by a made-for-TV remake 24 years later .
A leading candidate for the best adventure movie of all time . Harrison Ford plays Indiana Jones , a professor of archaeology and treasure hunter who is hired by the United States government in the 1930's to find and retrieve the mythical " Ark of the Covenant " before the Nazis do . " Raiders of the Lost Ark " offers an almost non-stop variety of thrills and is able to sustain itself for its entire 116-minute running time . There's so much to make note of here - the flawless cast , the flashy special effects , the incredible sets , the efficient pacing of the film , the memorable scenes like the chamber full of snakes and the truck chase , etc . I won't go into great detail in describing it but suffice it to say that if you enjoy adventure movies you're advised to catch this 1980's blockbuster at least once . It's a great dose of escapist fun that still entertains almost thirty years later . This was one of my favorite movies growing up and is still a favorite today . It certainly made the combination of a fedora and a whip quite iconic . Followed by " Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom " , " Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade " , the TV series " The Young Indiana Jones Chronicles " , and " Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull " . Conceived by George Lucas and Steven Spielberg ( official story credit goes to Lucas and Philip Kaufman ) and scripted by Lawrence Kasdan .
Young family in cozy suburban neighborhood is suddenly besieged by a hostile , dastardly spirit that drags the adorable youngest child into the netherworld . They call upon a para-psychological team , then a genuinely gifted clairvoyant , to help them get back the little girl . Admittedly , this ghost story may be technically directed by Tobe Hooper , but is clearly filtered through the sensibilities of writer / producer Steven Spielberg , making this more family friendly than it might have been otherwise . " Poltergeist " is a slick , mainstream movie with a heavy accent on flashy special effects , but it also presents us with a reasonably likable and sympathetic family . It's a long film but doesn't feel as long as it is , with segments that are consistent in holding my attention . Young Heather O'Rourke was a real find as the angelic little girl , and it's saddening to think that both she and co-star Dominique Dunne ( who plays the eldest child ) were lost at such young ages . The cast is very good , with standout work by JoBeth Williams as the wife and mother , Beatrice Straight as the head of the research team , and , of course , the one-of-a-kind Zelda Rubinstein as the clairvoyant . I'll also watch almost anything with James Karen in it - he's simply a great character actor . " Poltergeist " is decent entertainment that save for one ghoulish nightmare sequence should be acceptable fare for older children . I really liked it ; good work by all concerned .
