This is another film which stands as the perfect showcase for director Fulci’s sad decline throughout his final years ( actually , this is the third such example I’ve watched ) and , by extension , that of the popular " Euro-Cult " style . It opens in 1943 with a ( hilarious ) orgy at a secluded villa by a group of perverted Nazis , which one of them conveniently films – a sequence which is haphazardly intercut with genuine stock footage of the war . The scene then shifts to the present day with a group of teenagers who happen upon the villa and decide to spend the night there : one of the girls is seduced by the ghost of the amateur film-maker but wakes up to find that , apparently , it was only a dream ! The gang departs in the morning but , mistakenly , take a roundabout route which invariably brings them back to the dilapidated villa ; this time , they discover that they can’t leave the premises – the phone which was previously working is now dead , and the exits have all been mysteriously blocked ! Soon , one of them is engaged in a game of Russian Roulette with the same ghostly Nazi , who even offers him a night with a prostitute if he comes out alive : amazingly , he does but the sexual encounter doesn’t quite go the way he planned ! At this , he goes berserk and attacks one of his friends – but falls down a flight of steps and is killed . Later on , the prostitute herself appears to the most hysterical of the girls ( who harbors a lesbian affection towards one of her companions ) – the older woman shows her her friend making out with the third girl of the group but , when she goes to confront them , finds that it was ‘all in her mind’ ! Then , it’s the turn of the girl who first met the Nazi to become involved with one of the boys ( for whom she had hitherto showed no interest ) – but , as soon as he touches her , the girl’s skin starts to come off ! Eventually , the gang discovers the reel of footage shot by the Nazis intact and they watch it in an attempt to solve the enigma in which they’ve become unwittingly entangled – this is followed by the Nazis suddenly appearing to break down the doors , an explosion . . . and , then , the whole gang wakes up from a deep slumber in front of the ruins of the villa in question ! Doh ! ! The film , then , is a mix of haunted-house horror ( involving the typical obnoxious - vacationing - teenagers - getting - lost angle ) and Nazisploitation ( with the soft-porn elements that this entails ) which can , perhaps , best be described as hypnotically bad . While Fulci might have done something with this plot in his heyday , here he’s defeated by a boring cast ( though the girls , at least , look good in and out of clothes ) and the utterly gratuitous gore mandated by the genre at this juncture ( but which the evidently shoestring budget couldn’t hope to satisfy in a convincing manner ! ) .
From the title and what little I knew about its subject-matter , I was expecting a BELLE DE JOUR-meets-JACK THE RIPPER kind of thing but imagine my disappointment when , after an intriguing start , this is forsaken for boring political machinations which ineffectively breach thriller territory towards the end . Actually , it gets sillier by the minute : from having Sigourney Weaver ( playing a researcher in Anglo-Arab relations moonlighting as a high-class escort ) chatting up an Arab playboy's cinematic banter at a society party with " Am I supposed to say ' Your place or mine ? ' " to which he retorts , " No , these days you say " Betamax or VHS ? ' " ; to seeing Michael Caine ( as a celebrity British diplomat ) standing in the rain holding out a bouquet of flowers for Weaver - whom he has fallen for in the course of her extra-curricular activities and with whom he has had a minor falling out ! Still , the often-nude Weaver is nevertheless quite good in her role but the film is certainly no BELLE DE JOUR ( 1967 ) and it is easy to see why Bob Swaim's career went downhill very quickly after having made the excellent French policier LA BALANCE ( 1982 ) .
From what I've seen thus far , the least - and least typical - of the Universal horrors , despite the omnipresent Gothic atmosphere and a capable cast . No werewolf , male or female , ever turns up here and , frankly , the ' wolf ' attacks - which are clearly committed by a human being , but we still get to hear various unconvincing howls and growls - are downright risible ! The plot , actually , borrows heavily from two of the very best Sherlock Holmes adventures - THE HOUND OF THE BASKERVILLES ( 1939 ; the ' curse ' ruse as part of an inheritance scheme ) and THE SCARLET CLAW ( 1944 ; the murder method ) . In the end , the film is not by any means unwatchable - but is , at least , equally missable .
Notorious film director D ' Amato's first entry in the " Black Emanuelle " series is somewhat better than its predecessor but , the version I watched on Italian TV is so sloppily trimmed that several sexy scenes end abruptly , thus making them quite senseless ! Here Emanuelle attracts the attentions of a Thai Prince ( Ivan Rassimov , of all people ) , her on-off archaeologist boyfriend ( real-life husband Gabriele Tinti ) , a world-renowned historian and a shy Thai bell-boy , as well as 4 ( ! ) females - an Oriental masseuse , a repressed American tourist ( played by the lovely Ely Galleani from A LIZARD IN A WOMAN'S SKIN [ 1971 ] and BABA YAGA [ 1973 ] ) , Tinti's " official " schoolmarmy girlfriend and , most intriguingly , an American Consul's ( possibly manic-depressive ) daughter ! I say intriguingly because Emanuelle is shown really losing her head for the young , inexperienced girl ( almost up to the point that she starts considering forsaking her hedonistic lifestyle ) but , before you can say , " Copout ! " , she gets a call from her newspaper sending her off to Paris for another assignment ! ! By the way , towards the middle of the film , Emanuelle's Bangkok apartment gets broken into and she loses her passport and all her valuable rolls of film ( apparently because she was getting too close to Prince Rassimov who has a coup d'etat on his mind ) and , for good measure , there's some local color ( opium smoking and sensuous dancing ) and even animal cruelty ( in the form of a bloody mongoose vs . cobra duel ) . What the f !
This is considered a " Grindhouse Classic " ? the former it may well be , but the latter it definitely ain't ! The film was released as a double-feature with the re-issue of ZOMBIES ( 1964 ) , now renamed I EAT YOUR SKIN : both of these titles actually end up being misnomers , chosen strictly for their exploitation value . Again , this starts off with a rite ( Satanic rather than voodoo ) ? which here , too , has nothing to do with the rest of it ! The gang of youths concerned attack an uninvited girl and then take it up on her relatives when they confront them . Eventually , a young boy decides to avenge himself upon the group in a rather vicious manner ( feeding them meat pies from his family's bakery infected with the blood of a rabid dog ! ) ? and , unwittingly , unleashes an epidemic of madness and murder . The violence ( coupled with the foaming-at-the-mouth make-up ) is so unconvincing as to be laughable ? and , for added queasiness , there's a completely gratuitous scene involving a boa ! A measure of the film's contrived nature is the fact that the group takes quite some time to show the effect of the disease ( one of them is a nymphomaniac who ravishes a bunch of construction workers ? conveniently spreading the virus ? before expiring ) , but their victims all turn rabid at the bat of an eyelid ! One more unexplained factor is that each member of the Satanic cult develops a particular abhorrence of one another ? with their Indian leader dispatched by his former black pal in memorably grisly fashion .
I didn't even know that this one was readily available to watch but I immediately snapped it up when I saw it was available for rental from the local DVD store . Actually , I had watched the godawful MYRA BRECKENRIDGE ( 1970 ) on TV while I was in Hollywood a few months ago so I was really expecting the worst here . Surprisingly , it turned out to be a fitfully amusing affair ? if a completely embarrassing one . Previously , I had only watched Mae West ( with whom , I just found out , I happen to share my birthday ) in her prime ? SHE DONE HIM WRONG ( 1933 ) , I'M NO ANGEL ( 1933 ) and MY LITTLE CHICKADEE ( 1940 ) ? and I love all three of them . Despite her writing talents , West's main assets were always her figure and appearance so it's no surprise that she bowed out when she did ? which , of course , makes her eventual re-emergence as a heavily cosmeticized octogenarian all the more outrageous and baffling ! Over the years there have been numerous surprising comebacks in Hollywood ? not to mention lavishly produced ego-trips ? but I'd bet few reach the level of preposterousness attained by SEXTETTE ! Hollywood in the Seventies , among other things , was an era of catastrophic , all-star attempts to recapture past glories particularly its musical heritage and therefore it's small wonder that SEXTETTE ropes in some uncharacteristic cameo appearances by contemporary music stars like Ringo Starr ( as an Erich von Stroheim-like director ) , Keith Moon ( as a flamboyant fashion designer ) and , weirdest of all , Alice Cooper ( as a piano-playing , bellboy crooner sporting a curly-haired wig ) ! The Beatles also make another appearance of sorts when Mae's agent , Dom DeLuise bursts into an exuberant rendition of Lennon / McCarney's " Honey Pie " ? and guess who he was thinking of when he was singing it ? Apparently , Miss West wasn't too keen on having these four stealing her limelight ? However , she did approve of her leading men who , of course , are requested to still be lusting helplessly after Mae ? an aristocratic Timothy Dalton ( who gets to sing a duet with Mae and whose remarks are frequently misinterpreted in the press ! ) and mobster George Hamilton ( who is also seen pleading in broken Italian to his " Godfather " - cue the Nino Rota score from that film ! ! - for the sakes of " Mario ? Irving ? Mozzarella ? Marinara ! " ) ; other guest stars who make an appearance are Tony Curtis as a Russian powermonger ( ! ) , Walter Pigeon as a bewildered Chairman of the Board and a split-second cameo from George Raft - who co-starred with Mae in her very first film , NIGHT AFTER NIGHT ( 1932 ) - as himself . Ken Hughes helmed some good films in his day ? THE TRIALS OF Oscar WILDE ( 1960 ) and CROMWELL ( 1970 ) ? but , I guess , the producers of SEXTETTE only knew him from his comedic , big-budget extravaganzas like CASINO ROYALE ( 1967 ) and CHITTY CHITTY BANG BANG ( 1968 ) when they engaged his services for this misbegotten enterprise ?
Passable low-brow mythological hokum : Richard Harrison is Perseus ? who , rather than the offspring of Zeus , here is the adopted son of Hercules ( and an unwitting deposed monarch to boot ! ) . The film provides two villains in Arturo Dominici , an ambitious man who usurps the throne by killing the current ruler and marrying his wife ( the scriptwriters must have read " Hamlet " ) , and Leo Anchoriz as his equally despicable son ? who also acts as a rival to Harrison for the heroine's hand ; the latter , then , is the usual lovely sovereign of a rival harassed empire ( but who , at least , demonstrates a prowess with bow and arrow ) . In this outing , Perseus fights a couple of monsters : a man-eating dragon residing in a lake ( ! ) and the titular paralyzing creature ( which , instead of sporting writhing snakes in its hair-do , is a vine-like Cyclops that would better fit the atmosphere of a science-fiction movie , in the vein of the shapeless one-eyed alien seen in IT CAME FROM OUTER SPACE [ 1953 ] , than a sword-and-sandal flick ) ; nevertheless , the latter confrontation anticipates the Ray Harryhausen opus CLASH OF THE TITANS ( 1981 ) . With respect to the human end of the scale , the ongoing dispute is resolved over a long-running duel between Harrison and Anchoriz taking place at the heart of a tournament organized by Dominici . Director De Martino made a few peplums before going on to other " Euro-Cult " genres ( Spaghetti Western , war , horror , giallo , etc ) . Eugenio Bava ? father of cult film-maker Mario ? served as technical adviser here , presumably contributing the matte work involved in the creation of the special effects . The film's score is highlighted by a catchy but corny title tune heard over the opening and closing credits .
Rather foolish attempt at a Hitchcock-type mystery-thriller , improbably exchanging espionage for archaeology and based on the Robin Cook novel ; incidentally , I’ve recently acquired another adaptation of his work – COMA ( 1978 ) – in honor of the late Richard Widmark . For the record , director Schaffner had just made THE BOYS FROM BRAZIL ( 1978 ) – a similarly fanciful but much more engrossing suspenser and , unfortunately , SPHINX was a false step from which his so-far impressive career would not recover . Despite its scope and reasonably decent cast , however , this one proved a critical and commercial flop – mainly because the narrative just isn’t very thrilling : in fact , it’s quite dreary ( feeble attempts at horror – the archaeologist heroine having to put up with entombment , rotting corpses galore , and even an attack by a flurry of bats – notwithstanding ) . Lesley Anne-Down is the lovely leading lady , stumbling upon a lost treasure – it’s actually been hidden away by a local sect to prevent it from falling into the hands of foreigners , who have appropriated much of the country’s heritage ( under the pretext of culture ) for far too long . Sir John Gielgud turns up in a thankless bit early on as the antique dealer who puts Down on the way of the loot , and pays for this ‘act of treason’ with his life . Typically , it transpires that some characters are the opposite of what they claim to be – so that apparent allies ( such as Maurice Ronet ) are eventually exposed as villains , while an ambiguous figure ( Frank Langella , whom I saw at London in early 2007 in a West End performance of " Frost / Nixon " , which has now been turned into a film ) goes from Down’s antagonist to her lover and back again , as he determines to keep the wealth belonging to Egyptian high priest Menephta a national treasure .
I shared Michael Elliott's opinion of MANDINGO ( 1975 ) but I can't say that I do the same for his take on its sequel , DRUM ( 1976 ) . While I concede that it's a ( slightly ) better film - it's not as dull as its predecessor , nor does it take itself so seriously - I feel that the exploitation elements are even more pronounced this time around . There is a lot more nudity in DRUM ( its sexual perversions extending to both male and female homosexuality ! ) , for instance , and the plot is even tawdrier : John Colicos is a campy gay French trader who wants to bed black stud Ken Norton - unbeknownst to him , the son of a white woman who just happens to be the madam of the most popular brothel in the area , and where all the various parties converge : including Warren Oates as the elder version of the character played by Perry King in MANDINGO , his puritanical ( ! ) future wife Fiona Lewis and Colicos himself , whose unruly slave Yaphet Kotto is made to fight Norton but subsequently becomes his pal . Besides , there's Cheryl " Rainbeaux " Smith as Oates ' horny teenage daughter who's after every colored male in the household ! The version I watched ( from the R2 DVD ) featured a somewhat faded pan-and-scan print : again , being 100 minutes long , the film seems to have suffered some edits - even when taking into consideration the NTSC to PAL conversion factor - from the official length of 110 minutes ; in fact , Mike's description of the climax - which I didn't find excessively violent - suggests that it may have been trimmed somewhat .
Included on Warners ' DVD of CIMARRON ( 1931 ) , what I said about the latter ? that it is marred by the primitive technique of the time ? also applies to this " Merrie Melodies " cartoon when compared to the studio's heyday in this art form . As was the custom back then , its sole raison d'etre is to promote a current hit tune ( for which it is named ) ; this is set against a backdrop of a toy-maker's workshop , where his creations come to life at night , and he eventually joins the chorus at the end . Typical ingredients here are the fact that the titular belle is at once romanced by a toy soldier and coveted by a large spider ( which the latter ultimately defeats , with the help of the other toys ) . In the long run , though certainly a harmless enough short in itself , both the style of animation and the overall approach is very dated and , frankly , too corny to be appealing .
While the print of this one was more pleasing than the other Robbe-Grillet titles I watched to commemorate his recent passing , the viewing itself was marred by a couple of instances of temporary freezing . The film , then , was perhaps the most pretentious and , well , tedious of the lot – given that there’s hardly any discernible plot ! Again , we’re thrown into a remote Arabian locale ( complete with relentless – and , consequently , extremely irritating – religious chanting ) with , at its centre , a glamorous yet vapid femme fatale in Francoise Brion – to whom the title is presumably referring . Frankly , I’m at pains to recall just what went on in the film – even if only a little over 36 hours have elapsed since then . . . which is never a good thing but , usually , this is a predicament I find myself in after having watched some mindless / low-brow action flick and not a respected art-house one ! What’s certain is that , as a film about the search for a missing enigmatic girl , it’s far less compelling and satisfying than Michelangelo Antonioni’s L’AVVENTURA ( 1960 ) ! Incidentally , the bewildered hero of THE IMMORTAL ONE is played by Jacques Doniol-Valcroze – who happens to be a film-maker in his own right , actually one of the lesser ( and , therefore , least-known ) exponents of the " Nouvelle Vague " . Though I have to admit that – in the long run – I was disappointed by the mini-marathon dedicated to this influential novelist and highbrow film-maker , I’d still be interested in checking out the other efforts he directed ( not to mention hope to catch these three again in better representations and , perhaps , a more amenable frame-of-mind ) . In any case , I still have Alain Resnais’ demanding but highly-acclaimed LAST YEAR IN MARIENBAD ( 1961 ) – which Robbe-Grillet wrote , and for which he even garnered an Oscar nomination – to re-acquaint myself with , and that is sure to be an infinitely more rewarding experience . . .
This is further proof that cult Japanese director Takashi Miike is not for me : as can be deduced from the title , the film is a pseudo-homage to the Italian Spaghetti Westerns ( though Django has almost nothing to do with it ! ) . In fact , the plot is yet another rehash of Japanese master Akira Kurosawa's samurai classic YOJIMBO ( 1961 ) , which had actually led to Sergio Leone kick-starting the Spaghetti Western subgenre with that film's first remake A FISTFUL OF DOLLARS ( 1964 ) ! Anyway , for Miike , this is typically violent fare ? even more pointless than usual and all rather amateurishly assembled ; besides , having the actors speak English results in unintentional laughter more than anything else ( though Quentin Tarantino's absurd cameo is no less embarrassing : incidentally , I may well have been witness to the genesis of the picture back when these two mavericks ' butted heads ' at the 2004 Venice Film Festival ! ) . Needless to say , the squalid atmosphere peculiar to European Westerns is largely missing here ? but , then , neither does the film extract particular benefit from its own country's heritage ! With characterization tending towards mere posture ( when it is not insipid ) , we are left with a clutch of stylized-but-hollow action sequences to grab the attention ? all of which , ultimately , leaves a bad taste in the mouth . Perhaps mercifully , the version I watched is the shorter ( by 23 minutes ) International Cut .
Simplistically , this offbeat concoction may be described as a Western spoof but it is just too uneven to be truly successful as a comedy . This is perhaps explained by the fact that director Erdman was mostly a veteran character actor and only stepped behind the camera a handful of times . The opportunity allowed for fellow character actors to have a field-day can be , likewise , excused as it gives the proceedings a glorified home movie ambiance and does , on occasion , provide the viewers with flashes of amusement . Most prominent in the cast are TV stars John Astin ( in a dual role , no less ) and Lee Meriwether ( as the embittered wife of Astin’s bandido character ) but equally notable are Hollywood veterans Jesse White ( as the Mayor of a sleepy Western hamlet with an unpronounceable name ) , Allyn Joslyn ( as the Sheriff ) and Hans Conried ( in a very belated cameo as an oil tycoon ) ; as was to be expected , director Erdman also contrived to give himself a small but fun role as a bemused Judge . The bulk of the narrative sees cardsharp Astin being mistaken for bandido Astin and cardsharp Astin’s no-good younger brother is more often a hindrance to his pleas of innocence than anything else . The incarcerated Astin’s eventual trial , then , requires his alter ego to dress up conspicuously as an old man but this middle section of the film is also where it really drags and sags badly . The film does get back into shape ( relatively speaking ) with the appearance of Conried and , especially , the climactic foulness contest – where participants of every size and shape are awarded for their prowess in belching , spitting and cussing ( don’t ask ) – which , for better or worse , only serves to reinforce my afore-mentioned claims of the film’s inherent " home movie " quality .
As I said in my review of the original 1981 film , this is much of the same ? only slightly worse . What we get here is another impressive-looking but grossly underachieving cast list , which now also incorporates Shirley MacLaine ( who , taking a cue from Dean Martin and Sammy Davis Jr . ' s ruse in the first film , dresses up with her younger companion as a nun but soon ditches the habit and gets it on with star Burt Reynolds : having retained her figure at 50 , she's not afraid to display it and is made to don ultra-short skirts throughout the film's second half ! ) , Telly Savalas ( embarrassing as a flustered gangster ) , Frank Sinatra ( in a cameo as himself that amounted to his farewell to the silver screen : the competitors turn to him when organizer Jamie Farr is kidnapped along with the prize money ? after which Ol ' Blue Eyes decides to try his luck at the title as well ! ) , Ricardo Montalban ( as Farr's dad ) , Doug McClure ( as Farr's long-suffering manservant ! ) , Richard Kiel ( " Jaws " from a couple of James Bond titles , appearing incongruously as Jackie Chan's co-driver ? although one does wonder whether they turned to him after Roger Moore declined an encore ) and the dubious novelty of having a bad-mannered orang-utan driver ( which not only lock lips with Montalban [ ! ] at one point but actually wins the race ) . Of course , Dom DeLuise , Dean Martin , Sammy Davis Jr . and Jack Elam ( now detailed with Farr rather than Reynolds and DeLuise ) also return to the fold ? to say nothing of a new couple of sexy women drivers ( including " The Dukes Of Hazzard " ' s Catherine Bach ) . Incidentally , DeLuise has a second ( or third , if you count Captain Chaos ) role as a Mafia don ? obviously aping Marlon Brando from THE GODFATHER ( 1972 ) ? but which supplied the film's single funniest gag ( i . e . the dead cat ) and which I still vividly recalled from all those years ago . On the other hand , the low point would definitely have to be seeing Reynolds , DeLuise and Davis dressed up as dancing harem girls ( even if Dino's reaction to that eyesore is admittedly amusing ) .
Despite giving it the same rating as SPOOKS RUN WILD ( 1941 ) , this is , on the whole , a more enjoyable effort but still not good enough for me to make the above-average grade . Once again , the title is a misnomer and the villains turn out to have nothing at all supernatural about them but are merely a band of fifth columnists ! Unlike MURDER BY TELEVISION ( 1935 ) , the print I watched of this one was actually longer than expected since the sequence where the police arrive for the first time at the ' haunted ' house is repeated a few minutes later ; I suppose this is a result of a screw-up inherent in the print sourced for the transfer and , in any case , I didn't mind it as much as when it happened on local TV screenings of OUR RELATIONS ( 1936 ; where an entire reel from SMISS MISS [ 1938 ] found itself into the lengthy restaurant section which runs for most of the film's second half ! ) and Jean Renoir's THE SOUTHERNER ( 1945 ) !
This is one of the myriad early 80s slashers made in the wake of HALLOWEEN ( 1978 ) - but actually originating with BLACK Christmas ( 1974 ) - revolving around some holiday period . The film offers all the usual trappings : scares , gore , a little nudity , teenagers ( comprising the romantic triangle and the inevitable obnoxious clown ) , state / law officials , a childhood trauma , an old-timer's warnings going unheeded by the kids , etc . As such , it's no worse ( or better ) than many of its ilk - at least among the few that I've watched myself - but the mining-town setting does provide novelty value and a little atmosphere ( though the sight of the masked pickaxe-wielding murderer , whose identity isn't too hard to guess by the way , eventually grows tiresome ! ) .
This was more or less the KINSEY ( 2004 ) of its day , though clearly quaint in comparison ; still , it is a measure of the times that the film caused a mild stir back then whereas KINSEY virtually made no ripples when it emerged ! Anyway , HARRAD is mildly interesting ( if perhaps too low-key to stay in the memory for long ) in delineating the forward-thinking / experimentation that occurred in sexual relationships at the end of the 1960s . Incidentally , I rented the film as part of a small tribute to its recently-deceased star James Whitmore : of course , the middle-aged actor does not get in on the action ( even if it is never particularly explicit ) ; Tippi Hedren , then , appears as his still-attractive spouse / collaborator ? who even catches the eye of the campus hunk ( Don Johnson , interestingly the long-time partner of Hedren's real-life daughter Melanie Griffith ! ) . The rest of the cast is filled with fresh faces ( including future comedian Bruno Kirby [ ! ] ? but especially notable is lovely and initially shy heroine Laurie Walters who , in her turn , is pursued by leering Robert Middleton at a nearby café ) . Unsurprisingly , partners get swapped ( whether intended or not ) which invariably cause heartbreaks , but there is also some cheap humor at the expense of a bespectacled and plump student . While director Post was more at home in action-oriented fare , he handles the delicate subject matter with directness and reasonable perception ; besides , the film looks good , sports a typical 1970s pop score ( one of the songs being performed by Johnson himself ) and , for what it is worth , was even followed a year later by a sequel , HARRAD SUMMER .
Rugged Chuck Connors ( in one of his best roles as a vengeful buffalo hunter ) heads an impressive parade of Hollywood veterans and current TV stars that people this modestly pleasing and occasionally bloodthirsty Western saga : Claude Akins , Buddy Baer , Bill Bixby , Joan Blondell , Jamie Farr , Paul Fix , Frank Gorshin , Gloria Grahame , James MacArthur , Gary Merrill , Arthur O'Connell , Michael Rennie and Ruth Warrick . Connors marries wealthy beauty Kathryn Hays ( the then-Mrs . Glenn Ford ) but seeks to make a fortune for himself in buffalo skins , a quest which takes him 11 years and earns him $17 , 000 . However , no sooner has he arrived back in town that he falls foul of the drunken sadism of boorish Akins , suave gambler Bixby and would-be respectable banker Rennie . Regaining his strength after being cared for by Fix , Connors soon comes face to face with Hays ( who mistakes him for a saddle tramp ) and , subsequently , his assailants whereupon he starts the slow process of reprisal . Bixby gets his in gruesome fashion to the torments they had themselves inflicted on Connors ( with a branding iron ) , Akins is trashed and killed in the climactic bar-room brawl and Rennie ( who is engaged to Hays ) is unmasked as the thief of Connors ' money . Not badly done of its kind , actually , and undeniably given a boost by that cast and its flashback structure ? starting out as it does in a contemporary setting with barman O'Connell narrating of the legendary events that occurred on " The Night Of The Tiger " to visiting government official MacArthur .
Despite the intriguing title , this is a tedious potboiler with very little to commend it save the evocative Peruvian locations . A stiff , pre-stardom Charlton Heston is an arrogant opportunist whose dress code might well have inspired Indiana Jones but his adventures , unfortunately for the viewer , are nowhere near as exciting . Robert Young ( unconvinging as a belatedly introduced archaeologist ) , Thomas Mitchell ( as Heston's double-crossing partner ) and Michael Pate ( ridiculously decked out in a Rumpelstiltskin hat as the Inca High Priest or something ) are on hand to lend the film some much needed support but the female cast is very weak : Nicole Maurey tries too hard as the damsel-in-distress heroine , Glenda Farrell is wasted as an American tourist with an eye on Heston , and Peruvian singer Yma Sumac almost sinks the film with her embarrassing over-the-top chanting !
I followed Salvatore Samperi’s MOTHER’S HEART ( 1969 ) with this equally unknown item , which has more in common with it than would at first appear ( i . e . the presence of the same actress , Carla Gravina – even if it’s actually one she seems to hate and would rather forget about ! ) ; the film is more of a bourgeois melodrama though still featuring the ‘obligatory’ political statements of the time . It’s based on a novel by one of Italy’s major literary figures , Alberto Moravia : his existentialist work was fashionable during this particular era in cinema in view of such adaptations as CONTEMPT ( 1963 ) and THE EMPTY CANVAS ( 1964 ) ; I own both of these but , while I love the former , have yet to check out the latter . Incidentally , the movie is perhaps best ranked as " Arthouse " but it’s still listed in the indispensable " Stracult " book – on which author Marco Giusti ( whom I saw numerous times at the 2004 Venice Film Festival ) is particularly hard on , calling it " terrible " and citing " extreme boredom " as its main offense ! The narrative details the fading relationship between a husband ( Silvano Tranquilli ) and wife ( Giovanna Ralli ) ; by the way , the original title ( of book and film ) translates to THE INVISIBLE WOMAN – obviously , it has nothing at all to do with the 1940 spoof on the Universal horror series ! – a fact which is treated more than figuratively here , so that we get the man literally looking through his spouse ( at one point , even describing in detail a stain on the wall which her body is actually blocking ! ) and virtually ignoring her at every turn ( foreshadowing in a way the would-be missing child episode from Luis Bunuel’s THE PHANTOM OF LIBERTY [ 1974 ] ] . One aspect that is confusing until the final revelation ( but more on this later ) is the ambiguous presence of Carla Gravina in the couple’s household : she seems to be a glorified maid , yet is never really considered an inferior – she may not be invited to the Opera with them , but does makes it to society parties and private gatherings ( which often descend into displays of hedonism ) ; this was , after all , a time in which liberal attitudes were gaining the upper hand everywhere ! The film tends to wander and can , therefore , lead to stretches of tedium – but it’s handled with some style ( which probably has more to do with the period in which it came out rather than the director’s individual skill , whom I wasn’t familiar with in the first place ) and the performances are pretty good ( though Giusti had personally found Ralli’s studied approach to the role risible ) . Besides , the two leading ladies – both of whom appear in the nude – look divine throughout ( their scenes together , then , emanate a distinct erotic charge ) . . . and , once again , we get a fine score courtesy of the ubiquitous Ennio Morricone ! Which brings us to the climax : there had already been traces of surrealism in the film – blurring fact and fiction a ' la Bunuel’s BELLE DE JOUR ( 1967 ; whose influence on this one is palpable ) in the incidents where Ralli spies on Tranquilli in bed with Gravina only to wake up and find he’s always been there beside her and , later , Ralli shooting Gravina out of jealousy during a hunting party ( a sequence which is a clear nod to Jean Renoir’s THE RULES OF THE GAME [ 1939 ] down to the ‘accidental’ victim ) before we realize that they’re still on their way to the appointed meeting place – but the ending ( so as not to blatantly spell out the nature of this incredible twist , I’ll just say that it anticipates FIGHT CLUB [ 1999 ] by 30 years ! ) must have seemed highly preposterous at the time . In the end , neither MOTHER’S HEART nor THE FANTASIES OF A SENSUOUS WOMAN ( a suggestively lurid title it doesn’t really live up to ) – incidentally , apart from co-star and composer , both also share scriptwriter Dacia Maraini – can be considered exactly good films ( hence the rating for both ) , but each emerges a definite curio for a variety of reasons .
Yet another Commedia All ' Italiana in which a gorgeous newlywed seduces her virginal stepson ; like similar entries in the distinctly Sicilian genre I recently watched , however , this one fizzles out after a promising ( and , in its case , consistently funny ) first half . Still , the oversexed antics of Vittorio Caprioli and , especially , Lionel Stander keep one watching - as does the overeating routine of the former's chubby son . ' Dirty Old Man ' Stander's hard-on incident ( with resulting scruffy hairdo ) and the virginal son's late-night tryst with the local big-breasted momma are the film's tasteless highlights . Besides , the satirical look on seminary priests in the film's initial stages verges on the heretical - as it depicts them watching porn mags , touching one another in class , etc . Edwige Fenech looks good in the nude , of course , but she plays a largely unsympathetic character here - but , then , the novice stepson doesn't exactly win audience sympathy either ( rather incongruously , he keeps score of his father's hit-and-miss bedtime romps ) . The film features a nice jovial score - pretty much the norm with this type of film ( though it does turn kind of serious towards the end , with the spiritual / carnal conflicts afflicting the boy ) . Dallamano is another of the " jack-of-all-genres " Italian film-makers , having previously dabbled in Spaghetti Westerns , Gialli and Poliziotteschi and , although I've only watched a couple of his other films myself ( see BANDIDOS above ) , I'd say he usually turned out better movies than this one here .
This seemed intriguing from its synopsis and , having received a " Special Edition " treatment on DVD , I had high hopes for it ? but , ultimately , the movie proved a disappointment ! Hence , I contrived to end my Halloween challenge this year with a whimper as opposed to a bang ( worse still , it wasn't even really a horror film ) ! ! Anyway , the plot has to do with the kidnapping of a child from a foster home by its natural but unbalanced mother ( Ellen Barber ) ; aiding her is a creepy carny ? played for all the eccentricity he's worth by Richard Lynch ( his egomaniac here isn't all that different from the actor himself , as seen in his 15-minute career overview included on Media Blasters ' DVD ) . The foster mother ( Sharon Farrell ) discovers she has paranormal abilities and attempts to locate her adopted daughter with the help of her befuddled husband's expert black female colleague . All the while , however , she has to contend with weird hallucinations ? apparitions by a bloodied Barber ( she having been killed by her own partner ) and especially the recurring forming of ice on mirrors as if to obfuscate her view into the psyche ( which , at one point , even causes Farrell to crash her car ) . Reliable veteran character actor Jeff Corey also appears as the investigating Police Detective . The film had potential ( in the accompanying interview , director Schnitzer states that when he was offered the original script ? which he reworked ? the parapsychology element wasn't even present ! ) but the end result is slow , muddled ( would-be surreal visuals aren't enough in this case to keep one interested ) , pretentious ( there's no explanation , for instance , as to why Lynch and Barber have to go into the occasional psychotic rage ? which is as close as it comes to horror throughout ) , dull and even ludicrous ( the finale in which the girl is ' lured ' into the open by having Farrell play a tune on a grand piano in the town square in the middle of the night in front of an audience of curious onlookers ! ) .
I honestly didn't know what to expect from this one ; by this stage , however , I fully anticipated the fact that its erotic content ? which , reportedly , is borderline hardcore ? would be severely diluted on the print shown on late-night Italian TV ( in fact , the film ran for a mere 77 minutes when the full-length , as given on most Internet sources , is closer to 92 minutes ! ) . Incidentally , negative opinions seem to berate the essential flatness of technique on display ? while this is understandable , given the film's generally modest credentials , its visual style is really quite typical of Italian comedies from this era . Anyhow , the picture turned out to be a surprisingly engaging romp ; its major inspiration is to turn the sexual exploits of a well-endowed male teenager into black comedy material , as his ' talent ' elevates the fortunes of a run-down seaside hotel owned by his liberal grandmother ! As the film opens , the boy ( Christian Borromeo ) is shy and two of his pals decide to take him to an aging and unattractive local prostitute ? but she balks at the size of his member , arguing that it could ruin her own professional tool ! Back home , he's infatuated with the voluptuous maid ? though , when she finally calls him into her room one night , they're immediately interrupted by his father ( who lusts after the girl himself when his own spouse is asleep ! ) . The hero is sent to his grandmother's as punishment ; he's not initially looking forward to the prospect , but some time after his arrival he meets the daughter ( future Italian TV showgirl Lory del Santo ) of the architect engaged to carry out the renovation of the hotel . She appears snobbish at first but , during dinner , their mutual attraction is palpable ? leading to some below-the-table shenanigans which distract a woman sitting at a nearby table from her full-time job of secretary to a pompous TV writer ( unable to contain her passion , she too eventually confronts the boy in the hotel corridors ) . Aiding the hero in the maintenance of the hotel is another male youth : however , he has no such luck with the women despite being hung-up on one particular guest ? Ajita Wilson , a black transsexual quite popular during this time ( whose on-screen husband is himself gay ) . Anyway , satisfied customers start spreading the word and soon the place is buzzing with activity ( most of it , naturally , centering around Borromeo's quarters ) . Two extraneous conquests for the boy are the very girl who put him on the road to ' success ' i . e . the maid from his former household who decides to pay him a visit on her day off and the sister of the hotel owner's lawyer who , married to a rich but senile foreigner , is obviously left wanting in certain matters . By the way , Borromeo's granny had forbidden him to become involved with the female hotel staff ? but these two girls won't be discriminated against , and decide to quit in unison unless . . . To cut a long story short , the boy's virtually non-stop occupation soon takes its toll and his sexual prowess is ultimately dissipated ; this , of course , could spell disaster for the hotel ? but , thankfully , del Santo is back and she manages to cure Borromeo . The film is breezy fun for the most part , what with its likable protagonist and many of the younger girls obviously looking great unclothed ; on the opposite end of the scale , Wilson definitely emerges an acquired taste ( this is the second film I've watched her in following Jess Franco's MACUMBA SEXUAL [ 1981 ] , though the same director's SADOMANIA [ 1981 ] and Cesare Canevari's THE NUDE PRINCESS [ 1976 ] could be worth pursuing as well ) ? while Stelvio Cipriani's cheesy score can hardly be ranked among his more notable efforts .
I was looking forward to this Hammer Films color remake of the H . Rider Haggard classic , after having re-acquainted myself with the fine 1935 black-and-white version last year . I was also glad to be able to get another Peter Cushing / Christopher Lee collaboration under my belt : this was , in fact , followed by another - Dracula A . D . 1972 ( 1972 ) - but , alas , both films turned out to be duds ! Even if it retains the desert setting of the novel ( whereas the earlier version had transposed the narrative to the Arctic , albeit effectively ) , the film doesn't capture the imagination of the audience , so to speak , and emerges a dullish venture overall . Indeed , even the Hammer stalwarts - Cushing , Lee and composer James Bernard - seem uninspired by the material and their individual contribution is surprisingly below-par ! To make matters worse , the two stars were largely relegated to the sidelines to make way for the insipid three-way romance comprising Ursula Andress , John Richardson and Rosenda Monteros ( though the girls , at least , constitute undeniable eye-candy ) . Having just viewed THE CREEPING FLESH ( 1973 ) , I appreciated Cushing's healthier-looking appearance here - though the Dracula film , needless to say , brought me back to his impossibly gaunt physique which resulted from the untimely death of his beloved wife ! ; as for Lee , ridiculously decked with a beehive-shaped headset during the climactic scenes , he was obviously the villain of the piece . The cast also featured Bernard Cribbins as Cushing and Richardson's companion / servant and a bare-chested ( ! ) Andre ' Morell as Monteros ' father . Despite having previously helmed two Boris Karloff horror vehicles - GRIP OF THE STRANGLER ( 1958 ) and CORRIDORS OF BLOOD ( 1958 ; which also featured Lee ) , both of which I've yet to catch up with myself { where are those rumored Criterion / Eclipse SE DVDs ? } - this was Robert Day's only film for the Hammer stable , and it's easy to see why !
Herzog gives us another of his compelling portrayals of obsessive larger-than-life characters in telling the inspirational but tragic story of earnest if ultimately misguided bear activist Timothy Treadwell . I'm not usually a fan of documentaries but Herzog's involvement and the positive buzz created by this movie on HTF led me to give it a try . . . and I'm certainly glad I did so . The film elicits an emotional response from the viewer , not only because of its eccentric protagonist and his ( and girlfriend's ) eventual fate , ironically , at the hands of the same creatures he so ardently wanted to protect and bring to the world's attention , but also because Herzog ( for the most part ) wisely lets Treadwell's own uniquely fascinating footage - down to a few hours before his death ! - do most of the talking for him .
This takes yet another viewpoint ? with the events leading up to Jesus ' crucifixion being recounted to a Christian novice by Simon Peter ( Richard Kiley ) at the time of his own execution . An interesting idea here is that the Jewish High Priests ? who also hate the Romans ? decide to give Christ over to their enemies ( with the aid of the equally misguided Judas ) not because he has put himself up as God but , rather , due to the fact that they're disappointed by his preaching Peace And Love as opposed to brandishing a sword in order to vanquish the oppressors from their land ! Here , of course , we also get to see a good deal of Christ himself ? interacting with Simon Peter , Judas and the rest of the Apostles , and also a bit of the trial before Pilate when Peter denies knowledge of him in the palace courtyard . Before reverting to Peter's own fate , we're also treated to the re-affirmation of faith by the famously doubting Thomas as well as the remaining Apostles ' new-found courage to go out into the streets and preach The Gospel after Pentecost .
Being basically the story of a romance among tramps , this sentimental and drawn-out melodrama is filled with repellent detail ( these characters certainly don't emanate from the world of Chaplin or Rene ' Clair ! ) but is held firmly enough together by good performances by the three main actors ( particularly Juliette Binoche , who is quite moving as the sketch artist slowly going blind ) and the odd moment of inspiration : the lovers walking on the ledge of the bridge against the backdrop of a fireworks display ; their putting to sleep the clientele of a café by means of the narcotic previously used by the insomniac boy ; the elderly tramp ? a sort of father-figure to the boy but who also has an inexplicable aversion to the girl ? reminiscing about his manic-depressive wife and the former job he had as the watchman of various cultural sites ; the lovers running naked by the sea silhouetted against the horizon ( and with the boy's erect penis receiving undue attention ! ) ; the boy setting on fire a bunch of posters of the missing girl fixed on the walls of an underground station .
This one presents an even more depressing ( and pointless ) concept than THE EMBRYO : the film is basically a series of gang-rapes committed on a young girl by a mixed group of wastrels on the roof of an apartment block , separated only by scenes in which the girl is befriended by an unwilling ( and possibly impotent ) hanger-on where they recite poetry and sing songs as a means of coping with their strange predicament ! A couple of similarly violent reminiscences by each of these characters are effectively shown in color , as opposed to the stark monochrome photography of the main events . Despite the abundant nudity on display ( the girl is naked for most of the film's running time ) , the end result is distinctly unerotic ; not surprisingly or , perhaps inevitably , the story resolves itself with bloodshed as the gang is butchered with a knife by the enigmatic boy , after which he and the girl leap off the roof to their death ! !
This is the fourth film of Joseph ( the Anglicized version of Jose ' Ramon ) Larraz I'm watching and possibly the most conventional and least rewarding so far . For the record , the film shares its screenwriter Derek Ford ( who later became an exploitation director himself ) with a film I've also just watched for the first time during this Halloween challenge ? Peter Sykes ' VENOM ( 1971 ; see above ) . The heroine is a gorgeous blonde played by Andrea Allan : thankfully , 1970s British genre cinema was virtually a haven for such starlets , even if only a handful ever made it to the top ( while the greater majority were hardly ever heard of again ) ! Like VAMPYRES ( 1974 ) , nudity here is bountiful ( in all senses of the word ) including a surprisingly steamy encounter between the disturbed sculptor / murderer ( Karl Lanchbury , who also appeared in Larraz's subsequent erotic vampire flick ) and his mentor / aunt ( ! ) ? although the ever iconoclastic Luis Bunuel would go one better the following year in THE PHANTOM OF LIBERTY by showing a young man sleeping with his own grandmother ! ! Incidentally , it seemed silly to me to have the heroine here jumping straight into a romantic attachment with a complete ? to say nothing of wimpish ? stranger ( who , conveniently , turns out to be the killer ! ) after having not just witnessed a cold-blooded murder but also having had her unreliable boyfriend disappear on her for good ! The expected ' red herring ' character is here supplied courtesy of Peter Forbes-Robertson's eccentric birdwatcher neighbor . Incidentally , the photographic models milieu is extremely typical of such European thriller fare ? and the film's bland treatment of it certainly adds nothing new to the formula . Also quite inevitably , the film went through various title changes : the original one was SCREAM ? AND DIE ! but , apart from the one I watched it under which is listed above , it was further hyperbolically dubbed PSYCHO SEX FIEND .
John Saxon has a memorable role as a black-faced , gun-crazy soldier who volunteers for solitary nightly ambushes on the enemy until he finally cracks up completely and wants to be left behind in Korea . The film also marked the screen debuts of Robert Redford ( as the clean-cut rookie hero who stands up to Saxon’s fearsome grip on his unit ) , Sydney Pollack ( a rare early acting stint for him as a sympathetic sergeant ) and Tom Skerritt ( as a cheerful sergeant ) ; of course , the latter would later appear in the ultimate Korean War movie , Robert Altman’s M . A . S . H . ( 1970 ) . Other cast members include Tommy Matsuda ( as an orphaned Korean boy taken under Saxon’s wing and unwisely befriended by Redford ) , Charles Aidman ( as the Captain who often covers for Saxon’s insubordination given the importance of the information he gathers from his nightly rounds ) and Gavin MacLeod ( who advises Redford to steer clear of the highly-strung Saxon ) . Being set during the final days of the Korean War , the film features the deceptive and ironic musical interludes played on loudspeakers by the teasing enemy prior to the inevitable combat ; despite its obviously modest budget and low-key nature , it is effectively shot in gritty , black-and-white by veteran cinematographer Ted McCord and nicely scored by Bud Shank . On the other hand , co-producer Terry Sanders was an award-winning documentarian who seemingly brought to the film an unusually sensitive and anti-militaristic outlook , while his brother Denis was an occasional feature film director – including the sci-fi / exploitation flick INVASION OF THE BEE GIRLS ( 1973 ) – who had previously co-written the screenplay for Raoul Walsh’s WWII epic THE NAKED AND THE DEAD ( 1958 ) . Trivia note : reportedly , Francis Ford Coppola appears uncredited as a truck driver ; also , the film’s associate producer ( Noel Black ) later became an erratic director himself – most notably of PRETTY POISON ( 1968 ) .
As was to be expected , this presents more of the same from The Andy Warhol Factory , even more so because this is actually a continuation of the story started out in FLESH ( 1968 ) . Even though lasting for a strained ( and strenuous ) 110 minutes , as a film it's undeniably superior to the previous outing : the plot , if so it can be called , now sees Joe Dallesandro's hustling years behind him and he just bums around and fills himself up with dope , while doing the occasional robbery to procure the money needed to satiate his fix ! Likewise , the diminutive go-go dancer / stripper played by Geri Miller in FLESH returns here just for the opening sequence where it is clear that she has finally had the breast implants she craved ( and whined for ) so much in the earlier film ! Otherwise , we meet a variety of new ( and irritatingly neurotic ) characters : first and foremost is Holly Woodlawn , a temperamental transvestite with bad teeth who also happens to be Dallesandro's landlady and lover . The scene showing her satisfying ' herself ' sexually with a beer bottle because Joe is impotent due to his excessive drug use is both unnerving and hilarious ; as is the final sequence of the film where the low-life couple are visited by a social worker with a foot fetish ( he's willing to throw the necessary red tape aside and recommend them for welfare status , if only Holly would let him have her shoes ? which she picked off the garbage to begin with ) ! Woodlawn's performance was much admired at the time and , reportedly , gay Hollywood director George Cukor had even actively campaigned for her to be considered among the year's Oscar nominees ! ! The gallery of society drop-outs also feature Woodlawn's ugly pregnant sister who seduces Dallesandro but is caught in the act by Holly who , in a hysterical fit , throws her sibling out into the streets despite her condition ; a girl ( played by one Andrea Feldman , more on her later when I get to the third entry in the series ) with an annoying drawl and obsessed with laying her hands on some LSD ? truly , she is one of the most annoying characters ever committed to celluloid ; and a young suburban couple whom Joe meets while attempting to rob their place : the wife is a chatterbox nymphomaniac and the whole scene degenerates into a violent family squabble just as Dallesandro OD's on crack and gets unceremoniously ejected from the apartment ! Therefore , it goes without saying that , apart from copious full-frontal nudity ? again , primarily from Mr . Dallesandro ( as had the case with the appropriately-titled FLESH ) ? the film contains graphic scenes of drug-taking . For the record , the " Holly " and " Little Joe " characters referenced in ex-Velvet Underground frontman Lou Reed's 1972 hit single " Walk On The Wild Side " actually refer to ? drum roll , please ? Holly Woodlawn and Joe Dallesandro !
To begin with , I opted to watch this so as to alleviate my sadness in the wake of the deaths of Ingmar Bergman and Michelangelo Antonioni ! Since I knew the plot already ( it follows Rene ' Clair's classic original AND THEN THERE WERE NONE [ 1945 ] pretty closely ) , I didn't have to concentrate too much on the narrative complications ? which also meant that it offered no surprise at all in this department ! Unfortunately , though , the film wasn't as much fun as I had hoped : flatly-handled , mechanical and indifferently acted ? its cast a mix of British veterans and popular but bland ' stars ' of the era : the former are always a welcome presence ( Leo Genn , Stanley Holloway , Wilfrid Hyde-White and Dennis Price ) ; of the younger generation , at least , Shirley Eaton makes for a lovely heroine ! The mountain setting , too , doesn't work quite so well as the deserted island of Agatha Christie's novel and Clair's earlier film ? though there's a nice score by Malcolm Lockyer for compensation . Incidentally , the version I watched featured the fun " Whodunnit Break " gimmick that's included on the R1 DVD only as an extra ! Curiously enough , even if shown on Italian TV in mid-afternoon , every now and then the film reverted to the original English language ( accompanied by Italian subtitles ) ; similar hybrids I recall watching over the years include Jacques Tourneur's OUT OF THE PAST ( 1947 ) and Anthony Mann's THE FALL OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE ( 1964 ) ! Finally , it's amazing that producer / co-screenwriter Harry Alan Towers ( the latter under his regular alias of Peter Welbeck ) remade this twice more in 1974 and 1989 ( ! ) ? I'd be interested in checking out the former , despite its bad reputation , for another remarkable international cast but certainly not the latter ( in which the hero's played by Frank Stallone , for cryin ' out loud ) . . .
As would be the case with DESTINATION GOBI ( 1953 ) , which I’ve just watched , this unusual war film about a specialized outfit also happens to be a starring vehicle for Richard Widmark ( and , similarly , featured no prominent female roles ) . Fox were noted for the documentary-style approach to their films for the first few years of the post-war era ; this was a typical example , mixing realistic detail ( while the underwater photography in itself is well done , the film tends to drag during these sequences ) with a number of established Hollywood conventions . Widmark begins by rubbing his men the wrong way because of their devotion to his predecessor , with Dana Andrews as his chief antagonist ( especially after the former opts to leave the latter behind during a reconnaissance operation ) . At one point , however , Andrews has to take over a mission when Widmark becomes indisposed ( where the former’s lack of responsibility leads to serious injuries sustained by one of the men ) ; eventually , the two acquire a mutual respect – which occurs when a torpedo fired at the ship by the enemy fails to explode and has to be delicately dismantled . The latter sequence is one of four suspense / action set-pieces in the film : the others being the two underwater missions themselves and the trial run for the first operation mentioned above . The supporting cast is led by Gary Merrill ( acting as , more or less , the voice of conscience ) and Jeffrey Hunter ( as a brash young member of the team ) ; also appearing , in unbilled roles , are subsequent favorite character actors James Gregory and Jack Warden .
I had previously watched this one on TV , but I recall being underwhelmed by it : I liked the film better a second time around , but it’s clearly no classic ( despite director Ray and co-star Robert Ryan’s involvement ) ; contrary to Ray’s best work , which is marked by his personal touch , he’s strictly a director-for-hire on this particular title . The film is one of several war-themed Wayne vehicles from this era , a good number of which I’ve yet to catch up with – FLYING TIGERS ( 1942 ) , THE FIGHTING SEABEES ( 1944 ) , BACK TO BATAAN ( 1945 ) and OPERATION PACIFIC ( 1951 ) . It’s similar to Wayne’s FORT APACHE ( 1948 ) , where he’s now portraying the martinet role played in that John Ford cavalry picture by Henry Fonda – though he’s well-matched with the long-suffering Ryan ( cast against type as an overly sensitive executive officer dedicated to his squad ) . The latter element , then , links the film with such archetypal flying pictures as ONLY ANGELS HAVE WINGS ( 1939 ) and TWELVE O’CLOCK HIGH ( 1949 ) – where the group leader is constantly forced to make tough decisions in which the life of his men has to be put in jeopardy . For this reason , too , Wayne’s a generally glum presence here – apart from his interaction with Jay C . Flippen as an amiably roguish old-timer ; from the remaining supporting cast , Don Taylor is equally notable as the wise-guy crew member who happens to be a relative of Ryan’s . The action sequences are exciting ( domestic asides are unsurprisingly dull but thankfully brief ) . even if utilizing an astonishing amount of grainy WWII stock footage which , while giving it a sense of raw authenticity , also tends to stick out rather too obviously alongside the soft yet agreeable Technicolor adopted for the rest of the film ! In the end , FLYING LEATHERNECKS may be corny but it’s reasonably enjoyable – and occasionally stirring – for all that .
This is a surprisingly elaborate war film which tackles the same events as the big-budgeted BATTLE OF Britain ( 1969 ) , but from an entirely different perspective - the infiltration of German spies into London prior to the Luftwaffe's aerial attack in order to destroy the RAF's infallible radar system , and British Captain Frederick Stafford's efforts to root them out in time . While the generally slick presentation belies the modest funds that were obviously available , the overall achievement is still hurt by too much concession to elements particular to lowbrow film-making and especially some grating comic relief ( culminating in a brawl between British and French soldiers ) provided by Renzo Palmer - but there's also a baffling over-emphasis on the heroics of a French air ace ( who's not even a major character ! ) , as well as obviously choreographed stuntwork . . . not to mention the fact that every revelation in unmasking the Nazi plot is left to the ingenuity of one man , which makes one wonder just what would have become of Great Britain if Stafford hadn't been there ! ! Besides , even if I was watching the film in Italian , the fact that none of the cast is British or German is inescapable - which certainly doesn't award it any marks for authenticity ! Castellari's often flashy direction doesn't work either : shooting from odd angles ( through a bullet hole in a helmet , through a pair of clasped hands or through a loudspeaker ! ) and utilizing distracting editorial techniques , such as his playful use of the split-screen - which is partially lost anyway , given that the aspect ratio on the print I watched has been changed from the original 2 . 35 : 1 to 1 . 85 : 1 ! The action-packed film ( with a couple of romances thrown in for good measure ) is enjoyable in itself but , even if flawed , BATTLE OF Britain is clearly superior ( the familiar Euro-Cult faces here are no match for the roster of Britsh stars which populate that film ! ) - though they did engage the services of Bunuel regular Francisco Rabal ( as a conscientious German ) and American Van Johnson ( ! ) as the British RAF officer in charge of the country's defense ( who , in the final decisive action , takes to the skies himself to repel the invading Nazi forces ) .
Fairly interesting Euro thriller revolving around the investigation into an apparent suicide who , prior to her demise , was involved in a brief romance with a troubled young man but had also attended a dubious photo-model session . The latter scene , which opens the film , features some mild bondage ? thus eliciting memories of Henri-Georges Clouzot's swan-song LA PRISONNIERE ( 1969 ) ; it's also interesting that the girl concerned is played by Raffaella Carra ' ( whose last film appearance this proved to be prior to her breakthrough as a top showgirl / presenter on Italian TV ? a status she holds , by and large , to this day ! ) . Unusual , too , is the fact that the detecting work here doesn't involve the police at all . The initially ambivalent relationship between disgraced doctor Bruno Cremer ( expelled for performing euthanasia ) and self-destructing bourgeois Renaud Verley ( who feels guilty for Carra''s death ) suggests this is going to be a clinical Chabrol-like character study . However , it turns into a conventional thriller before long ( with the heroine ? played by Martine Combrell ? used as bait for the sleazy amateur photographer ) ; still , Mario Adorf manages to invest the latter role with some degree of panache . Jean Martin , best known as the colonel who leads the oppressive French forces in THE BATTLE OF ALGIERS ( 1965 ) , appears here as Verley's valet ( who doesn't seem to take kindly to Cremer's intrusion ! ) . As a means of livening up proceedings , director Boisset opts for a car chase climax involving speed-freak Verley and the fleeing ( and flustered ) Adorf . Needless to say , this being a product of the late 60s , we get the added feature of bad dancing in various pub scenes ( though set to some groovy music ) !
I'd been wanting to check out Franco's ' faithful ' rendition of Bram Stoker's classic vampire tale ever since I came upon a review of it in two horror-film reference books from the mid-70s written by Alan Frank . When the Dark Sky R1 DVD was announced , I was overjoyed ? but this was soon dissipated by reports that their print was missing some footage ; I still intended to pick up that edition for the interesting supplements ( Franco interview , star Christopher Lee reading excerpts from the novel ) , but an upcoming German 2-Disc Set is supposed to be complete as well as featuring an Audio Commentary with Franco and co-star Fred Williams ! Anyway , having watched the film now ? via the Spanish DVD ? I don't think the additional footage was fair trade for the lack of an option to include the English-language track ( or , at least , English subtitles ) ; while I'm obviously familiar with the storyline , so that I had no difficulty following the proceedings , I missed hearing the Stoker dialogue ? not to mention Lee and Herbert Lom's distinctive voices ! Its overall effect is worlds removed from the Hammer outings which starred Lee : these were actually still going on when COUNT Dracula was made , but he had become increasingly disenchanted with their approach . Low-key , deliberately-paced and hampered by severe budgetary constraints ( resulting in shoddy effects and a distinct lack of props ) , the film nevertheless makes the most of its Spanish locations ? even if Manuel Merino's shaky camera-work displays an unwarranted propensity for zoom shots ( while an attack , ostensibly taking the vampire's POV , then bafflingly reveals Dracula to be coming from a totally different direction ! ) . The soundtrack highlights Bruno Nicolai's typically reliable score ( at once evocative and moody ) , but it's punctuated by weird ? and amusing ? slurping sounds during the vampire attacks ! The Spanish DVD presents the film in its correct full-frame aspect ratio , though the transfer itself lends the whole an unrealistic orange hue ( as opposed to the bluish tones , for night-time sequences , which have been mentioned online with respect to the Dark Sky edition ) . It has been said that Lee's performance in COUNT Dracula is superior to his various interpretations in the Hammer films : while I certainly appreciated his different approach to the role , he is still given relatively little time in which to work his magic ( no pun intended ) ; interestingly , the vampire starts off as an old man here but is gradually rejuvenated through his bloodsucking habits ( a concept originating in Stoker and picked up again by Francis Ford Coppola for his BRAM STOKER'S Dracula [ 1992 ] , another would-be rigorous adaptation ) . The rest of the main cast is virtually a " Who's Who " of Franco's filmography during this time : Herbert Lom makes for an imposing Van Helsing ( due to the language barrier , I didn't understand why he was suddenly wheelchair-bound ? but , from the " Eccentric Cinema " review , I gathered that the character had suffered a stroke ) ; Klaus Kinski is a creepy Renfield ( able to create a character by saying almost nothing at all ? he had already done similar duties for Franco as the Marquis De Sade in the 1968 version of " Justine " and , by the way , it's interesting that the actor would himself eventually play Dracula twice , in NOSFERATU , THE VAMPYRE [ 1979 ] and the Italian-made NOSFERATU A VENEZIA [ 1988 ] ) ; Maria Rohm as Mina ( looking ravishing but who's rather underused throughout ) ; Soledad Miranda as Lucy ( she only really comes into her own when turned into a vampire , which actually precedes her iconic turn in Franco's VAMPYROS LESBOS ( 1970 ) ? itself a very loose adaptation of " Dracula " ! ) ; Fred Williams as Harker ; Jack Taylor as Quincey ; Paul Muller as Dr . Seward ; and even Franco himself as Van Helsing's dopey-looking yet vaguely sinister manservant . For all its shortcomings ( it wouldn't be a Franco film if it weren't flawed ) , COUNT Dracula still provides a fair quota of memorable moments : Dracula silencing the wolves outside his castle ; Dracula feeding a baby to his ' brides ' ; Dracula's attacks on Miranda , twice interrupted by Rohm ( whom he eventually gets to , of all places , at an opera house ! ) ; Miranda's bloody demise in her coffin ; the stuffed animals in Dracula's London home coming to life to scare the vampire hunters ; Lom burning a cross-shape on the floor in his clinic to ward off the approaching vampire ; blood spurting in Taylor's face from his staking of a vampire woman in Dracula's castle ; Dracula's fiery come-uppance ( actually similar to Miranda's ? not to mention Bela Lugosi in the 1931 Universal classic ? in that he's dispatched while at his most vulnerable , i . e . asleep in his coffin ) . It's unfortunate that none of the companies who released ? or are set to release ? the film on DVD seem to hold the rights to CUADECUC , VAMPIR ( 1970 ) , a documentary shot at the time of COUNT Dracula's production . By the way , I should eventually be following this viewing of the film with several more Francos , including alternate versions of two monster mashes on similar lines ( but even more idiosyncratic ) , namely Dracula ? PRISONER OF FRANKENSTEIN ( 1971 ) and THE CURSE OF FRANKENSTEIN aka THE EROTIC RITES OF FRANKENSTEIN ( ) .
Believe it or not , this unique all-star comedy short was financed by a tobacco-producing company in aid of charity ! Practically everybody who was anybody in Hollywood circa 1931 puts in an appearance here during its mildly enjoyable but thoroughly fascinating 18-minute run : seasoned copper Wallace Beery sending rookie Buster Keaton to patrol the streets of L . A . , detective team supreme of Laurel & Hardy arriving on the scene of the titular crime ( belonging to Norma Shearer , no less ) and having their car disassemble itself right there and then , Victor McLaglen and Edmund Lowe ( in character as Flagg and Quirt ) waited on by Swede El Brendel at a restaurant , Warner Baxter ( again in character as The Cisco Kid ? for which he was awarded an Oscar in 1929 ) flirting with the ladies , gangsters Edward G . Robinson and George E . Stone hiding out in a hotel lobby , Richard Dix and Irene Dunne ? whom I have just seen teamed up in CIMARRON ( 1931 ) ? being questioned by a nosy investigator , editor Gary Cooper ordering reporter Eugene Palette about , Douglas Fairbanks Jr . taking a stroll with Loretta Young , a rare peak at the home of newly-weds Frank Fay and Barbara Stanwyck ( of whom , incidentally , I have just acquired a handful of rare movies ) ? plus Richard Barthelmess , Joe E . Brown ( donning a false beard ) , Maurice Chevalier , Joan Crawford , Jack Oakie , Wheeler & Woolsey ( whose brief bit here made me want to watch more of them ) , etc .
Since January of this year ? after I attended the Luis Bunuel retrospective at London's National Film Theatre ? this had been the only title left for me to watch out of the filmography of my all-time favorite director ; thanks to Lionsgate's 2-Disc " Luis Bunuel Collection " ( also containing THE YOUNG ONE [ 1960 ] ) , I finally made it now ? an effort which took me all of 15 years to accomplish ! The film was a surprisingly pleasant and engaging semi-musical but , clearly , a very minor work in the director's canon ; if one weren't aware of the circumstances behind its making ( the fact that Bunuel had been kept from directing for 15 years and that his comeback was possible only via a commercial studio product ) , one would think that the great Surrealist master was playing the ultimate joke on his audience ? by delivering a film which is virtually the antithesis of his style ( though , in retrospect , the idea of people suddenly breaking into song in a Bunuel movie is pretty surreal in itself ) ! That said , being the intimate film-maker that he is , he lends considerable attention to the contrasting milieux in which the proceedings take place ? the oil-fields and the titular location . Towards the end , the heroine ostensibly capitulates to the powerful foreign organization controlling the territory ? only to have the last laugh ( with the hero at her side ) as the all-important oil-wells are dynamited soon after their departure from town ! The male lead is likable , handsome and can certainly carry a tune ; he seems to find the overage leading lady desirable ? personally , I didn't share his enthusiasm and , in fact , was more intrigued by the younger and more attractive temptress ( who , during the course of the film led two men to their doom ) . Alfonso Bedoya , the leading Mexican bandit from John Huston's THE TREASURE OF THE SIERRA MADRE ( 1948 ) , here plays the casino owner's grinning lieutenant ; he gets his just desserts in a striking ( and , in the context of the rest of the picture , quite disorientating ) scene showing the hero attacking Bedoya , who's hiding behind a curtain ? instead of cutting between the two men , Bunuel keeps the camera on one side of the curtain but then superimposes for a split-second on this same action the image of shattered glass , as if to imply the devastating effect of the blows Bedoya is receiving ! Another bravura sequence is the one involving the old female kleptomaniac , a hanger-on at the casino ; while in the company of the hero , we see the distorted reflection of her facial features in a shiny champagne bucket he's casually holding ( as if to remind us of her crooked nature ) . The director's hand is also felt in his completely unsentimental handling of a would-be tender moment between the budding lovers : while the heroine remarks about the strong odor particular to an oil-field , the hero nonchalantly picks away at a pool of mud with a stick ! Bunuel also manages to incorporate a nod to Hitchcock in this film ? the ' safety in numbers ' routine often used by the Master Of Suspense : here , feeling threatened by the presence of the rival's thugs at the casino , the hero leaps onto the stage and proceeds to lead the audience in a rousing musical ensemble ! Also worth mentioning here is the recurringly surreal presence of the Trio Calaveras , amiable singing peasants who turn up simply to back up the hero's vocals ? wherever he happens to be at the time ( in jail , at the oil-field , at the casino ) and literally out of nowhere ; at one point , even he seems surprised by their sudden appearance and acknowledges them with a bemused nod ! I hadn't listened to an Audio Commentary in a long time but couldn't pass checking this one out ? since such lengthy discussions of Bunuel's work are a rare commodity . Philip Kemp's track didn't disappoint ( incidentally , the British film critic had introduced screenings of Kon Ichikawa's AN ACTOR'S REVENGE ( 1963 ) and THE WANDERERS [ 1973 ] in a 2002 retrospective of that director's work , also at London's National Film Theater , which my brother and I were lucky to attend ) , as he went into some detail about this film's production history . Among the things I didn't know , he mentioned that there was an on-set rivalry between its two singing stars ? Libertad Lamarque and Jorge Negrete ? so much so that they were accorded an equal number of songs but wouldn't agree to appear in a duet ( which is certainly unusual for a musical ) ! Besides , Lamarque was blacklisted sometime before this film's release after a disparaging remark she made about a then-colleague of hers ? Evita Peron ! ! Kemp also mentions that Bunuel was contemplating a remake of Robert Bresson's marvelous debut film , LES ANGES DU PECHE ' ( 1943 ) , before he eventually embarked on this decidedly more modest enterprise ( still , the cast of the film is filled with distinguished actors of the time and place ? several of whom would re-appear in subsequent Bunuel titles ) . Finally , one word about the collection itself : while this 2-disc 2-film set is decidedly less impressive than Lionsgate's previous tribute to another cinema giant ? Jean Renoir ( comprising a good 7 films spread over 3 discs ! ) , one is still grateful for their commitment in releasing two of his more obscure efforts . That said , it was incredibly sloppy of them to have mislabeled the DVDs ? so that , in order to watch GRAN CASINO , I had to insert the disc of THE YOUNG ONE instead !
Serious-minded ( i . e . not low-brow ) yet obscure Mafia movie inspired by real events ; I happened upon its Italian DVD at one of my local rental outlets . As expected , it's highlighted by extensive ( and reasonably well-staged ) shoot-outs ' interrupted ' by ( not exactly gripping ) police detection and ( all-too-familiar ) domestic scenes . The film does have has the benefit of a good cast ? led by Franco Nero as the Magistrate standing in for the real-life Giovanni Falcone ( he had tackled a similar role in Damiano Damiani's CONFESSIONS OF A POLICE CAPTAIN [ 1971 ] : here he's generally restrained apart from a dream sequence in which he's ambushed by gangsters ) and Tony Musante as " Il Pentito " of the original title ( an option suggested to him by Nero in order to put a stop to the ongoing gang war between two gangland factions : old-style / honorable and new / vicious ) . The latter are typified by Erik Estrada who , at one point , is even sprung from jail but , at the end , is allowed to go free . Max von Sydow is both miscast and underused as the New York-based banker whose financial debacle blows the cover on the whole underworld operation , while the sensual Rita Rusic , future wife of tycoon Vittorio Cecchi Gori , plays his and Musante's contemporaneous lover . Ex-Bond Girl Claudine Auger is also briefly on hand as Musante's Sicilian wife , Marino Mase ' appears as Nero's carabiniere sidekick , whereas Venantino Venantini turns up as one of the Mafia family heads . The concluding moments are fairly interesting : Nero realizes that Musante had merely used him to get lawful revenge on his opponents ? with a nice final shot which has a series of doors closing in front of our hero , symbolically depicting him shut inside a prison of his own making !
I’m virtually a beginner when it comes to The Three Stooges : I’d seen a few of their films – and episodes from the animated series – as a kid ( this short being one of them , incidentally ) but not enough to rank them judiciously in the pantheon of classic comedy . Anyway , this has been advertised as " a musical novelty " – influenced by the work of Ernst Lubitsch , no doubt – with all dialogue written in verse ! In essence , it lies somewhere between Laurel & Hardy ( with the train setting recalling BERTH MARKS [ 1929 ] in particular ) and The Marx Bros . – but emerging , in the long run , as less sympathetic than either . The gang joins the titular club but Larry , practically blackmailed into marriage , attempts to keep his status from pals Moe and Curley – but can’t , because his spouse turns out to be a flirt who has her eyes on them as well ! Walter Brennan appears briefly as the train conductor . I have to say that the slap-happy antics of the comic trio gets tiresome after a while . To be honest , I wonder how I’ll be able to stick the relentless display of such childish behavior through 19 Stooges shorts I’ve got scheduled ( given that I’ve just acquired a copy of the official Columbia 2-Disc collection ) . . .
This is one of the more infamous of the countless Nazisploitation Italian films produced in the wake of Luchino Visconti's THE DAMNED ( 1969 ) ; actually , it's the only one I've watched thus far - though earlier this year I did catch up with Liliana Cavani's THE NIGHT PORTER ( 1974 ) but , like the Visconti film , that one is best termed as Art-house . Still , for such a single-mindedly commercial effort , I was surprised by how effective this film was : after all , it was made by all-rounded professionals who had been in the business for some time - director Caiano ( best-known , perhaps , for the Barbara Steele Gothic horror NIGHTMARE CASTLE aka THE FACELESS MONSTER [ 1965 ] ) and screenwriter Gianfranco Clerici and composer Francesco De Masi ( both Lucio Fulci collaborators ) . The lead role here is played by Sirpa Lane , with whom I was only familiar from Walerian Borowczyk's legendary THE BEAST ( 1975 ) : as much as I love that film , I had always felt that her contribution was upstaged not just by the horny and furry titular creature but by the nominal lead of THE BEAST , Lisbeth Hummel . Therefore , I had no idea that she could actually act and , indeed , the whole film is anchored by her good central performance ; discovered by Roger Vadim , she subsequently worked with a few other noted " Euro-Cult " film-makers - but eventually retired ( after making only 10 films ) and , sadly , died of AIDS at the young age of 44 ! The plot sees Jewess Lane being imprisoned in a concentration camp ( thus adding the ' Women-In-Prison ' subgenre to the already heady mix for good measure - in fact , the film reminded me a lot of Jess Franco's contemporaneous ILSA , THE WICKED WARDEN [ 1977 ] ) , where she's immediately raped and later selected by a lesbian warden ( apparently a given in WIP films ) to serve as a prostitute for the gratification of German soldiers on leave . About to be flogged for rejecting the advances of the warden , she attracts the attention of the Camp Commandant and eventually starts a sado-masochistic relationship with him ( he frequently asks her to whip him , likes to exchange clothes with her and even wants Lane to pleasure his faithful alsation Axel - but the latter doesn't seem too keen on the idea and promptly attacks her ) ! ! The finale sees the Jewish girl elevated to the position of a madam in a Nazi whorehouse ; the man she was in love with at the beginning of the film suddenly turns up at the establishment as a war hero - but it all ends in tragedy ( though not before Lane , her Semitic origins exposed , jokes about Hitler's unemployed ' member ' ! ) . I have to say , though , that the gimmick adopted throughout of intercutting black-and-white stock footage with the main action was rather pointless because , although the events are clearly set in 1942 , we are never told where all this is supposed to be happening so that said footage could be put into perspective ! I watched the film ( which is still unavailable anywhere on DVD ) via a DVD-R culled from an English-dubbed VHS edition ; I don't know whether it's uncut as the editing seemed quite choppy at times - but the amount of violence and nudity on display was certainly profuse ( the former pretty fake but the latter rather graphic , occasionally even stepping into hardcore-porn territory ) . . .
An interesting if ultimately unsuccessful combination of two clashing comedy styles ( overseen by humorless mogul Howard Hughes no less ) , this film turned out to be Harold Lloyd's swan-song - and , as such , it ended on a somewhat positive note ( even though the film was made during Sturges ' period of decline ) . It opens with a reprise of the climactic football game from one of Lloyd's greatest successes , THE FRESHMAN ( 1925 ) , eventually bringing that same character ( albeit renamed ! ) up to date . Still , in the end , the film is more Sturges than Lloyd : even if the star plays one of his trademark roles of a patsy ( though not without the occasional display of ingenuity ) , there is little of the star's characteristic slapstick here . Instead , the comedy is in Sturges ' typical frantic ( and , mainly , dialogue-driven ) style - with which Lloyd isn't entirely comfortable ; the film also features Sturges ' stock company of character players in full swing . That said , it's climaxed by yet another of the star comedian's thrilling set-pieces which finds him overhanging from a building-ledge - hampered this time around by a myopic Jimmy Conlin and an understandably disgruntled circus lion ! While a disappointing whole ( it was re-issued in 1950 in a shortened version renamed MAD Wednesday ) , the film does contain a number of undeniable gems : his romantic attachment to every female member of one particular family ( all of whom happen to work for the same firm over a 20-year period ) ; his first encounter with Conlin , with the two of them exchanging wise sayings ( the optimistic Lloyd had kept a handful nailed to the wall behind him at his former workplace ) in order to explain their current dejected state-of-mind ; and , best of all , the unforgettable scene in which Lloyd takes his first alcoholic beverage ( an impromptu concoction by bartender Edgar Kennedy and which he names " The Diddlebock " ) that invariably provokes an unexpected yet hilarious reaction .
The medieval setting in this one suffers due to the obvious low budget ( with the action mostly confined indoors ) . It's saved , however , by a cast comprised of several old reliables : Sidney James as a lazy Baron ; Joan Sims as his nagging wife ; Kenneth Connor as a knight well past his prime ; Peter Butterworth as a lecherous priest ; Barbara Windsor , then , tries to pass off as a knight during an attack ( the minimal action footage has been lifted outright from Laurence Olivier's HENRY V [ 1944 ] ! ) , is captured and sent off to James as his prisoner . David Lodge is a castle inspector whom the Baron bribes to overlook the place's dilapidated state ; he breaks his leg and has to stay on . The episode is a bit thin on plot but , as I said , eminently watchable just the same .
This is at once one of Peter Sellers ' least-known and more interesting vehicles ; the film is virtually a two-hander ? with Sinead Cusack ( daughter of actor Cyril and later Mrs . Jeremy Irons ) as the young girl blackmailed by a middle-aged colleague ( Sellers ) into becoming his lover , because he knows of her boyfriend's involvement in a robbery . While the film is considered a comedy , it doesn't sound like it from that synopsis ; it's really a character-driven piece on a serious theme ? mid-life crisis ? which has been treated several times over the years , though rarely in such perceptively intimate detail ( for which it was deemed tasteless at the time ) . The humorous element ( if one can call it that ) springs from the fact that Sellers ' character ? who had been fantasizing about Cusack for months ? doesn't have the courage to do anything with her once they're together ! Incidentally , Hoffman's innately cruel nature was so similar to the real Peter Sellers that one might be inclined to think that his dialogue was improvised ? but this wasn't the case ! With this in mind , the film can be seen as talky ( though Ernest Gebler's script , adapted from his own novel , does contain a smattering of good lines ) , low-key and claustrophobic ( the narrative strays only occasionally from Sellers ' flat , and the two almost never interact with other people ) ? not to mention repetitive and overstretched at 113 minutes ! One particular sequence included an ambitious shot lasting for some 18 minutes , which certainly belied the rumors that Sellers had suffered brain damage during that infamous incident from the early 1960s in which he suffered no less than seven heart attacks in one day . The film's happy-ending-of-sorts , then , is highly improbable ? but I guess it works well enough in this context ( given that Cusack's boyfriend is depicted as a one-dimensional character and , therefore , no match for the intellectual Sellers ) . Gerry Turpin's cinematography of the bleak London settings is one of the film's main assets , while the tone of romantic melancholy ? inherent in Ron Grainer's score and his Don Black-penned theme song , " If There Ever Is A Next Time " ( sung by Matt Monro ) ? infuses the whole film and even serves as exposition for the main narrative during its deliberately vague early stages . By the way , director Rakoff had already handled the same material as a TV production starring Donald Pleasance ; at his own admission , the film version was too slow ? because the pace seemed to be dictated by the lead actor ? and professed to having misgivings also about the choice of music . As for Sellers himself , he was so disappointed with the final result that the star offered to buy back the negative from the producer and shoot it again from scratch ( the film , in fact , was such a resounding flop that it wasn't shown in New York until 1982 ) !
As much as I hate remakes , I always try to keep up with any modern horror movie which revisits classic territory . Still , although I knew beforehand that this film wasn't going to be a direct remake of either MYSTERY OF THE WAX MUSEUM ( 1933 ) or HOUSE OF WAX ( 1953 ) and despite the fact that its very title is even more appropriate to its content than it was for the Andre ' De Toth / Vincent Price version , I'd still would have preferred that it had been given a different title . But maybe that's too much of a hassle for today's breed of Hollywood screenwriters ? Anyhow , I'll say outright that this film has no reason to be this enjoyable . Frankly , I was expecting it to be pretty dull and lifeless , a by-the-numbers slasher pic made solely to pick up a few big bucks at the box office . However , it turned out to be a decently made , reasonably interesting and clever addition to the genre . Of course , the worst bits in the movie were the parts dealing exclusively with the teenagers ' antics and , in fact , only Elisha Cuthbert and Chad Michael Murray elicited any sympathy from me while the clichéd characterizations of the black guy and the geek could have been entirely dispensed with . Paris Hilton does nothing here to dispel in any way her image of a fun-loving , dumb blonde bimbo but , at least , she delivered the goods during her gory comeuppance and the chase sequence which preceded it . On the other hand , the best element in the film was the throwback to that 1960's Grand Guignolesque atmosphere prevalent in films like Robert Aldrich's WHATEVER HAPPENED TO BABY JANE ? ( 1962 ) which , as it happens , is currently being revived theatrically at the local cinema in the Town Of Wax , complete with an opening detailing past events involving skeletons in a famous person's closet which turn out to have a huge bearing on what is happening to the teenagers whose exploits we are currently following . I didn't realize until I saw the final cast roll that Brian Van Holt actually played the role of both Sinclair brothers but he gives a good performance in both cases ? menacing and moving as the occasion requires . Of course , a film of this type rises or falls depending on the effectiveness of its scares and gore ; I would also add the cleverness with which the villain is exposed : in the case of HOUSE OF WAX , while it's not particularly scary , it is creepy , especially when it is revealed that the whole town is made of wax figures and clever when Elisha Cuthbert realizes that the kindly mechanic could well be the villain of the piece , or the twist ending when we learn that the dim-witted woodsman is another Sinclair sibling . The climactic fight sequence in which the House Of Wax melts away is very effective and exciting . Also , some of the gore ? the cutting off of Cuthbert's finger , the peeling away of the face of her boyfriend turned to wax , the geek's decapitation , Paris Hilton's impalement , etc . ? is an enthusiastic throwback to the grindhouse quality of 1970s American horror film and 1980s Italian / Spanish genre fare . All in all , quite a surprisingly watchable and pleasant diversion .
This is a lesser collaboration between director Fisher and star Peter Cushing , one that wasn't done for Hammer Films but rather the short-lived Planet Films . In view of a budget even more limited than usual , therefore , the end result is well enough made and fairly enjoyable in itself . The sci-fi plot is as persuasive as can be expected , the special effects crude but not ineffective ; disappointingly , the famous shot of Cushing's dismembered hand after having been attacked by the bone-crunching Silicates is missing from this print - which , unfortunately , is also quite damaged ( particularly at transition points ) . However , a good cast - including Edward Judd and Niall MacGinnis - keeps one watching , and the film has other assets in its island setting and Malcolm Arnold's efficient score . The main supplement on DD Video's release is a 25-minute interview with Christopher Lee about Terence Fisher : his comments are interesting and informed as always ( though he rather comes off as more cantankerous than ever before ! ) but , given his numerous such participations on DVD , most of the anecdotes recounted here are already familiar to genre fans !
This was only my fourth Seijun Suzuki film - after TOKYO DRIFTER ( 1966 ) , BRANDED TO KILL ( 1967 ) and PISTOL OPERA ( 2001 ) - and it's a typically energetic outing , with strong doses of comedy augmenting the character study of a young man who can only express himself adequately through violence and how he is forced to take stock of his life after falling in love with a cultured young girl . Drawing obvious parallels to FIGHT CLUB ( 1999 ) , the film's fight scenes are quite well done but , even more interestingly , it looks forward to the struggle between religious faith and a violent environment that would surface in later films , primarily the work of Martin Scorsese ( the script of FIGHTING ELEGY was penned by Kaneto Shindo , director of THE NAKED ISLAND [ 1960 ] and ONIBABA [ 1964 ] ! ) . However , the film runs out of steam towards the end by taking an unexpectedly serious ( and propagandist ) turn which doesn't sit comfortably with the anarchy that had gone on before !
I was wary of purchasing Fantoma's 2-Disc Set of " Fritz Lang's Indian Epic " after being somewhat let down by the 1921 Silent original ( co-scripted by Lang himself ) and also its less-than-stellar reputation . For this reason , when the second part of the saga turned up on Italian TV a couple of years ago , I decided to check it out just the same so as to get an inkling of what to expect ! I recall thinking it pretty kitschy and unworthy of Lang's enormous talent , but Fantoma's sale ( through their website ) of their entire DVD catalog a few months back made it an irresistible acquisition ! Well , having now watched the entire saga ( with dialogue and in color , as opposed to the rather static Silent version directed by Joe May - although hearing the Indian-garbed characters talking in German took some getting used to ) , I was pleasantly surprised by how genuinely engaging and sheerly enjoyable it all was ! Though it was sold as an epic production ( to the point of concluding ESCHNAPUR with the promise that Part II would feature greater thrills and even more spectacle ) at a time when such films were all the rage , the saga was actually a pretty modest undertaking by eclectic ( and prolific ) German producer Artur Brauner . Despite the two films ' exotic , handsome look ( not least in the provocative dances of Debra Paget ) , the budgetary constraints were painfully obvious in the special effects department , especially the hilarious appearance of a ' ropey ' cobra which is intended to ' test ' ( the scantily-clad ) Miss Paget's faithfulness to the Maharajah ! ! All in all , even if these films hardly constitute Lang's greatest work ( though he harbored an evident affection throughout his life for this particular tale , which was originally conceived by his former wife Thea von Harbou ) , they have great - and enduring - appeal for aficionados of old-fashioned , serial-like adventure stories tinged with romance and mysticism . Even so , while I don't subscribe to that school of thought myself , there are some film critics ( Tom Gunning , Jean Douchet and Pierre Rissient among them ) who think very highly of Lang's Indian diptych - the first considering it one of Lang's towering achievements and the last two numbering it among the ten greatest films of all time ! !
To the 1970s , nothing was sacred – so , we had a string of black comedies / satires about army surgeons ( M . A . S . H . [ 1970 ] ) or the goings-on at a big-city hospital ( THE HOSPITAL [ 1971 ] ) and , in this film’s case , ambulance-drivers . However , another thing these films had in common is that , amid the jokes , there was something serious being said – and things often took an unexpected tragic turn ( as in the scene here where a call to a gun-toting junkie sees a young hospital attendant being blown away when he tries to reason with her ! ) ; another is the one in which a woman in labor , denied access to a hospital’s facilities due to the proverbial red tape , delivers her baby inside the ambulance and dies because the " rig " is ill-equipped to deal with massive haemorrhaging ! The men ( and women ) themselves are depicted as having a detached , even flippant , attitude to their sensitive profession – but we’re told that this is needed if one is to keep his sanity ; still , there are those who overstep the line of decency ( one attendant allows his green partner to drive the ambulance , when it had previously been his sole prerogative , so as to be alone with the unconscious and good-looking patient ! ) . Other gags , however , are more typical : for instance , the scene where they have difficulty transporting a large black woman down a flight of stairs – which predictably ends with her slipping out of their grasp and scurrying down the street on a stretcher , miraculously dodging the oncoming traffic – brought tears to my eyes . A topical subplot , then , involves the rivalry between ambulance companies whose members would go to extreme lengths to intercept or otherwise stall their opponents – the issue is ultimately resolved in court by suggesting a merger between the two . Though the film is somewhat uneven , it’s well served by the cast ( incidentally , several films from this era opted to use monikers in connection with their protagonists for a title , such as the recently-viewed road movie DIRTY MARY CRAZY LARRY [ 1974 ] ) : Bill Cosby ( as " Mother " , a seasoned driver everyone looks up to ) ; Raquel Welch ( " Jugs " , the secretary who wishes to be an ambulance driver and takes night school to acquire the requisite training – her first unofficial job proves memorable as a police car gallantly offers to escort her but , having no address , leads them on a wild goose chase until a colleague she unwittingly absconded with improvises a patient’s get-up ! ) ; the latter , then , is Harvey Keitel ( a former cop suspended for drug-dealing , which earns him the nickname " Speed " – at first glance , the Method actor seems out of his element here but wisely plays it straight most of the time ) ; Allen Garfield shines as the loud-mouth yet flustered director ; and equally effective is Larry Hagman , naturally playing the biggest scumbag of the lot ( the afore-mentioned lecherous driver who even gambles as to how many lives are lost per day – which causes Cosby to physically assault him when he wants to add Bruce Davison , the attendant who fell in the line of duty , to the list ) and who , during the climax , suddenly reappears at his former workplace armed with a gun and making demands ( having gone berserk in the interim ) . . . only to be pinned down with a bullet fired by an over-eager cop .
This is another of the myriad Italian compendium films , highlighting some of their more popular stars and dealing with one of the most commercial of subject matters – sex . The first episode with Paolo Villaggio was the centre of controversy over its tastelessness , resulting in director Loy removing his name from it . The star resides in Amsterdam with his wife , making very little money selling specialty Italian food ; one day he crosses paths with a local bigwig who notices the generous size of his member and , soon , Villaggio starts bringing home lots of dough – appearing in mask and costume , billed as the " Italian Superman " , in live porn shows making love to nubile girls stretched out on a large plate of pasta ! It’s not long , however , before the wife finds out – but , rather than ask him to stop , she wants to get in on the act ; the catch is that he can’t ‘work’ with his wife , and this soon leads him to be replaced by a Turkish hunk ! Perhaps the best moment in this episode sees Villaggio hanging over the side of a ship : on chasing his initially distraught wife , he tries to explain that he’s doing it for her as well as the country’s honor , before nonchalantly confessing that he has just s his pants ! Nino Manfredi’s episode may be the most ordinary of the lot , since it’s not much different from many another Italian comedy of the era where an ageing man has one last fling with a teenage acquaintance . However , the star’s wonderful performance – not to mention the lovely presence of the entire female cast ( including Manfredi’s elegant wife and their spunky daughter ) – make it a very engaging romp ( while also commenting on the state of ‘modern’ families ) . The final episode is universally considered the best of the three : it revolves around a very simple situation , where Monsignor Alberto Sordi is trapped in an elevator for three days with sexy young Stefania Sandrelli . They start off by loathing one another , but their predicament ( which happens during Italy’s Ferragosto period , where literally everybody goes on vacation ! ) soon has them bonding . The girl is even lulled into confiding her deepest secrets to the elderly man of the cloth , i . e . how she chose to console a young boy she just met whose mother had recently died ( though when Sandrelli tells the priest that she wasn’t comfortable doing it , due to the presence of the boy’s sister at the same party , he bursts out with a spontaneous " What the f ? " ) . Sordi , however , is eventually revealed to be less pious than he lets on – and his declaration that someone freeing his natural instincts under abnormal conditions ( as happens to him in the dark with Sandrelli here ) isn’t responsible for them is rather a moot point ! With respect to the erotic content in the film , there’s full-frontal nudity only in the first episode , while it’s pretty mild in the second and – understandably – non-existent in the third ; still , one has to admire such respected stars as Manfredi and Sordi for not being afraid to play characters which , basically , could only be labeled ‘dirty old men’ ! Typically , the film is accompanied by a lively lounge score from the late Piero Piccioni . Incidentally , I recently taped a similarly-themed compendium ( starring and directed by Sordi ) called A COMMON SENSE OF MODESTY ( 1976 ) , which I hope to watch one of these days . . .
To begin with , this is one of the first films I ever recall watching ? my father having acquired a copy on 16mm when I was still a kid ! ; needless to say , I've been wanting to re-acquaint myself with it for several years ? particularly to see how it stacked up against other Spaghetti Westerns which , naturally , I came across much later ? and , this , in spite of Leonard Maltin's unflattering rating ! As it turned out , the film lived up to my expectations in being a middle-of-the-road genre effort ? not one of the best , perhaps , but reasonably entertaining all the same . Incidentally , it forms part of a handful of Spaghetti Westerns with the Mexican Revolution as backdrop ; an added attraction to the film , then , is its main plot involving a caper aboard a moving ( and heavily-guarded ) train ? it has , in fact , been referred to as a cross between THE MAGNIFICENT SEVEN ( 1960 ; in view of the select group called upon to aid in a cause ) and THE WILD BUNCH ( 1969 ; which had a similar robbery as a subplot ) ! While the central train sequence involves some notable tension ( the elderly dynamite expert loses part of his equipment , the samurai falls off and has to run across a lengthy stretch of fields in order to rejoin his associates ) , the gang is never shown to be in any serious danger throughout ; the final confrontation with the Army , for instance , is nothing at all like the notorious massacre seen in THE WILD BUNCH itself ? in fact , none of them gets wounded or killed ? and even the tension within the outfit over whether they should hand over the gold to the revolutionaries or else keep it for themselves is resolved without so much as a punch ( rather it's shrugged off with a laugh ! ) . The multi-national group is played by Americans Peter Graves ( well cast in a basic extension of his signature role in the classic MISSION : IMPOSSIBLE TV series ) and James Daly ( his presence here isn't displeasing yet quite baffling , as he can't have been at all a familiar name to Italians ? personally , I only knew him from his brief role in PLANET OF THE APES [ 1968 ] ! ) , Japanese Tetsuro Tamba ( who's just as anonymous as Daly ? perhaps the film's budget could afford only one foreign ' star ' ) and , of course , Italians Bud Spencer ( a staple of the genre and , thankfully , resorting only very briefly to his trademark comic brawling ) and the youthful Nino Castelnuovo ( who , naturally , sides with the Revolution all along ) . The supporting cast includes another genre contribution from Italian starlet Daniela Giordano ( as a Mexican peasant girl who shows interest in samurai Tamba ) : her lovely presence is always welcome ? and I still recalled the scene here in which the Army General tears off her clothes from all those years ago ! ? but it's not quite as captivating as in the two other films of hers that I've watched ; there's also Giacomo Rossi-Stuart ? who , for an actor of his stature , is given very little screen-time as a lieutenant to the Mexican General . Having mentioned the surprise casting , one also has to question the decision behind offering the directorial reins to a minor-league American , former actor Taylor ; incidentally , years later , when Giordano was asked by a magazine to comment about the film , she couldn't even recall him being on the set and that co-director Zingarelli handled most of the proceedings ! Dario Argento was also behind this film as a scriptwriter ? which makes the film's tameness all the more curious and , given its derivative nature , perhaps shows his ultimate disenchantment with the Spaghetti Western genre ? or else he was already thinking of branching out into direction ( his debut film , the seminal giallo THE BIRD WITH THE CRYSTAL PLUMAGE [ 1970 ] , was released not long after ) . THE FIVE MAN ARMY is marked by yet another rousing Ennio Morricone score ? which is cited by fans as being among his best from this era but , to me , it felt somewhat too similar to his work on Sergio Leone's " Dollars " trilogy ! Finally , I couldn't really determine the running-time of the film ? since it was interrupted by numerous publicity spots ( I watched a VHS recording of a TV broadcast ) ; however , curiously enough , the Italian version is listed as being only 91 minutes long on " Stracult " ? whereas the edition prepared for U . S . consumption is 107 minutes !
Ever since the inception of DVD , Laurent Bouzereau has practically cornered the market in featurettes detailing the behind-the-scenes of classic films ; this look into the making of the most commercially successful Agatha Christie adaptation is an exemplary effort , with the participation of several of the people involved ( including director Sidney Lumet , producers John Brabourne and Richard Goodwin , production / costume designer Tony Walton and , of the surviving cast members , Jacqueline Bisset , Sean Connery and Michael York ) . As expected , the many backstage vicissitudes are discussed ( though , frankly , there is little that cannot be easily gleaned from the film's trivia section on IMDb ! ) and , equally unsurprisingly , they all have fond memories of the reasonably arduous shooting ( filming took place all over Europe in a cramped single setting replicating the train compartments and where the schedules of numerous international stars had to be accommodated ) and nothing but praise for the end result . Which , perhaps , is where its main problem lies : a certain lack of objectivity . Also , it is decidedly disappointing not to find Finney among the interviewees or that no mention whatsoever is made of the subsequent Poirot films , especially since the same production team of MURDER itself were also behind the first few of those as well .
This Italo-British production feels like the European equivalent of THE ENEMY BELOW ( 1957 ) , adapted from the book " Beta Som " inspired by a true WWII incident . For the record , director Frend had helmed the classic naval drama THE CRUEL SEA ( 1953 ) – whereas Mason had appeared in THE DECKS RAN RED ( 1958 ) ; also , the film is one of a few instances from this era of an Italian co-production with English-speaking countries : two similar war efforts were THE BEST OF ENEMIES ( 1961 ) and THE CAPTIVE CITY ( 1962 ) – both of which , incidentally , co-starred David Niven ( I’ve lost the former many a time on TV , but should be checking out the latter soon ) . Anyway , back to the film at hand : Mason isn’t particularly taxed by his role here , but his graceful presence is a plus to any film ; Lilli Palmer , pushing 50 , is a surprising choice to provide the romantic interest – yet she carries it with elegance and conviction , Andrew Keir appears as Mason’s burly lieutenant ; Geoffrey Keen has a rather memorable role as the nasty head of British Intelligence at Tangier . Gabriele Ferzetti , then , is the rugged captain of the Italian ranks ( who manages to hold his own in Mason’s distinguished company ) ; Alberto Lupo is one of his officers ( later involved with voluptuous chanteuse Valeria Fabrizi ) ; Andrea Checchi is Ferzetti’s ‘contact man’ at the Moroccan port ; and Paul Muller has a small role as the ( surprisingly tolerant ) district Police Commissioner . The two sides’ peculiar attachment to one another is tested during a bar-room brawl ( the Italians stand up for the outnumbered British sailors against the locals ) ; later , the English oblige in the procurement of penicilin to treat a wounded Italian soldier . The film’s adherence to a serviceman’s code of ethics is clearly wishful thinking , but the proceedings come across as reasonably engrossing for all that – while offering a mix of hysteria , irony and sentimentality at the climax . By the way , co-director Bruno Vailati had been the producer of the Riccardo Freda / Mario Bava horror / sci-fi opus CALTIKI , THE IMMORTAL MONSTER ( 1959 ) ; besides , the film's remaining technical credits include at least two other " Euro-Cult " stalwarts in cinematographer Gabor Pogany and composer Carlo Rustichelli .
Decent Hammer imitation with a script by that studio's chief scribe , Jimmy Sangster . Producers Monty Berman and Robert S . Baker competed with Hammer in the horror stakes during the late 1950s / early 1960s ( with Berman usually doubling also as cinematographer ) via such efforts ? besides the one under review which was actually their first ? as THE TROLLENBERG TERROR aka THE CRAWLING EYE ( 1958 ) , JACK THE RIPPER ( 1959 ) , THE FLESH AND THE FIENDS ( 1960 ) and THE HELLFIRE CLUB ( 1961 ) . Director Cass is best-known ( if at all ) for the Alec Guinness comedy LAST HOLIDAY ( 1950 ) , itself recently retooled for the dubious talents of Queen Latifah ! The film ( which I had been looking forward to for ages after viewing stills from it in critiques of the genre penned by film historian Alan Frank ) is a lurid melodrama in vivid color and with , pardon the pun , full-blooded performances ? but the contrived end result somehow misses the mark . For starters , the script seems uncertain whether it wants to be a Dracula ( given its title and ' bloodthirsty ' villain ) or a Frankenstein ( in view of the villain's guinea-pig experimentations with moribund or dead subjects ) clone ; the fact that it is almost entirely set in a mental institution-cum-prison ( that includes future " Carry On " member Bernard Bresslaw as a rowdy jailbird ) brings forth comparisons with the superior final Hammer Frankenstein entry FRANKENSTEIN AND THE MONSTER FROM HELL ( 1974 ) ! Distinguished thespian Donald Wolfit is surprisingly but effectively cast in the lead , while Victor Maddern has a memorable look as his knife-wielding henchman ( although , again , bearing hideous features that are never explained ) ; future Hammer startlet Barbara Shelley and Vincent Ball ( playing a character saddled with the amusing name of John Pierre ! ) , then , are reasonably appealing as the romantic leads . The rousing score is equally notable ? as is a nasty climax featuring a pack of wild dogs prefiguring the one in Georges Franju's EYES WITHOUT A FACE ( 1959 ) ! Incidentally , there is a very noticeable jump-cut during one of the lab scenes ( suggesting that the film had censorship issues back in the day ) ; incidentally , the Dark Sky DVD ? which cleverly pairs it with the aforementioned THE HELLFIRE CLUB ? amusingly allowed one to watch the show just as if it were playing in an old-fashioned Drive-In ( complete with a host of schlocky trailers , ads and announcements ) ?
The star vehicles of Italian actor Lando Buzzanca , who was at the top during the 1970s in a string of sex comedies , were and still are a staple of late-night Italian TV . Although I was mostly familiar with Buzzanca from his smaller but higher profile roles in such classic Italian films like DIVORCE ? Italian STYLE ( 1961 ) and SEDUCED AND ABANDONED ( 1964 ) , I am only vaguely aware ( i . e . by name only ) of those films which sealed his reputation . Starting with a couple of lowbrow spoofs on the James Bond spy extravaganzas in the mid-1960s , he later graduated to the trademark role of a sex-starved and usually cuckolded would-be lothario . The film under review is only the second of these I've watched myself ? the other being Lucio Fulci's THE EROTICIST ( 1972 ) which has curiously enough ( given its limited appeal outside its native country ) been recently issued on R1 DVD . Anyway , the title itself , WIFE FOR SALE , gives one some indication of what this film is about : Buzzanca is a small-time Sicilian industrialist who sees an opportunity for breaking into big business but needs to come up with a not insignificant sum of money as collateral in order to seal the deal . The bank which had promised to help finance him in this regard is controlled by a local billionaire playboy ( a surprising but welcome turn from French actor Jean-Pierre Cassel who had just come off of Luis Bunuel's THE DISCREET CHARM OF THE BOURGEOISE [ 1972 ] ) who is looking to complete his long string of female conquests via Buzzanca's own unattainable wife ( Rosanna Schiaffino ) . The script is fairly intelligent as these things go , maintaining a serio-comic tone throughout with its cynical look at the hedonistic lifestyle of the era ( marked by typically gaudy 1970s fashions ) and leading to a bittersweet ending . The film is aided a good deal by a bouncy score , while also managing a number of amusing vignettes ? particularly those involving Buzzanca's efforts to visit his wife behind Cassel's back ( including dressing up as a bum with clothes borrowed from one of his employees , and which lands him in jail ! ) . For the record , this film's director was unknown to me ? but he seems to have worked a lot with the star ( as can be seen from the various trailers included on the Italian DVD of WIFE FOR SALE ) . Incidentally , I've still got a few more of Buzzanca's vehicles to watch and which I'll hope to get to in due time ?
To begin with , I had never heard of this one before its late-night screening on Italian TV not too long ago ; the sole appraisal I read about it back then gave the film ? revolving around the struggle under the titular general to unite the South American countries into repelling the Spanish oppressors ? the thumbs down but I have to say that I liked it well enough . Incidentally , it proved distinguished director Blasetti's swansong ? a return to the epic scale of his most famous productions i . e . THE IRON CROWN ( 1941 ) and FABIOLA ( 1948 ) , though certainly not up to them despite effort all round . Maximilian Schell makes a fine , thoughtful lead ; he is supported by the likes of Rosanna Schiaffino ( as the unfulfilled wife of an enemy officer who becomes romantically involved with Bolivar ) and Francisco Rabal ( as a peasant leader who , at first , is unwilling to serve under the Venezuelan general but subsequently emerges the most loyal among his allies ) . As a matter of fact , Schell brings together about 5 different factions ? all of whose individual endeavor had proved futile , while as one army they manage to make a considerable dent in the Spanish lines ; that said , Bolivar's zeal ( driving the exhausted soldiers on to further conquests ) is misconstrued even by his own followers and ends up accused of dictatorial presumptions ! Needless to say , the film's tone is heavily redolent of the revolutionary fervor which marked the latter half of the 1960s : in that respect , one can also detect links with the Spaghetti Western subgenre ? particularly in view of a jauntily rousing score by the reliable Carlo Savina . The emphasis here is on impassioned speeches and period detail ( the widescreen location photography is a big plus , too ) rather than sweeping battle scenes yet , when it has to rely upon them , they are still reasonably well-staged .
Unusual poliziottesco on a topical subject – " Euro-Cult " regular Fabio Testi is an undercover cop doubling as the bodyguard ( hence , " Gorilla " ) of a cantankerous middle-aged industrialist targeted for extortion . Amazingly , to bring the culprits out into the open , he beats the criminals at their own game by purporting to kidnap his own master ( with the aid of his delinquent brother ) ; to complicate matters further , he becomes involved with the industrialist’s own rebellious teenage daughter ( naturally , she falls for him in the blink of an eye ) ! The rest of the ingredients are par for the course within this genre : pulsating score , nonstop action ( notably a heart-pounding scene in which Testi is trapped inside a bottom-less elevator and the FRENCH CONNECTION-inspired chase finale involving a police car and a speeding train – the chief villain’s demise is particularly stunning ) , Testi’s best pal ( Al Lettieri from THE GETAWAY and THE GODFATHER { both 1972 } ) turns out to be corrupt , etc .
Much of the same comments I made in connection with Joseph AND HIS BRETHREN ( 1960 ; see above ) apply here as well ; in fact this is a Biblical peplum also found on the same 3-Disc 10 film collection I rented in time for Good Friday . Luckily , this is slightly superior in that one gets to see re-enacted events with which one is not much familiar ( unless he is a staunch Bible reader or theologian ) . In fact , although the film opens with the perennial David and Goliath confrontation ( which while swift is also remarkably bloody ) , it mostly concerns itself with the embittered and ever worsening relationship between renounced Israelite sovereign Saul and his champion warrior David who regularly makes mincemeat of legions of Philistines . Saul is portrayed as a pitiful weakling by Norman Wooland ( a surprising but not ineffective bit of casting ) while blond-haired Gianni Garko is suitably imposing as the psalmist-harpist-warrior David of Bethlehem . As the story goes here , Saul’s persecution of David is so long drawn-out that the latter almost joins the Philistine ranks against his own people ! While the handling of the material is insufficiently inspired to sustain one’s interest for two hours , as I said the main thrust of the narrative is fresh enough to distinguish itself from other cinematic versions of the Biblical tale I am familiar with : David AND BATHSHEBA ( 1951 ; with Gregory Peck as David ) , David AND GOLIATH ( 1960 ; another Italian costumer with Orson Welles as Saul ) and KING David ( 1985 ; with Edward Woodward and Richard Gere as , respectively , Saul and David ) .
The Alexander Korda production of THE THIEF OF BAGDAD ( 1940 ) - still the quintessential Arabian Nights movie - led to a spate of colorful romps made by Hollywood studios to escape the grim everyday realities of WWII ; this may not be the best or even the most enjoyable of the lot but is reasonably representative of this fantasy sub-genre . Actually , I had intended to watch this over last year's Christmas period as it was shown on Italian TV very early one morning but the transmission started even earlier than expected and consequently I had to abort the viewing ; therefore , I am grateful that ( in spite of some deficiencies which I'll get to later ) I remedied this through a copy of the Asian DVD I've just gotten hold of . The film obviously deals with the famous tale of the title but here Ali Baba ( Jon Hall ) is the son of a deposed ( and subsequently murdered ) Caliph who as a boy ( played by Scotty Beckett ) found refuge in the thieves ' hide-out inside the cave and was raised by their leader ( Fortunio Bonanova ) as his own son . Meanwhile , Ali's childhood friend grows up to be Maria Montez and is naturally coveted by the evil tyrant now in power at Bagdad ( Kurt Katch ) . Andy Devine is also on hand to provide some mild comic relief as Baba's " nursemaid " and Turhan Bey ( like Hall and Montez , also a regular in such diversions ) is Montez's only male slave and sympathetic to Ali's cause . As I said , the film is fairly entertaining and , as can be expected from a grade-A Universal production , handsomely mounted but it mainly survives nowadays on its high quotient of nostalgia both to people of my father's generation ( who were around when this subgenre was still in full bloom ) and to others who , like me , grew up on these things when they played during the summer holidays on TV . To get back to the presentation of the film on the disc I watched : while the all-important colors were not as vibrant as a full-blown restoration job would have made them look , the print was serviceable all around . . . were it not for the very odd fact that it omitted the opening and closing credits completely ! In any case , this satisfactory viewing has brought back fond childhood memories of similar costume pictures and has certainly whetted my appetite for more ; I also received a bunch of Sinbad pictures at the same time that this disc arrived and I ought to purchase the recently released DVD of ARABIAN NIGHTS ( 1942 ) one of these days - although , frankly , I think Universal missed the boat when they didn't release it as part of an Arabian Nights franchise collection which could have also included , apart from ALI BABA AND THE FORTY THIEVES itself , any of the following : BAGDAD ( 1949 ) , THE DESERT HAWK ( 1950 ) , FLAME OF ARABY ( 1951 ) , THE PRINCE WHO WAS A THIEF ( 1951 ) and SON OF ALI BABA ( 1952 ) . This is not to mention many other such extravaganzas made by other film studios which are still unreleased on DVD like ONE THOUSAND AND ONE NIGHTS ( 1945 ) , SINBAD THE SAILOR ( 1947 ) , THIEF OF DAMASCUS ( 1952 ) , SON OF SINBAD ( 1955 ) , THE THIEF OF BAGDAD ( 1961 ; an Italian remake with Steve Reeves supervised by ALI BABA helmer , Arthur Lubin ) , THE WONDERS OF ALADDIN ( 1961 ; another Italian production which utilized the now legendary and multi-faceted talents of Mario Bava ) , etc . One final thing : I once missed out on a TV screening of the 1954 French version of ALI BABA AND THE FORTY THIEVES starring Fernandel and directed by Jacques Becker and , even though it doesn't have much of a reputation ( especially within its director's considerable canon ) , I'd love to watch it for myself one day . . .
Low-key but intriguing and generally effective variation on the alien invasion theme ( though the script is far inferior to the Quatermass archetype ) ; as a matter of fact , the police procedural tends to be more engaging than the high-falutin ' scientific theorizing ! Unfortunately , too , some of the dialogue is unintelligible due to the heavy British accents ( but , then , the version I watched was accompanied by subtitles in Italian ! ) . The cast features several familiar British faces ( Maurice Denham , John Carson , Jack Watson , etc . ) ; still , as with many low-budget horror films of its era , the lead role was given to an American actor : in this case , John Saxon - who's pretty adequate under the circumstances , with a blonde Patricia Haines ( whom I recently saw in the awful VIRGIN WITCH [ 1972 ] ) as his female co-star . Aubrey Morris , however , is memorable as the scurrilous editor of a ' girlie ' magazine - which is used as bait for the alien's female victims ( who , as is often the case , has descended to Earth because his own planet has reached saturation point ) . This element gives way to some typically dry British humor ( especially the awkward interrogation of one of the missing girl's simple but cantankerous parents ) . . . but Ballard Berkeley's belated introduction as the Commander steering the operations engaged in the alien's capture can't be taken seriously - in view of his regular appearance as the befuddled Major in the classic TV comedy series FAWLTY TOWERS ( 1975-79 ) , devised by and starring Monty Python's John Cleese ! ! With the imposing figure of the alien generally shown lurking in the shadows or hidden behind heavy clothing and a mask ( shades of the giallo subgenre ? ) , its menace is evoked through the creature's adoption of a mellifluous yet sinister ' human ' voice ; that said , the make-up effects shown intermittently are surprisingly subtle . Even so , the best thing about the film is certainly Stephen Dade's chiaroscuro photography - utilizing some odd angles , particularly during the alien manhunt , obviously inspired by THE THIRD MAN ( 1949 ) ! The rather uneventful cautionary finale , then , is reminiscent of THE DAY THE EARTH STOOD STILL ( 1951 ) .
This is the last entry in The Mick Travis Trilogy ( also comprising IF . . . . [ 1968 ] and O LUCKY MAN ! [ 1973 ] , all directed by Anderson , written by David Sherwin and starring Malcolm McDowell as Travis ) and the only one I hadn't watched before ; ironically , the film made it to DVD before the others which are still M . I . A . ( being owned by the majors , Paramount and Warners respectively ) though both have been rumored as being " in preparation " for what seems like forever ! ! As with HELL IS A CITY ( 1960 ) and THE CRIMINAL ( 1960 ) , I had my eyes on the Anchor Bay DVD of this title for the longest time but only now have I finally taken the plunge to acquire it - though , in its case , this had more to do with the fact that the film was largely considered a failure , certainly in comparison with its more highly-regarded predecessors ! Actually , it comes off as quite underrated and its satire on British society at large - with the titular hospital serving more or less as a microcosm of all that was not well with the country during the early 80s - is just as harsh , if admittedly somewhat hit-and-miss ( the " Frankenstein " scenes , for instance , and the fact that royal representatives are played by a midget and a man in drag are more tasteless than anything else ! ) . The thing is , however , that the film became part of the trilogy by accident and , in fact , McDowell isn't really the lead character - so that it's not quite as focused as IF . . . . and O LUCKY MAN ! , and even borrows elements from both of them ( the revolutionary aspect from the former and the bizarre experiments , mentioned above , from the latter ) which aren't as successful this time around ! Still , it's very funny - for those who can take its unbridled savagery - along the way and the cast is brimming with talented character actors ( Leonard Rossiter , Graham Crowden , Joan Plowright , Jill Bennett , Peter Jeffrey , Brian Pettifer , Dandy Nichols , Richard Griffiths , Brian Glover , Robbie Coltrane , uncredited bits by Alan Bates and Arthur Lowe , and even unlikely appearances - in fairly important roles - by Robin Askwith and Mark Hamill ! ) , many of whom had already appeared in the two earlier Mick Travis films . Unfortunately , the score by Alan Price ( ex-member of The Animals ) - whose O LUCKY MAN ! soundtrack , including a number of songs , had been one of its major assets - is underwhelming and , typical of old British films , the dialogue is hard to grasp sometimes due to the limited sound recording and the actors ' heavy accents !
This is possibly the best-regarded of the myriad film versions of Lewis Carroll's " Alice In Wonderland " , a relatively recent undertaking but a distinctly individualistic one by famed Czech animator / puppeteer Svankmajer ( and which actually served as my introduction to his work ) . Knowing of its reputation , I had long desired to watch the film ; however , having done so , I can't help feeling slightly let down ? not because it's not as good as I expected , or as weird as I had been led to believe but , rather , because of the liberties it takes with Carroll's original . God knows there are enough bizarre characters , situations and dialogue in the perennial children's classic ( popularized by previous film and TV adaptations , both live-action and animated ) ; however , Svankmajer opts to drop many of these ( we're left with an awful lot of the White Rabbit , The Frog , The Fish , The Duchess and the Baby-turned-Pig , the members of the eccentric Tea Party , the Croquet game , etc . ) for his own creations . It's not so much that I'm a purist where such things are concerned but , to me , what novelties we get in this version are not only unnecessary ( though they sure make for some arresting , to say nothing of far from kiddie , visuals and occasionally amusing ? such as the fact that the White Rabbit's interior consists of sawdust which it also eats [ ! ] or The Mouse building a fire and setting up tent on Alice's scalp ) but , frankly , no match for what Carroll himself had envisaged to begin with . Consequently , the author's absurdist but essentially innocent viewpoint doesn't jell with the film-maker's outbursts of savage surrealism ? so that one has a hard time believing at the end that it was all a little girl's fantasy ! With this in mind , the heroine here is perhaps the only one I've seen who's anywhere near the right age for the character ( incidentally , Alice is replaced by a doll when she shrinks in size ! ) ; even so , Svankmajer's decision to have her provide constant narration ? often of the most elementary kind , thus rendering it somewhat monotonous ? is baffling to say the least !
Just last Sunday I watched Dario Argento's THE BIRD WITH THE CRYSTAL PLUMAGE ( 1970 ) for the very first time ( taped off Italian TV ) ? followed in the next couple of days by his well-done 4-part TV series DOOR INTO DARKNESS ( 1973 ) . Anyway , I enjoyed PLUMAGE a great deal ( despite , or perhaps because of , its relative lack of gore ) and feel it's one of Argento's very best ; in fact , I'd rank it just below SUSPIRIA ( 1977 ) and DEEP RED ( 1975 ) ? edging out TENEBRE ( 1982 ) by a hair ! The film is virtually a dry run for DEEP RED itself : the foreigner eye-witness hero ; its obsession with paintings , and the link they provide to a trauma from the past ; and , of course , the figure of the black-gloved killer in a dark raincoat . However , for all its positive elements , Argento clearly has yet to find his footing here , especially in the way the film feels the need to conclude with a psychiatrist explaining ( unconvincingly ) the killer's particular hang-up , in the style of Alfred Hitchcock's PSYCHO ( 1960 ) !
Another film I had been reading about since childhood but up till now have had no opportunity to watch . An interesting star vehicle for Boris Karloff allowing him to play two roles as contrasting twins ; the fact that one of them is deformed may owe something to Lon Chaney and here Karloff demonstrates himself a most worthy successor to the Master's mantle . The period setting - its-folk-tale quality hearkens back to German Expressionism - serves the handsome production extremely well , especially when considering that Columbia Pictures at the time was just starting to pose a serious challenge ( following the Oscar sweep of Frank Capra's IT HAPPENED ONE NIGHT [ 1934 ] ) to the major studios . Director Roy William Neill handles the proceedings with great efficiency and style providing plenty of visual flourishes along the way . The only criticism one can level at the film regards a couple of slightly contrived plot points : the evil Karloff , who has done away with his benign but paralyzed sibling and whom he impersonates in order to win the girl he loves , is rather stupidly caught by the girl's father when he is spotted in a mirror using his ' lame ' hand to sign the marriage contract ; Karloff's come-uppance is brought about by his dead brother's faithful mastiff which hates his guts - it's implausible to think that the dog has kept away from Karloff for days ( by which time the girl's lover has been convicted for her father's murder ) only to conveniently reappear on his wedding day ! However , the ironic climax - which allows the prophecy tied with Karloff's family name to be fulfilled - is a splendid one . All in all , along with THE MASK OF FU MANCHU ( 1932 ) and THE WALKING DEAD ( 1936 ; see below ) , THE BLACK ROOM is Karloff's best vehicle of the 1930s which wasn't produced by the studio which made his name , Universal .
I was expecting this to be longer ( it ran for just 90 minutes ) since most sources cite it as being close to the 2 hour-mark . . . although one never really knows with Silent films given the variety of projection speeds involved ! Anyway , it's a rare ' horror ' film for Griffith and one that , reportedly , he did against his will . . . in fact , it was originally intended for Cecil B . DeMille ! As it happens , it's pictorially sumptuous but , typically of Griffith , rather static ; for having been a pioneer of cinema , his occasional reluctance to move the camera is both strange and regrettable ( some of the close-ups of his leading lady here seem interminable ) . The Faustian plot is reasonably compelling if predictable and the acting plaudits effortlessly go to Adolphe Menjou who brings his customary sartorial elegance to the titular character ; on the other hand , Carol Dempster is nowhere near as expressive as Lillian Gish had been in Griffith's earlier films . Even so , the director seemed far more at home during her melodramatic scenes than in depicting the sophistication of the high-life hero Ricardo Cortez breaks into , and even less so with its essential supernatural elements ! While individual scenes deliver the goods ( the fantastic opening sequence set in Heaven showing the banishment of Lucifer and his minions , Menjou's initial materialization in Cortez's apartment and the finale when he reverts back to his true form to menace Cortez - wisely shown only as a huge bat-like shadow ) , the film really needed a European sensibility to do it full justice rather than the hand of a Victorian romantic who was past his prime anyway ! Still , it's very much a worthwhile if essentially patchy enterprise and I would certainly love to catch up with the director's other ' horror ' work eventually - THE AVENGING CONSCIENCE ( 1914 ) and ONE EXCITING NIGHT ( 1922 ) .
Well , talk of an omen ! In my review of BUG ( 1975 ) , I had written that I didn't have the courage to watch this title because of my fear of snakes ; a mere 2 days later , I learned of its director's recent passing ? so , I said to myself , slimy critters be damned ? now's the time to check out this bugger ! ! From Kowalski's work , I was familiar with the cheap sci-fi / horror ATTACK OF THE GIANT LEECHES ( 1959 ) and the adventure disaster about a volcanic eruption KRAKATOA , EAST OF JAVA ( 1969 ) ? hardly notable fare , I know , but Leonard Maltin did award SSSSSSS a respectable ? which I found to be well-deserved ! The film ? produced by Richard D . Zanuck and David Brown , who subsequently scored a big hit for Universal with JAWS ( 1975 ) ? is really a slick update of his previous genre work , and possibly the loopiest concept yet conceived within the resurrected " Nature Gone Wild " cycle . That said , it's quite reminiscent of both THE ALLIGATOR PEOPLE ( 1959 ) and Hammer Films ' THE REPTILE ( 1966 ) ? while Jack Cardiff's THE MUTATIONS aka THE FREAKMAKER ( 1974 ; which I've yet to watch despite being available as a SE DVD ) , in which Donald Pleasence transforms people into plants , seems to be at least as nonsensical ! Well , as it turned out , there's sure plenty of snake footage here ? but it only became genuinely skin-crawling when filmed in close-up . Besides , I never thought I'd say this but I actually came to like Strother Martin's pet snake Harry ( with its fragile squeak , as opposed to the reptile's typical aggressive hiss , and penchant for alcohol ? " Look sober , Harry ! " , advises Martin as disapproving daughter Heather Menzies arrives home ) and felt sorry when it was killed . What I especially enjoyed about the script ( which maintains a reasonable balance between educational overview on the common misconceptions relating to the subject matter and providing the vicarious thrills dictated by its B-movie roots ) are the little , almost casual moments which eventually pay off in a big way . These include : the opening scene involving a mysterious container , and the later revelation of its carrier as a carnival-show proprietor ; the lecture given by the Professor about the subtle difference between two particular species of snake , and the quandary he finds himself in when a prisoner in Martin's basement ; the isolation of a sick python , which eventually gets the better of the afore-mentioned Professor ; Dirk Benedict drawing Heather Menzies ' attention to the carnival Snake Boy's blue eyes ( remarked upon again by a postal worker from town ) , which alerts her to the fate of Martin's former assistant ; Benedict's contention over Menzies ' grief at her favorite pet's demise ? " Harry was just a snake ! " ? which , of course , takes new and ironic meaning when he starts turning into one himself ; also , Martin's taking a rather unwise condescending attitude towards the cobra throughout ? which , inevitably , sets up his painful come-uppance at the end . Martin is brilliantly cast : benign-looking yet utterly chilling when he's spouting the requisite mad doctor credo ( by quoting the passage by Walt Whitman which also found its way in the contemporaneous THE WICKER MAN [ 1973 ] ? though , in its case , available only in the " Extended Version " ) . Well , I have to hand it to all the actors here in showing this much commitment to their craft : it takes guts to act ? and , with respect to Martin , sustain the necessary concentration to deliver quality work ? around a plethora of deadly snakes ( reportedly , Martin got bit for his troubles ) ! Incidentally , the actor showed a surprising branching-out into horror roles during this period ? THE BROTHERHOOD OF Satan ( 1971 ; which I own on DVD and is an even superior effort ) came prior to SSSSSSS , while NIGHTWING ( 1979 ; with which I'm unfamiliar , but it doesn't seem to be readily available for appraisal ) followed later on in the decade . Benedict is pretty bland at first , but his emotional breakdown ? as the snake genes begin to take over his body ? is reasonably convincing ; true , it's kind of dumb of him to take so long to realize just what's really going on with his frequent inoculations ? but , then , who could have truthfully conceived of Martin's demented plan ? ! Curiously enough , a later role for the actor ? in the episode THE MARK OF THE DEVIL from the TV series HAMMER HOUSE OF MYSTERY AND SUSPENSE ( 1984 ) ? also saw him devastated by an unexpected physical change . The subplot in the film involving Benedict's bullying by a brash and strapping fellow student ( the University's champion football player ) is dispensable as such , but the nature of his demise leads to a welcome element of black comedy ? when his over-sexed girlfriend reports to the police that she may have been responsible for his fatal heart attack ! Menzies is a likable female lead , and would eventually appear in another well-regarded genre effort ? PIRANHA ( 1978 ) . However , she's also involved in a nude bathing scene with Benedict which is so contrived and chaste as to be quite redundant ( though the script does manage to squeeze in a joke here at the expense of her character's myopia ) . The film , then , concludes abruptly on a freeze-frame of her screaming as she witnesses Benedict-as-cobra fighting a mongoose . John Chambers ' make-up is remarkably effective in detailing the various stages of Benedict's ' affliction ' ( as well as the botched Snake Boy ) ; however , it was disappointing that the metamorphosis from man into snake is so complete ( the finalization process itself was pretty silly ) ? to the point where one can't tell the two cobras apart ! It's unclear whether the character was subsequently intended to revert back into human form , as was the case with THE REPTILE ? where the monster was actually a hybrid . Equally notable here is a very good , unsettling score by Pat Williams .
To begin with , I recall catching a re-run of this on Italian TV as a kid ( apart from an earlier cinematic adventure featuring the titular character as incarnated by popular muscle-man Steve Reeves ) . Incidentally , I had recently rewatched the big-screen follow-up to the serial under review called THE BLACK PIRATE ( 1976 ) ? which I enjoyed quite a bit , and was actually reminded of this one even back then . Besides , a reduction of SANDOKAN ? which was released to theaters under the lengthy title LA TIGRE E ' ANCORA VIVA : SANDOKAN ALLA RISCOSSA ! ? has just been shown on Italian TV : I taped it but , knowing the serial was readily available for rental on DVD , I opted to watch the entire thing ( I had intended to check out the film as a companion piece but , being currently swarmed by titles on various formats , I thought better of leaving this for another day ! ) . While somewhat leisurely-paced , SANDOKAN is never boring ; its classical serial structure makes for sheer old-fashioned fun , with good action sequences ( director Sollima had cut his teeth on Spaghetti Westerns and Gangster flicks ) and a rousing score by the De Angelis brothers ( several variations on the main theme are heard throughout ) . It also maintains a nice balance between literariness , local color , and the thrilling / romantic requirements of the genre ? and is very well cast besides : Kabir Bedi ( at once dashing and commanding in his signature role ) , Carol Andre ' ( one of Euro-Cult's loveliest starlets ) , Adolfo Celi ( making for a formidable villain ) and , especially , Philippe Leroy ( as Sandokan's witty but resourceful sidekick ) . With respect to the quality of the Yamato DVD edition I watched , it's not as bad as comments by disgruntled fans on the ' Net had led me to believe ( for the record , the serial is also available as a 3-Disc Set from a different label ) ; I do have one qualm , though , about the decision to use the reduced English credits ( but , then , the originals are available as part of the bonus features ) . The latter includes a biography of the character's creator , Emilio Salgari : I was surprised to learn that he led a short and tragic life , but also that a later exotic serial I had watched ? and in which Bedi was featured ? called THE MYSTERIES OF THE DARK JUNGLE ( 1991 ) was based on his work .
Unusual but beautifully made and typically enjoyable Douglas Fairbanks vehicle , which finds the star at his most roguish ( while still being his dashing and athletic self ) ; with the Argentine pampas for backdrop , the film ? whose full official title is DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS AS THE GAUCHO ? can be considered a semi-Western . The narrative encompasses romance ( supplied by fiery Lupe Velez ) , religion ( via the presence of a miraculous shrine overseen by a saintly shepherdess ? we even get a couple of visions of the Madonna herself , played by Fairbanks ' own equally popular actress wife , Mary Pickford ! ) as well as more characteristic action ( in the form of The Gaucho's opposition to the rule of tyrannical Gustav von Seyffertitz ) . A subplot which ties in with the element of faith sees the hero being deliberately contaminated by a carrier of " The Black Doom " whom he had previously slighted , though both are eventually cured . Fairbanks ' trademark pioneering spirit in the technical department is also well in evidence here ? with matte paintings giving the illusion of a truly elaborate visual design , reversed film for one particularly showy leap by the star onto his faithful steed , and even the wholesale horse-driven transportation of a house at one point !
A curious mix of CITY OF GOD ( 2002 ) and QUIZ SHOW ( 1994 ) , this surprising multi-Oscar winner is a good film to be sure but also somewhat overrated ( as was director Boyle's TRAINSPOTTING [ 1996 ] after all ) . The editing is deftly intricate ( spanning several years , the story continually jumps back and forth in time ) and the exotic score certainly effective ; however , Boyle's flashy technique rings false within the context of its underprivileged setting ! SLUMDOG MILLIONAIRE may have alerted the rest of the world to the dire conditions of life in ( the so-called ) modern India but , at the same time , it cannot have benefited the country's tourist industry any ! The film's trump card is actually the ' impossible romance ' at its core : the two young leads are believable and undeniably appealing . The whole " Who Wants To Be A Millionaire ? " angle , then , has a decidedly contrived feel to it : though apparently based on fact , the film was clearly intended as a fable . That said , some of the flashbacks do not really illuminate us as to how the hero knew the respective answer : for instance , does someone need to know who invented the revolver just because he owns one ( much less an uneducated person ) and would the final all-important question of such a show be one to which the answer could have easily been arrived at by common sense ( had it not been a recurring motif ) ?
When my pal at the DVD store told me that he had ordered Damiano Damiani's THE WITCH , I admitted that I had never heard of it before - although , on looking up the film under its original Italian title , I had the notion that it may have been shown on late-night TV without my realizing what sort of film it was ! In any case , having now watched it for myself , THE WITCH has proved to be one of the most pleasant film-viewing surprises I've had since the beginning of the year ! Ostensibly a horror film , it doesn't easily fit into the genre since Damiani approaches it , for the most part , as if it were a Kafkaesque art-house flick ( with an undeniable erotic charge , which was as unexpected in this kind of film as it was effective ) ! This isn't in itself a bad thing , since THE WITCH has a very elegant look to it - in direct contrast to the endless spate of undistinguished low-budget productions being churned out by the Italian film industry during this time - extending to the production design ( its excellent use of locations is a major asset ) and the inspired use of shadowy lighting ( coming as it did at the tail-end of black-and-white horror-film production ) which is comparable to the work of Mario Bava . As a matter of fact , it reminded me quite a bit of the latter's KILL , BABY . . . KILL ! , made the same year ( albeit shot in color ) and also largely set in a decrepit mansion ; besides , Rosanna Schiaffino's hypnotic beauty and wonderful performance can stand proudly alongside Barbara Steele's iconic showcase in BLACK Sunday ( 1960 ) and especially that of Daliah Lavi in THE WHIP AND THE BODY ( 1963 ) - both of which , incidentally , were also directed by Bava ! The rest of the cast features Richard Johnson ( fresh from another subtle horror piece , Robert Wise ' THE HAUNTING [ 1963 ] ) as the bewildered love-struck hero , Sarah Ferrati ( here in only her second film and which also proved to be the last ! ) as the creepy-looking old " lady " who sets the complex plot in motion - and who has an unexplained predilection towards torturing cats ( loving animals as much as I do , I found these scenes somewhat disturbing ! ) , Gian Maria Volonte ' ( excellent as Schiaffino's distraught former lover who still resides in the doomed mansion ) and Ivan Rassimov ( who is set to take over Johnson's double duties at the house , until the latter resolves to put an end to the whole charade in the fiery climax ) . Apart from the latter scene ( and , of course , the sexy bits ) , perhaps the film's best moment is when Schiaffino goes - convincingly - into convulsions ( years prior to THE EXORCIST [ 1973 ] ) and discloses her " true " identity to a horrified Richard Johnson . From the few comments I've managed to find about the film , most have described it as being slow and pretentious . While I wasn't bothered by the film's deliberate pace ( and I usually am in this type of film ! ) , I must say that I am prone to appreciate intelligence in a horror film even more than in virtually any other genre - since it's the one that has suffered most at the hands of untalented film-makers and exploitative producers who go for the easy buck and are content to follow the current trend without " putting their mind to it " , as it were . The DVD I watched , unfortunately , was a full-frame affair , fuzzy-looking ( possibly sourced from a 16mm print ) and poorly dubbed ( which , coupled with the rather muffled audio , made the dialogue hard to understand at times ! ) . I do hope that a more deserving edition of this gem eventually surfaces but , if not , I'll be on the look-out for it in the event that it turns up ( again ) on late-night Italian TV . . . Damiano Damiani was just one of many Italian film-makers who made their mark on Italian " cult " cinema during the 60s and 70s and while he isn't among the more celebrated of the bunch , from what I've seen of his work - ARTURO'S ISLAND ( 1962 ) , THE WITCH , A BULLET FOR THE GENERAL ( 1967 ) , HOW TO KILL A JUDGE ( 1974 ) and THE INQUIRY ( 1987 ) - he more than holds his own ; this reminds me that I have Damiani's IL GIORNO DELLA CIVETTA ( 1968 ) and THE DEVIL IS A WOMAN ( 1975 ) lying in my ever-increasing " Unwatched Films on VHS " pile . . . not to mention 2 starring lovely Schiaffino and 9 with Volonte ' ( surely one of Italy's most versatile and important actors ) ! !
This is another avant-garde treatment of a classic Poe story : again , it's a very satisfying visual experience but the slightly meatier running time ? 24 minutes as opposed to THE FALL OF THE HOUSE OF USHER ( 1928 ) ' s 13 ? allows the theme of the story to fully and recognizably emerge this time around . While the deranged hero looks uncannily like a young Gary Oldman , the all-important appearance of his elderly nemesis does not disappoint ( though , in retrospect , it's dispensed with a little too soon ! ) . Most interesting here , too , are the bizarre expressionist sets ? obviously modeled on the ones in THE CABINET OF DR . CALIGARI ( 1920 ) .
I was pleasantly surprised by this one : Leonard Maltin rates it a BOMB but I found it great fun , if uneven . Skolimowski's first English-language film was actually shot in Cinecitta ' and , in fact , features many Italians in the cast ( all of whom struggle with the literary - and very English - nature of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's original ! ) . There's still plenty of amusing detail to savor - the subject matter of the Napoleonic Wars is treated as farce most of the time and , in fact , there's quite a bit of slapstick involved ( to which Skolimowski's technique is happy to oblige via numerous camera tricks , pretty much the sole link here to his early Polish films ) - and , accordingly , all the performances are broadly delineated : Peter McEnery is a pompous yet likable ne'er-do-well hero ; Eli Wallach is a buffoonish ( and gay ) Napoleon ; while Jack Hawkins has a whale of a time ( which , alas , happened very seldom in the films he made following the tragic loss of his voice ) as the flustered leader of a bandit rabble who have adopted novel means of torture and execution , and are even dressed in Klan-type garb ! Apart from asides to the audience , McEnery also engages in a constantly interrupted duel with British officer Mark Burns - with whom he also spars for the affections of beautiful and fiery Spanish countess Claudia Cardinale . John Neville is the Duke of Wellington in his last film for almost 20 years ( when he achieved some latter-day notoriety , in another tongue-in-cheek fantasia no less , with the title role of Terry Gilliam's THE ADVENTURES OF BARON MUNCHAUSEN [ 1988 ] ) . Riz Ortolani contributes a suitably jaunty , yet frequently rousing , score . Unfortunately , some of the film's visual impact was inevitably lost in the pan-and-scan version I watched ( taped off Cable TV ) ; originally shot in Panavision , I wouldn't mind owning this in its proper Aspect Ratio on DVD . . .
This was the first Mae West movie to appear after the introduction of the Production Code the year before and , given the generally held belief that this factor harmed her successive films , I was expecting to be let down by this one ; indeed , while rarely scaling the heights of her best work , I found it to be a very engaging and entertaining vehicle with a fair amount of good lines . Amusingly , this film – with the word " town " in its title – starts out way out West while West’s GO WEST YOUNG MAN ( 1936 ) starts out in a rural setting and goes rustic gradually ! Interestingly enough , it features a vivid horse-racing sequence and another hilarious vignette in which West dabbles in opera singing : playing Delilah ( " the only woman barber who made good " ) , she is prone to call out to her Samson , " Come ‘ere , Sammy ! " ; it’s worth mentioning here that The Marx Brothers also lampooned just these very diverse subjects for their first two big-budget MGM extravaganzas ! The plot is quite busy , especially for a 70 minute movie , with a handful of besotted males vying for the hand of wealthy oil tycoon West ( who marries – and is subsequently widowed – twice during the course of the film , even if she is clearly chasing after her no-nonsense British employee Paul Cavanagh who is really an aristocrat ! ) . Initially , I thought that Cavanagh was a curious choice for her leading man but , ultimately , he acquits himself rather well under the circumstances , and Gilbert Emery is a welcome familiar face as West’s Pygmalion ( once she decides to take on the upper crust of society in her bid to win Cavanagh’s affections ) ; incidentally , this portion of the film bears more than a passing resemblance to George Raft’s predicament in Mae West’s debut feature , NIGHT AFTER NIGHT ( 1932 ) !
This was the first of two films I watched as a tribute to Glenn Ford , one of Hollywood's most likable and underrated stars . BLACKBOARD JUNGLE was considered a landmark film in its treatment of juvenile delinquency in public schools and also for being the first Hollywood production to feature a rock'n'roll soundtrack ( the most memorable being Bill Haley and The Comets ' " Rock Around The Clock " ) . In itself , well enough made and generally compelling - but it has dated quite a bit ( the would-be toughness of the kids too often appears cornball and tame rather than intimidating at this juncture ) and , coming from MGM , its superficiality was inevitable ( the soft underbelly of the whole enterprise being most evident in the relationship between mild-mannered but tenacious schoolteacher Ford and troubled but talented student Sidney Poitier ) ! That said , much of the acting still holds up - Ford , cynical veteran Louis Calhern , naive jazz-lover Richard Kiley among the adults , Poitier and especially unrepentant bullying criminal Vic Morrow among the kids . The scenes of violence , too ( particularly an attempted rape of a shapely schoolteacher and the climactic classroom ' showdown ' ) - which must have seemed startling at the time - remain undeniable highlights . Even if only surviving minor cast and crew members ( or their relatives , in the case of Glenn Ford's son ) are involved in the Audio Commentary , it made for a surprisingly engaging listen and was especially perceptive in noting how Ford's role ( and haircut ! ) here basically defined the rest of his acting career as a leading man . The film can be seen as forming an unofficial Juvenile Delinquency trilogy with two other seminal films of the period : Laslo Benedek's THE WILD ONE ( 1953 ) and Nicholas Ray's REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE ( 1955 ) both , of course , featuring iconic performances from Marlon Brando and James Dean respectively . Furthermore , BLACKBOARD JUNGLE was more or less remade ( and quite admirably , too ) in a Swinging London setting as TO SIR , WITH LOVE ( 1967 ) - with Sidney Poitier now taking on the role of the harassed schoolteacher !
I've always had something of an ambivalent attitude towards the British " Swinging London " films of the 1960s : sometimes I enjoy their creative technique and anything-goes approach , while other times I find their brashness exasperating and extremely dated . Actually , MORGAN is now among the films I've revisited the most among them ( more by accident than design ) which has led me to toy with the idea of compiling a list of titles from that era - comprising above all films I've watched only once , or not at all , but also those which I haven't checked out in ages ( some of which are in my endless " DVDs To Watch " pile ) . Anyway , the film itself is certainly one of the most engaging of the lot : basically an update of the typical Hollywood ' screwball comedy ' formula , with one member of a divorced couple disrupting the new marriage plans of the other , though here we don't get the conventional happy ending . Reisz was , along with Lindsay Anderson and Tony Richardson , one of the founding members of the " Free Cinema " movement ; though he started at the very top with Saturday NIGHT AND Sunday MORNING ( 1960 ) , the rest of his career was rather spotty with MORGAN being perhaps its closest in quality - even if the unflinching realism of the former had , by this time , given way to irreverent comic fantasy ! While the plot is somewhat thin and the lead character's pranks to reclaim his wife become repetitive , the film's hectic pace never wavers ; stylish , amusing ( particularly when dealing with Morgan's Communist background and his obsession with gorillas ! ) and bolstered by John Dankworth's playful score , it's delightfully enacted by the three principals - David Warner ( the role of his life ) , Vanessa Redgrave ( the recipient of many accolades , including a surprising Best Actress Oscar nomination ) and Robert Stephens - none of whom are typically associated with slapstick ( though David Mercer's script also offers perceptive comments about the painful consequences of a broken marriage ) .
A Christmas-time staple on Italian TV for years and only the third animated feature to emanate from Italy ( after 1949's THE SINGING PRINCESS and THE DYNAMITE BROTHERS ) . A delightful if patchy parody of the Western that is well-suited to the rough , stylized animation on display and featuring a handful of superbly realized and voiced characters ? particularly the belatedly introduced laconic gunfighter hero Johnny and the land-grabbing chief villain Cattivissimo . Also on hand are damsel-in-distress Clementina , her alcoholic dog and talking cows , red-headed saloon gal Esmeralda , Cattivissimo's fat and lean henchmen ( Ursus and Slim , respectively ) and assorted marauding Indians . Set to a fine Western-styled score by Giampiero Boneschi , one of the film's highlights comes towards the midpoint ( in a sequence drawn in silhouette ) where the complex-ridden Johnny receives the mother of all beatings in his first visit to the saloon .
I enjoyed the reconstruction , for what it was . Of course , its sound remake - MARK OF THE VAMPIRE ( 1935 ) - is a very good indication of what London AFTER MIDNIGHT ( 1927 ) must have looked like . The plot is unbelievably contrived but let's not forget that the films adhere more to the style of ' old dark house ' thrillers , then in vogue , than the typical ' vampire ' film ( that said , Chaney's vampire make-up is terrific and I'd love to see it in action ! ) . It's interesting , however , to note how Browning was able to adapt himself with the times : in " London " the emphasis seems to be on grotesquerie ( witness also Edna Tichenor's death-like pallor ) , since the archetype of the sub-genre during the Silent era was obviously NOSFERATU ( 1922 ) ; when MARK came along , Browning went for a more streamlined look - a suave Lugosi abetted by a sexy Carol Borland - spearheaded by his own landmark take on the Stoker classic ! I also prefer the remake's change-of-setting ( Hungary instead of London ) and the blood-draining device to dispose of the victim ( rather than the conventional ' suicide ' of the original ) , thus giving credence - initially at least - to the vampires ' presence in the film in the first place !
A fascinating relic of the turbulent cultural / political aura of the late 60s ( taking in the class struggle as well ) which , ironically , in view of its outdated and occasionally embarrassing conservative views , makes full use of the permissiveness that prevailed for a while in mainstream cinema and which came about as a direct result of the liberal attitude it purports to criticize ! Norman Wexler's incisive Oscar-nominated script is superbly enacted by Peter Boyle ( in a powerhouse performance ) who manages to make his garrulous , down-to-earth yet hypocritical and opportunistic character ( with a barely-disguised fascist streak which comes to the fore in the remarkable violent conclusion ) likable , even admirable ; indeed , he comes across uncannily like a flabbier version of the young Marlon Brando ! Similar to other generation gap movies of its era like TAKING OFF ( 1971 ) and HARDCORE ( 1978 ) but also nihilistic vigilante films like DEATH WISH ( 1974 ) and TAXI DRIVER ( 1976 ) - interestingly enough , two of these also feature Boyle - JOE ultimately emerges as an engrossing and powerful drama which could have been a masterpiece if it had had a more experienced director at the helm . . .
This is the seventh Honda film that I've watched but only the second that I found to be in any way satisfying ? the other being , of course , GOJIRA ( 1954 ) ; actually , I've got five more of his titles to go ( which I'll be checking out throughout the week ) ? though , in all honesty , I only expect the earlier effort RODAN ( 1956 ) to be any good ! The theme and setting of the film derives from a number of earlier horror / sci-fi classics : for instance , the flashback framework where the hero's tall tale is disbelieved by everyone ? not to mention the scene in which he's seduced to the ' other side ' by his transformed lover ? was certainly inspired by INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS ( 1956 ) . Conversely , it looks forward to another good Japanese genre outing i . e . GOKE ? BODY SNATCHER FROM HELL ( 1968 ) with its disparate group of stranded passengers and the influence on them of the unfamiliar ' contaminated ' environment ( which slowly but surely leads to the disruption of the unit ) . Incidentally , despite the distinction given to each of the characters ( psychologist , author , entrepreneur , skipper , etc . ) ? including two females ( one a sluttish chanteuse and the other a naïve student ) ? none are developed in enough detail to be allowed to take center-stage . Interestingly , too , the identity of the sole male survivor among them is not immediately disclosed ; the revelation at the end , then , takes proceedings into unexpected amour fou territory ! As for the mutant creatures ( the U . S . title of the film , in fact , was the catchpenny ATTACK OF THE MUSHROOM PEOPLE ) , they're quite silly-looking in themselves ? but , sensibly , these are mainly depicted as menacing shadowy figures . Though not quite the sci-fi masterpiece that Enrico Ghezzi ( eccentric presenter of " After Hours " , the programme during which the Honda TV marathon was held ) proudly claimed in his introduction , it's quite an engaging and effective piece ? if somewhat lacking in pace . All in all , I wouldn't mind owning the SE DVD of MATANGO from Media Blasters eventually ( also given the fact that the Italian subtitles on the version I watched were too rapid to read through at times , while the image itself suffered from occasional momentary freezing ! ) . . .
Rex Beach's Western tale was much filmed over the years ? including twice during the Silent era , and an early Talkie version co-starring Gary Cooper ; my brother had watched the 1955 color remake , which was O . K . but uninspired . This earlier adaptation , however , stands as a prime example of the genre from the more innocent pre-war era ; in fact , starting from the year after ? with William A . Wellman's THE OX-BOX INCIDENT ( 1943 ) , to be exact ? the Western achieved sudden maturity that would lead to any number of masterworks in various veins ( noir , psychological , elegiac , revisionist ) till it died out towards the late 1970s . Anyway , this is a quite splendid film with all three stars ( Marlene Dietrich , Randolph Scott and John Wayne ) in good form ; incidentally , all of them had just come from impressive individual work in the genre ? DESTRY RIDES AGAIN ( 1939 ) , Fritz Lang's WESTERN UNION ( 1941 ) , and STAGECOACH ( 1939 ) respectively . Having preceded the film by the trio's subsequent ( though lesser ) teaming , PITTSBURGH ( 1942 ) , it was interesting to see Wayne and Scott take turns playing the unsympathetic role ( in the case of the latter here , he emerges to be an out-and-out villain ? if a charming one , and to which he would return for his swan-song two decades later in Sam Peckinpah's RIDE THE HIGH COUNTRY [ 1962 ] ) . Incidentally , in both THE SPOILERS and PITTSBURGH , Scott is clearly depicted as being interested in Dietrich ? but she seems to prefer Wayne ( maybe because she did one other title with the latter , SEVEN SINNERS [ 1940 ] , which is to follow ) . The supporting cast is also quite strong : Richard Barthelmess and Harry Carey ( both of whom had been stars in the Silent era and had since settled in character roles ) appear as Dietrich and Wayne's sidekicks respectively ? the former is shady and the latter hot-headed , and each prefers to settle arguments with a weapon ( Barthelmess a flick-knife and Carey the shotgun he calls " Betsy " ) . Scott's gang of crooked associates is made up of Charles Halton , Samuel S . Hinds and , the latter's niece , Margaret Lindsay ( who was intended to seduce Wayne for the benefit of their scheme , but ends up falling for him ? the actress had been a leading lady of Warner Bros . pictures during the previous decade , but her poignant Other Woman role here is surprisingly well-written ) . The compelling narrative extends to many an exciting ( and , often , action-oriented ) development ? trial , bank robbery , jailbreak , train wreck , various instances where law officers face off or shoot it out with miners , and culminating in the famously brutal lengthy fistfight between the two male stars ( though this is somewhat spoiled { sic } by the obvious use of doubles in longshots ) .
Director Castellari is nowadays perhaps best-known ( if at all ) by the younger generation of film buffs for one thing : making the original INGLORIOUS BASTARDS ( 1977 ) , which Quentin Tarantino has been threatening to remake for years now . However , in my opinion , he should instead be remembered for making this impressive , belated Spaghetti Western gem . An odd blend of violent action and heady mysticism apparently concocted by one of the credited screenwriters Luigi Montefiori ( better known to hardened Euro-Cult fans as an actor under the alias of George Eastman ) but , as star Franco Nero and Castellari himself state in the Anchor Bay DVD supplements , the script took so long to get written that they decided to work without one and make the dialogue up as they went along ! That the end result is so satisfying ( and practically unique in the subgenre ) is a remarkable achievement in itself . Keoma is a half-breed returning home from the American Civil War to find his hometown ravaged by the plague and overtaken by the villainous Caldwell ( Donal O ' Brien ) ; among his cohorts are Nero's three half-brothers who had made his childhood a living hell , with his surrogate father ( William Berger ) and colored mentor turned banjo-playing town-drunk ( Woody Strode ) unable to do much to counter Caldwell's oppression . A Bergmanesque , cadaverous old woman is frequently seen roaming the streets dragging a cart behind her . . . What follows is the typical confrontation between Good and Evil but Castellari infuses the familiar mixture with several directorial flourishes : occasionally striking compositions ( particularly a memorably Fordian opening shot ) , frequent use of slow-motion in true Peckinpah-style , flashbacks in which Keoma is a spectator to his own past experiences ( inspired by Elia Kazan's THE ARRANGEMENT [ 1969 ] ! ) , a touch of elliptical editing , Christian symbolism ( Keoma is crucified at one point ) and , most distressingly of all , a folksy soundtrack ( inspired by Leonard Cohen and Bob Dylan , no less and warbled . . . er . . . sung by a shrill , high-pitched female singer and an out-of-tune deep-voiced male ) which narrates in song the action we're seeing on the screen . I say distressingly because the Guido and Maurizo De Angelis compositions found here have forever been a thorn in the side of even the film's staunchest admirers ! ! Personally , I didn't mind the female singer so much after a while but when her ( possibly drunk ) male companion took over in the last half hour , I was in for some cringe-inducing moments for sure . . . ! Despite these misgivings , the film is still one of the best Spaghetti Westerns out there ( and certainly the last great example of the subgenre ) ; its undoubted highlight is provided by a terrific , lovingly protracted action set-piece in which Nero , Berger and a reformed Strode ( back to his former arrow-shooting glory - perhaps a nod to the role he played in Richard Brooks ' splendid THE PROFESSIONALS [ 1966 ] ) wipe out most of Caldwell's gang . Their triumph is short-lived , however , because both Berger and Strode lose their lives in the ongoing struggle ( Berger poignantly so , while Strode's death scene is particularly great ) , with Nero almost bowing out himself under the strain of his siblings ' torture - who have subsequently disposed of Caldwell and taken over the town themselves ; the final confrontation , then , between Keoma and his three half-brothers is eerily set to the " strains " of Olga Karlatos ' ( playing a woman Keoma had earlier on saved from a plague-infested colony ) wailing and screaming as she lies giving birth to a child amidst the carnage ! While at first I was disappointed that the Anchor Bay DVD only included the English dub , having watched it now it seems clear that the actors were all speaking their dialogue in English on the set - although , as connoisseurs will certainly know , this was all re-recorded back in the studios anyway ( as was common practice in the Italian film industry ) . Still , if ever it gets shown again on Italian TV , I'll be sure to check it out just for completeness ' sake . Thankfully , however , Castellari contributes a highly enthusiastic and informative Audio Commentary in which he discusses his major influences while making the film , among them Sidney J . Furie's THE APPALOOSA ( 1966 ) , Altman's McCABE AND MRS . MILLER ( 1971 ) and Peckinpah's PAT GARRETT AND BILLY THE KID ( 1973 ) . Ultimately , Franco Nero in the title role is almost as iconic a figure as Django and , hopefully , I should be getting to another fairly obscure but highly intriguing Spaghetti Westen of his - Luigi Bazzoni's MAN , PRIDE AND VENGEANCE ( 1968 ) , an eccentric updating of Georges Bizet's opera " Carmen " , co-starring Klaus Kinski and Tina Aumont - pretty soon . . .
With this fourth Three Stooges short , I feel like they’re growing on me as I liked it quite a bit ! Racketeer Walter Long ( a great Laurel & Hardy foil ) needs players who can be bought for a fixed game he’s organizing . His moll ( a young Lucille Ball ) and her companions meet The Stooges dressed in football gear – the boys are down on their luck , so they accept a job advertising for a football team – and , mistaking them for star players , bring them home . After the initial misconception about the men’s presence in Long’s apartment – leading to a delightful chase involving a base-less dumb waiter – The Stooges find themselves in a football stadium trying to make head or tails of the game , to the chagrin of the sinister-looking gangster ! The short’s football craziness and the hijinks in the apartment are clearly inspired by HORSE FEATHERS ( 1932 ) , one of The Marx Bros . ’ greatest vehicles .
I had watched this several years ago and recall it being a merely average Ford outing ; the film improves on a second viewing ( even if it does go on too long – but more on that later ) and can be seen as a worthy belated follow-up to the director’s celebrated Cavalry Trilogy with John Wayne . Interestingly , this emerged as his only film to deal with the Civil War ( apart from the Ford-directed segment dealing with it from HOW THE WEST WAS WON [ 1962 ] ) . Typically , he takes no sides and the narrative resolves itself into a series of vignettes : the important sequence at the mansion of Southern lady Constance Towers ( she charms and openly seduces the Union officers but doesn’t think twice about spying on them – at which she’s caught and they’re forced to take her along for the ride ! ) ; the scuffle between the two armies at the Confederate station ( where the latter , badly-equipped , are massacred ) ; Wayne’s drunken confession to Towers at the saloon regarding his aversion to doctors ; the climactic resistance culminating with the blowing-up of a Southern bridge , etc . Other incidents , however , feel tacked-on – such as the quirky encounter with deserters Denver Pyle and Strother Martin , and the cornball one in which Southerner Basil Ruysdeal marches his military academy of young boys against Wayne’s troops . Though featuring a number of the director’s stock company of actors , the film displays a distinct ( and welcome ) lack of overt character comedy – which was something of a Ford trademark . This may be due to the fact that THE HORSE SOLDIERS came in between his most sober Western collaborations with Wayne , namely THE SEARCHERS ( 1956 ) and THE MAN WHO SHOT LIBERTY VALANCE ( 1962 ) . Wayne , here possibly at his most cantankerous ( given to frequent outbursts of rage ) , seems to function better as an actor when he has a strong ally / opponent . In this case , it’s William Holden ( his only film for Ford ) as a Union doctor reluctantly assigned to Wayne’s outfit , with whom he immediately clashes over the soldiers’ fitness for combat . Holden is bemused by Towers’ incongruous presence there , but dismayed at the necessity of Americans to slaughter one another ( at the station , he’s initially shunned by a mangled fellow West Pointer fighting on the other side ) and , finally , opts to stay behind at the mercy of the enemy with the wounded Union soldiers ; however , being mostly absent from the action , his role gradually wears thin . Towers’ indomitable Southern belle adds a breath of fresh air to the proceedings ( though she’s still involved in a requisite , albeit subtly-handled , romance with Wayne ) and the director seems to have liked her enough to feature the actress in his subsequent picture – SERGEANT RUTLEDGE ( 1960 ; which I need to pick up on DVD , released as part of a 10-Disc JOHN FORD COLLECTION Set from Warners ) . Unfortunately , THE HORSE SOLDIERS is poorly served by the R2 MGM DVD I watched – bearing prominent damage marks , dull colors , and defaults to an open-matte presentation to boot !
I can’t say that I was particularly looking forward to this musical comedy , but it turned out to be a very entertaining 1 hour and 14 minutes . Being a Bing Crosby vehicle ( albeit featured on Universal’s Carole Lombard set ) , there’s a plethora of dated romantic songs – and since a young ( not to say slim ) Ethel Merman appears in support , she chimes in as well . . . and so does comic Leon Errol ! Still , as I said , it’s a generally fun seafaring ride ( inspired by J . M . Barrie’s " The Admirable Crichton " ) – though given a rather silly and entirely meaningless title ! Also in the cast are another comic couple – George Burns ( who really achieved stardom after an Oscar-winning turn some 40 years later ! ) and real-life spouse Gracie Allen – and a young ( though somewhat stiff ) Ray Milland as one of two aristocratic parasites hoping to win Lombard’s hand . However , she’s got her eyes on crooning sailor Crosby – but , of course , their relationship runs far from smoothly ! Starting off on Lombard’s yacht , the group are shipwrecked on a tropical island ( thanks to a tipsy Errol sabotaging the boat’s commands ) – where explorers Burns and Allen ( ! ) are carrying out some kind of research . Actually , the two parties rarely interact : in fact , very little happens on the island itself – other than that the feckless idle rich are taught a moral lesson by the manly and resourceful Crosby ( anticipating Lombard’s own MY MAN GODFREY [ 1936 ] in this respect ) . It’s refreshing to find Lombard in a non-wacky role , but her performance is just as delightful as ever ; equally notable are the amusing contribution of Errol ( Lombard’s uncle but who’s sympathetic to commoner Crosby ) and the various antics of the harebrained Allen ( which includes her devising an unlikely and complicated method to trap wild animals ) . Even so , an amiable bear named Droopy ( Lombard’s pet ! ) steals everybody’s thunder – especially in the way it cuddles up to Crosby when singing a particular tune , and a hilarious scene in which the animal runs riot on the deck of the yacht after Errol fits it with skating shoes ! There’s even a joke at the expense of another Paramount star , Mae West , when a sailor describes the acronym ‘B . C . �� as ‘Before " Come Up And See Me , Sometime " ’ .
A bland title disguises this solidly-carpentered example of old-fashioned Hollywood entertainment , this film proves a largely successful hodgepodge of several disparate elements : a period piece , a romantic drama , a crime movie and a political thriller . Interestingly , though made by Fox , its protagonists ? Robert Taylor and Barbara Stanwyck ? were both usually associated with other studios ; their on screen chemistry here is palpable and eventually led to marriage in a couple of years ' time . While a bit too young , Taylor is a dashing hero ( a Marine personally appointed by President McKinley to uncover the culprits behind an organized clean-up of numerous banks ) ; unsurprisingly , no sooner has he tracked them down ( led by smooth Brian Donlevy and thuggish Victor McLaglen ) that he falls for a chanteuse ( naturally , Stanwyck ) who has thrown her lot with the gang ? although , truth be told , singing is far from being the actress ' forte ! Similarly , apart from having to prove his worth to make it into their fold , he has to vie with McLaglen for Stanwyck's attentions ; by the way , the practical joker persona of the former reminded me a lot of Charley Chase in SONS OF THE DESERT ( 1933 ) which , incidentally , was likewise directed by William A . Seiter . Later on , Taylor is in two minds about involving Stanwyck in the impending bait and tries to offer his resignation to the President while eloping with the girl ? but the jealous rival disrupts his plans . The robbery gone awry , we find Donlevy dead and the other two in jail ; Taylor's hopes for McKinley's intervention ? having meanwhile learned the identity of the elusive and obviously prominent ' inside man ' ? are seemingly dashed when the President winds up assassinated himself ( a great plot twist , though the resulting eleventh-hour suspense feels contrived ) ! To get back to the film's jumble of styles , even if the vaudeville sequences are a matter of taste , the romantic triangle slows things up and it skimps somewhat on the thriller aspect , this emerges a handsome production indeed ? with the actors already mentioned ably supported by the likes of John Carradine ( who unaccountably disappears after just one scene ! ) , Douglas Fowley , Sig Rumann and , as two American Presidents , Sidney Blackmer ( the bubbly Theodore Roosevelt ) and Frank Conroy ( McKinley ) .
I had watched ? and been sufficiently impressed with ? this director's acclaimed previous film , IN THE BEDROOM ( 2001 ) ; the follow-up effort proves to be altogether more accomplished . Again , we're treated to a variety of suburban neuroses ? which I can't help feeling some of the characters bring upon themselves ( more on this later ) . Anyway , the director has the temerity to stretch the melodramatic proceedings ? essentially revolving around three interweaving plot threads ? to a hefty 137 minutes . That it doesn't collapse under its own weight is due to a perceptive script ( compounded by pointed narration ) and excellent performances ; the actors generally manage to steer clear of hysterics ( which only really come into play towards the end ) . Both the talent and beauty of leading ladies Kate Winslet and Jennifer Connelly is on display here ? though the latter's role is rather small and colorless . I'm not familiar with either of the actors playing their characters ' respective husbands ? in this case , it's Winslet's husband who fares the worst ( as he's inexplicably absent throughout most of the film , except when the director needs to harp on his particular mania ! ) . Jackie Earle Haley is effectively understated in a difficult role as a convicted paedophile ; he obviously incurs the wrath of the neighborhood which is full of kids ? and is hounded by an ex-security officer who , as it happens , had been disgraced himself after accidentally shooting and killing a child ! As I said , the director makes it hard for the audience to empathize with anyone ( despite paralleling Winslet's character with one of the most famous tragic heroines of literature , Madame Bovary ) because the people concerned can hardly help themselves . The two couples don't really do anything to save their respective marriage but , in the end , the straying partners ? no doubt burdened by the presence of a child in each of their lives ? seem uncommitted towards taking that decisive step to freedom . Connelly and her husband manage to remain together after a stupid skateboarding accident , but things seem less certain in Winslet's vapid household . As for Haley , every time he manages to move us by his predicament ( a combination of ' sensitive soul ' and ' mama's boy ' ) is then offset by some needlessly punishing exhibition ? the incident at the pool , the way he ruins his one chance at a date , and the inevitable final act . Well-made and acted , therefore , but essentially contrived ? and , like the director's previous outing , the film doesn't lend itself easily to rewatchability in view of its subject matter ( not so much the controversial issues as the soap-opera elements ) and considerable length . . .
I first watched this in the early 1990s on Italian TV ; back then , I didn't even know it existed and , in all probability , the version I watched was trimmed - since the full-blown restoration wasn't carried out until 2004 ! Anyway , I remember the film with affection and I thoroughly enjoyed rewatching it on DVD ( even if this version is still several minutes shy of its 134-minute original length ! ) . For being made right in the middle of WWII , this is an obscenely expensive - circa $35 million in today's currency - spectacle ( given pretty much carte blanche , the producers went overschedule and overbudget ) commissioned by the Nazis - but scripted , ironically , by a Jew - on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of Germany's foremost film unit , UFA , it was also seen as a direct response to such foreign-made extravaganzas as Hollywood's THE WIZARD OF OZ ( 1939 ) and Britain's THE THIEF OF BAGDAD ( 1940 ) ! The character of the tale-spinning Baron Munchausen originated in a book by 18th century author Gottfried August Burger which , along the years , has inspired 4 feature-film adaptations ( as well as a Silent short by pioneering wizard Georges Melies and an animated short that was thankfully included on the Kino DVD and which will be discussed separately ) . Despite the stature accorded the 1988 Terry Gilliam version THE ADVENTURES OF BARON MUNCHAUSEN ( which I watched only once several years ago and recall being a somewhat hit-or-miss affair ) , the 1943 film emerges as perhaps the most satisfying cinematic rendition overall . The film is book-ended by scenes with a contemporary i . e . 1940s setting , in which the Baron ( played as a dashing yet cunning womanizer rather than the Quixotic fool envisioned by Terry Gilliam ) recounts some of his adventures - in the third person - to a naïve young couple ( the female member of which had fallen under his spell at a fancy-dress ball ) . The rest is an episodic fantasia in which Munchausen - usually driven by the promise of a romance and accompanied by his faithful sidekick - journeys from one country to the other ( meeting along the way historical historical figures like Czarina Catherine The Great , Giacomo Casanova and the magician Cagliostro , who endows him with both immortality and the power of invisibility , as well as purely invented characters such as the self-proclaimed " world's fastest runner " ) until he ends up on the moon itself . Quality varies but the end result , as a whole , is a delight and a veritable feast for the eyes ( thanks , in no small measure to the highly pleasing Agfacolor , the splendid production design and the charmingly primitive special effects ) . Still , one thing that bothered me about the DVD was the fact that the subtitles barely allowed one time to read them ( in all fairness , this had a lot to do with the virtually uninterrupted flurry of the film's dialogue itself - hence , something other than a thin white font should have been adopted ) ! The extras were more extensive than I had anticipated and up to Kino's standards for a " Special Edition " release - the best , however , was the 17-minute interview with the head of the German archival company that handled the current restoration , which goes into some detail about this as well as the production of the film itself . DIE ABENTEUER DES BARON MUNCHHAUSEN - EINE WINTERREISE ( Hans Held , 1944 ) { } : A pleasant animated short from Germany about the popular title character , made in color but containing no dialogue ; it came hot on the heels of the 1943 epic film version - though the latter , apparently , left no recognizable impression on it ( as the Baron here looked and acted nothing like the part as played by Hans Albers , nor was the plot ' lifted ' from some particular sketch in the episodic film ) . In fact , the short presents only a couple of incidents ( presumably taken from the book which inspired the film version in the first place , and several others made before and after it ) : one in which the Baron's horse ends up dangling in the air from the façade of a building ( seen in the front-cover illustration of the book from which Albers reads during the modern sequences in the film , though the episode itself is not re-enacted ) and then when the two of them are chased by a hungry wolf in the snow , with the latter proceeding to swallow the horse in one gulp and replaces it in leading the Baron's sled !
I had watched this as a kid during an all-night horror marathon on Italian TV ? though I missed out on the sequel , RETURN OF THE FLY ( 1959 ) , which was part of the same program ( and will only now catch up with it all these many years later ! ) . The original may deserve its status as a sci-fi / horror classic but David Cronenberg's ultra-visceral 1986 remake makes it look quaint nowadays and , even at the time , it must have seemed one of the genre's sillier examples ; in fact , one would be hard-pressed to keep a straight face throughout ( particularly during the family's extended search for the ' white-headed ' fly ) . Still , it's clearly well done ( nicely shot in color by genre veteran Karl Struss and boasting an intelligent script by , of all people , James Clavell ! ) ? with an interesting flashback structure that undeniably helps augment the suspense factor , as well as Canadian settings which may not be so unusual for a horror film of its era ( though the strain on the actors having to fake a French accent throughout is apparent ! ) and yet prove to be entirely gratuitous in the long run . The cumbersome laboratory equipment and artless design of the all-important teleporting device date the film somewhat as well . However , the make-up ( of both ' species ' of human fly ) is admirably grotesque and its " look " is withheld from the audience long enough for major effect ? while the plot's latter stages ( detailing the agonized yet completely rational interaction between David Hedison's mutated scientist and devoted wife Patricia Owens ) is genuinely affecting and , really , is what gives the film its raison d'etre ; even so , Hedison gives up rather too easily on finding a cure and his transporting himself fully clothed seems risible today ? this is in direct opposition to the admittedly absorbing but incredibly disgusting ' body horror ' experience of Cronenberg's remake ( though still the superior version of the two all things considered ) . Vincent Price and Herbert Marshall lend distinguished support ? the former as Hedison's brother who's secretly in love with his wife ( a role the horror icon would reprise in the next installment of " The Fly Trilogy " ) , the latter as the elderly and reasonably sympathetic Police Inspector on the case ( Hedison and Owens had together engineered the former's ' release ' from his precarious physical and mental condition , for which she has been charged with murder ) . For the record , I found Paul Sawtell's music score to be too bombastic at times and , tragically , director Kurt Neumann did not enjoy the fruits of his biggest box-office success as he took his own life before THE FLY went into general release ( apparently as a result of his wife's own recent demise ) !
I had been wanting to check this one out for over 20 years ( it used to be available as a VHS rental at the local outlet but I never got around to it ) but especially after reading up on the film on the internet since its 2004 DVD release ( s ) where its unusual " artiness " a'-la Alain Resnais ' LAST YEAR IN MARIENBAD ( 1961 ) was played up . Now that I've watched CASTLE KEEP for myself , all I can say is that it's arguably the strangest mainstream war movie ever and decidedly not for all tastes ! The relatively large cast ( for what turns out to be an introspective film ) is uniformly excellent and is well up to the requirements of the brilliantly surreal , funny and literate script ; Burt Lancaster , wearing an eye-patch throughout , has an unsympathetic role as the formidable leader of a group of misfit soldiers taking over a Belgian castle against unseen invading German troops . He is skillfully abetted by Peter Falk ( as a soldier who abandons his post to indulge in his vocation as a baker ) , Jean-Pierre Aumont ( as the " degenerate " owner of the titular castle ) , Patrick O'Neal ( as a celebrated art historian all at sea on the battleground but well in his element surrounded by the castle's objets d ' art ) , Scott Wilson ( as a soldier who gets into quite a unique relationship ? more on this later ) , Tony Bill ( as the most spiritual of the men ) and , the other side of the coin , Bruce Dern as a Bible-thumping conscientious objector who walks the Belgian rubbles with his ragged band of revivalist deserters-followers . The terrific cinematography of the awesome European locations ? courtesy of Henri Decae ? is complimented by a fine Michel Legrand score and , when they finally come , spectacular battle sequences . But it's the odd , surreal touches ? including Scott Wilson falling in love with a Volkswagen , the same car rising from the sea after it has been drowned by his envious companions and floating ashore all by itself , the moving sequence between Tony Bill and an unseen German soldier ( subsequently needlessly shot by Peter Falk ) where the latter teaches the former how to play the flute correctly , the unusually realistic talk of fornication , sexual organs , impotence , the ambiguous ( perhaps ghostly ) nature of the characters involved and the events being enacted , etc . ? which really make this show stand out from the crowd of WWII spectaculars and stick in one's memory ? not to mention endear it to its legion of fans ( who have famously decried online its original abominable pan-and-scan DVD incarnation , forcing Sony to re-release it in the correct Widescreen aspect ratio a mere four months later ) . The theme of the relevance of art in times of war brings forth comparisons to John Frankenheimer's THE TRAIN ( 1964 ) , also starring Burt Lancaster , whose third ( and final ) collaboration with director Sydney Pollack ? after the previous year's THE SCALPHUNTERS and THE SWIMMER ( where Pollack replaced original director Frank Perry but goes uncredited ) ? this proved to be ? perhaps as a result of the critical beating the film received upon its original release !
Although I’m planning to make next month a " Euro-Cult " marathon , I chose to watch this very stylish Italian swashbuckler now to augment my viewing of Allan Dwan’s musical version of THE THREE MUSKETEERS ( 1939 ) since the former is a prequel to ( and an alternate take on ) the classic Alexandre Dumas tale . I’ve always been partial to spin-offs of famous yarns myself and , as a matter of fact , the film takes the viewpoint of Milady De Winter ( where we’re even told of her life before acquiring that title ) . Dumas himself would utilize his famous Musketeers characters in at least three other novels – " The Man In The Iron Mask " , " Twenty Years After " and " The Executioner of Lille " which is what this film is an adaptation of and was indeed the film’s original Italian title ( although it was changed internationally to make the connection with the popular swashbuckling classic that much more clearer ) ; incidentally , back in Hollywood they were contemporaneously filming in Technicolor an adaptation of " Twenty Years After " under the title AT SWORD’S POINT with Cornel Wilde and Maureen O’Hara ! Vittorio Cottafavi is a prolific and largely unsung genre director with a distinctly pictorial style which is well in evidence here , right from the arresting pre-credit sequence that cleverly gives a foretaste of a crucial moment from the climax : the entrapment of Milady in a barn by the titular executioner and the four musketeers . Atypically for swashbucklers , therefore , the events leading up to her capture then unfold in flashback . The film proves interesting in both plot ( a compelling and largely unfamiliar narrative laden with romance , intrigue and action – but where characterization is still given its due ) and execution : Cottafavi’s use of shadowy lighting and mobile camera-work is particularly effective , while giving the whole a breathless pace . Nominal male star Rossano Brazzi is belatedly introduced as the Comte De Fer who immediately falls for Milady ( formerly Anna de Beuil and soon-to-be Duchess of Buckingham ) and later pursues her as an embittered but dashing Athos of the King’s Musketeers . Sensual brunette Yvette Lebon is perfectly cast as the cold-blooded woman who escapes her life of drudgery in a convent by enslaving every man she meets including the executioner’s younger brother ( Armando Francioli ) who hangs himself in a prison cell when she abandons him for a life of political intrigue under the direction of Rochefort ( Massimo Serato ) who’s often bemused by Milady’s audacity and resourcefulness . Jean-Roger Caussimon as the Executioner of Lille is the only man able to resist her and for this she demands Rochefort for his life . His lovely young daughter ( Maria Grazia Francia ) not only sees her uncle destroyed by Milady but also her own fiancé and , during the afore-mentioned opening , she herself is at the mercy of Milady’s dagger before the latter’s timely come-uppance . While Richelieu is often mentioned throughout , he doesn’t make a personal appearance this time around and , similarly , the other famous musketeers get very little mileage here ( where D’Artagnan is , besides , unaccountably presented as both blond and fey ! ) ; incidentally , another peculiar historical detail is the English army’s depiction as a bunch of kilt-wearing Scots ! The whole exhilarating brew is propelled by a fine score , alternating between moody and rousing , by Renzo Rossellini . Unfortunately , the VHS copy I watched ( culled from a late-night Italian TV screening ) suffered from yet another spell of distracting extraneous noise on the soundtrack !
Its many controversial elements aside , I found it undeniably harrowing in its violence but somewhat lacking in character development ( Christ , especially , is presented as one-dimensional which doesn't allow him much empathy from the viewers , despite one's knowledge of how the ' story ' went - surely not what Gibson intended ! ) though it does have unmistakable artistic merit , notably a number of striking images : the putrefied donkey whose rope Judas uses to hang himself , and the raven which comes to sit on the ledge of the cross and starts pecking at the bad thief's face ( immediately after the latter ' provokes ' Christ into doing one last miracle ) were unexpectedly surreal touches ; a bloodied Christ looking up at a white dove flying into the scene just after the scourging was almost poetic in its incongruity ; God's tear falling from Heaven , and the recurring presence of an androgynous Satan , etc . In the end , it's not quite the definitive statement on the subject one would have expected ( given the director's sometimes punishing fussiness over getting the details right above all else ) , and certainly not as challenging as Martin Scorsese's equally notorious THE LAST TEMPTATION OF Christ ( 1988 ) . . . or Robert Bresson's DIARY OF A COUNTRY PRIEST ( 1950 ) , for that matter , which I rewatched the very next day - courtesy of Criterion's SE DVD - as a means of comparison , and which I found infinitely more absorbing , and moving , in its depiction of one ( misunderstood ) man's ' calvary ' with its simple yet beautiful images and thought-provoking scenes of quiet despair , confirmation of faith , and the agony of impending death ; another film I would say is a far better representation of Christian sentiment / assertion than Gibson's film is Carl Theodor Dreyer's masterpiece THE PASSION OF JOAN OF ARC ( 1928 ; whose very title indicates that it too eschews Joan's ' history ' for a thorough account of her final hours on Earth ) .
This is a lavishly produced wartime romance and , as is typical of Ingram , quite stylishly handled ( benefiting also from the fact that it was filmed in Europe , the director himself being based in France ) . The plot places its old-fashioned impossible and , inevitably , tragic love story against the backdrop of a nostalgic view of the sea and the simple fisher-folk who live and die in it , the bourgeoisie with their stuck-up attitude and high ideals and , naturally , an impending world-war situation ; for all that , it's most interesting when dealing with the various espionage elements and especially the two submarine attacks ( which must have been a novelty at the time ) led by a bald-headed and aristocratic German officer , obviously inspired by Erich von Stroheim ! Still , Alice Terry's poignant performance as the female spy ( who has mixed emotions about her mission and who happens to be the spitting image of Amphitrite , the Sea Goddess who protects fishermen ) is the core of the film ; this was perhaps the best role she ever had ( directed , naturally , by her husband ) . Antonio Moreno is less impressive as the male lead , though his disheveled appearance when forced to work for the enemy and following his son's death ( for which he is partly to blame ) is appropriately world-weary . The beautiful and poetic finale , then , sees the drowning Moreno ( after his ship was torpedoed by the sub he helped fuel ! ) being picked up by Amphitrite herself . Reportedly , this was Ingram's favorite among his own films - as well as Terry herself and Moreno , too !
I had always been interested in this one due to a couple of stills from its climax ( thus spoiling Dracula's come-uppance for me all those many years ago ! ? in retrospect , his eventual demise is beautifully set up early on in the cave sequence with the stranded kitten ) and the carping about its unavailability on DVD by fans ? particularly from one HTF member ( you know who you are ) . This is clearly a low-budget horror effort , but rather splendid overall : well-handled , commendably fast-paced , and with effective genre trappings ( special effects depicting mist , Dracula's lack of reflection in a mirror , and his reverting to a skeleton at the end ) and a nice , typically American small-town atmosphere . Francis Lederer is commanding as the Count , at once sinister and magnetic ? even if his demeanor throughout seems merely to alternate between arrogance and contempt ( unexpectedly , he changes into a wolf dog for one attack ) ! ; I had previously been impressed by the actor when he played the ambitious and malevolent manservant in Jean Renoir's THE DIARY OF A CHAMBERMAID ( 1946 ) . Being a film from the late 1950s , it comes as no surprise to find that the heroes are a teenage couple : still , Dracula's interest in the girl is understandable and creates some compelling tension ? she is just as stuck on him in her own way , since he's posing as a visiting uncle from a far-away country with a sophisticated / artistic bent ! ? in a relationship that's comparable to the one between Joseph Cotten and Teresa Wright in Alfred Hitchcock's favorite among his own films , SHADOW OF A DOUBT ( 1943 ) . However , this also means that the young couple are the ones to dispatch Lederer ? rather than the vampire hunter who followed him all the way from his homeland ! The latter gets saddled with the next best thing , though ? the staking of the Count's blind ( ! ) vampire bride , which employs a striking color insert as the blood starts spurting from her wound ( incidentally , the woman's hysterical first death scene also constitutes one of the film's highlights ) . By the way , the religious overtones in the script are rather unusual for the time ? with Dracula offering the heroine the opportunity to " be reborn in me " ! The film has other interesting credentials to its name : independent producers Arthur Gardner and Jules V . Levy , composer Gerald Fried ( PATHS OF GLORY [ 1957 ] ? even if the soundtrack makes particularly inspired use throughout of the brooding medieval hymn " Dies Irae " ) , cinematographer Jack MacKenzie ( ISLE OF THE DEAD [ 1945 ] ) and assistant director Bernard McEveety ( THE BROTHERHOOD OF Satan [ 1971 ] ) . Incidentally , the silly British title given to the film ? THE FANTASTIC DISAPPEARING MAN ? makes the whole sound like a Harry Houdini biopic ( ! ) . . . though the change is certainly understandable , in view of its potentially being mistaken for a follow-up to the current Hammer remake of Dracula ( 1958 ) . Disappointingly , no extras at all are included on the MGM / Fox DVD ; still , THE RETURN OF Dracula has been ideally paired with the same film-makers ' previous ( and even more radical ) bloodsucking effort ? called , simply , THE VAMPIRE ( 1957 ) .
I haven't watched that many Italian films made prior to the neo-realist movement but I knew of this film from " Leonard Maltin's Film Guide " , so I taped it when shown on late-night TV some years ago . Though it had lain in my " VHS To Watch " pile since that time , I decided to give it a whirl now as a tribute to its leading lady Alida Valli - who died only last week ! The film's history is as convoluted as that of its narrative , which is close to 3 hours in length : the story takes place in Russia and the plot ( an unauthorized adaptation of the Ayn Rand novel ) naturally dealt with Communism ; being a wartime production ( if still handsomely mounted ) , it was deemed to be critical of the Fascist regime and subsequently banned ! Only in 1986 was the film restored to its current form - and distributed in the U . S . to considerable success - but , unfortunately , the source print wasn't perfect ( with the result that the video version suffers from some distracting fuzziness , particularly towards the end ) . . . Despite its epic scope , the film is decidedly talky and necessarily heavy-going in nature ; but the acting ( featuring perhaps romantic idol Rossano Brazzi's finest performance ) is terrific and , as a whole , the narrative anticipates another troubled wartime epic - Marcel Carne''s masterpiece CHILDREN OF PARADISE ( 1945 ) , particularly in the way Valli is pursued by a number of suitors throughout the film but ends up alone by the end of it . The only other film by director Goffredo Alessandrini I've watched is ABUNA MESSIAS ( 1939 ) , another historical piece but - ironically enough - a propagandist one ! In the end , with all the celebrated classics that have emerged from Italy along the years by any number of influential auteurs , WE THE LIVING remains - with good reason - an important film and , undeniably , one of the most impressive ( if largely unsung ) ever made in that country .
I recall being somewhat underwhelmed by this on first viewing ( its reputation having ensured it a place in my very first online DVD purchase ! ) but , rewatching the film now , sees it elevated to its rightful place among the best horror films of the Silent era - indeed one of the great Silents , period . It's the quintessential " old dark house " film which , in their 1920s heyday , seemed to always incorporate comedy ( since many of these had actually originated on the stage ) . Of its kind , I've also watched THE MONSTER ( 1925 ; starring Lon Chaney ) as well as the Talkie remake of THE BAT ( 1926 ) , called THE BAT WHISPERS ( 1930 ) - all of these , incidentally , were made by director Roland West ; one more I'd love to catch up with is Benjamin Christensen's SEVEN FOOTPRINTS TO Satan ( 1929 ) , though two other films he did in the same vein - THE HAUNTED HOUSE ( 1928 ) and HOUSE OF HORROR ( 1929 ) - are , regrettably , considered lost ! Leni himself directed THE LAST WARNING ( 1929 ; though that was actually set inside a theater ) . Anyway , the film certainly provided the right atmosphere : visually , it's a real treat ( even if the DVD I own is the earlier Image edition , i . e . not the Remastered one ) - highlighting Gilbert Warrenton's mobile camera and optical effects and Charles D . Hall's fantastic set design ( but even the title cards bring their own inventiveness ! ) . The cast , some of whom are familiar ( such as Tully Marshall , Arthur Edmund Carewe , George Siegmann and Lucien Littlefield ) , is well-assembled - even if none of the roles require much depth and are more or less stereotypes , such as the ' fraidy cat ' who eventually makes good , the elder female relative ( equally terrified ) , the sinister-looking old servant-woman devoted to her dead master , the innocent and put-upon heroine , etc . While the pace is somewhat slow ( the plot really gets going during the second half ) , the film is tremendously entertaining all the way through ; when I first watched it , I had felt that too much attention was given to the comic relief but this time around I saw the film's mixture of thrills and laughter as more evenly balanced ( and the gags themselves not terribly archaic ) . With respect to the horror element , it's not so much to the fore - since the film is more of a thriller really ; in fact , " The Cat " itself doesn't feature in it all that much , but there's no denying that it's a memorably ghoulish creation ! The end credits themselves are quite amusing : reproducing the cast list ( which would come to be a Universal trademark ) so that patrons could cite those participants who had particularly pleased them - followed by a request by company President Carl Laemmle , urging the public to write to him personally with their opinion of the film ! The score ( which is a re-recording of the original accompaniment to the film ) sounds awfully familiar and was probably re-used for other Silents or subsequent Universal horror films . Some years ago I had also watched the 1978 remake of THE CAT AND THE CANARY ( surprisingly directed by Radley Metzger , better known for his ventures in Erotica ! ) and would love to get to the 1939 version which cemented Bob Hope's popularity and is , actually , as highly regarded as the original ( ! ) ; unfortunately , it's only available in a reportedly atrocious print on Region 2 DVD . . .
In view of its subject matter ? the gleeful put-down of Christian dogma , a lot of which is contradictory anyway ( explaining the flood of religious sects we have all suffered from ! ) ? this has always been the one Bunuel film that is perhaps hardest to warm up to ; more than any other of the director's work , its relentlessly didactic nature requires one's full attention throughout ? and , needless to say , the experience can be somewhat daunting ( it's definitely not the ideal choice for a beginner ! ) . However , THE MILKY WAY is still a milestone in the Surrealist director's career : his previous effort , the chic and sexy BELLE DE JOUR ( 1967 ) , had performed exceptionally well at the box-office ? hence , Bunuel was given carte blanche on the next one ; typically , he responded by delivering that which , on the surface , amounts to the exact opposite of what was expected of him : a distinctly uncommercial venture ! That said , one can't very well overlook the director's approach to the material : it takes the form of a picaresque odyssey dealing with two men's pilgrimage from France to the burial site of a revered saint in Spain , and their many bizarre adventures along the way ; Paul Frankeur and Laurent Terzieff appear in the lead roles . They meet scores of people who either help , hinder or simply baffle them ? a few of these are actually historical figures ( such as the Marquis De Sade , incarnated by Michel Piccoli ) or even symbolic ones ( say , Pierre Clementi's brooding Satan ) ; most , however , are clergy ( even if one proves to be a fugitive from a lunatic asylum ! ) or common people with a vested interest in Theology ( for instance , the maitre d ' played by Julien Bertheau ? who , after imparting much spiritual wisdom to his ' congregation ' , denies food to the weary protagonists ) ! The journey is interestingly book-ended by the duo's meeting with , first , a man ( Alain Cuny ) who predicts they will each have a child and , then , a whore ( Delphine Seyrig ) who offers herself up for the task ; what ties the two scenes together is that both strangers supply the same cryptic names to the proposed offsprings i . e . " Ye Are Not Of The People " and " No More Mercy " ! Incidentally , the film's episodic structure would be adopted again by Bunuel ( indeed , it's improved upon ) in two subsequent films ? both sublime and uproarious ? namely THE DISCREET CHARM OF THE BOURGEOISIE ( 1972 ) and THE PHANTOM OF LIBERTY ( 1974 ) ; in fact , one could say that these three films comprise a trilogy whose loosely interrelated narratives ( in which , literally , anything goes ) basically encompass all of Bunuel's many and varied concerns over the years . THE MILKY WAY is certainly the most intellectual of the director's works , but it's all stylishly deployed ( he'd retain the deceptively glossy look of BELLE DE JOUR , for which some would subsequently accuse him of selling out [ ! ] , throughout all his remaining efforts ) and undeniably hilarious for those not offended by blasphemous irreverence . Some more of the film's indelible images involve : Frankeur thinking of himself as Jesus about to shave off the trademark beard and being dissuaded from doing so by Mary ( Edith Scob ) ; Bernard Verley , then , is endearing as a thoroughly commonplace ( if snobbish ) Christ ? his chilling last words ( taken from St . Matthew's Gospel ) , that he came to cause discord within the family unit and that woe befall anyone who loves somebody else more than him , must constitute one of the most wicked finales to any film ! ; Terzieff's casual swearword costing them a lift by an ultra-conservative driver ; his own jinxed nature ( wishing a man who has bypassed them to die horribly in a road accident , which happens soon after ) , ditto when daring God to strike him with lightning and being amazed by the practically instant reply from on high ; later , during a school activity in which little children are indoctrinated in religious intolerance , Terzieff also loudly imagines a group of revolutionaries ( the events of May ' 68 were still vivid in people's minds ) executing the Pope ? played by Bunuel himself ! ? via firing squad . Incidentally , the director's own voice is heard ? reciting a prayer in Latin ! ? on the radio of the aforementioned burning car ; in the same vein , co-scriptwriter Jean-Claude Carriere ? a regular Bunuel collaborator ? makes an infrequent appearance before the cameras as a decadent bishop presiding over an orgy in the forest ( another sequence that is exclusively in Latin ) . Two more stalwart presences from the Surrealist master's canon are Claudio Brook , playing another high-ranking church official exhuming the body of the saint ? to whom our heroes ( and , we are told , thousands every year ) have come from afar to pay tribute ? so as to excommunicate him in view of facts which have only just come to the fore ( ! ) , and Georges Marchal , seen dueling for his steadfast beliefs , but the point of the discussion is so muddled that it's soon forgotten by the participants ? by the way , a crucified nun is also prominently featured in this scene ! For the record , this film contains one of Bunuel's most famous dictums ( spoken by an undefined character during a transcendental sermon by a particularly insistent priest ) , namely " My hatred of Science and Technology almost brings me to the absurdity of a belief in God " ! According to the extras on the Criterion DVD ( these include an elaborate trailer , an introduction by Carriere , an interesting interview with noted film critic Ian Christie , and a 37-minute featurette which is given its due elsewhere ) , the conception for the script came at the 1967 Venice Film Festival after a screening of Jean-Luc Godard's LA CHINOISE , the Nouvelle Vague exponent's full-blown induction into the realm of Political Cinema . Incidentally , it's also said here that THE MILKY WAY garnered the best reviews of Bunuel's entire career !
By stepping behind the camera for the first time with the Philip Marlowe mystery LADY IN THE LAKE ( 1947 ) , Robert Montgomery showed that , apart from being a likable actor , he was also an inventive film-maker . That opinion is more than consolidated in his second dual effort as star-director that was made in quick succession and on similar noir lines . Driven by a cracking script by Ben Hecht and Charles Lederer , the movie tells of our world-weary ex-GI hero's attempt to avenge his buddy's death at the hands of vicious racketeer Fred Clark ? by extorting $30 , 000 in exchange for an incriminating personal cheque , or else turning him over to the federal authorities already on his heels in his Mexican hideout . Every performance is equally top-notch : from Montgomery himself ? upon his arrival at the bus depot , nonchalantly affixing the all-important locker key stuck into a piece of chewing gum to a directions board or , after receiving a serious knife-wound in the back , deliriously calling on his opponent to confront him all over again ? to Thomas Gomez's Oscar-nominated turn as the friendly carousel barker ; from Fred Clark's sleek , hearing-aid sporting villain to Art Smith's sympathetic government agent ; and from Wanda Hendrix ( soon to be , albeit very briefly , Mrs . Audie Murphy in real life ) as the enigmatic local girl who sticks by the hero's side like glue , to Andrea King as Clark's sultry accomplice seducing Montgomery within an inch of his life . Unjustly denied greater exposure among film buffs by its unavailability on DVD , it has thankfully been regularly shown on TCM USA ( which is where the copy I watched was sourced from ) ; it was subsequently remade for TV as THE HANGED MAN ( 1964 ) by another noir expert , Don Siegel , and featured quite a remarkable cast : Robert Culp , Edmond O'Brien , Vera Miles , J . Carroll Naish , Norman Fell , Seymour Cassel , Al Lettieri , Gene Raymond and Edgar Bergen .
Val Lewton and Jacques Tourneur's follow-up to CAT PEOPLE ( 1942 ) may not be as readily enjoyable - leaving some rabid genre fans underwhelmed as well - but , if anything , it's even more complex and mature ( Tourneur himself considered it the best film he ever made ) : while Kent Smith was essentially bland , here we have two rather dark male leads in Tom Conway and James Ellison ( both of whom turn in fine performances far beyond their usual standards ) ; in fact , characterization is very well thought out all the way ( considering it's a B horror piece barely over an hour in length ! ) . Frances Dee makes for a very sympathetic heroine , while Edith Barrett gives another multi-layered portrayal as Conway and Ellison's mother ( the two men are half-brothers ) who herself bears a guilty conscience ; Sir Lancelot is a native troubadour who sings a haunting tune - actually reprised in the 1945 spoof ZOMBIES ON Broadway , co-starring Bela Lugosi ! - about the zombie ' plague ' and its connection to Conway , Ellison and Christine Gordon ( as Conway's ' afflicted ' wife ) . The creepy-looking Darby Jones also makes an undeniable impression as the zombie guardian Carrefour ( and even returned for the aforementioned ZOMBIES ON Broadway ) . J . Roy Hunt's noir-ish cinematography is masterly throughout ( particularly its penchant to shoot through venetian blinds ) , allowing for several effective sequences : Frances Dee being stalked first by Christine Gordon and then by Darby Jones ( who mistakes her for Gordon , because she's wearing her nightgown - as picked up in the perceptive Audio Commentary by the ultra-enthusiastic Kim Newman and Stephen Jones , this actually symbolizes Dee's having taken Gordon's place in Tom Conway's affections ! ) ; the celebrated title sequence leading up to the zombie rituals ; and the tragically poetic finale . It's regrettable that , following George A . Romero's NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD ( 1968 ) , all zombie films presented the creatures as flesh eaters since the early examples of the genre , motivated by voodoo - as here but also ( to name just the landmark titles ) WHITE ZOMBIE ( 1932 ) , THE PLAGUE OF THE ZOMBIES ( 1966 ) , and even the superb Bob Hope spoof THE GHOST BREAKERS ( 1940 ) - gave the monsters an eerie , quasi-mystical quality that was eventually largely eradicated ! The script of this film ( co-written by Curt Siodmak ) is actually an interesting transposition in straight horror terms of Charlotte Bronte's popular and oft-filmed Gothic romance " Jane Eyre " . The Audio Commentary ( given the great fun that this track proved to be , I look forward to listening to other Newman / Jones Commentaries such as - all R2 exclusives - THE OLD DARK HOUSE [ 1932 ; I actually brought it forward in my Halloween schedule because of this ! ] , COUNTESS Dracula [ 1971 ] , HANDS OF THE RIPPER [ 1971 ] , THE MEDUSA TOUCH [ 1978 ] and THE DEAD ZONE [ 1983 ] ) also mentions a number of deleted scenes which were shot but , presumably , haven't survived ; still , in its current compact form , the film could hardly be improved upon !
I had always wanted to watch this in view of its fantasy elements ; I knew of the bare-bones R2 DVD but , considering the variable quality of prints available for old ( and rare ) British films , I was on the fence about purchasing it - the favorable DVD Beaver review , then , proved the deciding factor . Given the little information there is about the film , I didn't quite know what to expect : as it turned out , the propagandist elements are as much to the fore but it's really the various human dramas contained within that are its most compelling aspect . Michael Redgrave ( in one of his best roles ) is the lone lighthouse keeper who was once a spokesman against the onslaught of Fascism ( shown in a sequence of montages that clearly bear the influence of CITIZEN KANE [ 1941 ] ) , who has retired from the world when his warnings were dismissed . He's able to withstand his remote existence by imagining how the passengers of a ship who drowned 90 years earlier near the titular location lived ! ; these events are then enacted for us and , with the help of ship's captain Finlay Currie ' acting ' as mediator , he's able to communicate with them ! ! This concept was not only very original but also rather cerebral ( especially for the time ) and is certainly its most intriguing trait ; interestingly , all the passengers , like Redgrave himself , seem to be escaping from the intolerance of their own era ! The life-stories of the individual passengers ( though , for obvious reasons of time constraint , the writers opted to focus on only three ) are all somewhat melodramatic but the one involving progressive doctor Frederick Valk and Lili Palmer ( who even has feelings for Redgrave , i . e . he imagines she has ! ) is the most engaging . The plot and setting allowed the director and cameraman ( Max Greene , who later shot Jules Dassin's British-made noir NIGHT AND THE CITY [ 1950 ] ) to experiment with light and shadow which , along with the literary dialogue ( it was adapted from a play by Robert Ardrey that was intended to urge America into World War II , which had already happened by the time the film came out ! ) and the marvelous ensemble acting , emerges as one of the film's most impressive qualities . As a matter of fact , the cast was made up of established , upcoming and ( to me ) unfamiliar names but , apart from the ones already mentioned , James Mason's all-too brief appearance as Redgrave's sparring pal - who has no qualms about doing his thing for the war effort - is especially notable . The climax , too , is terrific : first , we have the ' ghosts ' realizing what has really happened to them ( shades of " Outward Bound " but also looking forward to THE SIXTH SENSE [ 1999 ] ) and , then , their refusal to ' leave ' unless Redgrave goes back to civilization and do his duty ( his being dominated by entities he's supposed to be controlling himself , interestingly enough , foreshadows his unforgettable turn as the Ventriloquist in the celebrated horror compendium DEAD OF NIGHT [ 1945 ] - which , incidentally , also featured Valk as a doomed doctor ! ) . The Boulting Brothers - John produced the film while his twin brother Roy directed it , but they often exchanged roles ! - always liked to tackle topical subjects and , though they later concentrated on satires , their sober earlier efforts were no less effective as clearly demonstrated by this neglected gem but also the noir about the British underworld BRIGHTON ROCK ( 1947 ) and the semi-documentary anti-Nuclear tale SEVEN DAYS TO NOON ( 1950 ) .
