This film was shown by HBO last night . Not having a clue as to what it was about , and only knowing a couple of the actors in the cast , I decided to take a look . Well , this has to be one of the worst films to come out of Brazil in quite a while . The film , directed by Carlos Lacerda is a misguided attempt to bring together two cultures that on paper should be similar , but in reality they're completely different . The film is phony from beginning to end . Just to think that the Cuban dancers are free to leave their island on a whim , is stretching the truth big time . Not only that , but at one point Dolores , the young woman at the center of the story , picks up her cellular phone and proceeds to dial her ' santera ' godmother , in Rio , and miracle of miracles : she gets through and they speak ! To make matter worse , Mr . Lacerda has given a Spaniard actor , Jorge Sanz , the main role of Jose , who tries to imitate the Cuban accent , without much success . He has also another Spaniard actress , Maria Galina , as Merceditas , whose relationship to Dolores is never explained . Merceditas deals in the black market selling liters of milk , that she gets for nothing , due to her diabetic condition , and then sells them for five dollars , which is pure fantasy . Even the dancing is third rate . In fact , if you want to have a laugh or two rent it , if you want to have a laugh at the preposterous screen play and watch soft core porn as the director wants the viewer to experience various couplings and a possible multiple from the cast . Mr . Lacerda doesn't have a clue about what he is trying to pass as a film .
The latest comedy by the Farrelly brothers seems to hold those 2 principles as the theme of this misguided comedy . Jack Black seems to be playing against type in this movie , since he , himself , is plump and not the matinee idol actor you would expect to be the leading man of this film , let alone be the interest of Gwyneth Paltrow . When he sees Rose Mary through his trance-like state , he doesn't seem to notice his own imperfections . He wants to be accepted by the same people that upon looking at him , feel repulsion . He indeed is a shallow person and a creep to top that . But he doesn't spend a second to examine his own ugliness and his own shortcomings in the persuit of the beautiful and elusive women that don't even give him the time of the day until Rose Mary comes into the picture . When Mauricio , who's played by Jason Alexander , appears at the beginning of the film , he looks like he's a monkey , or that he's wearing an enormous yamulke on top of his head . He looks hideous and he makes a perfect companion to Shallow Hal Larson . Jason Alexander seems to be still playing George Constanza in the Seinfeld series and frankly , he's so one-dimensional that his character seems to be the real shallow one . Perhaps another actor would have been able to make this part more enjoyable , the same way that the role of Hal would have been better cast with another leading man . Actually , if you see the trailer , you see all the best moments of the film . I want my money back . Shame on the Farrelly brothers to give us this piece of pure , unadulterated garbage .
Contrary to the two comments that were previously submitted to this forum , " Flame of the Islands " left a lot to be desired , as a feature film . The story of this woman that wants to get her revenge for what was been done to her years ago doesn't make much sense , as presented in the movie . The rich and powerful Mrs . Hammond , who knew about her husband's escapades , and after he suddenly dies , gives the conniving Rosalind Dee a hundred thousand dollars to get her out of the way . Who , in her right mind , would have parted with that large amount of cash without checking the facts ? It shows she was an idiot without much intelligence ! Then there is the problem of Rosalind arriving in Nassau and becoming the main attraction of the new club . She makes a great impression with the former alcoholic expatriate , the Rev . Kelly Rand , who on the first fishing trip hits upon Rosalind , and in spite his holiness he is just as smitten as the rest of the men who are attracted by the beautiful Rosalind , who now we learn , is really Linda D'Arcy . Talking about stretching credibility , Rosalind / Linda meets the man she was in love years before , young Doug Duryea , who doesn't even recognize her at all ! Well , if one likes these soap-opera-like twists , then " Flame of the Islands " will be the thing to watch . It's fun , it's campy , and it features a larger than life performance by Yvonne DeCarlo , a screen beauty with a figure to match her talents . What is surprising is that the story by Adele Comandini , who wrote the far superior " Christmas in Connecticut " , had no luck by what Bruce Manning , the adapter , did to her story , which probably made more sense in paper than in the finished product .
No mention if Ann Rivers Siddons adapted the material for " The House Next Door " from her 1970s novel of the same title , or someone else did it . This Lifetime-like movie was directed by Canadian director Jeff Woolnough . Having read the book a long time ago , we decided to take a chance when the film showed on a cable version of what was clearly a movie made for television . You know that when the critical moments precede the commercials , which of course , one can't find in this version we watched . The film's star is Lara Flynn Boyle who sports a new look that threw this viewer a curve because of the cosmetic transformation this actress has gone through . From the new eyebrows to other parts of her body , Ms . Boyle is hardly recognizable as Col Kennedy , the character at the center of the mystery . This was not one of the actress better moments in front of the camera . That goes for the rest of the mainly Canadian actors that deserved better . The film has a feeling of a cross between " Desperate Houswives " with " The Stepford Wives " and other better known features , combined with a mild dose of creepiness . The best thing about the movie was the house which serves as the setting .
Poor Ginger Gainor , she would love to take her family to a California beach where she vacationed and has the fondest memories of that time . She is an uptight real estate woman who might have the best intentions in wanting to show that part of the country to her family , but little does she realize , no one really wants to go ! Her family , though , really enjoy going to Branson , where they feel ' at home ' and are surrounded from people like them , so why bother ? . Ginger is , what appears to be , a take charge woman , who does everything by the book and even calculates how long they will spend traveling from Omaha to California ! Unfortunately , things don't work the way Ginger wants . Things have a way of happening to her that completely derail her carefully laid plans . Ginger is defeated by everyone and everything , so guess where the family will head , after all ? Yes , you guessed it ! What is Lea Thompson doing in this movie ? She certainly deserved better . The movie will not add anything to her film career . The idea might have looked better in the written script by Linda Voorhees , who also directed , but alas , it doesn't translate to a fun time at all .
Maria Lidon is given credit for directing this documentary . It's funny because in the credits someone by the name of Luna appears to be its director , and frankly , we were under the impression that Spanish director , Bigas Luna , a man that loves to shock his audience , was the actual man directing . What makes a woman turn into prostitution ? The obvious answers would be poverty , desperation , sexual abuse , and having been deceived . But the writers of the documentary take the approach to the way some of these women have ended working in the world's oldest profession because the allure of the money that can be made , or just because they honestly like the idea of selling sex for a living . There are only a couple of males that talk frankly about the way they sell their bodies . " The Life " might be deceiving for the casual viewer since in the credits we see some familiar names like Daryl Hannah , Denise Richards and Joaquim de Almeida , but their presence in the film is merely decorative . After seeing and listening to all the women interviewed speak openly about how they view their chosen ' career ' , these actors seem to be in the wrong picture . Other than being curious about what " The Life " is about , nothing new is learned from the people being interviewed .
" Godsend " directed by Nick Hamm seemed promising , so we decided to take a gamble . Not having seen anything by Mr . Hamm before , and based on the people involved in the film , had a certain allure . The film's screen play is by Mark Bomback . If you haven't seen the film , please stop reading here . This is a horror film that dabs in the occult and relies on science that has not been perfected in any shape , or form . This film points to what makes grieving parents do in order not to let go of a child that has died tragically . Otherwise , this highly intelligent couple deserved what they got for even attempting to tempt fate in bringing back the son they had lost . It's obvious the convincing Dr . Richard Wells gets his message to this couple , against the best judgment of Paul Duncan , the school teacher who should have known better . What is confusing , at best , is the fact that when the original Adam died , he was celebrating his eighth birthday , and when we see the new Adam , he is about to blow the eight candles of the chocolate cake ! In a way , the whole reasoning for going along with Dr . Wells ' experiment is not well explained because what the doctor tells the Duncans doesn't make much sense . This is when the fun begins . The Duncans get to live in a fabulous house that is too perfect for what they are going to begin experiencing . Some of the horror works , and some is too obvious , but we go along . What doesn't prepare the viewer for the unfortunate conclusion is that it appears Mr . Hamm and Mr . Bomback had alternative endings , that are shown in the DVD version , which I didn't see , and the movie doesn't feel right with what one sees . Greg Kinnear and Rebecca Romijn-Stamos play the Duncans , making them an attractive couple for the viewer to watch . Robert DeNiro , an actor that has done much better work before , is totally wasted as Dr . Wells . The young Cameron Bright goes through the motions with what appears to be a straight face . This film will be fun when watched with friends that are fans of the genre to see their reactions . Otherwise , watch at your own risk .
Jacobo returns to the city of Santiago de Compostela , in Galicia , Northern Spain , after an absence of some years . His father , a sculptor had been killed by his schizophrenic mother , Carmen , who is now in an institution . Soon Jacobo begins feeling the presence of his dead father in the form of a ghost that seems to haunt him . The young man rekindles the friendship with the beautiful Maria , who he now sees as a different person and he begins to see her under a new light . The problem is that Jacobo can't get away from the horrors he feels by the spirit of his dead father and the horrible conditions under which his mother is living at the present . The basic problem with this film is the screen play and the way its director Xavier Villaverde deals with the story . The film , at first , seems like a horror story , but is it really ? It appears to be a nightmare living in Jacobo's mind that he can't liberate himself . The city of Santiago takes center stage as it's added to the story like another character . Moments of great intensity alternate with others in which the action disappears , thus creating an uneven film . Juan Diego Botto does an excellent job as Jacobo , the torn young man who is at odds with his past and his present . Luis Tosar plays the dead father with great style . Elvira Minguez is seen as the sick mother , Carmen . Marta Etura appears as Maria , the woman who loves Jacobo .
It's impossible to think what was in Cary Grant's head when he accepted to appear in this silly movie . Even when it came out in 1966 it seemed like a bad idea . After all , this is Cary Grant's last film and instead of leaving with a bang , he disappears with a whimper . It doesn't help that the film , as directed by Stanley Donen , was a weak exercise in its attempt at comedy . True , Mr . Grant is always a luxury for any director to have , but when he is not shown at his best , nothing happens . The best moments of the film show Cary Grant whistling the theme songs from An Affair to Remember and Charade . Well , this is as close to greatness as we are going to get by watching this soulless comedy . Samantha Eggar , Jim Hutton and John Standing do their best to appear interesting , but everything fails . Let's remember Cary Grant for the rest of his work and run , don't walk whenever this film shows on cable !
Director Fernando Colomo , working with Joaquin Oristrell and Anna Klamberg , created a movie that tries to tackle a serious theme , the passion between an aunt and her nephew , into a screwball comedy that doesn't go anywhere . Never having seen it before , since we don't think it was ever released in this country , we decided to take a look that frankly , didn't pay off . The film is cliché laden and doesn't show an ounce of originality . When young Luis decides to go to London to finish his studies , his mother , Noelia , asked her sister Olivia , who is living there , to find him a place to stay . When Noelia and Luis arrive , the mother is horrified by where her son will have to stay , but since she receives an urgent phone call to return home because her husband has been involved in a financial scandal , she leaves . It doesn't take long for Luis to get attracted to his aunt . Olivia , who has been living with Duncan , an aspiring actor , finds out he is cheating on her . Her sadness makes her turn to her nephew , who has been secretly lusting after her . The result shocks Noelia when she learns about it . Don't expect anything new or original from this comedy . Maria Barranco plays Olivia . Coque Malla is Luis , the nephew . Rosa Maria Sarda has the best opportunity as Noelia . Peter Sullivan and James Fleet complete the cast . One gets a fleeting glance of Penelope Cruz at a party , but she has no speaking part .
" Unhook the stars " marked the directorial film debut of Nick Casavettes , the son of the immensely talented John Casavettes and Gena Rowlands . This is clearly the director's homage to his beautiful mother , which probably was the reason this film was made . The screen play by the director and Helen Caldwell , doesn't translate to a good film , as we watch the finished product . Mr . Casavettes ' heart is in the right place , but the movie , as written , doesn't make much sense . First of all , one wonders where Mildred went wrong . Her daughter Annie is a mess . Her son , the yuppie , lives in his own material world . We would like to think Mildred and her late husband created a nice environment for these two children . They both turned out to be losers in their own right . Mildred's neighbors don't belong in her neighborhood . One wonders how the probably low wage earner , Monica , can live across the street from Mildred's better than average home . A lady like Mildred would probably have told Monica off from the beginning . The way Monica curses in every sentence would have been a turn off factor for Mildred . Of course , we know she goes along because suddenly she has found the sweet little J . J . that Monica dumps on her . Monica and Mildred live in two different worlds and it's hard for us to accept their situation because Monica shows no redeeming qualities , except the love for her son . Mildred , on the other hand , doesn't have a clue about how to reach out for her daughter . The only positive thing Mildred does is to sell the house and go into a new life . Miami in her future ? The other thing that doesn't make sense is to watch the elegant Mildred going to the dive where Monica takes her to drink . Big Tommy's interest in her , while it might be sexual , is not fully realized either because they stick out like oil and vinegar . There is no chemistry between Mildred and this big French Canadian guy . Gena Rowlands does an excellent job as Mildred . She is always serene and composed . That's why Marisa Tomei over acting , the way she does , looks completely out of place , next to Mildred . Jake Lloyd is sweet and not bratty as J . J . , the boy who loves Mildred until his father comes back home . Moira Kelly's Annie is an enigma . David Sherrill and Bridgette Wilson play Mildred's son and daughter-in-law . Poor Gerard Depardieu , a great star in his native France , doesn't have a thing to show for himself . M . Depardieu should choose more carefully his future films in America ! With the exception of " She's so Lovely " , which reminded us more of his father's influence , and " John Q " , Nick Casavettes hasn't made a name for himself as of yet . It would be a great help for Mr . Casavettes to study his father's films , then , perhaps , he would find an inspiration for directing more movies that will showcase his talent . This one , or " The Notebook " , alas , don't help him at all .
This film brought to mind our own encounter with the elusive Ms . Garbo one afternoon as we held the door open for her at the 59th St . entrance of Bloomingdale's . Ms . Garbo could be seen around her East Side neighborhood , where people didn't even stare at her out of respect of her privacy ! Manhattan in the 50s , 60s and even 70s had a lot of antique dealers on 3rd . Ave . and Ms . Garbo was a constant figure browsing those stores . Greta Garbo , the once silver screen goddess , lived a modest life in Manhattan . Her trade mark was the shade of lipstick she always wore and the camel hair coat one saw on her , until in later years when she adopted a brown duffle coat whenever she went out . Sidney Lumet's film pays homage to that fleeting figure . The mysterious woman is at the center of a film that perhaps is not so much about the mythical figure , as much as the allure of what she stood for . The story of the terminally ill Estelle Rolfe is a sweet account in how her loving son Gilbert tries to bring the illusion of the movies to his dying mother . The movie shows to what lengths Gilbert goes to grant Estelle a moment with the person she most admired , the actress Greta Garbo . Estelle was a fan , but more than that , she was a no nonsense lady who championed righteousness above all . Anne Bancroft was born to play Estelle . Ms . Bancroft knew this woman and her portrayal benefits from the way she plays her . As the son , Ron Silver is good . He will go to whatever extreme to please his mother . Carrie Fisher is Lisa , the California girl married to Gilbert who doesn't want to stay in New York . Veteran actors like Howard Da Silva , Stephen Hill , Herminone Gingold , Dorothy Loudon , Harvey Fierstein are seen in the film in supporting parts . " Garbo Talks " is not one of Sidney Lumet's best movies , but still , one gets the feeling what it is to live in New York with this tale about the celluloid meeting reality in Manhattan .
Donald Westlake deserves much better than this adaptation that Fernando Trueba and his brother David did to the book . Mr . Westlake , together with Elmore Leonard , are two of the best writers of the genre . It appears that either the adapters lost something in translation , or maybe the studio didn't let the Truebas get what they wanted to do . The casting of Antonio Banderas in the dual role of Art / Bart presents problems because he is a quintessential Latin man , who is supposed to be a small con artist working in Florida ; his accent doesn't solve this problem either . We don't believe for a moment he is this " artful dodger " , let alone Art Dodge . Mr . Banderas has done better , but not here . The best sequence in the film involves Art / Bart shuttling between Liz and Betty's separate rooms , where the actor gets all the laughs . Daryl Hannah , who plays Liz , fares better , although it's hard to imagine this brainy woman could fall for this small time con artist . Melanie Griffith doesn't have much to do , and we can be thankful for a performance where all her mannerisms are not shown . The best thing in the film is Joan Cusack , who is seen as Gloria , the art gallery assistant who steals the show from the principals . There is also a delightfully funny appearance by the late Vincent Schiavelli , who is seen as a finicky sommelier at a tony restaurant . ( We kept thinking how could Art / Bart pick up the check on the two occasions when he takes Betty , first , and then Liz , to that expensive place , as he can't even pay his other bills . . . ) In some minor roles we see Eli Wallach , Danny Aiello , and Austin Pendleton , among others . The best thing in the film is the musical sound track by the talented Michel Camilo , who had already collaborated with Mr . Trueba in " Calle 54 " . He is seen at the end of the picture playing with some Latin jazz giants like Paquito D'Rivera and Cachao . One kept hoping they would have been seen more in the film .
" Suspect Zero " is a rare hybrid that had a lot of potential . As directed by E . Elias Merhige , the film offers a lot of possibilities , that unfortunately , because of the narrative , gets bogged down in one of the darkest films that have come out in recent years . The premise sounds interesting . The FBI agent Tom Mackelway is suspended for six months after he goes into Mexico to get a suspect . Then , he is transferred to the Albuquerque office , something of a letdown for this man . Soon , after being there , he starts receiving faxes about crimes unsolved from all over the country . Everything seems to point out to O'Ryan , another former FBI man who can see in his mind different crimes , but he can't stop them . Then , it becomes clear O'Ryan is feeding the information to Mackelway in order to have him solve the mystery behind them . The acting by Ben Kingsley and Aaron Eckhart is what keeps us interested in what's going on . Carry-Anne Moss makes a valuable contribution to the film . One keeps hoping the director will find a worthy subject for his next venture as he shows a promise to shine in whatever he will attempt to do in the future .
Kari Skogland's " Liberty Stands Still " kept reminding us of a similar film , Joel Schumacher's " Phone Booth " . The clue for understanding what the director's message seems to be , is seen in the opening credits . We are shown part of the US Constitution . Ms . Skogland is preparing us for what will follow . The only thing that doesn't make the film as suspenseful , as it could be , is the fact we know from the start who is behind the power rifle in a building overlooking the square where much of the action will take place . We don't believe , for one second , that Joe , could have prepared this caper that has placed two exploding devices in the theater , as well as in the hot dog stand . Wesley Snipes is only seen in closeups . The other thing that doesn't make sense is to watch a cool Liberty Wallace , a woman who can die at any moment if Joe decides to put a bullet right smack in the red spot over her heart . The way Ms . Fiorentino plays this woman doesn't seem to add anything to the tense situation Ms . Skogland has prepared for us to see . It's clear to see why this film went to video without showing in theaters , or if it did , it might have lasted a week , the most . As a video , or in cable , one is willing to take the chance . The film is not horrible , by any means , it shows a director who will do better in the future .
Went to see Joel Schumacher's film version of " The Phantom of the Opera " out of curiosity and because everything else playing in the Loew's cineplex was sold out . This was the only available film that we hadn't seen . The theater was about less than half full , which speaks volumes for a movie based on the Broadway hit that's been playing forever , so it seems . First of all , Joel Schumacher bears all responsibility as to why this movie is adored by consumed fans , and hated with a passion by the ones that are turned off by it . Sure , he has delivered a product that will charm and delight , but there are things that with another director , someone with more experience with musical films , this Phantom would have fared much better . There is an excess of everything . We are taken back to the Paris of the late XIX century , to the Opera Populaire , and its demise . It's a story of rags to riches , at best , as we see how a young , and inexperienced chorus singer makes a surprising appearance in an " opera " ? that the great diva of the time , Carlota , having been injured , can't sing . From there we are transported , as if by magic to the subterranean world of the Phantom , who is madly in love with the young Christine . Those scenes are about as good as this movie will get . The sexy Phantom is an opera composer , we learn . Without knowing what's wrong with this man , Christine would have been crazy not to take advantage of getting ' cozy ' with the Phantom , he is such a hunk and it's clear he adores her . The thing I found annoying with the movie was the music of Andrew LLoyd Webber . Instead of having a dialog mixed with songs that are sung at the appropriate moment to convey the mood , the creators have insisted in have only songs . That's when this film loses its appeal , as the songs all sound the same ! There are basically only a few songs that are repeated throughout the film . The lip synching is a problem that none of the actors have mastered . It must be extremely difficult to match the recorded voice with the moment it's done in front of the not too forgiving camera that captures every wrong movement . All the actors make an excellent contribution . Gerard Butler cuts a sexy figure and his Phantom comes alive . His final scenes show he has the range and he can act . Emmy Rossum is a beautiful and sweet Christine , the girl courted by Raoul but desired by the Phantom . Patrick Wilson is good as Raoul , and Miranda Richardson , as always , makes a compelling Mme . Giry . Love this film , or hate it ! You'll be the judge .
Herman Wouk's " Marjorie Morningstar " , a book published in 1955 , became an immediate bestseller . The book about a newly rich Jewish family from the Bronx , now living comfortably on Central Park West , was the kind of novel that was popular at the time . Its appeal was chiefly about the sexual awakening of a young woman who at first rebels against the choices made for her by her ambitious mother , but ultimately ends up married to a prosperous man from Westchester , leaving her dreams and ambitions behind . The movie version changes the ending , as Marjorie had finally come to her senses about her infatuation with Noel Airman and she is seen boarding the bus where a patient Wally Wronkin , the man who really loved her is also riding . The film version by Everett Freeman took some liberties , perhaps to make it more appealing to a younger movie going public . The end result seems to this humble commentator a cop out when all is said and done . What comes out on the big screen seems false from beginning to end . Perhaps reading the novel would be more satisfying because the original story is left to one's imagination . Part of the problem with the film was the casting of Gene Kelly , who was 46 at the time , against a radiant and youthful Natalie Wood . Miss Wood , who was starting to appear in films as a young woman . Ms Wood had grown up in the eyes of viewers of films of the late 40s and early fifties where she was seen playing small girls ' roles . She appears not as confident for a role that perhaps demanded a more convincing actress . It didn't help either that she and Mr . Kelly show almost no chemistry in their scenes together . Of course , " Marjorie Morningstar " had its following at the time it came out . Unfortunately , this film hasn't aged well . It feels false at times and at its most dramatic , it feels empty . The supporting cast was good , especially Claire Trevor , Everett Sloane and Ed Wynn , who are seen as the parents and uncle of the young heroine . Martin Milner , Martin Balsam and especially Carolyn Jones make a good impression . Irving Rapper , who had done better in previous movies , directed without breaking new ground . Perhaps the ultimate culprit lays in the screen treatment the film received .
Julien Rossi , a journalist from Geneva , wakes up in a hospital bed . He is suffering from a kind of benign amnesia for he has lost his short term memory . He can remember things that happened more than two months ago , but he does not know about what happened to him recently , or even how he got the trauma to his head . Lucas , his friend , comes to see him at the hospital , but he can't tell Julien anything about the state his friend is in . Even when the beautiful Marlene comes , he doesn't even know who she is . Yet , she comes and takes him home , but the person he asks for is Ana . Julien realizes he has lost his job . Lucas has taken care of informing the newspaper where he works about it . His placed has been filled . Julien realizes that Lucas , who up to recently was gay , has taken up with Ana . What's more , he begins tracing back his life , as it was before what happened to him , and he can't make sense of anything . Ana , who at first doesn't want to see him , comes around to talk to him . There are forces behind the suicide of a Professor Barth , that seems to be the key to what has befallen Julien Rossi . As he delves into the mystery things get more confused until we get to realize that Julien has been set up by an unscrupulous corporation that has been behind everything . He also discovers the role Lucas has played in the story . " Un ami parfait " is based on a novel that we haven't read . Francis Girod , the director , also contributed to the adaptation . Perhaps a different approach to telling the story would have worked better . The plot is too convoluted , and at times , it doesn't make too much sense . The viewer not paying close attention to the story will certainly get lost by the different twists and subplots . I don't know , was it me ? I thought that the actor playing Julien Rossi , as he lays in bed was Jean Reno . Of course , looking at the opening credits he was nowhere around . Antoine de Caunes who plays Julien Rossi has great presence and does an outstanding job with his character . Jean Pierre Lorit does well with his Lucas . Carole Bouquet appears as Ana , a minor role in the story . Martina Gedeck fares better as Marlene . Lovely Marie France Pisier has one pivotal scene as the widow of the man who commits suicide . Although a bit confusing , there is something about " Un ami parfait " that holds the viewer's attention .
" Ship Ahoy " was probably made in order to showcase MGM talent . The film is a fun trip on an ocean liner on its way to San Juan , Puerto Rico , at the time in which the country was involved in WWII . This was typical fare for the studios , which gave the movie going public light weight entertainment as a distraction during those difficult times the country was living . The beautiful Eleanor Powell is seen at her best in some musical numbers where she clearly shows us she was a dancer to be reckoned with . Red Skelton is also seen in a straight part with not too much clowning , as he pursues the beautiful Ms . Powell on the ship that is bringing them to Puerto Rico . The irresistible Bert Lahr has good opportunities in the film to show he was a funny man . Also Virginia Grey is seen as a fun girl who is not fooled by anyone . There are good musical numbers featuring Tommy Dorsey and his orchestra , in which one sees , among others , the amazing Buddy Rich , who has a few solos with Mr . Dorsey and Ms . Powell . A young Frank Sinatra appears also as the lead singer of the band , backed by the Pied Pipers . This is a nostalgic trip that should be savored by fans of this genre , which MGM totally controlled .
Robert J . Siegel owes a great debt of gratitude to Lauren Ambrose , who makes a luminous appearance in " Swimming " . Mr . Siegel contributed to the writing of the screen play with Liza Bazadona and Grace Woodward . The end result is amazing because the director and his team have accomplished a lot with what seemed to be a low budget . Which goes to show how some Hollywood productions would be better if they went for quality and artistic values , rather than millions of dollars invested in silly movies . We are taken to Myrtle Beach during the busy summer season . There are all kinds of people coming to make the scene and to have fun . In the middle of the action we find the Wheeler siblings who are trying to make a go of their hamburger joint facing the beach . Their parents have moved to Arizona and have turned the restaurant operation to Neil and Frankie , who we first see feverishly working the rush lunch hour at the beach side restaurant . Frankie is a girl who hasn't experienced much in life . In contrast , her best friend , Nicola , seems to know a lot for her young age . Frankie is the epitome of kindness . When the beautiful Josee comes looking for a summer waitress job , Neil decides to give her a break . Frankie feels an attraction to this newcomer because , perhaps , she embodies all what she would like to be and it's not . Frankie dresses plainly and has no sense of style . Josee takes her under her wing , and Frankie repays her kindness by letting her share her room and bed . Josee seems to be hip to try anything that will give her a thrill ; she is a callous young woman that seems to be using the new situation to her own advantage . When Heath enters the restaurant asking for eight hamburgers without buns , Frankie is intrigued . She only finds out the meat is for the two dogs he keeps in his van . Heath is a tie dye artist who earns a living selling his " artistic " tee shirts to the summer tourists . Frankie sees in Heath the promise of love with this caring young man . Lauren Ambrose is a revelation in her portrayal of Frankie . This young actress surprises us in that he projects such an intelligence and common sense for someone her age . Ms . Ambrose is what holds the film together as she makes us care for this girl . Excellent ensemble playing by the rest of the cast , but worth a mention is Jennifer Dundas , as Nicola . Also Joelle Carter is the beautiful Josee . Jamie Harrold is good as Heath and Josh Pais plays Neil with conviction . Let's hope Mr . Siegel will follow up this indie film with something he and his writing partners might do next .
Archie Mayo's " Bordertown " is a film that by today's standards would be deemed politically incorrect . The idea of the poor Mexican immigrant that wants to better himself , only to see people step all over him , is at the center of this tale . Juan Ramirez , the young lawyer , trying to defend the victim of an accident caused by the young and reckless Dale Elwell , is defeated by a much more experienced Anglo lawyer , who happened to know the system and the judge , obviously . As a result , Juan , decides to leave L . A . to go to a border town , probably Tijuana , where he becomes a partner of Charlie Roark , a decent man who sees the potential in Johnny , as he calls himself now . What Charlie doesn't know is that he is married to a scheming woman that couldn't care less for him . She has to get rid of her husband in order to get her hands on his money and looks to Johnny to help her , but of course , he wants nothing to do with her . Paul Muni was a great star at Warner Bros . at the time of this film . We were never fans of Mr . Muni , who in this film gives a clichéd account of the Hispanic Juan in a performance that goes over the top and doesn't convince anyone . On the other hand , Bette Davis , as Marie Roark , is her usual excellent self in a more nuanced performance . We see why later on , Ms . Davis will use all what she shows in this film and more to be the great star that she was . In minor roles , the formidable Eugene Palette plays Charlie Roark and Margaret Lindsay is seen as Dale Elwell , the rich girl that provoked the accident . This film is a rarity seldom seen these days .
The music of Irving Berlin , one of America's most distinguished composers of the 20th century , is at the center of this pleasant holiday film , that if one is to judge by the comments submitted to this forum , is a perennial favorite of audiences that discover this charming movie , or just go back to visit from time to time . Directed by Michael Curtiz , a versatile man ; he was at ease with drama as well as comedy , or musicals . He shows a light touch that helps make this a cherished film for movie fans of all ages . Based on material by another great team , Norman Panama , Norman Krasna and Melvin Frank , the movie is light as a feather . The film is sort of a variation on the theme , " let's put on a show " , or even , " if we stage it , they will come " , we know how it will end , but we feel good , and enjoy it even though we know the plot by heart . The main reason for watching , besides Mr . Berlin's wonderful tunes , is hearing those standard songs delivered by the likes of Bing Crosby and Rosemary Clooney , who were at the top of their careers . They had such wonderful and melodious voices , they enhance the songs they interpret . The story is just a pretext to bring together the talented principals plus Danny Kaye , Vera Ellen , Dean Jagger , and the marvelous Mary Wickes , in a film that will delight anyone , anytime , but especially at Christmas .
The acclaimed best seller " The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas " finally comes to the screen . With a fairly accurate treatment by the director of the film , Mark Herman , the story of an innocent boy in the middle of one of the worst moments in history , offers us a view of what it was like to be in the middle of a conflict in the eyes of a lad who knew nothing about the horrors . Bruno's world , as he knew it , comes to a complete stop when he is informed he and his family will have to leave Berlin on account of his father's promotion . One can imagine how devastating it is for the little one to part with childhood mates . What Bruno didn't count on was the absence of playmates in his new surroundings . Bruno's father has been promoted and is now in charge of a labor camp , an euphemism for Auschwitz , the place where Jews were exterminated . The boy spies people behind the barbed wire dressed in what appears to be striped pajamas . Little does he know the horrors performed in that place . The only thing he notices is the strong smells and the smoke billowing into the country air . Bruno has a first hand look at one of those people when Pavel , a slave-like servant comes to help in the kitchen . One day Bruno goes near the fence of the camp where he sees a boy about his age dressed in the striped garments . They like one another right away . The only problem is Shmuel , the boy behind the fence can't get out to play with Bruno . Their friendship is put to a test when Schmuel , who is brought to replace Pavel , is caught eating a pastry . Bruno , when questioned , denies he has anything to do with it , when it was at his insistence Schmuel took the cake . The boys continue to bond at the remote corner of the compound , both on opposite sides of the partition . Bruno's mother who catches on to what is really going on in the labor camp , gets sick upon knowing the truth . The father determines it's better to send his wife and kids away to a relative to get them out of the way . Little prepares the old man to realize the fate that awaits Bruno when he and Schmuel finally device a way to play together . Mark Herman , the director , got good performances , in general , out of his English cast . Asa Butterfield who portrays Bruno does wonders as the confused boy whose loyalty to a new friend is questioned , but who ultimately does the right thing . Vera Farmiga and David Thewlis are seen as the parents . Jack Scanlon appears as Schmuel . David Hayman , Rupert Friend , Richard Johnson and Sheila Hanckock , among others , do fine work as well .
Terry Swigoff has come out with the perfect take off on the commercial side of Christmas with this tale of a raunchy Santa impersonator who is such a loser , but with his heart in the right place . Billy Bob Thornton's dialogue with the kid , an angelic Brett Kelly , is the stuff to make a parent cringe in absolute horror . We have always seen the figure of Santa as the perfect man , but never in our wildest dreams have we ever imagined anyone could be this way at all . That's why some people seeing this satire will get grossed out , while a lot of Swigoff's fans will be delighted by Willie , a down and out petty criminal who drinks too much , but always speaks his mind . Tony Cox as the elf is also very good , but this is Billy Bob's film from beginning to end . Mr . Thornton's work is always outstanding , as he has proven before , and he will continue to do so by choosing carefully the vehicles for his appearances . Brett Kelly is a little cherub . He is the perfect foil to Billy Bob Thornton , as he is the epitome of what a kid that age should be like .
Ida Lupino was one of the best screen actresses of her generation . If one should doubt it , take one look at " Deep Valley " , which was filmed when she was about 32 years old . Ms . Lupino transforms herself into a much younger woman , who makes the viewer believe she is a girl in her late teens , or early twenties . Jean Negulesco had a lot to do with the good work he extracted from his players . The film , which is rarely seen these days , presents us with a dysfunctional family living in an isolated farm in California . Libby , the young daughter of the family is seen tending to her sick mother who is bedridden ; her father doesn't seem to talk to the mother , leaving Libby in a difficult position . To make matters worse , Libby suffers from stuttering and from shyness , as she feels trapped into duty and not having the same things other girls , her age , can do . " Deep Valley " is a film that presents a plausible romance between Libby and Barry , a convict working on the road construction nearby . Also , Jeff Barker , one of the men from the highway project falls for the young woman's beauty . Things become entangled as Libby finds the escaped man , Barry , and they fall in love . The lovers are doomed from the start , as one realizes Libby and Barry have no chance in being together . What Libby feels for Barry makes her speech problem go away as she regains a confidence she never had . The film is worth a look because of Ida Lupino . As Libby , she makes this girl come alive without ever striking a wrong note . Dane Clark is also quite good as Barry , the convict . Wayne Morris plays Jeff Barker , the man that loves Libby , but he realizes she doesn't care for him . Fay Bainter and Henry Hill play the older Sauls . The film is helped by the musical score of Max Steiner and the black and white cinematography created by Ted McCord .
This is a rare movie in which black performers were given the recognition that Hollywood denied them . Alan Reisner directed a film about the fictionalized life of one American original , W . C . Handy , a composer whose legacy in our popular culture was never acknowledged . It would take years before black actors would be seen in mainstream films . Will Handy was a multi talented man whose humble origins we see as the film opens . His father , Rev . Charles Handy , is a preacher in a black church in Memphis . It's clear from the start the boy is destined for greatness , but his father clashes with him when he finds a job working at the local club that is frequented by characters , that in the Reverend's estimation , are loafers and sinners . With the help of a singer , Gogo Germaine , Handy's music becomes popular . His long time girlfriend , the sweet Elizabeth , sees in Gogo a rival who will take him away . It is through the love of his mother and when Elizabeth realizes the talent of Will Handy , that everything seems to come together . Nat " King " Cole plays the title role . Mr . Cole was one of our best interpreters of the standard repertoire of his time . He had such a clear and elegant diction that no one came close to him in delivering a song . His acting is rustic , but that is expected from a singer turned actor . Eartha Kitt is one of the best things in the film . She is Gogo Germaine , full of passion and sex appeal . The sweet and young Ruby Dee appears as Elizabeth , the woman who loved Will Handy . Juano Hernandez , another talent who never got a big break in the movies , is Rev . Handy , the upright minister who wanted his son to follow him in the church . Pearl Bailey , Mahalia Jackson , Cab Calloway , Ella Fitzgerald , Billy Preston , and the rest of the cast are fine in their roles . Some of the great music of W . C . Handy is heard in the soundtrack of the film performed with great style and elegance .
No wonder Charlie , the man at the center of the film is suffering from the pressures of his job . He has too many things to worry about and all his problems affects his stomach functions producing funny noises at the worst moments . What's an undercover man to do ? He gets involved more deeply into trying to do a decent job and in the process , he falls in love with the woman who understands what has to be done to relieve his symptoms . Erik Blakeney has written and directed a film that should have been seen by a wider audience , yet , this movie came and went without fanfare . It deserved a better fate because of the funny screen play Mr . Blakeney created and the wonderful cast that was gathered for the picture . The problem seems to have been in the marketing . This is clearly not a Sandra Bullock vehicle at all ! Liam Neeson and Oliver Platt are about the best thing going for the movie . Liam Neeson's Charlie is one of the funniest roles he has done in his career . Mr . Neeson tends to gravitate toward more dramatic fare , but as Charlie , he proves he is an accomplished comedian . The same goes for Oliver Platt who plays a bad guy interested in domestic activities such as cleaning a messy kitchen , or even thinking about a life in Italy growing tomatoes . The minor roles are equally good . Jose Zuniga and Micahel DeLorenzo are hilarious as a pair of gay drug dealers . Sandra Bullock doesn't get as many opportunities in the movie , but she is seen in the pivotal role of Judy . The group therapy sessions involving Charlie and other law enforcing people are fun to watch . Erik Blakeney shows he can do good work if only he could have the right studio people behind him .
Juana Ines de la Cruz was a woman ahead of her times . She had everything going against her ; she was a woman , she had intelligence , and she intimidated the people around her . Everything conspired to make her a target for the higher ups in the Catholic Church in Mexico . The Archbishop wanted to silence her at all costs . These were the times when the so called Holy Inquisition was an instrument of the Church to get rid of anyone considered heretic , or who would question the dogma . It was a convenient way to get rid of the enemies , as the Catholic Church had such power that no one dared to challenge it . Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz wrote some of the best poetry known in the Spanish literature . Her work has survived because of the strength and beauty of her work . Sor Juana was befriended by the Spanish Viceroy and his wife . The virreina , in particular , saw in Juana a kindred spirit . Their relationship had shades of lesbianism , although only a chaste kiss is exchanged between them . When the Medinacellis are recalled home , Sor Juana is left at the mercy of the evil Archbishop who is bent in destroying her . Sor Juana Ines succumbs to the pest that took thousands in her country without being recognized in life for all she gave the world . Maria Luisa Bemberg , a feminist film maker , puts her stamp in this story by bringing together the influential virreina and Sor Juana , a combination of two strong women who lived during a period of uncertainty in Spain and her colonies in the new world . Asumpta Serna has some good moments as Juana Ines de la Cruz . Dominique Sanda is also effective playing opposite Ms . Serna as the virreina . Hector Alterio , Lautaro Murua , and the rest of the cast do a good job supporting the principal players . Cecilia Roth's dubbed the voice for Ms . Sanda . Felix Monti's dark cinematography serves the film well . The film was photographed in a studio , and at times , it looks as though it is a theater set . Ms . Bemberg directed with a sure hand and got a lot out of her cast and crew .
This film never had a chance as a commercial feature , but it should have been seen in spite of some weak parts . Robby Henson , directing his own material , proves he can tell a good story . If one adds to this the atmosphere of crooked politicians in Louisiana , the possibilities are endless . The film holds one's interest until one realizes who is the person who killed Mona . The director gives a clue while the sheriff is going in a different direction , either voluntarily , or just to tease us . The other thing that is not resolved is the relationship between Darl and Carla , his stranged wife , and with his daughter , who is hanging out with the wrong crowd . " The Badge " is a much better film than some of the trash that is being shown these days . The film owes a great deal to Billy Bob Thornton , who is the epitome of this rural sheriff . Mr . Thornton acts instinctively ; he is a natural and he makes this character his own . Also notable in the film is Patricia Arquette , who plays Scarlett , the stripper with a heart in its right place . William Devane's character should have been a lot more slimier because that's what we are expecting of him . Will look forward to the next film by this promising director .
" Stealing Home " is a film that will resonate with a section of the movie viewing public because it presents a story which will be easily loved . Directors Steven Kampmann and William Porter , who also wrote the screen play , show they can evoke the era in which the picture takes place . Both of these gentlemen know a thing or two about how to project the right atmosphere through the use of the popular music of the time . Although no date is given , it's clearly the early sixties when Billy and his best friend , Alan , come of age . It's the summer and they are spending it , like always , at the beach where their wealthy families seem to keep a home . There are three periods in which the film is set , once when Billy is about ten , then as a teen ager , and then as a young man in his twenties . Throughout the film , we watch the love between Katie , the friend of the Brown family , as she babysits the young Billy . Then , as a teen ager , Billy's love for Katie is made clear and it's returned by her . Katie is six years older , it's a love that consumes them during one summer after Billy's father is killed in a car accident . The last part of the film shows us Billy returning home as he has been called because Katie has named him to be the disposer of her ashes after she commits suicide . It's a beautiful love story , and it's easy to see why viewers love it . The best thing in the film are William McNamara , as the teen age Billy and Jodie Foster , who is Katie , the eternally beautiful Katie , who for some reason of movie magic , never seems to age . The supporting cast is excellent , John Shea , Blair Brown , Harold Ramis , among them . This is a good summer movie to watch . It's sunniness will warm any viewer looking for a good romantic way to spend some time .
George Reeves was an idol to the American children of the 1950s . After all , he graced the television screens as their hero Superman . As an actor , well , that was another story . Mr . Reeves ' claim to fame was a short part in " Gone With the Wind " that probably no one remembers since he was in a scene with ravishingly beautiful Vivien Leigh . It was a shock when his suicide was first page news for newspapers . There was always the suspicion that in reality , Mr . Reeves had been murdered . It was a story circulating at the time because of the mysterious circumstances of the case . " Hollywoodland " tries to settle the score in this fictionalized version of the incident . There are two narratives in the film . One involves a second rate private investigator , Louis Simo , who is told about the possibility of foul play , and instead of a suicide , it was truly a case of murder . He sets out to convince Reeves ' mother to pursue the case in order to get justice done to his son . Simo , who had problems of his own , tries doggedly to make sense about what really happened . Simo comes up with three different scenarios about what really happened to the actor , none of which were proved to be right . The second narrative is an examination of George Reeves ' life . As an actor , he never made it big in the movie industry . In a way , he gets lucky when he meets Toni Mannix , the wife of an executive from MGM . She was a woman way ahead of her times living an open marriage . It was no big deal that she fell for the handsome man . She was instrumental in pushing him to a well connected coterie of friends . Unfortunately , she didn't succeed . Allen Coulter , a man who has worked extensively on television , is the director of " Hollywoodland " . Working on the screen play by Paul Bernbaum , he made a film that shows some of the nastiness and underside of the people in the industry . Diane Lane impressed this viewer because one has seen her in light comedies before but never getting these types of roles . Her Toni Mannix is right on target . The actress shows a vulnerability not seen before . Adrien Brody appears as Louis Simo , not one of his best creations . Ben Affleck is another surprise in the way he portrays the late action hero . Bo Hopkins , always perfect is Eddie Mannix , a man with no scruples . Jeffrey DeMumm , Lois Smith , Robin Tunney , and the rest of the cast make an effort to do justice to Mr . Coulter . Although not a real story , the film adds mystery to the myth that has circulated in the real Hollywoodland .
Jean-Jacques Annaud's films always showcases animals doing extremely amazing things , which is why they are so enjoyable . While this is a film better seen by children of certain age group , it's not a Disney product , and parents should be aware of that fact . Some comments in this IMDb forum criticize the film makers for what they perceive was a marketing ploy that targeted the movie to small children . Perhaps the people that promoted the film are to be blamed for that , or maybe Mr . Annaud was targeting the film for a more mature audience . " Two Brothers " is a story about two tigers that are separated at a young stage of their lives , while their parents are killed by people that loved to engage in this type of hunting . The two little cubs are about the best in the film as one see them getting in all kinds of adventures in the first part of the film . The story behind the animals serves the film as it provides an accessible background as it illustrates the inter action between humans and animals . Guy Pearce and Freddie Highmore are seen in the film as Aidan and Raoul . Freddie Highmore is a child actor with an expressive face that shows a child of great intelligence without any trace of ego . As Mr . Annaud proved with " The Bear " , he has a good eye for involving the animals in his stories about them with surprising results .
Bud Abbot and Lou Costello were an amazing comic team who endeared themselves to their fans with the kind of humor they projected ; theirs was the kind of good fun with a lot of sight gags that made them one of the favorite duo in the movies for quite a while . Universal , their studio , decided to showcased them in a series of movies that involved the " monsters " in its roster . This film is not one of those , but because of the usage of the amazing visual effects employed in using the visual effects in the " Invisible Man " , it became a winner from the start . This was one of the best Abbot and Costello's best movies . Both do excellent work under the direction of Charles Lamont . Arthur Franz , who is not " seen " enough is good as Tommy , the man accused of a crime he didn't commit . Sheldon Leonard is one of the gangsters that are manipulating the boxing matches . Nancy Guild and Adele Jergens are welcome additions to the movie . Best of all are the boxing scenes involving Lou Costello as the amazing new boxer , Lou , " The Looper " , who goes to beat Rocky , his better equipped opponent with a little help of his invisible friend .
20th Century Fox was no match for MGM when it came to musicals . Daryl F . Zanuk decided to gamble with this film where the talents of a Broadway star , Ethel Merman , would be showcased . Ms . Merman in spite of being the toast of Broadway , never made it big in Hollywood . After all , she was not a radiant beauty , but oh , could she belt a song that could be heard at the top of the balcony ! Phoebe and Henry Ephron were brought on board to write the screen treatment and Walter Lang directed . The musical was also blessed in that Irving Berlin's music is heard throughout in all its glory . Ms . Merman was the perfect actress to interpret the songs written by Mr . Berlin . They made a perfect duo , even though , for some viewers not used to Ethel Merman's singing style , it might prove an uneasy combination . The story is simple enough . It follows the Donahues from the early days of vaudeville through some glittering years after . Molly and Terence Donahue had two sons , Tim and Steve , and a daughter , Katy . As the children grow up , the parents ' popularity began to recede . The film deals with Tim , as a young man , as he falls for Vicky Parker , a beautiful singer who makes it big on her own . Vickie , who is more interested in her own career neglects Tim . As a result , Tim goes on his own to find himself , away from his family and Vickie . The best thing in the film is Ethel Merman . She was a legendary figure and as Molly Donahue , she is at her best . Dan Dailey was the perfect partner for Ms . Merman . Donald O'Connor is also seen doing some fine dancing . Marilyn Monroe was a lovely woman to look at . As a singer , she had a small voice , but she used it well making the songs her own . Mitzi Gaynor plays Katy . Johnnie Ray , a popular singer of that period is terribly miscast . His Steve is the worst thing in the movie . Although predictable , this film has some great things going for it . Some of the musical numbers are well staged and will not disappoint . On the whole as the camaraderie expressed by the title of the film is evident in the musical .
Gina and Seth have been corresponding for thirteen years . Their friendship started in school when they entered a program of pen pals . They have never seen each other , both are shy people that hide behind their letters , at first , then behind computers , writing endless emails and instant messages about their daily lives . The only thing is neither of them has been true to the other . Gina has sent pictures of her friend Ellen to Seth , making him believe she is the other person . Seth , also has been deceitful in that he has passed his best friend Matt's picture as being himself . When the opportunity arises that at last the corresponding friends would have a chance to meet face to face , they panic . The real reason for trying to hide behind their friends ' persona is because they are desperately in love with one another . " Christmas in Boston " , also known as " Instant Message " in some countries , is a pleasant film to sit through because of the work Neill Fearnley has been able to create with the help of his young cast of appealing young actors . This is a small television made film that is better than one expected it to be . The case of mistaken identities work to bring the correspondents and their best friends together unwillingly . Marla Sokoloff and Patrick J . Adams , who appear as Gina and Seth , are fresh faces that project a wholesome glow on the film . The multi talented Lindy Booth runs away with the film though . Her Ellen provides Ms . Booth with an opportunity to shine . As she proved with her work in previous work , and in " Dark Honeymoon " , Ms . Booth is a natural and a welcome addition to any project . Jonathan Cherry rounds up the cast and has also excellent moments to shine . As Christmas movies go , this one is to be enjoyed because of the good job Mr . Fearnley did with the material .
The subject of this wonderful documentary , Spencer Tunick , was a surprise when it was shown on cable recently . The controversial artist is seen in an uncanny account of the way he works by the director of the film , Arleene Donnelly Nelson . We watch as the photographer travels to different countries in order to capture in film humans that pose against impressive backgrounds naked . Mr . Tunick speaks candidly about his ideas and how he goes about it . In interviews we see some of his subjects discussing before hand their ideas and reservations . It's surprising that Mr . Tunick is able to get the hundreds of people to pose for him " en masse " without so much of a problem . His shoot in front of the Cutty Sark , a London landmark , is one of the best pictures we see in the film . At the same time , it surprises how the Parisian guards of the Louvre come after him when he tried to photograph a naked man in the museum's courtyard with the I . M . Pei pyramid in the background . We are shocked , in a way , because if anyone , in our minds , should be more understanding , would be the French ! The pictures are not pornographic at all ! We see ordinary people posing nude , but there is no desire whatsoever to project anything sexual to the would be viewer , in any way . The people posing for Mr . Tunick do so out of their own free will , as no one is pressured to do otherwise . After watching the film , we get an understanding of the artist and his vision .
" Kickoff " , part of Hal Roach Boy Friend series , is an entertaining one-reeler directed with great style by George Stevens . The director shows that even at this early stage of his career , he had a knack for presenting his stories and getting his audience involved in what they were watching , as it's the case in this funny tale about football when it was in its infancy . The story about centers about how even then , bad guys were betting in the results of the game . What they don't count on is the way that Mickey , who is asked to step into the game , is instrumental in the victory . Mickey , whose hair has been half eaten by the team's mascot , proves that in spite of being ticklish he can deliver . The last part of this short film is pure slapstick as the team comes to the rescue of their kidnapped coach . Mickey Daniels and Grady Sutton are the main reason for watching the film .
Paul Michael Glasser's " The Air up There " is a fun film to watch , knowing full well what to expect . It doesn't break new barriers , or brings anything new to this type of film , but it is a totally harmless time in front of the television . Not having seen it in its commercial run , we had a chance to enjoy it the other night when it turned up on cable . The best thing , as usual , going for this film is Kevin Bacon . Mr . Bacon makes anything he plays in an enjoyable experience . No matter what he does , he is totally believable , as is the case with his role as this coach , Jimmy Dolan , who will go to any extreme in order to get a good basket ball player for his team at Saint Joseph's . His African journey gives Jimmy Dolan a first eye view of the poverty and hardship the young men in the remote village have to endure . He realizes the potential , especially in Saleh , the young man he wants to bring back to America . Both Mr . Bacon and Charles Gitonga Maina , who plays Saleh , have an easy time together bonding in a hostile environment . Their inter action makes the film enjoyable . Also , the mostly unknown supporting cast compliment the movie . Granted , this is a film to watch only for entertainment and to enjoy Kevin Bacon at his most charming self .
Anthony Wayne , an executive in a financial institution , receives an offer he can't refuse : he is hired by a prestigious French company and must relocate to Paris , not too shabby a deal , for anyone ! His apartment in New York is a mess , something his cleaning lady reminds him of , when she comes to clean it . In Paris , Anthony is in awe of all the beautiful and elegant women he meets anywhere . He is at a loss , when he discovers the gorgeous Nicole . As he follows her , Anthony discovers she has a big problem : she can't control her bratty daughter Marie , who terrorizes all the maids Nicole employs . He has the brilliant idea to have himself hired as the new maid , in order to be next to Nicole , but what he doesn't realize , is that he has gotten more than what he bargained for . This romantic comedy , which we never knew existed , is a pleasant way to spend ninety minutes . One realizes what will happen from beginning to end , but we are lured by the fine work of the two principals of the film . Director Ian Toynton delivers a sort of French omelet that is light and delicious . Martin Sheen plays Anthony , the transplanted American who didn't realize Nicole would be employed in real life in Nicole's firm . He makes a wonderful waiter who must serve dinner to his real boss and a company of sophisticated corporate types without being discovered . Jacqueline Bisset , is also marvelous in the role of Nicole . Ms . Bisset is one of the most beautiful actresses , with a timeless beauty that is quite unmatched by her contemporaries . Jean-Pierre Cassel is C . P . the boss of Nicole and Anthony . Victoria Shalet , is the bratty Marie , who changes her attitude and become human as Anthony doesn't take any nonsense from her . This is a sunny comedy that will charm the viewer that is looking for an easy and relaxing time with a film .
Debra Felstead , the director of this short film transfers a short story by August Stringberg to the present day with amazing results . Ms Felstead's adaptation takes a hip-hop approach to the confrontation we see between two women who knew each other well , but are now at odds with one another . The rude Rhona gets ahead of other customers so that Keesha , the manicurist , can take care of her , immediately . Rhona begins a monologue that is a long complaint about Keesha , who obviously , was her friend , but a man got them apart . Rhona speaks in a tone for everyone to hear in the beauty salon , on purpose , to embarrass Keesha , who keeps her cool at all times . While Rhona keeps getting hot under the collar , Keesha is the model of propriety . Rhona is the clear loser of the exchange . Raven Dauda and Robinne Fanfair are seen as Rhona and Keesha . Both young actresses are fine under Ms . Felstead's tight direction . This film shows a director that shows talent and goes to the point with gusto . The viewer will not be disappointed .
Director Manuel Gutierrez Aragon presents a rural drama that takes place in the mountains of Cantabria , in Northern Spain . This film , part of the annual presentation of Spanish cinema , is a picture with a lot of ambition . Were it not for this festival , Spanish films , such as this one , would not have been seen in this city because this type of cinema is not commercial and there is no market for it . On the one hand , the movie shows the hard life these peasants lead in a remote and desolate region . Also , the director wants to make a statement about how progress in the country , being now part of the European Community , penalizes the small farmers that have eked a life from their cows and agriculture for ages . If you haven't seen the film , please stop reading now . The new developments in the country wreak havoc for Gildo , and his neighbor Severo . Both men are the victims of a system that condemns them both for producing more milk than it's allowed by the ECU . They don't see eye to eye ; there is resentment and bad blood between them . When Gildo sends a young calf to his neighbor , Severo takes offense , taking his daughter Val prisoner , against her will , for nothing this young woman has done . There is confrontation between Severo , Val and Gildo , in which the first one dies . This brings Rai , the estranged son of Severo back to the funeral and to put his father's things in order before returning to the small town , where he works as a hair dresser . Rai falls for Val , but the fact remains that this son , as well as the rest of the town , feels that Celso killed Severo . Rai falls hard for Val . Their romance goes against Gildo's wishes who feels the young man will see who the real culprit is . The movie is more approachable than some of the other movies of this director , who can please an audience , as well as repulse the viewer . Juan Diego is Gildo , who is totally convincing as Gildo . The young actress Marta Etura , is Val , the daughter who must work with the father to make a go of their meager existence . Ms . Etura bears an uncanny resemblance to Holly Hunter . Luis Tosar is Rai , who gives a controlled performance . The views of the hills of Cantabria is breathtaking . The green mountains come alive in this movie . Mr . Gutierrez Aragon gives us a slice of life among these peasants whose lives have not changed for centuries .
This film arrives two years after it was released in Europe . Frankly one doesn't know who to blame for a movie that leaves the viewer confused about who the real Maria Callas was . Franco Zeffirelli should have known better . He was around when Callas was at the peak of her career . To team up with Martin Sherman in this shameful travesty it's a betrayal to her memory . The thing that comes clearly in the film is Maria Callas ' sense of professionalism and perfectionism she asked of herself and the ones involved in any project she undertook . Alas , what we watch is the sad final days of a woman who threw everything away for the love of Ari Onassis , who didn't deserve . Fanny Ardant , at times looks like Maria , but there is a problem with her distinct French accent because we all know Maria Callas was born in New York and her command of English , was impeccable . Jeremy Irons also appears as the manager . To catch the art of Maria Callas at her best , one must check " Medea " directed by Pier Paolo Pasolini . Callas comes across as the great actress that she was .
Antonio , a Basque terrorist , commits the ultimate error of any man in his position : he falls in love ! It proves to be a fatal misjudgment in his part because he attracts the police's attention that are not looking for him . As with other men that thought they knew it all , Antonio doesn't count that Charo and her friends will be his own downfall . Charo , a young prostitute and substance abuser , also falls for the handsome Antonio . She has no idea about what he does . She is under the impression he is a photo journalist who happens to live next door to her and Vanessa's apartment . Antonio , working with two accomplices have been planning a car bomb explosion at the police headquarters . Everything goes according to plan , except that Antonio's emotions get in the way at the end . Imanol Uribe directed this emotional film that takes the viewer to see , first hand , how the terrorists operate . Mr . Uribe also understands the low lives that deal in drugs and and the users . He mixes all of them in a film that shows some raw emotion in telling the story . Carmelo Gomez does an outstanding job as Antonio . Javier Bardem , who was not as well known then is perfect as Lisardo , the junkie . Ruth Gabriel is a beautiful young actress who is not afraid to bare it all for the camera . Candela Pena is also good as Vanessa . Karra Ejalde and Elvira Minguez are seen in minor roles . Give this film a try because the talented Mr . Uribe delivers .
Claude Chabrol , a man that has distinguished himself for showing the nasty things people do one another , is at it again . Although " Merci pour le chocolat " is not one of his best contributions to the genre , it has a subtlety that shows he is was still up to his tricks when he made this movie . Mika Muller , was married briefly to the man she now calls her husband , the weary-eyed Andre Polonsky , a talented pianist . Mika loves to prepare chocolate , a specialty she has known well , being as she is , connected to the industry . She also loves to lace her brews with a substance that will induce sleeping to whoever she wants to get rid of . Andre's second wife suffered a fatal accident after drinking the chocolate Mika prepared for her , and got her and Andre back together again . Mika gets a dislike for Jeanne Pollet , a piano student , who suspects that Andre is her father . This theory is the result of the revelation that Jeanne's mother tells her about having been switched momentarily at birth with Axel , the son of Andre and his late wife . In fact , Jeanne sees a possibility in her theory because , like Andre , she has a passion for the piano , while Axel shows no interest . The best thing in the film is Isabelle Huppert , who makes another one of her memorable screen characters come alive . One can see in her face the emotions Mika is experiencing . This actress gives a seamless performance about the evil woman who has gone above and beyond to destroy lives . Anna Mouglalis also made an impression as Jeanne , the young woman who solves the puzzle and is , at the same time , an almost victim of the possessed Mika . Jacques Dutronc plays Andre . Another interesting Claude Chabrol film that will please his fans .
Catherine Brreillat is a French director who loves to provoke her audience . She takes us along to witness how a film is done on location . The movie in production seems to be based on herself , since the person at the center of the story is Jeanne , a woman director , much like Ms . Breillat . Jeanne acts as the alter ego of the real director . Jeanne reaches an impasse at the start of filming . Not only has she picked the wrong time to photograph this movie during a cold spell , as it involves beach locations that are obviously too cold for the actors and extras . Jeanne has problems with the two principal actors , especially , the male lead who has problems accepting the way the director has decided to show him in the movie ; the lead actress is no angel either . Movie making , Ms . Breillat tells us is a process like no other in a creative work of art . First , there is the writing period , in which , in this case , Jeanne , has written a screen play , that when it goes into production reveals problems the writer / director didn't think about . There is the problem of how she wants to photograph a love scene in which the young woman of the story has her first sex contact . What appeared clever in the written page , doesn't necessarily translate into an easy time in front of the camera . The actor is made to wear a false penis and has a lot of problems accepting the fact that a make up has to touch him in ways he never thought he would ever be touched by another man . The luminous Anne Parillaud is marvelous as Jeanne , the director . She makes observations about the production , the actors , and the crew that fit well into the story being told . Gregoire Colin and Roxane Mesquide play the lead actors , with all the insecurity that some actors bring to a movie set . Jeanne has to massage their egos in order to get what she wants in the end . Ashley Waninnger plays Leo , Jeanne's assistant . " Sex Is Comedy " allows Ms . Breillet to give us her own take on films in general . This is a great look at the way movies are done in a typical Breillat style .
Eric Schaeffer's film was a detour from all the thrillers that opened in the summertime . This " small " picture proves that with the right ingredients , an enjoyable movie could be made . It was a pleasant surprise to see the great Jill Clayburgh return to film , after being away for a while , in a starring role . She makes this woman believable and it's a pleasure to watch her fall in love with a man who is real and not a stereotype . Jeffrey Tambor , is right up to the challenge to make this man the object of Ms Clayburgh's affections . This is a very " NewYorkish " type of film . We have known people like the girlfriends that push Ms . Clayburgh to take a chance in dating . Also , Jeffrey Tambor's world is easy to believe . He's the ugly duckling who has a lot to offer underneath his plain facade . Life in this film seems to begin late in the life of the main characters . It was a joy to have seen this movie .
It's clear what must attracted director Stanley Donnen to this project . The last time he tried his hand at a non musical film , " Charade " , it turned out to be an immense hit . Mr . Donnen probably thought this movie would be as appreciated as the latter one , but alas , even though it's by no means , a dud , on second viewing , there are signs that perhaps he should have sticked to the other genre where he excelled . It must have seemed to be a great idea to throw Gregory Peck , an aging star , who always gave a good performance , against Sophia Loren , at the height of her beauty . Yet , the results are not as pleasing . Ms . Loren , dressed by Christian Dior , seems to be having great fun running around in those beautiful costumes in the construction site where she keeps her schmatte in great shape after almost being killed by the villain working a construction crane . On the other hand , Gregory Peck doesn't seem too convincing to be the hero in the filmThere are parts shot on exteriors where it's supposed to be raining and no one gets wet . One of the funniest moment in the film is when Professor Pollock , who might have been tripping on acid , rides a bicycle against the highway traffic . The scenes at the London Zoo , and the last montage on the bridge are about the most exciting things in the picture . Despite the great titles by Maurice Binder , the copy of the film we watched on cable recently , had a washed out look , which perhaps took away some of the enjoyment of watching this thriller .
Captain Will Stone , the skipper of a merchant ship , is not the man he appears to be . Tom Merriam , the new third mate hired for the voyage at the center of the story , is an eager man who feels lucky to be serving in a ship where all the men seem to be loyal to the captain . As the trip starts , Tom starts noticing how Captain Stone is undermining his role on board and has the crew turn against him . Sparks , the radio operator , has welcomed Tom and is eager for his friendship . When things start going badly for the new man , Sparks turns away from his friend , until he understands who the real bad guy is on the ship . It's a surprise that Finn , " the mute " , is the only one that comes to help him when everything had indicated he was with the rest of the crew . Mark Robson directed a film that in 69 minutes tells a compelling story and holds our attention . The script by Donald Henderson Clarke has some interesting elements in it . This was part of Val Lewton's legacy at RKO in the early 1940s where he was hired to create films that were part of a horror trend at the studio . The evocative cinematography by Nicholas Musuraca works wonders in the movie . Richard Dix , a talented actor , plays the evil Captain Stone with his usual ease . He was a man that evidently could be seen as good or bad , always making the most out of his roles . Russell Wade plays the eager younger third mate , who finds himself in the middle of a situation he didn't create in which everyone on board turns against him because of the loyalty to the evil Stone . Skelton Knaggs , makes the most of his Finn , the mute . Mark Robson's take on the film makes a satisfying picture that should be seen more often . The film had its share of problems when it was first released , but it's worth a look . It speaks well of what Val Lewton was trying to do at RKO at the time .
Sarah Morris , who is the intended bride of Hamish Winslow , decides to accompany him to the Malaysian outpost in the jungle before they tie the knot . Sarah , finds out , in the worst way , the horrors of being in that isolated spot , where she awakens a passion on a lonely man whose sexual appetite she awakens . The post is run with an iron hand by an English woman , Mrs . Jones , who has a creepy son , William . He begins spying on Sarah through cracks in the hut where she and Hamish are staying . This lonely man sees the attractive Sarah as a sex object that he craves . William goes berserk when he finds out his own mother has someone else in mind to succeed her in running the business . As another contributor has remarked , this film , although different , seems to recall another one , " At Play in the Fields of the Lord " because its exotic setting and oppressive atmosphere . Sarah and Hamish feel they are not welcomed in this tight knit group from the start . The film ends with a surprising turn of events . Having seen Janet McTeer act in the theater , both here and in London , and having admired her work , we decided to take a look at " The Intended " , which was co-written by Ms . McTeer and director Kristian Levring . Ms . McTeer's Sarah goes through a great transformation in the remote outpost and the dynamics that bonded her and Hamish Winslow are put to a test . The rest of the cast does a good job to convey the isolation and frustration they experience in that remote area where they encounter themselves . Brenda Fricker , Tony Maudsley , J J Field , Philip Jackson and an almost unrecognizable Olympia Dukakis , do justice to the story . The film is slow as molasses . Perhaps some cutting would have helped to make the film achieve better results because it certainly had the potential and a great actress , Janet McTeer to hold the viewer's undivided attention .
Not having a clue as to what this film was about , we took a chance when it showed on cable recently . It appears " High Heels and Low Lives " , directed by comic actor Mel Smith , must have gone directly into video , or at least , we don't recall it having played commercially in the States . The film offers an unusual pair of Thelma and Louise wannabes , who learn about a gang having a great fortune gotten from a robbery and decide to take things in their own hands to outsmart the criminals in order to steal their cash without much effort . Shannon , a nurse , befriends a struggling American actress , Frances , even teaching her how to speak with the proper accent . Both women succeed in unexpected ways to get away with the loot . The film works because of the chemistry between Minnie Driver , who plays Shannon , and Mary McCormack , seen as Frances . This was a felicitous pairing because of the fun they must have had making the movie . Kevin McNally appears as Mason , a criminal without any redeeming qualities and who deserves to be outwitted by the women . Michael Gambon has a great time impersonating Kerrigan , an aging gay mobster . Mr . Gambon usually seen in heavier parts , contributes to the success of this movie that doesn't pretend to be anything but a fun time for the fans not looking into a complicated time with a DVD .
The title in English for this film is " Work Hard , Play Hard " , which is the slogan for the McGregor group , the company at the center of the story . Of course , it bears no resemblance with the original French title that perhaps makes more sense . This film deals with the realities of what is happening in the work place today . It's sort of a universal phenomenon in which the fate of people that have given their lives working for a company , suddenly , face an uncertain future . A few of them will end unemployed because these workers are expendable . Director Jean Marc Moutout presents us with the intrigues within a successful company . Philippe Seigner , a young and talented would-be executive type , is hand picked by his immediate superior , not because of his credentials , but because the boss thinks he can carry out the hatchet job without any qualms . Since Laurent has no scruples , he expects nothing else from his subordinate . Philippe meets and falls in love with the single mother , Eva , who sees in the young man someone she can love . Alas , Philippe will surprise her with an unusual turn of events that will separate the two lovers forever . The acting is first rate . Jeremie Renier seems to be a natural actor . Cylia Malki and Laurent Lucas , are quite good , as is the rest of an ensemble cast under the sure direction of M . Moutout .
Vincent , the teen aged student at a French high school in a suburb of Paris , struggles with himself because he knows that , deep down inside , he is gay and has no idea about how to come out to his friends and to his own family . Vincent didn't need to worry about it , his school mates will take care of that for him when they see Benjamin , the strange new boy at their school who is obviously attracted by Vincent . Naomie , Vincent's girlfriend has no clue of what's going on with him , even when he begins acting strange . Vincent's cover suddenly comes to an end when someone decided to write on the school's wall that Vincent is gay , something he was not prepared to do . Suddenly , his whole world comes tumbling down and it's his own brother who tells his parents about Vincent's sexual preference . Fabrice Cazeneuve , the director , presents the story of Vincent and how he tries to cope with his homosexuality . It's curious the screen play was written by Vincent Molina , whose story this might be , but since nothing is mentioned about it , we can only assume he was writing about his own experience . In fact , Vincent in the film is called Vincent Molina . For this being a French movie , the emphasis is on heterosexual sex concerning Noemie , the girlfriend , as she goes to bed with Vincent , who is trying to cover up his problem , and then , after finding out , she is seen bedding Stephane , a mutual friend . The film , which was made for French television , doesn't break any new ground . We have seen better movies based on similar situations conceived by American filmmakers . There are no shocking gay scenes in the movie , which seems to be of two minds about the subject . On the one hand , the relationship with Noemie plays a big part and Vincent's sexual exploration with Bruno , the boy he thought he liked , takes second place . Vincent is totally repulsed by what he experiences when he meets Bruno at the gay bars of the Marais . When he tries to be bold with Benjamin , his effort is met with skepticism from the other young man . Julien Baumgartner , appears as Vincent , the teen ager who realizes he is gay . Julia Marval , a beautiful young actress plays Noemie , the girl that loves Vincent . Jeremie Elkaim , is seen as Benjamin , the boy that awakens a passion in Vincent , and who at the end seems to be the one that truly loved him for himself .
It seems odd the choice of Guy Maddin for the direction of this homage by Isabella Rossellini to her late father , Roberto , one of the great masters of the Italian cinema . Mr . Rossellini was a man who presented the material he wanted to show without gimmickry . Guy Maddin , on the other hand , loves to tell a story using imagery that Rossellini would have probably not approve because the lack of realism in his films . That said , this short documentary , written by his daughter Isabella , an intelligent actress , presents her father as a figure that was in bed most of the time . Ms . Rossellini's tribute comes in the form of an exchange among the great director and David O . Selznick , Federico Fellini , and Alfred Hitchcock , as these innovators tell Rossellini how their ideas differ in what they consider what cinema should be like . Charlie Chaplin pays a furtive visit , as well as Ms . Rossellini's mother , Ingrid Bergman . When she asks her mother if her father ruined her Hollywood career , she answers , that no , it was she who ruined his . Isabella Rossellini acts all the parts in this short , but emotive tribute to an innovator who was way ahead of the others and who , unfortunately , was forgotten toward the end of his life . The combination of Ms . Rossellini's writing and Guy Maddin direction serve the documentary well .
James Hilton's contribution to the movies was enormous . His novels have ended up as films that made great impact , as is the case with this film . Mervyn LeRoy must be given credit for bringing it to the screen in a movie that has all the ingredients to keep the viewer glued to his seat . The film is a tribute to a form of entertainment that alas , has just but disappeared from the present Hollywood . Nothing like this film will be done in the near future because of today's tastes dictates the big , if mindless , spectacles full of special effects , favored by today's movie makers . There are things in the film that wouldn't make any sense in our high tech world , but the charm of the many twists and turns make for a charming voyage , as we get lost into this tale of love given so honestly by Paula to the amnesiac Smithy . The biggest challenge to logic is the reemergence of Paula as Ms Hansen , Charles Rainier's secretary . But that's the magic of the film , we put up with every twist and turn because we figure these two will find one another in the end . To have Greer Garson play the role of Paula / Margaret , was a stroke of genius . This actress , with her unusual beauty , made us believe she is that woman whose love for her man is everything . If that object of love was Ronald Colman , one of the most talented leading men of the era , it was well worth the price of admission . Ms Garson was one of the most accomplished actress of the time . Ronald Colman on the other hand , plays his dual characters with a panache and conviction that only actors of that period had . Mr . Colman makes us believe he is Smithy , the amnesiac soldier , as well as the business magnate that he was prior to losing his mind in the war . He made these two men credible as he transformed himself from one to the other with an ease that was uncanny . Susan Peters had a small part playing Kitty , who falls in love with Charles , even though she knows it's an impossible undertaking . This is a film to be cherished by lovers of old American films .
Young Lucas , an adventurous young boy , is seen as a fearless creature who seems to be in the wrong place , at the wrong time . When we first meet him , he accompanies his mother to a sort of care center for the blind . There are reports of a slasher that is cutting the faces of some of the blind people that attend the center . When he follows one of the women , who leaves nearby , he watches in horror as her face is slashed by the intruder . Lucas flees to the cemetery nearby , where he likes to play . It's at this point that we realize something is wrong with Lucas , who ends up spying on his half sister posing for a photographer . Then , everything changes . The mere reality is that everything one has witnessed is just not so . The fact is that Lucas is going blind if he doesn't have the operation to save his sight . His loving parents , Frank and Miriam , are ecstatic because they are expecting another baby , something that doesn't play well in the young boy's mind . Lucas , who probably feels jealousy toward the unborn baby , thinks of ways of dealing with the intrusion in his life . His obsession with knitting needles prove to be a dangerous proposition . Mark Peploe , who co-wrote the screen play , creates a film that will be disorienting for a lot of viewers , but which ultimately , satisfy the ones that stay close to the story . There are many indications the first section of the movie is just how Lucas ' mind work , just the opposite of what one sees on the screen . Ben Keyworth , who plays young Lucas , is perfect for the role . He makes the most of his Lucas , by just being where he is . This boy is an enigma who is not immediately understood and has to assert himself . James Fox and Fanny Ardant play the parents . The supporting cast does fine under Mr . Peploe's direction . " Afraid of the Dark " is a film that makes the viewer think because it's not what one sees what's really is going in Lucas ' mind .
Contrary to what another commentator to this forum says , Bette Davis was not nominated the year before for an Oscar for her excellent work in " Of Human Bondage " , a much better film than this one . In 1935 , the year after being bypassed for the Academy Award , Hollywood , acting in a forgiving manner , gave her the award as Best Actress . By Ms . Davis ' own admission , Katherine Hepburn should have won for " Alice Adams " . We are not saying she wasn't worth it , on the contrary , Ms . Davis always gave her best in all her films . Sometimes , contributors to IMDb , upon sending their comments , have a way of predicting that the film they are reviewing , or one of its actors will receive the nomination , or the award come Oscar time . In fact , as it seems to be in most cases , bypassed actors on a particular year get awards for work , later on , for inferior work they did that year and were overlooked by the fickle voting members of that body before . " Dangerous " was directed by Alfred Green and based on a story by Laird Doyle . The story of an actress who has fallen victim to alcoholism makes good melodrama . As such , Joyce Heath , Ms . Davis ' character , is seen at the beginning of the film as a woman who wants to forget it all , in order to do some serious drinking . Donald Bellows is a man that was deeply impressed by the actress , who he saw as Juliet in the New York stage , and became obsessed by her artistry . When he meets her at the dive where she is drinking cheap liquor , he believes he can save this woman who is wasting her talent . Joyce , eventually , falls in love with Don , but she is reluctant to marry him , which is a puzzle to us . Little do we know about the secret Joyce Heath is hiding from Don , which comes to haunt her at the end of the film . Bette Davis transforms herself from the opening scenes where she looks disheveled into the glamorous actress of the theater she really is . Her performance is good , but we have seen much better performances by this glorious actress , before this film , and after . Franchot Tone makes an appealing Donald Bellows , the man who tries to save his idol from her addiction to the bottle . Margaret Lindsay plays Gail , who is engaged to be married to Donald . This is a film that merits a look by all of Bette Davis ' fans , as it will not disappoint .
This film based on a novel by Ethel Lisa White , gave the director , Robert Siomak the opportunity to bring together a brilliant cast . The suspense created in the movie speaks highly of the skills of this director . He had an eye for creating mystery in ways some other directors couldn't . At the center of the story is Helen , a maid in the Warren household . We watch her at the picture show in town when the film starts . There is a serial killer loose in the area . He only pries on single girls who have physical defects . We know that Helen is not immune to the threat this person represents since she can't talk , thus making her an easy prey for this animal . The cast is excellent . Dorothy McGuire is Helen , the innocent young woman at the center of the story . George Brent always plays convincingly . Ethel Barrymore only has a few good moments , but she makes the best of them . Kent Smith is the young doctor in town in love with Helen . Gordon Oliver is the playboy brother . Elsa Lanchester plays the tipsy cook with gusto . The thriller is spooky enough to keep us guessing who is the killer and why is he doing these horrible murders .
Ron Howard's latest film " Cinderella Man " probably miscalculated its release date . Being a serious film about a real incident in a not too glamorous era , the movie arrives in the middle of the summer releases that seem to be made for action packed adventures or thrillers that don't require much of the viewer . That said , " Cinderella Man " presents a vivid portrait of one of the worst times in American history : The Great Depression . At the center of the story is James Bradock , a fighter that is seen at the beginning of the film with what appears an assured future . Then , the bad times that affected the country have a profound effect in the Braddock family . From living with a certain degree of comfort , they are relegated to eke out a living in order to survive . James Braddock's work in the New Jersey's piers becomes scarce , as only a few men are employed at a time . Early on , in a fight , Jimmy breaks a hand that puts him to a disadvantage among the men working at hauling cargo in and out of ships . Fortunately , Mike Wilson , a decent man , also impoverished by the situation , gives him a hand whenever they are teamed together . This will be a friendship that will last forever . At home , things go from bad to worse . Mae Braddock , the wife and mother of three children , tries to make do with whatever little she can lay her hands in . It's heart wrenching to watch her try to put food on the table , let alone something that might have any nourishment . Jimmy Braddock has to resort to get public assistance and even to beg from the people that congregate at a Madison Square Garden club . James Braddock's true friend turns out to be Joe Gould , who would guide him back to a phenomenal comeback that establishes him as one of the great fighters of the times . Jim Braddock goes to fight the powerful Max Baer , a man that has been notorious for killing a couple of opponents in the ring . The film is satisfying in spite of all the desolation and poverty one sees . Of course , it's evident we either never went through those bad times of the 30s , or have never been in Mr . Braddock's family position . In spite of all that is against them , the family made out well and even went to prosper , which says a lot for them . Above all , Mr . Braddock teaches us a lesson in how to keep his family united in spite of the rough times they were facing . As James Braddock , Russell Crowe makes a fabulous contribution . He transforms himself into the fighter that has to face poverty in order to appreciate what came afterward as a reward . Renee Zellwegger is fine as the suffering Mae . Paul Giamatti makes a tremendous appearance as Joe Gould . Paddy Considine plays Mike Wilson , the man who helped Braddock resume his work in the docks by carrying an extra weight when his friend was obviously in pain . The screen play by Cliff Hollinger and Akiva Goldsman takes an intelligent account of the era . Finally , Ron Howard scores a real winner with this film , that should be seen by more people because it presents a real portrait of a man that was genuine and loved his family .
This is a concert film more than a documentary . Anthony Fuqua directed a show that has been recorded for posterity and for those of us , unfortunate enough , not present in the audience . The whole purpose of the concert seems to be to pay a tribute to all the great musicians that have made the blues a musical genre that is unique . This is music derived from the pain of whoever is experiencing it , who obviously is going through a rough patch in life . Some of the best interpreters of this type of music are seen on stage . Most of the old timers that performed have had distinguished careers and are still around to delight us , their fans with their renditions on these , mostly , sad songs in a way that gives us the viewers pleasure by watching them . The best way to appreciate this film is to let it surround you and enjoy a couple of hours in excellent company .
" Airport " , which was recently shown on cable , was a popular film when it was released . Arthur Hailey , whose novel is the basis for this movie , adapted his own material with the director . " Airport " is a fine example of the ' disaster ' film genre that was much in vogue during those years . The nature of the setting serves to present a lot of characters in small stories related to that particular winter night at a large airport where things go wrong because of the weather and the inner conflicts of most of the people that are involved in the story . In a way , as Neil Doyle has pointed out in this forum , " Airport " can be seen as the equivalent of " Grand Hotel " , in that so many larger than life figures are seen center stage , as they bring their conflicts to the surface . There is Mel Bakersfeld , the airport director , whose life is so involved in his job , his married life is suffering . At the same time , Tanya Livingston , the executive airline lady , who loves Mel , but knows she can't have him , is seen as a dignified woman who won't make a move to make him feel guilty . We also meet Capt . Vernon Demarest , a married airline pilot who is having an affair with a gorgeous flight attendant , Gwen . When she tells him she is pregnant , Vernon doesn't know what to do . He is in a way , a coward , because he has played with her and probably has no intentions of ever leaving his wife and cushy life . The other couple , the Guerreros , are going through some hard times . The husband is an unemployed explosives expert , who decides to take matters into his own hands . By bringing a small device to the flight he has booked to Rome , will leave Inez , his wife , a wealthy woman because he has taken care of insuring himself . The comic relief comes in the way of Ada Quansett , a crafty older woman , who has a wonderful plan to get free rides on different airlines . Mrs . Quansett is able to get away with her scheme by using her intelligence . Unfortunately , she is in the fateful Rome flight that scares everyone on board and one figures the scare to try ever again , but she has a surprise for everyone at the end , where she gets to fly first class . The film can't concentrate in anyone in particular , so all the principals are never seen for too long . Burt Lancaster , Jean Seberg , Dean Martin , Jacqueline Bisset , Helen Hayes , Van Heflin , Maureen Stapleton , George Kennedy , Dana Wynter , Lloyd Nolan , Gary Collins , Jessie Royce Landis , and the rest , contribute to make the film a nice trip to nowhere . Alfred Newman's music is an asset in the film and Ernest Lazlo cinematography is also effective in showing how people traveled at the time . George Seaton directs this multi talented cast well , creating an entertaining movie along the way .
" Owning Mahowny " shown recently on cable came as a total surprise . This is a film to watch because of the amazing performance of Phillip Seymour Hoffman . Under the direction of Richard Kwietniowski , and based on a real incident that occurred in Toronto in the 80s , this film speaks clearly about an addiction and what it does to a man who is in complete denial about his problem . Dan Mahowny is not exactly what one would expect from a bank executive . He appears unkempt and to a certain degree dirty , so that alone , would have made any bank manager pass him over , in favor of a pretty boy who would have looked the part . Obviously , the real Dan was a man that knew his banking business and it was on that basis that he was appointed to the executive post . It appears clearly that Dan is in trouble . The reptilian Frank Perlin comes to him at the beginning of the film to demand what Dan owes him . The only problem is that Dan doesn't have the money . Dan's solution is to " borrow " funds from the bank to cover his debts . This is the beginning of Dan's descent into hell . His gambling addiction will make him steal more and more . As a gambler , Dan plays without any plan . It appears , like with other gamblers , Mahowny is superstitious , as we see when his friend goes to his table to put a curse , in this sick man's mind , and he will lose everything . The next occasion is when he breaks the bank in Atlantic City . Instead of listening to his friend , who tells him to walk away , he gambles it all and ends up with nothing . Dan , like other gamblers , is only concerned with gambling in any shape , or form . Mahowny couldn't care less for the mousy Belinda , the woman who loves him and who confronts him about his gambling addiction . Belinda even offers to give him all her savings to repay his debts , which at the time , have reached astronomic proportions . Belinda's love makes her stand by her man , no matter how bad things are . There's a ray of hope at the end as one sees Dan and Belinda standing next to the fall in Niagara . This is a film that offers a magnificent nuanced performance from Mr . Hoffman . This actor has the ability to get into the skin of all his characters . Aside from being an accomplished actor , he always projects the angst and the turmoil that is going inside Dan . There is not a false moment in Mr . Hoffman's portrayal of Dan . Having seen him on stage , one can only wonder what can't this man do . Minnie Driver , as Belinda is perfect as the girl who thinks Dan is the only man for her . Instead of abandoning him once she realizes his problem , she stays until the end . One hopes things did work out for them , because this is a woman who clearly deserve some happiness . The other great performance is by John Hurt . He plays the Atlantic City casino manager that knows what makes Dan tick . Victor Fox realizes what goes on in the gambler's psyche . Ultimately , he knows Dan will lose everything because he plays without any plan at all . Maury Chaykin has some good moments playing Frank Perlin . The scenes of the casino , which probably were filmed in either a studio , or one of the smaller places , have a seedy look . We don't get wowed by all the opulence one encounters in the big places of Las Vegas , or Atlantic City . Director Kwietniowski , concentrates in keeping his camera on Dan's face as we watch the gambler in action . Ultimately the film belongs to Phillip Seymour Hoffman for his honest and accomplished take on a man who gambled his future away .
Claude Lelouch was at the top of his career when he conceived this immensely satisfying thriller . Not having seen it , we caught with it recently thanks to finding it in DVD format . The only bad aspect of the disc we watched was the poor sound track it had , we had to keep pumping up the volume during the dialogs and lowering it whenever the musical number of the film-within-the-film was shown . As with most of his movies , Mr . Lelouch relied on Francis Lai to create the score . The most amusing scene happens when Simon is being interrogated by the police and the inspector tells Simon about a " man and a woman " and Simon , without missing a beat begins to sing the music from the real " A Man and a Woman " , a film by Mr . Lelouch , where the same actor , Jean-Louis Trintignant appeared . The film will probably confuse some viewers because there is no clear indication that after Simon meets Jeanine and goes to see Martine at the park and his subsequent escape to either Spain , Switzerland , or Genoa , the narrative will go back to tell the real story in flashbacks . Other than that minor incident , " Le Voyou " is a perfect movie about a caper and the people that planned it . Jean-Louis Trintignant was also at one of his best moments in the French cinema . He is a joy to watch as the slick Simon , who is always a step ahead of everyone else . Danielle Delorme , Christine Lelouch , Charles Gerard , Yves Robert and Charles Denner , do excellent work for the director . Another interesting fact is that Claude Lelouch did the interesting cinematography in the film . His camera angles , especially when the inspector is interrogating the Galloises after their son has been kidnapped , he shows the couple on both sides of the police , of whom we only see the back of his head . The chase scenes are cleverly done , showing cars speeding through the Parisian streets . This is a highly recommended film for fans of the genre and Mr . Lelouch .
Mexican and other Latin American immigrants bring with them their traditions . It's a custom in many Spanish speaking countries to have a big party in honor of a girl who celebrates her fifteen years , an age where they are considered to have reached a milestone in their womanhood . We are taken to a celebration of an elaborate " sweet fifteen " party at the start of the story , in which the girl , being honored dresses in a gown and is accompanied by her closest friends . These parties become quite elaborate , depending on the income of the parents . Magdalena , a pretty young woman , not yet fifteen , attends her cousin Eileen's party and is paired with the young man she is in love with , Herman . Eileen is the center of attraction , as she dances the opening waltz surrounded by her attending friends and their escorts . It's clear that Eileen's parents have done well in their new adopted country , and they dote on their daughter . Magdalena's parents , on the other hand , are struggling to make a living . During the celebration , Carlos , Eileen's disgraced brother , crashes the party to present some flowers he has stolen to his sister , but he is chased away . Carlos , who is gay and has no place to go , ends up taking refuge with his great-uncle Tomas , an elderly man living in the Echo Park section of Los Angeles . Tomas lives in the lower level of a house that has been bought by two gay lovers . Gays , in general have been buying property in Echo Park , displacing the Mexicans , as they gentrify the area . Magdalena , who would be fifteen soon , is offered her cousin's dress for her own party . Unfortunately , she has filled up and the gown is too small for her . Herman , who has been making sexual demands of Magdalena , was impregnated by the young woman , something that in their inexperience didn't count on . When Magdalena's father discovers the truth , he banishes her from his house ; he feels as though she has betrayed her parents and her church . Magdalena also takes refuge with Uncle Tomas , the kind man who welcomes all these problem children without passing judgment , or speaking down to them . Richard Glatzer and Wash Westmoreland , the directors of " Quinceanera " have produced a surprising work that examines a lot of problems within the Mexican community in L . A . They also seem to have in mind the way that gentrification ruin the same area they are trying to improve . On the one hand , yes , they get fantastic prices for property that is beyond the means of most poor families , and then , they don't contribute anything to the fabric of the people they are displacing . The invaders , mainly gay , are another minority that has been discriminated , but they actually just concentrate in real estate values , rather than sharing the area with long standing Mexicans living in the area . The film is made better by the two stars , Emily Rios and Jesse Garcia . Both Ms . Rios and Mr . Garcia make their characters more appealing with little effort . Chalo Gonzalez , a veteran actor plays the kind Tomas with his usual style . J . R . Cruz is seen as Herman , the boy who disgraces Magdalena and runs away from her at the time he needed his support . " Quinceanera " is a bittersweet story made with great love by its creators , Richard Glatzer and Wash Westmoreland . This is a film that will stay with the viewer because of its simplicity which has an universal appeal .
A picaresque approach by a master of the Italian cinema resulted in this personal and different film by Pier Paolo Pasolini . The director , who wrote and produced this picture , was in great form in this story that is more like a fable , deliciously acted by Toto and Ninetto Davoli , one of the best pairings in Pasolini's movies . The film is , in many aspects , a road movie . From the beginning , we watch as Toto and Ninetto take to the road in their trip to nowhere , it seems , but a trip which permits Pasolini examine some of the things that obsessed him , mainly his dislike for organized religion , as he perceived it in his country , as it clashed with reality . He takes the life of Saint Francis and the story about his relationship with the birds as the main topic for the movie . It's hard to add anything else to what already has been said by the valuable contributions to IMDb . This film is one of the most inspired by the director . In it , he doesn't pound on the viewer's head those things that were dear to him . In fact , the film has a whimsical touch as we follow the two travelers , Toto and Ninetto , through rural Italy as a raven keeps telling them stories . Toto is perfect as the older man who is living in his own world and doesn't see the changes around him . Ninetto Davoli gives a great performance as the happy go lucky son . Their surname , is Innocenti , or Innocent , which in a way , fits their characters rather well . The black and white cinematography by Mario Bernardo and Tonino Delli Colli works wonders for the film . Ennio Morricone's musical score also enhances all that one sees on the screen . This is a light Passolini , but one that delves deep into the subjects that were so dear to the director's heart .
This is the first film by Emanuele Crialese that has played locally , I think , or if any other has come in , it hasn't played commercially . The film is beautifully done with the fantastic backdrop of the Italian island of Lampedusa . This is a very arid place with almost no vegetation at all . The heat , obviously , must be oppressive , as the sun punishes this land and its people constantly to the point that children act as savages , as proven by the opening scenes . Among these rascals are Pasquale and Filippo , the sons of Grazia , the housewife at the center of the story . She lives in her own world . She is a rebel and a free soul . Grazia's actions are seen as madness by her husband Pietro and his mother , who lives next door . It is the classic family from forgotten towns such as this , where everyone knows everyone's business . The only solution for Grazia's problems is to send her away to a Milan institution that perhaps will turn her into a vegetable . Her only sin is to be different , therefore , she is the town's eccentric . All her neighbors think she's a lunatic . By Grazia withdrawing from the world , she appears to be a maladjusted person , which she isn't . She just loves to be free ; swimming is her passion and her life , running around the island in her scooter is another form of freedom from the realities of home . In trying to escape her lot in life , Grazia discovers how much her son Pasquale loves her . The final scenes after the disappearance with the search party on the beach are typical of the same society that condemned Grazia but never took steps to show her any kindness . The miracle that occurs at the end is that perhaps Pietro realizes that in spite of his wife's apparent madness he has found how much he really needs her . This is a simple story told with a sure hand by the director , who also wrote the screen play . Valeria Golino , who has spent a few years in minor roles in Hollywood , is very effective as Grazia . She shows a great range of emotions under the sure direction of Crialese . It is amazing no one has made anything worth of Ms . Golino's talent , or that she has been forgotten by the Italian cinema ; or that no one has come to her with projects such as this film . As her husband , Vincenzo Amato is very effective . Also , Francesco Casisa as Pasquale makes a splendid appearance . This young man with the proper guidance has the potential of making a big splash in the Italian cinema .
Spike Lee achieves a great triumph in this studio sponsored film and shows why he is one of the best directors working today on his own , or in Hollywood . The film was written by Russell Gurwirth . The movie is hugely entertaining as Mr . Lee and Mr . Gurwirth take the viewer for a ride , that for all appearances involve what appears to be a bloody bank heist , but when all is said and done , it was something else , altogether . The first clue about what the " Steves " , as the bank robbers call one another , are trying to do , is how easy they gain access to the place . When everything is set in motion , one expects the bandits to start eliminating the hostages , as one is accustomed to expect from other films of the genre . Right after the robbers stage the plan , the police is set in motion to keep the bad guys surrounded so they can't escape without being apprehended . The man who is on call when the news is learned is Det . Keith Frazier , a man who has had problems within the force . He is assisted by his fellow Det . Bill Mitchell . Although they are the ones in charge , another man , a Capt . Darius is the man who is monitoring the action from a van . Det . Frazier clashes with Capt . Darius , who has no clue about what the others are doing . It's at this time that the bank president , Arthur Case , an older man who is well connected comes to the powerful Madeline White to ask for her help in securing important documents that are in a safe deposit box in the vault of the bank . Madeline White uses her influence with the Mayor , to get permission to negotiate with the robbers . It's at this moment where our suspicions are confirmed about the nature of why the heist . Denzel Washington makes a great Det . Frazier . He is at the same time a man who uses his intuition to try to solve the case , without much success . Jodie Foster makes a valuable contribution as Madeline , a ruthless woman who knows a few secrets about her clients . Clive Owen doesn't have much to do . Christopher Plummer is Arthur Case , the man who thought he knew it all and whose past comes back to haunt him . William Dafoe and Chiwetel Ejiofer , are seen in minor roles . Ultimately , Spike Lee pulls all the strings in moving this story in ways only he could do . The viewer is in for a treat .
This film bears the same name as Francisco Lombardi's excellent Peruvian movie . That's all the similarity , because this Argentine film depicts a crime and its investigation . The movie credits two persons with the direction : Beda Ocampo Feijoo and Maria Cecilia Barreras . The opening scenes take us on trip along the river to a fashionable district where the owner of a magazine is surprised in the bathroom and shot to death . Just as the police detective in charge of the investigation arrive , so does the lawyer of the publication , and the brother of the victim . The inspector questions the men , but releases them . Right after that , the magazine is in turmoil . Clara , who stands to lose the job , along with the other journalists , seeks the lawyer to offer her help in whatever she might be useful , something that will play in the plot , later on . The investigation into the murder of the wealthy man opens a can of worms as many people stand to gain by the disappearance of Abelardo . In a way , fans of this genre will probably figure out the outcome by the clues one is given at the beginning . The best thing in the film is Luis Luque , who makes an impressive , and cool detective . Malena Soldan , Mauricio Dayub , Luis Brandoni , Alejandra Flechner and Gaston Pauls do good work among the supporting players .
" An Angel for May " came unexpectedly the other day on cable . We hadn't heard about this film , at all , as we don't remember it having played locally . This English film , directed with style by Harley Cokeliss , proved to be a surprise and we recommend it for young audiences and their parents as it will provide quality entertainment with a good story to boot ! The film opens in England after an air raid during WWII , in which a young girl is calling for help , although we don't see her . Right after that , we are in the present time following Tom , a young boy who lives with his mother in a rural community after the parents separated . Tom is a boy in turmoil by what's going on . As a result , Tom goes on his bicycle all to the nearby countryside where he had spotted a dog that seems to be lost . His search brings him to an old ruined structure where he finds the dog . Little does he know that he is going to embark in an adventure he didn't bargain for . In fact , this ruined placed used to be a farm that holds a mystery and involves Tom and a childhood friend . Not wanting to give out anything else , let's say that Tom is completely surprised by what he discovers among the ruins . The closing sequence of the film was handled with great care by Mr . Cokeliss , as it involves Tom going to the old church trying to find out about the whereabout of someone dear to him . Tom's mind is put at ease when the kind Rosie comes to him as he is contemplating the names in a tomb in the church's cemetery . The scene is lovely and it finally puts Tom's mind at ease because he has deciphered the mystery of what he experienced . The two young actors , Matthew Beard and Charlotte Wakefield are wonderful in their roles . They are intelligent children and a delight to see . Any film that has Tom Wilkinson and Anna Massey in it can't be bad . Mr . Wilkinson does a great job in his short appearance . Anna Massey is lovely in that tender scene at the end of the film . Geraldine James , Julie Cox and Angeline Ball are seen in supporting roles . Congratulations to Harley Cokeliss for bringing this beautiful tale to the screen and we recommend it to anyone who is young at heart .
After a diamond dealer's home is attacked by a man who wants the precious stones , the robber takes the dealer's wife hostage in a violent confrontation with the police and FBI in San Francisco . The agent in charge , Warren Stantin , gives the diamonds to the , almost invisible , man , who flees by boat taking the loot with him . The only way to beat the FBI and the people that are following him is to head north to Canada . Thus begins this action thriller that uses the Canadian Rockies as the backdrop for setting this story about a determined FBI enforcer following a deadly assassin who has left a trail of killings as he goes into the mountains . Stantin is told the only way to find his man is by engaging Jonathan Knox , a man who knows the area , to guide him . Knox , who is reluctant , at first , realizes the man might be part of a group his girlfriend , Sarah , is taking on an extended trek of the mountains . Stantin and Knox begin to fight as they have different ideas about what to do , but they end up bonding , as they understand what is at stake . This pair endures some of the worst weather conditions in their quest for the assassin , and in finding the diamonds that the outlaw wants to sell to an unscrupulous man in Vancouver . Roger Spottiswoode directed this action filled movie with sure hand . The screen play is by Harv Zimmel and Daniel Petrie , two men who know how to involve the viewer . Michael Chapman photographed the great outdoors with an eye on the dangerous aspects of the chase . Sidney Poitier is seen as Warren Stantin , an FBI agent that is restless in his pursue of the killer . This was Mr . Poitier's return to the movies after quite a number of years not being in front of a camera . Tom Berenger plays Knox , an outdoors man who is more at home in the mountains than among people . The surprise of the story is that we don't have a clue up to the middle of the film about who the real killer is . By positioning him among the group that Sarah is taking on a mountain expedition , adds a great deal of suspense to the story . The ending leaves a lot to be desired , but that's only a minor complaint about this action packed film .
Elliot , the CPA who is seen at the beginning of the picture , is a nerd . Don't get me wrong , he is a good nerd , and that's his own downfall . We watch him as Carloline Swann , his fiancée , enters the church to stand next to him . Right there we realize these two are not made for one another . But have no fear , help is on the way . When the female minister asks the congregation if there is anyone who knows why this marriage can't proceed , a disheveled Bradley , who loves Caroline , comes forward to claim her for his own , leaving Elliot at the altar alone . The action then goes back in flashbacks as to how Elliot and Caroline met . Elliot has employed a temp , Cecil Mills , who is new to Manhattan and is late for work because she got lost . Cecil and Elliot seem to strike a much balanced match , but the beauty of Caroline , when she enters the office erases all traces of the mousy Cecil from Elliot's mind , as he doesn't finish asking her for a concert that night . As the preparations for the wedding get on the way , we realize Elliot and Caroline are not suited for one another . There is a hilarious gay wedding planner called Benson Hedges who will be in charge of the nuptials . Elliot in the end will be " the Baxter " of the title , because he is the man who will end up without getting the luscious Caroline . This wonderful comedy written and directed by Michael Showalter , came and went without much fanfare . It deserved much better , but it might have been the timing for its release that killed all the possibilities , as it came out right after " The 40 Year Old Virgin " had captured the movie going public's affections . This film , in comparison , is like a string quartet . Its heart is in the right place and Mr . Showalter got excellent acting from his ensemble cast . The director , like Woody Allen , just to mention another writer-creator , could have done better by staying behind the camera and casting his Elliot with another actor . Not that he doesn't do a good job , but perhaps he would have made Elliot a more lovable character than what comes in the screen . Michelle Williams steals the film . This actress is amazing . She may not have the meatiest role , but she is someone who the viewer will remember in spite of the beautiful , and talented Elizabeth Banks , who plays the two-timing Caroline . Justin Theroux is Bradley , the boyfriend who couldn't stay away . Zak Orth , Paul Rudd , Havilland Morris , and especially Peter Dinklage , are all wonderful in supporting roles . " The Baxter " is a delightful film thanks to the talented Michael Showalter who will no doubt will go far in whatever he decides to do next .
" The Secret Life of Walter Mitty " has aged well . The Technicolor hasn't faded , or turned pinkish , as the copy we recently saw on cable showed . The film , based on a James Thurber's short story , was made as a vehicle for Danny Kaye . Walter Mitty is a daydreamer . He escapes his monotonous life by imagining himself as the hero of the different situations that hold his attention . One day , Rosalind Van Hoorn sits next to him on the commuter train and things change for Mitty . He becomes a hunted man by some unsavory characters that want to recover the black book that was placed in his briefcase , without his knowledge . Thus begins the story about this wool gatherer who lives in an unreal world . The film is pure escapism . Walter Mitty is a small boy inside a grown man who is not too worldly . His engagement to Gertrude seems unreal because we don't see anything between them that might denote love . When Rosalind comes into his life , Walter begins a process of growing up and he falls for the glamorous woman . As played by Danny Kaye , this Walter Mitty , is at times puzzling . Mr . Kaye was an actor who relied on his mimic talents to create Mitty . Virginia Mayo makes an elegant Rosalind . Ann Rutherford is seen as Gertrude . Boris Karloff has some good moments as the zany Dr . Hollingshead . Fay Bainter is perfect as Walter's mom . The original songs by Silvia Fine , who was Mrs . Danny Kaye , are serviceable , but not great . The Goldwyn Girls are seen in the fashion show sequence . The direction by Norman Z . McLeod holds the picture together .
Gregor , an enigmatic man with an overweight problem , has not had an easy life . From a young age , he was always treated with scorn as his appetite was something that interfered in his relations with others . One thing he knows is food . He is the star chef who cooks for a small select group that go into ecstasy every time they get a chance to occupy one of the three tables at his home that serve as his show place . The encounter with Eden , a married waitress at a café in a park area , will change his life , as well as hers . Eden , married to a man that has not amounted to much and who serves as a dancing instructor to seniors that gather at the park , is not keen to the warning Gregor offers that she is about to be gypped out of payment from the four youths that ordered beer . Eden has a small child , Leoni , who is attracted to the kind Gregor . When Gregor decides to make a gourmet cake as a birthday gift to the child , disaster happens as the furious relatives gang on the cook for intruding . One thing does happen though , Eden bites into the rich chocolate of the cake on the sly and is instantly conquered by what Gregor has created . The problem is Eden can't get enough of what Gregor cooks . This translates into a better time in bed with her own husband . Michael Hofmann , the fine director of " Eden " . has created an interesting story about how a kind , but rejected member of our society can bring happiness to another human being and in doing so , getting to be hated for the transformation he does to a woman who has been completely bowled over by that person . The best in the film is the work of Josef Ostendorf and Charlotte Roche who are seen as Gregor and Eden , respectively . Mr . Ostendorf , is immensely appealing as the man with a great heart that is rejected by the society around him because of his corpulence . Ms . Roche does justice to Eden , the woman who brings the best in Gregor . An enjoyable film for lovers of the fine cuisine cooked for us by director Michael Hofmann .
This satiric comedy from Cuba has a way to point out about that , in spite of years of hard times and sacrifice , things are just bad , if not worse than before . The last crop of films from that country seem to be critical to the situation there as in the case with Fernando Perez's " Suite Habana " and even in previous films by Mr . Tabio , notably , " Plaff " , " Guantanamera " , and " Fresa y chocolate " . This picture tackles , in a subtle way , some of the problems most Cubans face . In this case , it's the chaotic public transportation system in Cuba . Like anything coming from this type of cinema , what one is watching has a deeply different meaning for the locals , who can identify with a situation that appears to have no solution . Thus , we are taken to a remote small bus station where several people in need of transportation to all parts of the island have come to try to find means of getting to their destinations . Unfortunately , the local bus , based at the station , is being repaired and is soon evident that it's not going anywhere . In the meantime , the one bus that comes by , could only take one passenger , but as people try to storm the bus , it pulls out , leaving everyone stranded . Among the passengers one gets to know what motivates them to travel , as confidences are exchanged . The film makes one thing clear , and it is the Cuban character in accepting what comes their way and making the best out of the situation with humor . This society seems to make good of that saying about when God gives one lemons , one makes lemonade ! Among the performers in the film , Vladimir Cruz and Thaimi Alvarino , stand out . They play Emilio , an engineer , returning home to work in his father's plot of land as an agricultural laborer . Jacqueline , the pretty woman is trying to get to Havana where her fiancé , a Spaniard , is arriving to marry her and is taking her back to Spain with him . We also get to see Rolando , a man that pretends to be blind in order to get a preferential treatment and go ahead of everyone else because of his condition . This situation is closely disputed by all the people that have been waiting for days without any hope of going anywhere . Jore Perugorria , a frequent collaborator of Mr . Taibo does good work as Rolando , the blind man . Talk about stoicism ! This is a tribute to the Cuban character ! Juan Carlos Tabio has directed with his usual flair , making this a winning film that will please anyone .
John Schelesinger's career as a film director was extraordinary . We had watched this film when it first came out , but wanted to see it again when it showed on cable recently . The film has a faded look , as one watches it today , but still , it is interesting because of the intense performances of the two principals . If you haven't seen it , please don't read any further . Chris and Daulton were two childhood friends that came from upper middle class backgrounds . Chris went to enter a seminary to be a priest , but gives up . Daulton became a small time drug user and trafficker . The two lives seem to run parallel as the pair become involved in an illegal activity that will prove their short sightedness . In fact , it shows how both young men miscalculate in their attempt to fool the CIA and the Soviet Union . These two , in a way , were so naive in thinking they could pull something that bigger , and better equipped people couldn't even imagine could be done . Chris ' motivation is legitimate , as he feels outraged in discovering the underhanded role of the agency for which he works in dealing with other nations , in this case Australia , something he finds by sheer coincidence . When he involves Daulton , we know the whole thing is doomed because no one into drugs , as he is , will ever amount to anything . In fact , Chris and Daulton had no conception of the scope of what they are trying to do , or its consequences . Timothy Hutton was at this period of his career , an actor that was going places . He had proved he had talent with his work in other films , so it was a natural choice for Mr . Schlesinger to select him , a choice that pays off well . Sean Penn , also was a young actor who showed an intensity , like one hadn't seen before . In fact , at times , Mr . Penn , reminded us of a young Robert Mitchum in the making . Both actors ' contribution to the film is incredible . One can't think who could have played this duo but them . " The Falcon and the Snowman " , while not up to the par with other great John Schlesinger's movies , is an interesting look to our not too distant past .
" Nobody Knows " , directed by Hirozaku Koreeda , is a compelling film that will grab the viewer's attention from the start . The film , based on a real incident in Japan is one of the saddest accounts in memory about children's abuse by uncaring parents . If you haven't seen the movie , maybe you would like to stop reading . When we first meet this family , Keiko , the mother , and Akira , are seen bringing their things to the tiny apartment they have rented . Little by little we see two young children emerge from two huge suitcases , at the risk of suffocating , and another one that is waiting at a train station . This mother and the four children seem to be happy being together . Since the lease is for only two persons , the other kids must be quiet , as they don't want to bring undue attention from the landlord and his wife , who also live in the complex . We realize Keiko's love for her children comes second to her life as a woman of loose morals ; she may be a prostitute , although it's left to the viewer's imagination what she does after she leaves the apartment . Akira , being the oldest , is in charge of the other three . It becomes clear these four children are the product of different fathers . Yet , all four function as though they have the same set of parents . Keiko , who appears to be just another kid , thinks nothing in leaving these four to fend for themselves , while she is going out of town with her present beau . Keiko is the epitome of cruelty . How can a mother even dream of abandoning these young kids and expect Akira to assume full responsibility for the situation ? Akira , is a study of maturity beyond belief . Only in that type of society , someone like this boy can exist . Akira is seen in his daily routine going to the store and cook for the siblings and the mother , while she's still around . Akira realizes he has a responsibility , as he never resorts to stealing , even when he becomes friendly with some bad kids from his area . Akira realizes he is the head of the household and must protect those that have been placed under his care , something the real mother has neglected to do . The film is a document about children's abuse and cruelty . Mr . Koreeda has been blessed with a cast that do miracles for him . Yuya Yagira , does an incredible job as Akira . All the children appear to be non professionals , but under the guidance of the director , they make us believe they are the abandoned children living alone and eking out a living for themselves .
" Giorni " presents an intriguing premise in that it takes the side of a patient infected with the HIV virus that encounters love and a kind of happiness with another person that is afflicted with it . While some comments in this forum express opinions about how depressing the whole thing is , we hate to differ . There are indications that Claudio , who loved Andrea , finds himself at the end in a positive way and that he is changed for the best . This Italian film , directed by Laura Muscardin , presents a sobering aspect of people living with the virus . In fact , we would even go to the extent to say it's a frank and sincere effort about people that live with HIV . These individuals suddenly see how slim their chances are to lead a somewhat normal life in a loving relationship . Claudio's relationship with Dario is a thing of the past , as the movie starts . He is seen taking the cocktail of medicines that are keeping him alive . When the sincere Andrea appears in the picture , Claudio is taken aback by the way he feels about this stranger that genuinely cares for him . Claudio , in fact , while loving Andrea , is surprised by the way the other man has transformed him for the best . The performance of Riccardo Salerno , who plays Andrea , is in sharp contrast with the intensity Thomas Trabacchi's Claudio . Both these actors make a pair of credible lovers who , although doomed from the start , still take a chance by loving one another . The Andrea of Mr . Salerno speaks volumes , as he convinces the viewer about his love for Claudio . Mr . Salerno's take on his character endears himself to us because one realizes he is the real thing . Mr . Trabacchi has more opportunities to shine , yet , it's the kind Andrea who stays in one's mind . The film is a serious attempt by the director , Laura Muscardin , to inject intelligence into the relationship between Claudio and Andrea .
In many ways , " The Assassination of Richard Nixon " , echoes the events of September 11 , 2001 , in that a desperate man wanted to kill then President Richard Nixon , whom he blamed for everything that had gone wrong in his own life . The plot involved the hijacking of an airliner that was going to be forced to crash against the White House , killing President Nixon , who was occupying the mansion at the time . Fortunately , that ill conceived plan doesn't take place as the actions of the enforcement force were able to deal with that man who was a menace to society . Niels Mueller , who directed , and co-wrote the film with Kevin Kennedy , shows he clearly understood his main character , Samuel Bicke , who as many contributors have compared to Travis Bickle , the Robert DeNiro's character in " Taxi Driver " , but all comparisons must end there , in the name , which is almost the same for both men . Samuel Bicke is a man that has lost almost everything he ever had . His wife and children don't want anything to do with him . His own brother , Julius , knows what Sam has been doing to his business and wants no part of him . Samuel is a man at the end of his rope . He has failed everybody that even cared a little for him . That is why Sam decides on an extreme action for which he will pay dearly . Sean Penn is the best thing in this movie . He is riveting as we don't dare take our eyes from him for a moment . This actor proves he has a natural intelligence to get under any of his characters in ways that others wouldn't dare . His Samuel Bicke will be one of the best creations he has done in the movies . The rest of the cast do a good supporting role . Naomi Watts , as a brunette , plays Marie , Sam's estranged wife . Don Cheadle's Bonny is about the only friend Sam can rely on . The wonderful Australian actor Jack Thompson does an incredible job as Sam's boss at the office furniture place where Sam has found employment . Michael Wincott is also good as Sam's brother . The film's musical score is by Steven Stern . Emmanuel Lubezki did an excellent job photographing the film that tries to show those years during the Nixon's administration . Alfonso Cuaron , a great director himself , produced what seems to be a labor of love that he entrusted to Niels Mueller to direct .
Quentin Tarantino , eat your heart out ! At least in this film they outshot you big time . Watching this film is difficult at times . The violence is to such a degree , the viewer has a problem seating through it . Director Fernando Meirelles has an eye for realism and detail . The most disturbing thing about City of God is the fact that the killers are children playing adult games before they can be children . It is a well known fact that these kids ' gangs created terror , not only in the favelas where they lived , which was unfortunate , but they mugged , robbed and just plain terrorized the big cities in Brazil . News about street children being shot in the streets of Rio or Sao Paolo were perceived as criminal because of the ages , but one can get a clearer picture in this film by coming to the realization these same children were killing real grown ups and getting away with murder . The only problem I had with this film is with the English subtitles . Sometimes , one doesn't know who's who . To make matters worse , the principal character grows from a young boy into a photographer who looks like a small boy himself . The plots and subplots are somehow hard to follow at times . The great accomplishment for the director is that he never preaches . He shows the world what went on at that particular time . The realism is extended to the way we see in gory details the corpses of the slain gang members . If Hollywood would have presented scenes that are so hard to take as these , many would be criminals would have been able to see first hand what bullets do to human beings : they kill !
Early in life , Eisenheim understands how his destiny is going to be tied to magic . Unfortunately for the young man , after falling in love for a rich young girl , Sophie , his powers prove to be a failure when he can't prevent the young woman from being taken away from him . Sophie will always keep the locket with a secret mechanism Eisenheim made for her as a reminder of his love . For fifteen long years Eisenheim roams the world trying to perfect his craft as a magician . When the time is ripe , he returns to Vienna to look for his long lost love and to dazzle audiences with his amazing tricks . It is at his Vienna appearances that his fame reaches the crown prince Leopold , who wants to see this illusionist . He is accompanied to the performance by Sophie , who is now Leopold's love interest . When Eisenheim asks for a volunteer for one of his magic tricks , it's Sophie who goes to the stage . Eisenheim recognizes his beloved Sophie who still wears the locket around her neck . Things get complicated when Eisenheim is asked to do a performance for the prince at the palace . The one trick that stuns everyone is when the conjurer asks the prince for his sword , which he makes stand on the stage . He then asks members of the audience to try to lift the sword , which magically remains glued to the ground . Only when he tells Leopold to take the sword back , the sword is released to its rightful owner . That sword will yield a valuable clue to the mystery we are witnessing later on . Eisenheim made an admirer in Uhl , the chief of police who is impressed by what he sees Eisenheim do on stage . Uhl will be the only man who will understand the secret that Eisenheim keeps in his heart . This highly enjoyable movie directed by Neil Burger , is based on a short story by Steven Millhauser . The adaptation by Mr . Burger gets a great treatment for the screen . The film is helped by the interesting score of Philip Glass . Mr . Burger has done wonders with the way he envelops the audience with magic as one watches in amazement how Eisenheim performs his thrilling act . Dick Pope photographed the movie in dark tones that reflect the mood of most of the action on the screen . His take on the Czech exteriors strike the right note . Naomi Geraghty must be congratulated for the editing , since it involves the way the viewer perceives the tricks being done by Eisenheim . Edward Norton gives a wonderful performance as Eisenheim . He is clearly a man with a mission in life and he has returned to his native land to take what he believes is rightfully his . Paul Giamatti's Inspector Uhl has some good moments too . Lovely Jessica Biel is seen as Sophie and Rufus Sewell plays the crown prince Leopold . " The Illusionist " will not disappoint fans of Edward Norton because the good work of the director , Neil Burger , did in adapting the original material for this highly engrossing picture .
Rosie Perez is a woman who has distinguished herself for her work in films and in the theater . She was also a dynamo choreographer that made that old TV series " In Living Color " come alive with her inspired dances that were amazing . Now , she returns as co-director with Liz Garbus of this enormously appealing documentary where she shows her proud heritage as a Puerto Rican . We are taken by Ms . Perez , and her sister to visit her relatives . The extended family include relatives in New York , Puerto Rico and Florida , where we accompany her in a voyage of discovery . Rosie and her family prove they have a rich heritage living in two cultures . Together with her sister and a cousin , Sisto , they exchange their views about what being Puerto Rican means to them . This 86 minutes is much too short as we get involved in the stories and the folklore the proud Rosie has to tell . There is also a comprehensive history of Puerto Rico and the people that made it great . She pays tribute to Pedro Alvizu Campos , the man who did so much for the island without asking anything in return . Also , the 60s group , the Young Lords ' work in the community is pointed out . The narration by Jimmy Smits serves well the documentary , but it's Rosie's personality and ebullience that keeps us wishing for more and more .
Joseph Cedar's wonderful " Campfire " affirms what one had already known : the quality of Israeli films . As he demonstrates with this heart wrenching tale that involves a recently widowed woman , at a crucial moment of her life , " Campfire " shows a director that is in touch with the situation he is presenting us . The Gerlick household is not the most pleasant place to be . Rachel , the mother , has lost her husband about a year ago . Esti , the oldest of the two daughters , is having an affair with a young soldier . Tami , the youngest girl , who is at the center of the story , is clearly lost and not being able to cope , or make sense of all what's happening around her . Rachel is fixed by a friend on a blind date with the shy Yossi , a middle aged man who is the owner of a bus . Their first date at a Chinese restaurant is pleasant , but we don't see sparks fly between them . Yossi is a lonely man who has gone on a lot of similar dates , never ending with a woman of his own , much less a wife . Tami , the youngest daughter is awakening to sexuality . She is a shy girl who has never done anything wrong and suddenly finds herself at the center of attention from the teen age boys who are up to no good and want to have fun at her expense . At the campfire , a group of boys taunt Tami into doing things she is not prepared for and she is horrified when horrible things are written on the walls of her house deeming her a common prostitute , when in reality nothing has happened . Rachel finally gets enough courage to confront the leaders of the new development where she would like to relocate with the girls because she realize that she is not wanted and it's the children of some of these people who are responsible for the cruelty toward Tami . After calling Yossi for help on a few occasions , it's clear that he has fallen for Rachel and is accepted by the girls . The film is bitter sweet with great appearances by the four principals . Michaela Eshet is wonderful as Rachel . Moishe Ivgy has such a noble face , that just one look at him , one realizes this is a decent man who will make anyone happy because he has a lot to give after not having known love in his life . Young Hani Furstenberg is also appealing as Tami and Maya Maron , who was excellent in " Broken Wings " plays the older Esti . Congratulations to Joseph Cedar and his team for a wonderful , heart-felt film about real people in a real situation .
This is a very disturbing documentary . One can only congratulate director Sandi Dubowski for the courage in dealing with the subject matter . Of course , the study here was done among Orthodox Jews who are at the margin of their religion . This film is universal because it could apply to conservative beliefs as well . How can the people in charge of a congregation reject anyone because they are different from what ancient texts tell ? Aren't these gay men and women the product of legal marriages from religion abiding parents ? These children didn't ask to be born gay , but the fact remains they are that way and no one , being the rabbis in charge , or the parents can reverse the fact . Love , nurturing , acceptance are lacking from all those in high places . After viewing the film , I felt great sadness for the people that have to lead a life away from family and community for just being gay . Shame on the parents and the leaders for banning their children into oblivion . I salute their stand for being themselves .
Mel Brooks ' comedies are made for the pure pleasure of having a good time and to enjoy what the master has decided give us in the way of sheer comic relief . His movies are a riot of visual and witty gags ; they are completely insane . Granted , his humor is not for everybody , but those of us that appreciate this great man's talent , truly have a ball watching this picture about the lunacy in the movie industry , again and again . Mr . Brooks and his sidekicks , Dom DeLouise and Marty Feldman do amazing things . Basically it's all visual , since there's no sound for the viewer to react to what one sees on the screen . The guest cast is incredible as well . Anne Bancroft , Bernadette Peters , Paul Newman , James Caan , Burt Reynolds , Sid Caesar , and the rest appear to be having the time of their lives as Mr . Brooks pull the strings so we can have a great time . This is a great film to watch with friends ; the more , the merrier !
Polly Draper must be congratulated for writing the screen play in which this film is based . Tourette Syndrome is something most people have no idea what it's all about , yet when one sees someone who suffers from it , one has no clue what the disease does to the sufferer . Gary Winick has directed a film that dares to put out front a young boy who has TS and has to deal with the prejudice he encounters in his own world . It also presents a talented saxophonist that is also afflicted with the syndrome and how these two people form a bond that is based on mutual respect and their love for the music that they both love : Jazz ! Gregory Hines , a fantastic performer and a great all around talent , is Tyrone the sax player . Chris Marquette plays the young boy Miles whose love for the music helps him deal with the Tourette that afflicts him . Polly Drape , as Laura , Miles ' mother , has some good moments in the film . Bill Nunn , Tony Shalhoub , Carol Kane , Desmond Robertson have supporting roles . The musical score for the film is excellent . We hear some of the best jazz musicians creating some exciting music in the background and we get to see their world as well . The film will warm your heart .
This film was ahead of its time in many ways . It's based on the John MacDonald's novel and directed by Lee J Thompson , with a terrific musical score by the amazing Bernard Hermann . The copy recently presented by TCM is perfect in that it is very detailed as it has been preserved with extreme care . This film belongs to Robert Mitchum . His Max Cady is a complex study of evil at its worst . This is a man who wants revenge for what he perceives society owes him , or what Sam Bowden , in particular has done to him ; he will stop at nothing . There are hints of pedophilia in the way Max Cady leers at the teen age daughter of his enemy ; it's done with a lot of class and it's never in your face . Robert Mitchum was an actor of such intelligence that is such a pleasure watch him portray this criminal , intent in doing harm to the man who sent him to jail , as well as to his family . Mr . Mitchum works with an economy of gestures , but one look at him and the viewer knows what makes this Max Cady ticks . Gregory Peck , on the other hand plays the good guy , but he is boring . Mr . Peck , supposedly , championed Mr . Mitchell for the role of Cady , knowing that he would be perfect for the part . It is after all Mr . Mitchell's picture from beginning to end . The supporting cast was excellent . Polly Bergen , Lori Martin , Martin Balsam , Telly Savallas , all in minor roles , but they add tremendously to the action . In retrospect , a lot of comments tend to compare the latter version of the film directed by Scorsese . Many think it's much better . Those people that make that claim are entitled to their opinion , but the original is more satisfying as far as we are concerned .
Paul Quinn , the director of " This is my father " , shows a tremendous talent for bringing this fine layered story to the screen . Working on his own screen play , he was obviously the right person to be at the helm of this fine film . It appears that he got a lot of help , not only of his own brothers , but from a lot of well meaning people in this production . If you haven't watched the film , maybe you should stop reading . The film focuses on Kieran Johnson , the Chicago schoolteacher , ones encounters at the beginning of the movie with his students . His sick mother , Fiona , is being taken care at home by a daughter , and Kieran helps in his own , limited way . Watching his mother in her sick bed motivates him to go to Ireland in a voyage to discover a part of his life which he never knew . Upon arrival , accompanied by his nephew , they go to the rural area where his mother rears from . They get to stay at a modest bed and breakfast run by a greedy man . Seamus ' old mother holds the key to the mystery surrounding how he came to be born and to know the truth about what happened to his mother . In the process we are taken in flashbacks to another era . Kieran O'Day , is a young man working in a small farm with the Meaneys . Beautiful Fiona is a local girl living with a widowed mother . It's obvious from the start these two like one another in more ways than meet the eye . The local town is dominated by the ruthless priests that see smut and lewdness in every one in the small town . In fact , most of what derails the lives of all of the people in the story seems to have been caused by the narrow mindedness of the clergy that held such a grip in the Irish society of the time . Kieran and Fiona eventually realize the love they feel for one another , but fate will come between them in unexpected ways . The film ends in tragedy , as Kieran Johnson gets to know that O'Day was his father and what became of him . In a lovely sequence , we watch as young Kieran and Fiona make a detour to a nearby beach because the car they've been traveling breaks down . While walking in the beach , they witness as a single engine plane come for a landing near them . They meet the American pilot , Eddie Sharp , a National Geographic photographer , who is taking pictures of Ireland . It's a lovely moment where the would-be-lovers interplay with the stranger and all seem to be at peace . Eddie is responsible for taking the only picture where Kieran and Fiona are seen together . That is the only clue left for their son to go on his search for their past . The amazing , largely Irish , cast do an outstanding job in recreating the people in the story . Moya Farrelly , the lovely young Fiona , is one of the best things in the film . Aidan Quinn , as Kieran , delivers a good performance in his portrayal of this lonely man of the country who finds love that proves to be fatal . James Caan , as Kieran Johnson , has some good moments , but of course , he is only seen in a few key scenes . John Cusack's contribution as the friendly aviator is one of the highlights of the movie . The supporting cast makes the film what it is . Colm Meany , Donald Donnelly , Gina Moxley , Brendan Gleeson , Stephen Rea , Moira Deady , among others , are the main reason for watching the movie . Most of them have had better opportunities in other movies , but as an ensemble they respond to Mr . Quinn's direction . Congratulations to Paul Quinn . We wish him well in whatever project he decides to direct !
We are taken to what appears a neighborhood dance hall , as the film begins . The lights are out , the people are seated , awaiting the start of the music . The musicians arrive and begin playing . Two women of a certain age take to the floor , followed by the other couples . It's at this point that Giovanni and Liliana , who are serious about one another , enter and sit at one of the tables . Hardly a word is spoken , yet , watching Lilliana's face , we realize something is wrong . We figure the problem lies in the fact that Giovanni has accepted a position in a new industrial complex his company has set up in Sicily . The job means he will be away for a whole year with better pay and a promotion . This doesn't sit well with Lilianna , and her attitude at the dance hall explains the way she feels the separation will take Giovanni away from her forever . As Giovanni gets settled into the job , we watch him roaming the streets of the little town . He is clearly a loner since he prefers his own company . Giovanni has to struggle with the fact his elderly father has stayed behind and must deal with the idea of living in a nursing home . Toward the end of the story he receives a letter from Lilianna where she gives him news of home . Giovanni , who obviously misses her sees a way for resuming their relationship . Ermanno Olmi was a documentary maker before his magnificent screen debut with " Il Posto " . In a way , " I Fidanzati " feels like a continuation of the other film . The ballroom sequence brings to mind the New Year's ball of the former movie . This idea is arrived at because the bored expressions of the couples at the neighborhood dance hall . No one seems to be having fun . Lilianna , whose face betrays her , shows a woman at the border of despair as she figures that Giovanni's departure means the end of her chances of marrying Giovanni . The director was wise to employ Lamberto Caimi to photograph this film . The music score of Gianni Ferrio plays well with the action on the screen . Mr . Olmi guided his unknown cast to give excellent performances . Carlo Cabrini and Anna Canzi seem to have been naturals for the screen , yet , neither actor went to have a career in the Italian cinema . Mr . Cabrini , whose presence is deeply felt in the film does an amazing job in his portrayal of Giovanni . Ermanno Olmi , a director's director , showed that his early promise with " Il Posto " was not a fluke , as he continued to create human comedies about the way he saw his country at this time of his career .
We didn't watch this film when it was released but caught with it on cable recently . Alex Proyas , the director , shows a talent for what one sees on the screen . The film is loosely based on Isaac Asimov's novel of the same title , which was adapted for the screen by Jeff Vintar and Akiva Goldsman , one of the best writers for this medium . The film is pure entertainment . As such , without any expectations , it turned out to be a lot of fun . The story , as these highly glossy movies go , relies a lot on the special visual effects that dazzled us because of what the designing team were able to accomplished with the creation of thousand robots all over the place . Will Smith , as Del Spooner , is immediately likable . Mr . Smith has a way to get the viewer on his side from the start and we go with him for this fantastic ride , that of course , is far fetched , at best , but since we fall right into what's going on , it's easy to see the ride is a fun one . Bridget Moynahan is seen as Susan Calvin , an assistant to Dr . Albert Lanning , a genius whose work in robotics gets him killed . Ms . Moynahan , who was also seen in " The Farm " , is the perfect foil for Mr . Smith , as both embark in the adventure we are watching . James Cromwell , the inventor , is only seen briefly , as well as another excellent actor , Bruce Greenwood , who has only a few scenes in the film . Watch " I Robot " because Alex Proyas and his team has made it a marvelous escape thriller that will not bore anyone .
" Proof " , the excellent play by David Auburn , was one of the best things in the New York stage in recent memory . Part of the attraction was the intelligent subject matter , math science , and how it connected the four characters one got to meet . The casting was an ideal one , Mary Louise Parker , Larry Briggman , Johanna Day and Ben Shenkman , playing Cahterine , Robert , Claire and Hal , respectively . Mr . Auburn and Rebecca Miller , a movie director , herself , took the task of adapting " Proof " for the screen . The result , directed by John Madden , opens the play in cinematic terms , no small undertaking in presenting the movie to a wider audience who might not be interested in science , and much less in the advanced math that plays an important role in the proceedings . If you haven't seen the film , please stop reading here . Catherine , the 27 year old , at the center of the film , is a woman who has stayed behind to take care of her aging father , a man much esteemed in academic circles , who is suffering from , perhaps , a neurological illness that is killing him slowly . Catherine has , in a way , sacrificed her life in order to see that Robert spends his last days at home instead of at an institution . The death of the father brings Claire home . This woman , who lives in New York , wants to get rid of everything connected with her father . She even has made plans for Catherine to move from Chicago to be near each other in New York , where things are much better . To complicate things , Harold , the nerdy math student , finds a hidden notebook that might contain a discovery that will revolutionize math . The only problem is the proof might not have been the dead man's own creation . " Proof " works as a film because of Mr . Madden's direction . We are kept involved in what is going on because we have been won by Catherine , the wounded woman trying to live her life without having to tend to a sick man . Catherine love for math , in a way , makes her realize her place is in the same institution where her father made mathematical discoveries as she will be following his steps . Gwyneth Paltrow makes an excellent Catherine , a role she had played on the London stage . Ms . Paltrow is a welcome presence in the movie because of the intelligence she projects when working with a good director like John Madden . In fact , it has been a while since we saw this actress in a film . Hope Davis , another excellent actress , plays Claire , the materialistic sister who has arrived and who wants to transform the frumpy Catherine and mold her to her own taste . Ms . Davis has accustomed us to expect a valuable contribution to any film in which she plays . As Claire , she clearly understand who this character she is portraying really is . Anthony Hopkins has only a few good moments on the screen . Jake Gyllenhaal's character Harold is not as effective as Ben Shenkman's was on the stage . In fact , Mr . Gyllenhaal , with his dark good looks , seems to be someone who would not be interested in math at all . " Proof " is an immensely rewarding film thanks to what John Madden's vision .
The absurd " Don't ask , don't tell " policy in our armed forces is a big hypocrisy . LIke in all walks of life , homosexuality exists and it's incredible the government has decided to continue with this line of thought to this date . Death doesn't differentiate between gay or straight . As patriotic is the soldier , male or female , that serves his country and dies for it , no matter what their sexual preferences are . It's commendable that director Frank Pierson has decided to bring this story to the screen , based on actual events that occurred not too long ago . The film shows a lot of courage in the part of the people behind this project because of the material . Remembering vaguely this incident that had national media coverage , one is not prepared for the reality one is presented in it . " Soldier Girl " is a document about hatred and ignorance . These macho soldiers have to make a stand belittling and ridiculing people that are different ; they believe it's a deviant behavior to be gay . Their arrogance is such that they will resort to violence in order to make their point . They even go to the same places where gays gather peacefully to have fun , by themselves , and where one would think , no straight person has any business going to . The intrusion into other people's lives is what makes this story so heart wrenching . This is a film to watch because of the magnificent portrayal of the evil Justin Fisher , by Shawn Hatosy . This young actor doesn't seem to stop amazing in whatever character he decides to play . Mr . Hatosy has the knack for transforming himself completely into the character one sees on the screen . Having recently seen him in " Borstal Boy " , as Fisher , he even surpasses what he accomplished in that other movie . His Fisher is a character study into a man that is a closet case , himself , while presenting a tough and manly front to the world . Yet , one gets the impression he wants Winchell to be his sexual partner . The talented Troy Garity is excellent as the slow , but tremendously kind , Barry Winchell . Mr . Garity appears to be a babe in the woods ; he wins us over because his sincerity and honesty . When he falls for the transsexual Calpernia Addams at the Visons night spot , we wonder if he really is that naive , or that deep down Barry feels a love at first sight with her . As Calpernia , Lee Pace is perfectly believable as the person who suddenly finds the right soul mate when Barry begins seeing her . This actor does a wonderful job in getting inside his character . Philip Eddolls makes a perfect Calvin , the young recruit that will act on the hatred that Fisher keeps daring him to do in a sly way . Andre Braugher is the kind Sgt . Diaz , who is totally brainwashed by the army policy of not getting involved , but ultimately helping the bullies under his command maim and kill for no reason at all . " Soldier Girl " is a film that will stay with the viewer for a long , long time . It's hard to forget what bigotry and ignorance can do to people .
This film , in my humble opinion , has been misunderstood by the public , judging by the comments I've heard about it . First of all , the director Cedric Kahn is one of France's most interesting figures to come out in the last years . He knows what he is doing , and what's more , he's being naughty in the way he presents his story that makes us see it one way , but is it what we are seeing real ? The adaptation by M . Kahn and Laurence Ferreira Barbosa takes the Georges Simenon story from America to France . The most interesting thing about Antoine is that he is an ordinary man . He is married to a Helene , who is a more successful person ; Helene is a lawyer who must make a lot of money , much more than Antoine . As a couple , we can't see them together at all . Antoine is a man who is not handsome . Helene , on the other hand is a beautiful woman , and we wonder what brought them together in the first place ? We witness Antoine going to the bathroom where he ogles his own wife in the shower . It appears their sexual life has ended long before we meet them . Antoine has a drinking problem . On the trip to pick up their children they encounter heavy traffic . As they take a detour from the main highway , their troubles start . We see the passing " red lights " of the different bars beckoning Antoine to stop and have another beer , or a beer with a chaser . To make things worse , they hear on the radio about the escapee from the Le Mans prison , near to where they are traveling . We see the roadblocks and the erratic way in which Antoine begins to drive . After one pit stop , Helene disappears . She has decided to take the train and leaves him a note . Antoine goes to the station , but he is late . Thus begins what will be a long night adventure along rural , nocturnal France . Without giving away what happens , we watch Antoine waking up . Antoine's car is in a ditch and he must fix the tire if he wants to go to get the children . This awakening seems to me , the turning point of the story . Are we sure what we saw after Helene's disappearance and what happened in the road to Antoine with a stranger really occur ? Mr . Kahn is playing with us . There are a lot of clues , but as detectives , the director is asking us to stay attentive to what is really going on , or isn't . The film belongs to Jean Pierre Darrousin . He is an actor whose own appearance makes us not care for the man we see on the screen . On the other hand , M . Darrousin knows who this Antoine is and what makes him tick . His performance is subtle , yet he carries the film in a way no one would expect from a not well known star . Carole Bouquet is a bourgeois woman who seems to be living in the wrong marriage . In contrast with her husband , she is in control of her life ; she appears , at least on the surface , not to care about Antoine , but she has stayed married for a while . We know that Helene cares for Antoine at the end of the film when the two meet at the hospital . This film shows Cedric Kahn as a director to be reckoned with .
" Fitzcarraldo " is an ode to men who dare to have dreams and make them come true . This epic speaks volumes about a man who happens to be obsessed with the opera , which is his passion . He is a foreigner in a hostile land at the beginning of the last century where enormous fortunes were made in different parts of the world . For Fitzcarraldo , it is Peru , the land where he is now living . As he is introduced in the story , he is seen arriving at the Manaus opera house , to catch the Great Caruso sing . Since he has no ticket , and the performance is sold out , he impresses on one of the attendants , who lets him , and Molly , his companion , stay at the back of the house . Fitzcarraldo , who returns with Molly back to Iquitos , a desolate locale , figures he will bring opera , and Caruso to the city . Fitzcarraldo , who has no means to support his dream , decides to go into the rubber business . For that , he must go to a remote spot , away from where the other , and wealthier rubber barons , have established claims to the land . It will take only a resolute , and mad person to undertake such a gigantic enterprise . With the help of Molly , he buys a dilapidated boat and modernizes it . He takes along an experienced captain , a great mechanic , Cholo , and the best cook money can buy into a trip down the river to his property . The only thing is he soon realizes how if he continues along the river route , he will be in danger because of the rapids at one particular spot . His decision , to hoist the ship across a mountain to the other side , where another river is more navigable . Fitzcarraldo made a lasting impression on the local Indian population , who saw in this adventurer , somebody larger than life . His inter action with them was instrumental in doing the insurmountable task that had to be done to get to his ultimate goal . This film could only have been done by Werner Herzog , a director who was not afraid to go into an inhospitable part of South America to photograph this magnificent picture . Helped by his cinematographer , Thomas Mauch , he was able to conquer a great obstacle in order to make the film . Popol Vuh's film score mingles with some great music by Bellini , Puccini , Verdi and Strauss that does wonder in the background . No one but Klaus Kinski was born to play Fitzcarraldo , in what might be considered his best screen role . Mr . Kinski was an obsessed actor who bares his soul in getting under the skin of his characters . As Fitzcarraldo , he goes through the whole gamut of emotions to show what this man was really like . We can't take our eyes from him throughout the picture because of his intensity and his honesty in portraying this mad man with a vision for beauty . Claudia Cardinale makes a tremendous contribution to the film as Molly , the woman who loved , understood , and saw the genius of her man . Jose Lewgoy is perfect as Don Aquilino , Fitzcarraldo's rival and mentor . Miguel Angel Fuentes is also excellent as Cholo . Huerequeque Bohorquez plays the cook and Paul Hittscher appears as the captain . The last sequence of the film shows Mr . Herzog's greatness as Mr . Kinski rides with the opera company in a small ship . They sing an aria from " I Puritani " , an opera that delights his soul as Fitzcarraldo feasts himself into Iquitos in their company .
Most satraps that gain power begin with the pledge they are for the people . Unfortunately , history proves them wrong , again and again . In their hunger for power these misguided individuals confuse what the job entails and concentrate only in taking care of themselves as they develop huge egos that will betray them and ultimately cause their own downfall . Idi Amin , the Ugandan dictator , was a man that came into power with the potential for doing good . Instead he went to surround himself with inept people as he eliminated the ones that dared to oppose him . In this fictionalized account of the life of this strong man , there are hints that he never had any good intentions for his country or his fellow Ugandans . The story links a naive young Scot , Dr . Nicholas Garrigan , who one day decides as a lark to point to an earth globe with his finger and decide that wherever it lands , that's where he will go to practice medicine . The first time he tries , the finger lands in Canada , but he rejects it , probably as not challenging enough . The second try his finger touches Uganda , a place that will prove fateful for this young doctor . Little prepares Dr . Garrigan for what he encounters once in Uganda . The remote spot where he is to practice is run by the Merits , a doctor and his wife . The town where Garrigan begins working receives the visit of the new head of the country , Idi Amin . Garrigan is obviously impressed with the energy displayed by the general , who assures the poor people he is there to protect them because he is for the people . An accident brings back the doctor to the presidential car . Amin , who realizes Garrigan is from England , is happily surprised when the young man tells him he hails from Scotland . That fateful meeting impresses both men . Amin , the powerful man , decides he wants the young doctor to be his own personal physician . The young doctor is dazzled by the Mercedes that is given to him and how he suddenly is made to be the head of the hospital in Kampala . In the meantime , Garrigan meets , and falls for one of Amin's wives , the gorgeous Kay whose only son is epileptic . Things begin to change and Garrigan realizes he has really misjudged the situation . He starts to see how his protector can really turn against him when he wants out . The bloodbath throughout the country will devastate the land . Dr . Garrigan is angered by what Amin has done to Kay ; the cruelty the dictator knows no boundaries . Kevin MccDonald the director of " The Last King of Scotland " paints a realistic picture of the madness during the Idi Amin's regime . The dictator is presented as he probably was . As any man in his position , Amin manipulates the political situation to his own advantage . He uses people to carry on his agenda and when they question anything , he eliminates them . Forest Whitaker gives an epic performance in the title role . Mr . Whitaker , a serious actor who should be seen more often , smolders the screen every time we see him ; he is bigger than life ! We don't recall a performer that was able to convey what goes on in the mind of a satrap the way this actor captures every nuance of his character . Mr . Whitaker is magnificent in the way he brings this hideous man alive and runs away with the film . James McAvoy , who plays Dr . Garrigan , is also an excellent player . He matches Mr . Whitaker perfectly . This young actor , from whose eyes the story is seen , makes a tremendous contribution to the success of the picture . Kerry Washington has a small , but pivoting role , as Kay Amin , one of the dictator's wives . Gillian Anderson appears as Sarah Merrit and Simon McBurney gives an interesting performance as Nigel Stone . " The Last King of Scotland " is one of the best biopics about a dictator . The combination of Douglas McGrath and Forest Whitaker translates into one of the best films about the horrors of unlimited power in the hands of a mad man .
Jeffrey Blitz , the director of this documentary had the bright idea to show us what goes behind the scenes in this competition that some of us only see as a television news clip when it is shown as the last finalist spells the hard word correctly every year in the spring , or inside a newspaper with the picture of the winner . I didn't get a chance to see it until recently because I thought it was not going to be any good . Since I was attending a screening with a handicapped relative , and all the other films were sold out , we decided to see this one thinking it was going to be empty . Well , as we arrived early , we had our choice seats and slowly , but surely , people started to come in , to the point that all seats were taken ! This was a delightful inside view of what these teen agers go through in preparing for the competition . The kids are so charming and so alive and so much into the spirit of the contest that the viewer has more sympathy for the parents that sit in the audience . They suffer the most because for the contestants , even though it is a prestigious game , they maintain their cool even in the roughest moments . In a way it also points out to what degree some immigrant parents , especially the Indians that appear in the documentary are involved in their children's school achievements . Year after year the winner is the son or daughter of someone from either India , Pakistan , or another Eastern country that has settled here because of the opportunities these children will have in the United States . This documentary should be required viewing in schools throughout the country . Both teachers and students should benefit by watching it .
Alfred Hitchcock's " North by Northwest " is one of the best films in his long and distinguished career . Part of the success of the movie lies in the screen play by Ernest Lehman , one of the best writers of that era . Also , the haunting music by Mr . Hitchcock's usual collaborator , Bernard Hermann , adds texture to what we are seeing . Together with all the above mentioned qualities , " North by Northwest " was photographed by Robert Burks and was edited by George Tomasini , both men did outstanding jobs to enhance a film that shows a mature and inspired Alfred Hitchcock . The film works because of the witty dialog Mr . Lehman wrote . This has to be one of the riskiest projects undertaken by Mr . Hitchcock because of the sexiness Eva Kendall exudes throughout the film and the repartee between her and Roger Thornhill . The film mixes adventure and romance that aren't put ons , as one feels what one's watching to be really happening . Much has been said in this forum as to the values of this classic , so we shall only add our pleasure in seeing this masterpiece any time it turns on cable . In fact , the film hasn't dated , the way some others of the same period have . The highlights of the film are the sequences involving the crop duster , the train ride to Chicago where Eve and Roger first meet , the auction , and the Mount Rushmore climax . This is one of the best contributions by Cary Grant to any of his work with the director . Roger Thornhill is one of the best roles Mr . Grant played , during his long career . His chemistry with Eva Marie Saint is perfect . This young actress added class and elegance to the picture . James Mason and Martin Landau played villains convincingly . Jesse Royce Landis , Leo G . Carroll , and the rest of the supporting cast is excellent . " North by Northwest " is one of Alfred Hitchcock's best crafted films thanks to the brilliant people that came together to work in it .
Howard Hawks , the director of " Bringing Up Baby " , was not a name one associates with screwball comedy . Watching this perennial favorite the other night , one wishes Mr . Hawks would have made more comedies like this one because he shows a tremendous capacity for entertaining his audiences . The screen treatment , by Dudley Nichols and Hagar Wilde , made this movie the classic it became to be after not being embraced by the public when it was originally released . The pairing of Cary Grant and Katherine Hepburn paid off handsomely . Both actors were at their best in the film . Mr . Hawks got excellent performances of his two stars . Cary Grant's paleontologist , with his glasses , and nervous energy , matches perfectly the the socialite that has designs on him . There is a high level of energy in the film that was a requirement for a movie of this genre . The supporting cast is also one of the things that make this film the fun it is . Charles Ruggles , May Robson , Barry Fitzgerald , George Irving , and the rest of the cast do a marvelous job in the roles they created . Even Asta , the Charles ' dog , made a valuable contribution to the proceedings by appearing at key moments , even fighting Nyssa , the tamed leopard that is the " baby " of the title . The best way to enjoy the film is to let the magic Howard Hawks created put its spell on you . It's one of the best films of this genre .
" Out of Rosenheim " is a film about how the kind Jasmin touches the lives of other people that at first disdain her . In fact , Jasmin is an angel that happens to come to the help of the poor people at the seedy motel and cafe because she perceives beauty where there is ugliness , hope where there was despair and turns everyone around to appreciate her for what she contributes to enhance their lives . Percy Adlon , who is an original filmmaker , scored a big success with this simple film that , judging by some negative responses to this forum , can either make the viewer love it for its subtle charm , or just be perplexed because there is no action . Yet , Mr . Adlon , writing with his wife , Eleonor and Christopher Doherty , created a film that will stay in the viewer's mind for some time to come . As the film opens , we watch Jasmin and her husband taking a break in their journey through the desert . As they quarrel , Jasmin decides to leave him and gets her suitcase out of the trunk to walk along the solitary highway to find a place where to rest . Before that , we have seen a strange sort of mirage in the desert horizon where two surreal lights are seen through some mist . Those lights seem to guide Jasmin as to what route to take in order to continue her journey , or maybe she is just an angel with a mission , as the film continues . As Jasmin arrives at the seedy cafe that is next to the motel , she encounters a hostile Brenda , a black woman who is struggling to make the cafe and motel work with little success . Jasmin is given a room , but being suspicious , Brenda calls the local sheriff to investigate what is she doing at her place , but since there is nothing wrong , Brenda can't do anything . Jasmin upon discovering the cleaning tools in her room gets an inspiration to continue to straighten the rest of the place . She goes and cleans Brenda's office , which is in a state of chaos . When Brenda gets back , she is horrified watching the confusion she left behind has been turned into a neater place where to conduct business . She can't concede the fact to Jasmin , who she still considers an unwelcome guest that has overstayed and has committed the ultimate sin of making Brenda aware of the messy state of her place and her life . When Jasmin discovers in her husband's suitcase a kit about learning magic , she begins to practice the different tricks that she shows the others in the cafe . Rudi Cox , the strange man living in a trailer in the property , is a painter ; he decides he wants to paint Jasmin and little by little he discovers the beauty of his subject who seems to radiate it from inside her soul . The film owes a great deal of gratitude to Marianne Sagebrecht , one of the most accomplished actresses from Germany who is an asset to anything where she is cast . Ms . Sagebrecht steals the film because of the luminosity she projects ; she seems to cast an aura that others see and are instantly won over by her kindness and her generosity . CCH Pounder , makes a good contribution to the film . Her Brenda is at the beginning harsh , curt and just plain nasty because the way life has treated her . Jack Palance doesn't have much of a role to play , but his chemistry with Ms . Sagebrecht makes a sweet distraction for the movie . " Out of Rosenheim " is a film in which nothing seems to happen , yet it is packed with a powerful message that comes across as one watches it . Percy Adlon and his star , Marianne Sagebrecht , made a timeless film that will survive the passage of time .
The Warren Schmidt of Jack Nicholson is a man who has lived all his life in a fog . Even as he is ready to retire at the beginning of the film , it appears that life went through him , but he never had a life . Alexander Payne has created a portrait of a mediocre man who , might be living in Omaha , but for all practical purposes , he might be living in Mars ! . Does he ever know his wife ? Even though they've been married for 42 years , they are at different wave lengths . How about his daughter ? . This girl is a selfish creature who only cares about her own wedding plans that might be shattered . Helen Schmidt , Warren's wife , has made a home for her family , but did she ever understand this man ? For that matter , did Warren realize that he had a wife and built-in maid all in one ? Like in all marriages , there are annoying things that Helen did that Warren resents . She is a typical house wife from the old school and values in an ever changing world . Warren , being in his own world , discovers a dark secret that challenges the happy memory of Helen . It's very hard to conceive this Schmidt without Jack Nicholoson . This might be his greatest achievement of a distinguished career . He is pure perfection as this man who goes in search of himself and to reconnect with a daughter that couldn't care less about him . Visiting his daughter's future family , the Herzels , Warren's world collapses around him . After all , he and Helen lived normal lives . Being a guest in Roberta's house proves to be too much for him . Kathy Bates is , without a doubt , right on the money with her portrayal of Roberta Herzel . Just look at her around the dinner table to realize how good an actress she is . The rest of the cast is excellent . Hope Davis as the daughter brings the right amount of selfishness to her Jeannie Schmidt . We have known people like her . Her role is typical of many a bride who wants to have a full wedding from parents like hers . Dermot Mulroney is very effective as the groom . He's as creepy as his hairdo . He and Jeannie will probably end up in divorce in a few years , but she will have the album , the videos and the party to remember her fifteen minutes of fame in Denver . For Jack Nicholson watchers , just wait for the last sequence of the film after he gets home to understand we are watching is a lesson in acting . Warren Schmidt at last connects with reality in a manner that only this great actor only could .
" Flesh and the Devil " , the 1926 silent film , brilliantly directed by Clarence Brown , was shown recently on cable and the most amazing thing happened : the film looks superb ! " Flesh and the Devil " has one of the most amazing team behind the camera , one that made its stars look so magnificently that one can't take ones eyes from the screen for fear of losing something . In addition to the superb director , the work of William Daniels with his camera is amazing . Mr . Daniels created images that are hard to forget . The opening sequence of the film involving the arrival of Leo and Ulrich in their hometown , has to be one of the best things ever filmed . When Leo discovers the beautiful Felicitas as she descends from the train and walks to the awaiting car , where he runs to rescue the flower arrangement she inadvertently had dropped , is charged with desire and raw sex . Hollywood was more daring during those precode days when anything seemed to go . Greta Garbo and John Gilbert make this film something to watch again and again . Both stars exuded such charisma that it's not hard to realize they were lovers . Ms . Garbo looked lovely in all her scenes and Mr . Gilbert was one of the handsomest leading men of the era . One of the best things whoever restored the film was to add a great musical score that makes watching the pleasure it is . Also , in spite of being a silent movie , " Flesh and the Devil " has such a fluidity that , at times , we forget it's not a " talkie " , because of the magic that Mr . Brown , and his cinematographer , William Daniels , were able to do together . Of course , the film is what it is because of its stars ' magnetism and the way they make us care about the story .
For better , or worse , Michael Moore , is the " enfant terrible " of the American documentary . " Sicko " , his latest effort , presents his views on a terrible , and sad , phase of this country's health care . Mr . Moore's role has always been to provoke , in order to awake people to pay attention of his latest crusade . As such , " Sicko " , is part fact and part entertainment . One of the most effective part of the documentary is the conversation between Richard Nixon , the then president who is partly responsible for the mess this country is in matters of health care , and his aide John Ehrliman as they discuss the problem . Another great moment arrives when a witty Hillary Rodham Clinton is about to be grilled by Dick Armey in Congress at the height of the Clinton health plan . She outsmarts this once powerful man with her wit and dry sense of humor . In a way , one has been told about the problem with the health systems in different countries , Canada , being the best example . In order to dispel fears , Mr . Moore embarks in a journey to explore the myth and the result seems to he in his favor . Other countries are examined as well , England , and France , countries where if one is to believe the people interviewed , seem to have excellent health plans deal that give people a handle on this important problem . These systems aren't inexpensive . To keep these plans alive , the European societies are heavily taxed to cover the free medical coverage . The most fun in the film involves the Cuban episode , where Mr . Moore decides to take a few people with medical problems to Guantanamo naval base , where if one hears the Washington politicians , the so-called terrorists are treated much better than regular American citizens . After not being admitted in the base , Mr . Moore must find a ride to Havana to bring his patients for treatment for their different ailments . Of course , this sequence is not real because we know of people with Cuban relatives who must send medicines to Cuba because of the lack of it in the island , despite of what is given freely to these visitors Mr . Moore brings to the biggest hospital in Havana . That's the most unrealistic part of the film , as far as we are concerned . Having had the experience of being hospitalized and incurring the high price for the care received , seems almost an indecent price one has to pay in order to be well in America . The documentary ends in a funny note as we watch Mr . Moore climbing the steps of the capitol to bring his dirty laundry for the congress to clean .
