It's Italian , it's horror . . . but it's not very good . The movie is cheap looking and the story is just terrible . For an horror movie it certainly isn't original and the movie is severely lacking on multiple levels . Perhaps the biggest problem with the movie is that it doesn't have a real main characters . Who exactly was supposed the hero in this one ? And who exactly were the good and bad guys ? It makes the movie confusing and messy to watch . It also is terribly boring all , since rarely ever something interesting happens . The movie is filled with nudity and voyeurism . The movie is basically about the servants peeping on naked women and the movie doesn't focuses enough on the horror aspects of the movie . The musical score by Marcello Gigante is just plain awful and truly laughable at times . Both the editing and cinematography are also severely lacking . The movie is incredibly simple and cheap made and its horrible put together with the editing . The cinematography looks very amateur like and it seemed that they didn't used proper lighting or a focus-puller . This Italian take on the Frankenstein franchise , in which for some odd reason also Neanderthalers are involved , is a terrible one , in which basically nothing interesting ever happens .
Pulp , pulp absolute pulp . The story is just as silly as it sounds . The also didn't bother to explain - or make sense to anything . For a monster movie it also doesn't have enough ' monster ' in it and the story is not tense or mysterious mainly because it's such a complete mess . The story is incredible B-movie like . A scientist has created a creature that can transform back and forth between a giant moth ( what the . . . ? ! ? ) and a young woman . To stay alive , the moth has to feed itself with fresh blood of innocent victims . This is where Peter Cushing comes in . He plays an inspector who is set to investigate this strange and mysterious murders . An awful few is ever happening in this movie . From start till the finish the movie basically isn't heading anywhere and the movie is filled with dull moments that are distracting from the main plot line of the movie . Yes , it really is a movie about nothing . The giant moth creature makes the whole even more ridicules . The moth itself is not back looking but the transformation scene's are laughable bad . Even the transformation sequences in " The Wolf Man " from 1941 were more convincing . The moth also gets very little interesting to do in the movie and is only featured in about 3 very short sequences I believe . The entire movie is also horribly edited together . At times it feels like entire sequences were cut out , or not even filmed . The movie jumps from one sequence to another . At least Peter Cushing seemed to be enjoying himself during filming . Just look at his face during his sequences with Russell Napier and Vanessa Howard . Also Glynn Edwards was somewhat good and enjoyable in his role . Robert Flemyng and Vanessa Howard were however dreadful most of the time . Also look out for Kenneth Colley ( Captain / Admiral Piett from " Star Wars : Episode V - The Empire Strikes Back " and " Star Wars : Episode VI - Return of the Jedi " . ) and a very young David Griffin ( Emmet from " Keeping Up Appearances " . ) in quite a big role . The ending of the movie is also a huge letdown . It's very simple and completely unsatisfying . Perphaps almost even laughable . Guess it's still only a bit good and scary when you are afraid of moths .
This movie was really painful to watch . It was an extremely busy and annoying movie without anything funny or original ever happening . The humor was just completely wrong and totally unfunny . The story is just basically about nothing and only serves as an opportunity for Mike Myers to show his silly antics on the screen . He is however given awful material to work with and an awful imagine-less director to direct him . The movie is annoyingly fast paced at times and it relies to heavily on just Mike Myers . Alec Baldwin does play an enjoyable and good ' villain ' and they could had really used him better in this movie . There are really some missed opportunities here . . . OK I have to admit that there are some good and funny moments but really not enough to save this movie from being a disaster . I did liked the visual style in this weird typical fabricated world with all those weird looking sets and colors . It really reminded me of the Tim Burton movie " Edward Scissorhands " . No wonder it did , director Bo Welch worked on " Edward Scissorhands " as the production designer . Unfortunately the visual style is underused and doesn't play a significant enough role in the movie . While watching this movie I really kept on wishing that Tim Burton would had directed this movie with perhaps starring Johnny Depp , how perfect would that had been ? I don't see how anyone could like this movie and I most certainly can not recommend this movie to anyone , especially not to children . If this was a movie made for children than it was done completely wrong . There is nothing to enjoy or find imaginative in this annoying , loud , too fast paced mess of a movie , that has totally no story and a wobbly message in it .
What was the cast thinking when the read the script ? It puzzles me how many big names ( Dennis Quaid , Sharon Stone , Stephen Dorff , Juliette Lewis , Kristen Stewart , Christopher Plummer ) were in this movie . It makes me wonder if the even read the script ! The story is very standard material , no it's even worse than that . . . The movie starts of really slow and bad , in the first hour there are basically just some characters talking and walking on screen without that there is really something interesting happening . The story is done dozens of time , especially in the last couple of years . It is standard thriller material stuff . There is a family moving into an house , the previous house owner than shows up and of course there is a huge secret he is carrying with him , which also involves the house . Oh the originality is killing me ! It's a very standard thriller formula . What follows are some standard thriller moments , including a standard and predictable ending . This movie also contains one of the worst executed scene's I've seen in years . " The snake's in the house " scene . First of all the family goes totally over the top crazy , I mean they act like they just have seen Oprah Winfrey walking naked through their house ! It's supposed to be a scary and hectic moment but it is almost comedy like because of the editing , camera positions but also thanks to the truly horrible musical score by Mike Figgis ( also the director ) himself . The score is so incredibly simple that it literally could have been composed by an 8 year old . Are there some positive things to say about this movie ? Not many . . . It is of course always great to see some good actors in a movie and this movie surely has some good actors . It's too bad that Stephen Dorff plays such a standard psychopath villain , he has played so many good and better villain roles before . It was weird to see Juliette Lewis , she was looking old and . . . fat ! She always used to be such a skinny and baby face looking girl , was it make-up or has her look really changed that much ? I hereby officially declare this movie as a waste of time .
Basically this movie doesn't have one good idea of its own and that's why it ' borrows ' much from other movies but it doesn't do this very good or effectively . Main problem with this movie is that it picks a strange approach with its story . What could and should had been a cyborg action flick is now an adventure movie through the jungle , without ever becoming a good , tense or exciting one to watch . The movie is basically constantly more of the same , when new characters emerge , who for some reason want to see our main heroes dead . The story picks just such an interesting and uninspired approach . It's main premise still lets the movie sound good but the actual end result is simply a failure . It just isn't the best going movie . The movie makes some strange twists and turns in an attempt to give the movie an adventurous and perhaps even an epic kind of feeling over it . Needless to say they failed miserably . The movie has some silly futuristic gadgets and futuristic images in it , like you could only expect from a silly ' 80s flick . Of course all of its special effects aren't quite top-notch looking yet but I have to admit that for 1986 standards it simply is not too bad . I think this movie its intentions were quite serious but however the end result of course is nothing but a typical ' 80's B-movie and not a very good one either . It's one with a bad cast and crew involved . The music is dreadful and doesn't even sound like it got written for this movie at all . All of the other production values are all also really lacking . Same can be said for the script , that also doesn't really feature the best dialog imaginable . So even though they aren't being helped with a good script or dialog , also the actors themselves are bad and lacking in their skills . Guess they just went along with the cheapest actors available at the moment . Perhaps the movie would had still been better to watch with some more action in it . Instead now all we are having are same lame small attempts at action and also lacks a nice spectacular and memorable finale . The movie lacks 2 or 3 real big action sequences , that could had really spiced up things a little . This movie unfortunately makes a lot of wrong choices .
This movie obviously doesn't take itself very serious , which is the reason why this movie still remains an entertaining one to watch . The movie is filled with some extreme stereotype characters ( you know , the kind that's so over-the-top that it misses its mark and looses its effect ) bad dialog and an of course silly concept and bad written story to begin with . It's especially hilarious to see how more important the game , rather then their lives is to all of the characters involved . Even real freaks aren't that freaky ! That's a serious and gruesome computer-monster that is killing them one by one in a horrible way but who cares when a game its development and a million dollar bonus is at stake . . . They just hide the bodies and go on with their work for as long as they can . But to be honest , the ridicules concept isn't as poorly developed or handled as you would expect from a movie like this ( even though of course the movie is obviously filled with some highly unlikely and ridicules events . ) I liked how well the game-world translated into the real world . Yes , that really is how PC games looked like in 2001 . Guess people will have a good laugh at it in 10 years from now . The in-game effects are certainly better looking than most movies ever normally try to bother to . Seems like they seriously did some research and were advised correctly and spend some real money on it . It's certainly refreshing and good to see after so many failed and just plain bad attempts from Hollywood to let video-games - and the computer world in general play key parts of the movie . However big problem with the movie remains that's not scary or serious enough for a horror , not science-fiction / fantasy-full / original enough for a science-fiction movie and not bad and / or campy enough for successful cult-classic . It is also hard to tell what the movie actually tried to achieve and in which category it wanted to be put under . Because of that all , the gore also doesn't work out . I mean , the movie is pretty gory in parts , since it features more than 1 cut of limb or head but yet the movie just never strikes as a gross or gruesome one . For these reasons alone you just can't regard this movie as a successful - or great one . Still amazing to see how many great actors are in the movie . It's however an uneven balance of actors who knew that they were cast for the B-movie value of the movie and actors who try to make the movie look as authentic and realistic as possible . Tyler Mane and Jason Marsden are great as the stereotype characters but it was quite sad to see Clea DuVall . I mean , I see this as an actress who will most likely win an Oscar within the next 7 years . Same goes to some extend also for Steven Culp . He's the guy who played Robert F . Kennedy in " Thirteen Days " for goodness sake ! The movie is definitely not a great one but nevertheless it remains an entertaining one to watch , since it obviously also didn't took itself very serious to begin with in the first place .
Well , how do you even rate a movie such as this one ? Does it even have cinematic value really ? It's a movie that tries to get as close to being a snuff movie as possible . Basically the entire movie is purely a bunch of guys torturing a young girl . Not very appealing and on top of that also not that realistic really . It's obvious that the movie tried to be as realistic and shocking as possible . However the movie is just all too fake for that to work out as intended . The slapping and stumping is all soft and fake looking , as well as sounding . They are often just kicking into the floor , rather than into the girl , obviously . Also the way the girl responds to all the torments is pretty tame . I mean if this was real , surely she would had screamed it out . There is more moaning than screaming in this one though . The movie is obviously low budget and it's a valor attempt at trying to achieve something shocking and realistic as well as original and provoking , with very limited resources . Don't really think this movie made much impact though at the time it got released , though it must had done something well , since a total of six sequels got released after this one . Fans of shock and gore will most likely be disappointed by this movie , though there are still some fetish people out there who will get a kick out of this movie .
Obviously this movie got inspired by the success of recent silly comedies and the ones about sports in particular . The movie has more misses then hits in it with its comedy and even though the movie certainly does has its moments , it's just not really a good or recommendable one to watch . Well , I sort of like this recent silly comedies of this new decade , even though not all are of high quality . They are just so silly that you can't help but laughing . This movie unfortunately is not among the best silly comedies of last recent years . It begins real good and promising but once the main story starts to kick in the movie starts to sleep in and becomes an usual , formulaic , silly , predictable movie , that lacks far too many original or truly hilarious moments . The movie sort of gets better again once Christopher Walken makes his entrance but it's just all not good enough to make this an effective movie . The movie constantly keeps you thinking throughout ; They could had really done a better job with this ! It's concept sounds hilarious on its own right and the movie and main story is a spoof of the Bruce Lee class " Enter the Dragon " . That movie already sort of was a silly movie in its own right but in a good and almost brilliant way . " Balls of Fury " is far from ever being good or brilliant though . Probably still the most hilarious element of the movie is the fact that Christopher Walken is in it . He plays his role of course deliberately from a serious angle which makes the comedy involving his character to work out all the better . His role is sort of too small though , also since he doesn't make his appearance until about halve way through the movie . It was as if he only was available for two weeks and they had to shoot all of his stuff in that time frame . None of the other main actors are really solid enough to fully carry this movie and some actors aren't even at the right place in this comedy . For a good silly sports comedy , watch " Dodgeball : A True Underdog Story " instead .
Problem with this movie is , is that it's way too messy . The movie features way too many characters and different plot lines which makes the movie unnecessary hard to follow . This movie has almost nothing to do with any of the other ' Mariachi ' movies and real main character of this movie is this time portrayed by Johnny Depp , who gets the most screen time and is by far the most interesting character of the movie . He really steals the show in every scene that he is in . The fun feeling and over-the-top action sequences that were overly present in " Desperado " are sourly missing here . The movie its story takes itself way too serious and because of that , this movie isn't a particularly entertaining one to watch . It still has plenty of action sequences , both all of those moments feel forced and are made unnecessary silly and unbelievable at times . It's pretty obvious that director Robert Rodriguez his good friend Quentin Tarantino , inspired him for this movie . The story of this movie is ' Tarantino ' like and features lots of different odd characters and story lines that are all somehow connected . However Rodriguez simply is no Tarantino and he fails terribly with his story for this movie . He should stick to his own style and that is making movies with an high entertainment value that are very light to watch and always have some good action in it . This movie and its story all feel extremely messy and incoherent and the at times weak editing also doesn't add much good to the movie and its storytelling . This movie is really stuffed with characters and big stars . It's really an overkill in this case and it makes the movie extra hard to follow at times . Sure its fun to see all those well known actors , who I all really like , but it simply doesn't work well for the story and the movie in general . Don't go and see this expecting a " Desperado 2 " . This is a totally different movie with a totally different story and style , that just happens to feature the El Mariachi character in it . Basically his character could had easily been written out of the movie , once you really start thinking about it . A messy movie with a messy story and too many characters and some forced action in it . Thank goodness Johnny Depp is still in this , he saves this movie from being a total disaster and still adds some fun and entertainment value to the movie .
Can someone please explain to Mr . Estevez that movie-making is more then just filming a couple of sequences and putting them in a row ? Its intentions were good but problem with " Bobby " is that the movie just never feels as one whole . Every storyline , with each different characters seem to be shot individually and they also feel that way . I'll bet that most of the actors never actually met , while shooting . It are all small pieces of movie put together , that never really feels as one big whole . The movie focuses on far too many character ( 22 and then some more ) that just aren't interesting enough to follow throughout and they don't feel connected at all to each other . The only reason why the characters are still made interesting is because they are being played by some fine actors . This movie has one of the finest assembly cast since years . Apparently Emilio Estevez has a lot of friends in Hollywood . The movie shows that Sharon Stone and Demi Moore can still act and I even have to admit that I thought that Lindsay Lohan was great . Despite the small size of most of the roles , the actors are still given enough opportunity to shine , despite some horrible and overlong dialog at times . Please leave that to someone else to write next time Mr . Estevez , thank you very much ! The many characters are one of the reasons why this movie feels like such a big soap-opera ! The actual plot line are also a reason why it feels like that . It's just too shallow and quite formulaic all . In the movie basically everyone is unhappy with the situations they are in , until the end when they finally start to brighten up and appreciate life and each other again , until of course the ending comes and their lives are being shattered again , by the assassination of Robert F . Kennedy ( that's not a spoiler is it ? ) , of which they are all present . Yes , I of course known that this was done intentionally , to provide the movie with subjects such as hope , dreams , racism , forgiveness , which all parallels Robert F . Kennedy's ambitions as a future president . But in the movie it seems like such a cheap and also rather predictable way to influence and steer the viewer's emotions . In fact this movie is not about Robert F . Kennedy at all but he just serves as a backdrop for the stories of all of the other characters in the movie . So the movie its title might be a bit deceiving for some . They mostly used real archive footage for his role in this movie , which also doesn't really ever blend in with the rest , since the real footage looks old and grainy and the picture itself looks perfect and clean . It just never makes you believe that Kennedy and the movie characters are ever in the same room . The movie just too much feels and looks like a 12 part made-for-TV mini-series . Perhaps I would had been milder about it if the movie in fact really was a 12 part mini-series .
This movie is a very sloppy one . The story is filled with some unlikely events and characters and the directing and especially editing is seriously flawed mostly . Still thanks to its music , this movie still has some entertainment value and also somewhat still works as a ' feel good movie ' . Perhaps the biggest problem with the movie is that the comedy and drama elements of the movie are not balanced out very well . At times the movie can't seem to decide whether it wants to be a comedy or a drama . A result of this is that most of the comedy feels out of place and seriously mistimed . The movie becomes never funny to watch because of this but the warm feel good atmosphere of the movie still somewhat compensates for this . Cuba Gooding Jr . seriously needs to start looking for another agent . I mean this is an Oscar winning actor but yet he appears in movies like " Chill Factor " , " Pearl Harbor " and " Boat Trip " ? I mean , what's up with that ? He deserves to play better roles in better movies . This movie is also one of those movies in which he feels out of place . I know he can play comical roles well but in this movie he just never gets enough opportunity to show this . As a matter of fact , none of the characters in the movie work out or feel deep enough . The movie seems to concentrate more ( and too much ) on its music than on its characters and story in general . I seriously don't think that Beyoncé Knowles is a bad actress but just like Cuba , her role isn't significant - and present enough in the movie . Rue McClanahan also somehow got mixed up in this mess . At times it just totally feels like entire sequences in the movie are missing . Lots of moments in the movie feel rushed and are not satisfying enough . The movie is a real sloppy job . You can't just blame the script for this but also the filmmakers involved . Yes , it's a real mess of a movie at times , that too often takes the easy simple road . But yet the movie still works good thanks to its music . It makes the movie very pleasant to watch and therefor the movie still works good as a simple feel good movie . But that obviously doesn't mean that the movie itself is also a good one . The movie is too flawed in its story and way of film-making to consider this movie a good or totally recommendable one . There still is enough to enjoy in this movie but the sloppy way of film-making and storytelling don't make this movie really a recommendable one . Perhaps this movie is a typical case of ' watch at your own risk ' . . . chances are you might end up loving - or totally hating it .
Although the movie is not THAT bad , it still is a disappointing end to the series . Huge problem is the horrible script . I think it's not fair to blame the actors for doing a poor job , I think it's all due to the poorly written dialog and dumb situations . They also should have left the Kane character alone , after Julian Beck's death they should have come up with a new and different ' villain ' . It is especially the beginning of the movie that is extremely bad and almost B-movie like with horrible dialog and ' comedy ' . Nice thing is that this is Lary Flynn Boyle's first role in a movie . At the time of this film she was still looking normal and was eating her food it seemed . Richard Fire as Dr . Seaton was one of the highlights of the movie , he seemed like the only one that knew in what for a mess of a movie he got into . It made his character enjoyable and humor full . The special effect certainly aren't a disappointment in this movie and the mirror effects are great , although heavily overused throughout the entire movie . But what ever happened to the music ? Jerry Goldsmith's score for the previous two Poltergeist movies was perfect . In this movie the famous Carol Anne's theme isn't even used once in any variation . Shame on you Joe Renzetti . If you still thought that " Poltergeist II : The Other Side " was watchable enough for you , than " Poltergeist III " might also be very well worth your time .
No wonder this movie never got a world wide release . It's a simple made little movie that tries to be original in several different ways but fails at it in about every way possible . This movie is supposed to be a fake documentary , a so called mockumentary , that focuses on the build up to a title-boxing match , set in London , between the champion Jose Mendez ( Michael Pena ) and the underdog and milkman Jimmy ' The Calcium Kid ' Connelly . It makes you wonder that if this is supposed to be a fake documentary , than why isn't it made in documentary style . It uses movie camera positions , lighting and editing , complete with cuts and different positions and a chronological scene build up . Basically the only way they tried to make it look a bit like a documentary , is by adding a ' camera ' voice-over and they let the camera being attacked and talked into a couple of times . It's really lame and it certainly doesn't add to the credibility or realism of the movie . The movie as a whole is hard to take serious since it goes comically so over-the-top that it isn't even good as a funny one . The humor is lame and simple , the sort of stuff a 9-year would normally come up with . The movie is made in ' new-English style ' . The kind of style which Guy Ritchie first began to use in his movies . Fast editing , fast pace , a cool style and music , over-the-top character and lots of humor . This is probably the only reason why this movie still remains a perfectly watchable one . It however does not always work out perfect . The characters for instance are all far from likable and / or comical . The humor itself on its own is also quite simple and awkward . This movie is far from funny or clever . The movie is filled with surprising many good and well known actors , for such a small movie as this one . The material and dialog they have to work with however isn't world class and the barely manage to make certain sequences and situations to still work out . Most of the actors also feel out of place . Orlando Bloom certainly isn't in his element as normal and simple everyday person . He just isn't the greatest comical talent around , which shows in this movie . Reading the premise of this movie , a inexperienced underdog against the boxing champion , one could immediately scream ; " Rocky " ripoff ! It certainly is true that this movie is far from original and the fact that the movie literally also spoofs some moments and entire sequences , completely with the same music , from the Rocky movies doesn't help to make this movie an original one that you can take serious as a boxing movie , not even as a comical meant to be one . In the end the movie still tries to take a surprising and non-formulaic twist but the twist is far from good , interesting or funny for that mater . As a matter of fact it gives the movie a bad aftertaste . A failed movie on many accounts . Still somewhat watchable thanks to its style .
The mix of drama and horror is unusually and unfortunately it doesn't work . Actually I think that the movie would have been quite good if it had just been an horror movie but for some strange reason there is more drama than horror in this movie and the drama elements are far from interesting or original . A shame . Still it is a worthy early effort from the now famous director Oliver Stone . The movie has it's moments and it's nice to see some of the style that Oliver Stone also used in his later better known movies , in a way that makes it a must see for the Oliver Stone fans . Far from good but also far from bad . Only recommendable for the Stone fans .
Are you guys kidding me ? What's up with all the positive reviews on here . I enjoy watching old movies but you have to give credit where it is due and this movie does certainly not deserve all of that praising . It's a very simple made little movie . The story is incredibly simple and is not really heading anywhere . It's unclear to me what this movie is trying to be ; A comedy , a romantic movie or an adventurous one . The movie mixes many of all those elements and the end result is a mixed bag of a movie with an awkward love-story , sporadic action and a vague main plot line . This is really one of those movies that is heading nowhere and makes a pointless impression . Perhaps if the movie had a more clear main plot line and other small things , such as perhaps a more villainous opposite character , the movie would at least had been more interesting to watch . The movie mostly relies on its love-story but it is a rather awkward one , that is far from credible or likable . It tries to be original but ends up being annoying instead . The fun characters are about the only redeeming quality of this movie . They still make sure that the movie is a light and fun one to watch . The main character , played by Robert Taylor , is also quite good and enjoyable . A sort of Indiana Jones like character set in the Wild West . Not as good obviously but certainly comparable . Certainly not unwatchable but far from a good - or even interesting one to watch .
In all fairness , this is one totally bad straight-to-video looking B-flick , that gets only made worthwhile by its amazing cast and performances . This movie is a good example of how not to tell a story . Halve way through the movie we still have no idea of what's going on and what the main plot line is and who wants what . And while the first halve of the movie focuses mainly on Elias Koteas , the second halve is all about Christopher Walken , Christopher Walken and Christopher Walken . Not that I mind though , it just makes the storytelling pretty incoherent . On top of that it's not like the story itself is also actually much special . Like I said , it takes too long for things to finally really start off and when it does it's just mostly disappointing . I mean , it's about the second battle in heaven but yet all we get to see is Christopher Walken against occasionally a different angel . You can say that this movie is a bit of a lackluster . All the more reason why this is obviously a B-movie . Also thing with this movie is , is that it's really made as a B-movie , so with bad and predictable editing and camera-work . And director Gregory Widen must have really counted his blessings when he learned that all those fine actors agreed to appear in this movie , since he himself obviously is not the most talented director around . So the movie gets only mainly purely uplifted by its actors . I just can't believe how many fine actors there are in this movie . This is of course one big fun role from Christoper Walken , who plays the fallen angel Gabriel . It's a delicious fun villainous role , with which he obviously can go over the top with at times . I'm not really accustomed to seeing Elias Koteas play a big role but he is a capable actors so he definitely pulls it off alright . Besides that the movie also features Virginia Madsen , Eric Stoltz , Viggo Mortensen , Amanda Plummer and Adam Goldberg . What a cast list ! Although yes it's true that most of them at the time were still fairly much unknown actors but that doesn't make them any less good to watch in this movie . I can't really say that the " The Prophecy " is a recommendable movie , although when you watch it you'll probably enjoy it for its acting . I can't believe they made 4 more sequels for this movie !
This is perhaps the Laurel & Hardy movie with the most silliest and random humor in it . The movie has a silly premise and it is entirely set in the Stone Age . This movie perhaps was a sort of experiment to see how the audience would react to a Laurel & Hardy movie that was not set in the 20th century and featured some almost cartoon like humor . In my opinion it's a rather failed experience . Although the movie does entertain , it really misses the Laurel & Hardy touch . It makes this movie basically just as good ( or bad ) as any other ' 20's slapstick movie . Although the movie is simple and silly , it certainly is no bad movie to watch . It has some real good funny moments in it , especially the scene in which the James Finlayson character gets thrown of the mountain is priceless but overall it still is a pretty simple movie that is too odd and different to please the most hardened Laurel & Hardy fans . The comedy seems to be very random , just like is the case in animated cartoons . Probably the reason why this is the silliest Laurel & Hardy movie around . It also doesn't make the movie the most consistent Laurel & Hardy comedy short around . To be honest the title cards were often funnier to read than it was to watch this movie . Not a really a good or common thing for a Laurel & Hardy movie . Stan Laurel does play a pretty good and very different role . It shows his variety as an actor and he shows that he can be funny , no matter what sort of role he plays . When he enters the screen the movie becomes truly entertaining and fun to watch . It's too bad that he gets introduced rather late into the movie . The movie also features Laurel & Hardy regular James Finlayson , who doesn't play a very big or significant but still fun role . Further more the movie is mostly filled with some pretty looking young cave-women . A very silly movie . Beware not to expect a regular early Laurel & Hardy silent comedy short .
This movie does provide a good and realistic view of French POW's in a German camp . The story and its characters are gritty and those are the main reasons why this movie is quite a good one . It however is too bad that it's too obvious that this movie was a piece of allied WW II propaganda . This movie was made in the middle of WW II and it's quite ridicules to see how incredibly black and white the story and its characters are at times . The Nazi's are made to look incredibly ruthless and without an heart and conscience while all the French prisoners want to do is practice their religion , be kind to each other and make the best out of it . The story and its characters are so incredibly black and white at times that the movie becomes quite ridicules and not a credible one to watch at times . The movie also obviously tries to send out a message . To POW to keep fighting and resisting against the Nazi's , to French citizens to revolt against the oppressors ( according to the movie , they should even burn their houses down , just like the Russians used to do , so the Germans will find nothing but ashes along their way ) and to help the resistance in any way they can . The whole message and propaganda elements in the movie are all way too obvious . It makes this movie really a ridicules one to watch at times . There are some good actors in the movie but due to the simple way of directing and storytelling , none of them really shines . The talents of Gene Kelly ( in one of his first movie roles ) and Peter Lorre are wasted in this movie . Still I can't rate this movie any lower than a , since the story and atmosphere are quite good and also have some nice elements in it . I guess it's a pretty good though rushed , early , low budget WW II movie that intends well but is too obvious with its propaganda . Not much interesting is really happening in the movie and the action toward the ending comes too late to makes this movie a better paced - and in general a better and more interesting movie to watchA watchable movie that however by no means is a must-see or a really recommendable one .
All that praise for this movie . . . while it in my opinion is nothing more than a simple written but very well directed heist movie which cast and style still make this an entertaining enough and certainly watchable movie . It however is a movie with a tad more misses than hits really . Main problem for me was the story . Over and over again it is told in the movie that this is the perfect bank robbery . Quite frankly I really don't see back in the movie why exactly the plan is such a brilliant one . Also the twist at the end left me cold and it was far from satisfying for me . I found the story to be simple and formulaic written . The movie tried to make itself seem more complex and clever but putting some non-linear story lines in the movie but its all not enough to make the story seem more interesting or any more clever . Spike Lee's directing however certainly spiced things up and manged to give the movie still some flair and an excellent ' cool ' atmosphere . Nevertheless the movie and its story just didn't hit me as clever , surprising or perfectly solidly written , which made the movie as a whole to me a bit simple although it certainly still was perfectly entertaining to watch . " Inside Man " isn't really a movie that allows itself to be put in a corner . It's hard to classify this movie as to what genre it is . As a thriller it isn't tense enough and as a crime movie it isn't clever and tough enough . For most part the movie is mostly entertaining to watch but than again at the same time the movie tries to handle some more serious and delicate matters . Best example of this are of course the racial and discriminating issues , a returning element in Spike Lee movies . The moments felt forced , out of place and totally unneeded . Because this movie doesn't really fit in a genre its hard to known how and with what approach or distance to watch this movie . The cast is impressive , perhaps a bit too . Denzel Washington is perfectly in his element , as yet again a police detective . He seems to be getting with every movie I see him in . Clive Owen isn't as impressive but he is a good actor and he plays his role convincing and ' cool ' enough . The movie also has Jodie Foster and Christopher Plummer in it but it makes you wonder why . Their roles are small and don't seem significant enough , even though they play an important part in the story . This is mainly because their screen time is too limited and it feels like a huge waste of talent . Jodie Foster normally picks her roles very carefully and it makes me wonder why she ever agreed to be in this movie . Willem Dafoe on the other hand again is a perfect , pleasant and most welcome addition to the star-filled cast . This movie still shows that Spike Lee is a great talented director with a nose for the business . This unfortunately in this case only shows in its style . The movie has some great executed - and almost artistically style-full sequences . It to me was the only reason why this movie still was a good - and entertaining enough movie to watch , for the story and its character left me cold mostly . Simple entertainment . Style-full but not solid .
The movie is just beyond silly but still strangely entertaining . " Vertical Limit " has several problems , the cast and story are just a few of them . The movie has some of the worst casting since years , everybody seems to be totally miscast with the exception of Bill Paxton , Robert Taylor , Temuera Morrison and a few other minor roles . Chris O'Donnell is an horrible choice as leading man and all that Izabella Scorupco does is scream and look pretty . But maybe the biggest problem is the beyond silly story . The main story line is not that bad but the movie is full with dumb and completely unnecessary sub plots . And of course the movie is completely technical inaccurate but that doesn't really matter , at least that is what makes the movie entertaining to watch . Visually the movie also isn't perfect . Sure it has some nice scenery but the special effects are pretty disappointing , especially in the beginning . Still the movie is not a complete wreck , it still has some nice and even exciting moments and the musical score by James Newton Howard is also surprising good and so is the excellent camera work from David Tattersall . The characters Cyril and Malcolm also saves this movie from being a disaster . Still somewhat entertaining mainly thanks to Martin Campbell's directing .
I expected more from this movie , after all its widely known and formed the inspiration for later movies such as " A Bug's Life " , " Mystery Men " and " Galaxy Quest " . Not the least movies in the genre . The premise of the movie also is good but this movie is a typical case of ; the premise is funnier and more original than the actual movie itself . The jokes are weak and the movie only relies on its premise , which basically forms the only comical situation of the movie . Even the great three main characters are pushed to the background . There aren't really many jokes present , which makes this movie also far from being one of the best or interesting comedies . The three main characters are good and they are a good spoof on ' 20's serial-movies . There are being played by ' 80's comedy icons Steve Martin , Martin Short and Chevy Chase . Especially Steve Martin is at his best as the leader of the bunch . But all of them however get a surprising disappointing amount of fun or interesting to do . The movie really is lacking in jokes and overall the movie itself could had been so much more of a fun one . Also the villains , who seemed to be interesting enough , are heavily underused in the movie . More was to be expected from ' 80's comedy talents such as John Landis , Steve Martin , Martin Short and Chevy Chase involved . Hightlights of the movie to me were the musical numbers , which were definitely the most fun sequences of the movie . The songs are from composer Randy Newman . The fine musical score itself is from composer Elmer Bernstein , who ironically also scored " The Magnificent Seven " , on which this movie is obviously based . Sure the movie is still a fun one to watch , mainly thanks to the premise that is obviously based on the Akira Kurosawa movie " Shichinin no samurai " and it's western remake " The Magnificent Seven " . Still the movie is a bit of a disappointment , considering the fact how well known it is over the world and how many later movies it inspired . Only really recommendable to the fans of ' 80's comedies .
A war movie done John Woo-style sounded like such a good idea on paper . The slow-motion action sequences and other typical Woo-ism elements are often even more laughable than beautiful or realistic . Same goes for the deeper and sentimental meanings of the movie . It's obvious John Woo wanted to make a " Saving Private Ryan " realistic like war movie but the movie gets stuck somewhere between Hollywood action / war entertainment and a serious war movie . The battle sequences look too fabricated and planned out , which is of course a killer for the movie its realism . Sure the battle sequences all look fine and it obvious cost some serious money to make this movie . Between all of the battles and action within the movie , there are lots of slow moments . Guess it tries to be deep or something , also about the Navajo-culture , in those moments but it instead feels pointless and often like a drag . Same goes for most of the sentiments within the movie . It's also the reason why the movie is quite long . The movie is an underwritten one that for a genre movie is too formulaic . It's mostly a predictable movie that offers very few surprises or original moments . A shame , since the concept of the movie is definitely an original one . The movie also doesn't bother to tell where and why they are fighting . What are all these battles ? Why are they being fought ? And yes , of course the movie also finds room to put in a love-story . All of the character also remain pretty shallow one's , no matter how far they dig into their past . Nicolas Cage just wasn't made for these sort of movies . The movie is filled with some other well known names in it and most of them do a good job . It's not like the acting is one of the weakest elements of the movie but that still doesn't mean that everyone was correctly cast . It's definitely a watchable movie but its shortcomings just prevent this movie from being a great or really memorable one .
The movie has the right intentions and the right talent is also definitely involved but yet it all does not work out as completely successful as it could had done . Perhaps you can wonder if this movie wasn't a little over-ambitious . It tries to put way too much into the movie and its filled with many different supernatural things and elements . It's a bit incoherent and you can often wonder what the one thing has to do with the other . This is also because a lot of things within this movie remain unexplained . It works out good for the mystery and overall atmosphere of the movie but when none of it reach a satisfying enough conclusion it starts to work against the movie . The movie is in constant motion but it doesn't feel like it's progressing . At the start of the movie we know and understand just as much what happened as we do at the end of the movie . Still its story and concept in particular is good enough to keep your intention till the end and director Mark Pellington is obviously a capable director , who knows to handle the genre but just didn't really knew to keep control of the movie its story . The story should had made some more choices but instead it decides to have a little bit of everything in the movie , with as a result that just nothing works out as well as it all could had done . It's not really the type of movie you would normally expect to see Richard Gere in but he fits the part really well . It was good to not see him for a change in a middle-age chick flick , or overly moralistic themed and dramatic movie . It's not necessarily a ' typical ' Richard Gere movie . He's real good and convincing as the movie its likable main ' hero ' , you can also care about . The movie also features some fine other actors but they get more pushed to the background of the movie because of the reason that the movie its story is so overfull with all kinds of things . All in all , yes it's a watchable enough movie for when you're bored or for on a rainy night but the movie is just not as great as it potentially really could had been . Genre fans will probably still enjoy it best .
Reason why this movie in a way is perhaps a bit of a must see is because this movie features Jean Harlow in her last role before her death . She collapsed on the set and died not much later in the hospital at the age of 26 . She must have been quite ill during the entire production of this movie . Is this perhaps also a reason why her character becomes ill in the movie ? Because there is no real obvious other reason I can think of as of why they put that in the movie , it had little use or value to the movie its story or her character . But I surely wish that her last movie would had been a different and more worthy one . This comedy offers little entertainment and perhaps even is a bit boring at times because of the formulaic story . As a comedy it simply ain't funny enough and as a drama it ain't powerful enough . So it's a bit of a ' pointless ' movie to watch . It's an extremely average romantic movie were oh so many movies like this one had been made of already . Still the atmosphere is quite good . The movie has a kind of an almost childish innocence that lot of movies made for WW II had . During and after WW II , movie's became more serious and perhaps also more meaningful . It's obvious that this movie was made just to bring shear joy and entertainment to the people in the cinema . The whole singing in the train sequence's is perhaps the best example of the movie its innocence . Clark Gable is quite good in his role but the line's he has to deliver are simply at times just plain annoying . Also the fact that Lionel Barrymore was in this movie didn't do much good for me . As an actor I can't really stand Lionel Barrymore , he so often irritates me . Most certainly not recommendable , unless you're interested in seeing Jean Harlow in her last role .
Compared to the first movie , this is is considerably better . It's done far more professional and has a better visual look over it , making this movie more convincing and compelling to watch than the first movie from the Za ginipiggu-series . This movie really looks - and is made like a movie , rather than a cheap and lame snuff-wannabee . The concept remains the same though ; A young woman is being kidnapped and held captive , with the pure purpose to torture her in as many different ways as imaginable . It's a rather graphic and gory movie , with some convincing effects but unfortunately not so convincing sound effects . Sometimes the sound effects are unintentionally hilarious , which does take away some of the power of the movie its visuals . Of course it's a totally pointless sadistic gory shocker but the fans of gore simply don't need more . The movie for them will be a memorable and ' enjoyable ' experience . The movie is quite short and also the torturing itself is ended pretty quickly when the torturer simply decides to switch over to dismembering his victim pretty early on . The movie could had worked out more interesting and intriguing had it been a bit longer and taken some more time to build up to its ' climax ' . Better than the first one but still a pretty pointless movie to watch .
The movie serves it's purpose very well and that purpose is to entertain the young ones . Oh boy , did I loved this movie as a kid and so did all my friends . However now that I'm older I of course look differently at the movie and I've also more critic at it . It's a fantastic fantasy movie that suffers from a silly story and bad looking sets . It's so obviously filmed in a studio , that it truly reminded me of an old B-movie from the 50's . And sure , the story is original and fun but it also has some silly and just plain weird plot lines in it , that don't suit the movie because they distract too much from the main plot line and will probably bore the kids as well . The performances are excellent . Robin Williams actually plays one of the best roles out of his career ! Dustin Hoffman is highly amusing as Captain Hook and the lost boys are just awesome ! The movie has some excellent jokes and funny moments in it , which all makes the movie more than pleasant to watch . The action is Spielberg-like-good and the cinematography and music are more than excellent . The ending is somewhat disappointing because . . . well , it just looks weird and too fake , like it was rushed ( which it probably also was ) . However I don't think it's really fair from us grown ups to judge over this movie since it was obviously made for kids . So let the young ones judge this movie . I'm sure they'll enjoy it and are capable of looking past the fake looking sets and other weaker points of the movie . They most likely won't be disappointed and shall enjoy watching it from start till finish , unlike probably most of the fair and objective adults . Nevertheless , I still consider this to be the ultimate kids movie !
In one way " Nixon " is an excellent movie , on the other it's a failure . The movie is made with lots of style and solid acting performances but on the other hand the story is confusing , due to the high pace , much information and many characters . The movie is simply too short to cover the entire political life of Richard M . Nixon . Watergate , the Vietnam war , the white house tapes , Nixon's two terms it simply is all too much to tell in just one movie . Stone even manages to put some flashbacks in , about how Nixon grew up , something that was not really needed in my opinion . The movie too often gets confusing also because the pace is so incredible high . There is too much information to deal with . Still the movie is perfectly watchable , especially if you're a fan of Stone's visual style . I love the editing and the cinematography by Robert Richardson is superb ! The acting is also great but what else did you expect from a cast like this ? The movie is filled with some big names . OK Hopkins doesn't look at all like Nixon but still his performances is an impressive one and Joan Allen truly deserved her Oscar nomination . She perhaps is the strongest character of the entire movie . So conclusion is , is that this movie is best watchable for the Stone fans . If you want to know more about Nixon's political career this movie is not the best thing to start of with .
The Muppets are back ! And they're having another great adventure . The story seems like a poor excuse to let the Muppets do so more and new crazy things . But does it really matter ? I don't think so , it's very entertaining and good for more then a few laughs . The characters are highly amusing and Sam The Eagle as always steals the show ! But the human cast is also amazing and forms the best Muppet movie cast . Tim Curry is excellent ! And Jennifer Saunders and Billy Connolly are very entertaining . Kevin Bishop however seems like a better stage player then a movie actor . The movie features some wonderful songs and the music by Hans Zimmer is surprising good ! The sets and all are however obvious fake and shot in a studio which is a bit of a shame but it doesn't make the movie less entertaining . Not at all ! Granted that it's not the best Muppet movie every made but still it's worth watching if you like the Muppets or if you like Tim Curry because he really is excellent in this one .
I was expecting quite a bit from this movie , as it's often being credited as being an intriguing WW II ( anti ) war documentary , that puts you right in the middle of things . It does feature some unique and straight-forward battle images but to me it just didn't all worked out . To me this movie looks and feels more like a news reel than an actual documentary about the accounts of the battle of San Pietro . This might sound like a compliment but it isn't really . The movie tells a story and it features lots of footage but it all feels glued together . To me it's even doubtful if the narration and images even belong together . The entire narration tells how the battle progressed but I doubted that all of the footage got shot during any of those talked about events . My suspicion got confirmed by the end of the movie , when a disclaimer got shown saying some of the footage got shot before and after the battle but were put into the movie for continuity reasons . The narration by John Huston keeps the movie going at all times but it makes things happen a bit too fast as well really . Guess this is not the creator's fault but more the war department's that heavily cut the movie down because the movie got considered to be too anti-war by them . The movie is mostly considered to be anti-war because it's being pretty straight-forward and of course honest . You'll see death bodies in this movie and allies taking some heavy blows by the Nazi-enemy . This of course however this present day only works out as realistic and more interesting as well . After watching this movie I still don't feel like I knew what happened all during the battle of San Pietro , or why this battle was considered to be such a distinctive or important one to the allied campaign . But this again is also mostly due to the movie its too high pace . WW II-buffs will still ' enjoy ' this movie for what it is , due to its unique footage but don't expect to learn much or to be blown away by any of the movie its images .
This really isn't the most exciting or original western ever made . It's a fair enough attempt and the frame work for many other later ' 50's westerns is already slightly present in this movie . Real problem with the movie is its story , though its concept definitely sounds intriguing and strong on paper , it just doesn't ever become so in the movie . The drama is almost soap-like , with uninteresting affairs and other personal drama's . It's a muddled mess , that above all is uninteresting to watch . Luckily toward the end the movie and its story gets better , when the more soap-like drama makes place for better developed and layered drama . The movie gets more solid and it doesn't allow any of the earlier weaker drama to distract from it . It makes this movie still a decent one to watch , though it's not one that I would wholeheartedly recommend to anyone . Despite the simple drama , characters and dialog , Burt Lancaster still shines in this movie . He gives away a great performance and also plays a likable main character . Good to see that he also did westerns in his career . The genre fits him well . None of the other characters or actors are really good enough to leave a lasting impression . It takes awhile for the movie to take pace and from the beginning on it isn't clear were the movie is trying to head to . It takes too long for the movie to take form , which makes the movie drag at points and also make it rather dull , to be frank . Not even some good old fashioned fight sequences can change anything about this . The settings on the other hand look fine and the nature suits the movie and its atmosphere . The cattle driving sequences are without doubt the best parts of the movie . Not bad enough to consider it unwatchable but not really good enough to consider it a recommendable movie either .
Not that the movie is very bad but it's just that the movie , with its atmosphere and premise , had so much more potential than the eventual end result . The movie suffers from numerous things . One is the build up and story flow . In all honesty this movie has an incredible bad build , which ruins the tension and mystery of the movie . Things happen in the movie too fast , without a proper build up . This way we never really get involved - and feel with any of the characters . It's a distant movie with distant characters and because of that neither the tension or mystery of the movie works out to the maximum . Non of the characters seems to be truly scared or surprised will all the unusual and scary things going on in the movie . It also sort of makes the movie ridicules to watch at moments . This movie had all the potential in it to become a tense atmosphere horror movie . After all , The Silent Hill games are probably the most atmospheric , tense , mysterious and scary games around at the moment . But as a die hard horror fan I can assure you ; this movie is not an horror . The movie really doesn't have any scares in it and although there is some gore , there is very little else to enjoy for the horror . So perhaps it's possible that a non-horror fan will like this picture more than I in the end did . The only thing horror about this movie is its atmosphere . Yes , the movie is great looking and because of that has a great visual look and atmosphere over it but the not so great story , characters , dialog and acting make sure that this movie never becomes tense or scary despite its fantastic atmosphere . But yes , the movie is definitely still watchable , mainly because of the reason I just mentioned ; the visual look . The movie uses some great camera positions ( copied directly from the game I presume ) , good looking sets , make-up and visual effects . The movie also has some great highly imaginative sequences , that perhaps can also be described as art . You could say that this movie is a case of style over substance . The story begins simple but as the plot thickens the movie becomes more and more difficult to follow . We're introduced to a totally new world and environment but the movie doesn't give us the time to adapt and get used to this strange ' alternative ' world . The story also tends to make the movie unnecessary hard and difficult to follow , especially toward the ending , that even comes over as strange and not in every way completely understandable . No wonder , since the story is written by Roger Avary . The man behind the early Quentin Tarantino movies " Reservoir Dogs " and " Pulp Fiction " . He always tends to write stories with several layers , multiple story lines and other complex writing techniques but in this case it's not for the best of it . The movie suffers from its ' over-done-written ' script . A simple understandable for everyone script would had sufficed for a genre movie like this one . Sorry to say but Radha Mitchell will not grow into becoming a big movie star . This goes for about all of the actors in the movie . Sean Bean also somehow got involved in this movie but to be frank , I don't know why he ever agreed to appear in this movie . He feels out of place and on top of that he also gets very little interesting to do . The only interesting actress in this movie seems to be Alice Krige but her character is unfortunately introduced too late in to the story . Non of the characters are really handled well in the movie and the dialog also isn't always the best , or most realistic thinkable , so that also isn't exactly helping them . The movie is still good enough to consider it a watchable one but considering the potential this movie in its core had ; a disappointing movie , especially from the viewpoint of an horror-genre fan .
This is a comedy that lacks some good laughs . Even though the movie still is good and enjoyable entertainment of course , I don't think I laughed even once . This is probably due to the fact that the movie doesn't have any slapstick moments in it and instead relies on just one comical situations the boys has got themselves into . The main plot line is pretty funny but it's a bit tiresome to base the entire movie around this one plot line . It's well acted out and constructed but it basically is too much of the same the whole time . The settings are pretty enjoyable . It gives us a good view into the late ' 20's night life . A life which we normally only know from movies who tried to recreate the atmosphere and settings from that period . But this movie is the real stuff and therefor it's still a pretty interesting watch . The atmosphere and settings are probably the only reason why this movie is still good to watch present day . There are some good comical constructed moments in the movie but it's all not enough to make this movie a grand and excelling Laurel & Hardy silent short .
This movie is another fine example of typical ' 70's movie making . The movie is however far from a ' 70's classic . The story is too poor for that and the movie overall lacks some action . It's not that the pace of the movie is kept low . The movie is fast enough and its well directed and constructed . It however is a rare ' 70's lack-lusting genre movie , in which you're just waiting for a chase of gunfight to happen , that just never comes . It's of course not that I feel that every single movie needs to have some action in it but some action wouldn't had been out of place in this one . It's fitting and sort of needed for a typical ' 70's genre thriller movie such as this one . The story is actually a pretty odd one once you really start thinking about it . It's rather simplistic , which also makes it far from credible and perhaps even makes it a bit laughable . Yet the movie is perfectly watchable . Everything about it is very professional and its a well crafted movie . It isn't Sydney Pollack's best work but he knows how to deal with the genre . The movie has a perfect sense of realism , despite its weaker unbelievable story . Also nothing wrong with the cinematography from ' 70's big-man Owen Roizman . Also refreshing to see a ' 70's genre movie for a chance that isn't stuck in one place or city . Robert Redford plays the main role of the movie well and he truly carries the movie . Also Max von Sydow plays a good and interesting role . Really no must-see but it's a well made movie that's worth seeing .
Perhaps the most anticipated and talked about movie of 2006 , by both positive and bashing negative parties ( mostly from religious persons ) . Controversy had always surrounded this movie and the book it was based on . It's such a shame that some people just can't separate fact from fiction and just take the movie for what it is ; good intelligent entertainment . Judging by its style and directing this movie was clearly not made to shock or offend but to purely entertain . And for the unbiased open minded person this is surely an entertaining movie to watch . It was not as slow or boring is I had heard and expected . The movie is definitely fast paced and features lots of thrilling moments . The movie its story had definitely enough potential to make this one of the best movies of 2006 but yet it isn't . The story tries to tell too much and often goes to deep into certain aspects which certainly doesn't help to make this movie the most pleasant or easiest one to watch . The story also takes lot for granted and goes to deep with its theories which isn't always good for the realism of the movie . It overall also makes the movie too long which makes it hard to keep interest for its entire duration . The movie has a good style and quick pace , with some good editing and moody camera-work and a great perfectly suiting Hans Zimmer soundtrack . The directing is also good when for most part but yet you can tell that thriller / mystery just isn't Ron Howard's genre . The movie doesn't always flow well enough . My advice to him would be to just stick to drama's and comedies , were his true talent lies . Guess Howard really wasn't the right guy for this job . Lots of fine actors are also wasted in the movie . The movie lies its emphasis on the story and therefor too often forgets about its character that become at times a secondary element in the movie . The movie does really lack a solid main character . It's not that Tom Hanks is of course an horrible actor and it's not like he's miscast in the movie , like most people say he is , his character just isn't always likable or understandable enough . Ian McKellen's role is too limited , as he is introduced too late into the movie . So is Jürgen Prochnow in a very small role and Alfred Molina , who's character had way more potential than was eventually used . Yet the movie remains a perfectly watchable one that is also more entertaining than you'll perhaps would expect . The movie features more than enough interesting and mysterious elements to keep you interest in the story until the end . The story features lots of imaginative and fascinating elements , the book by Dan Brown on which this movie is based is not a world wide success for no reason . Too bad that in the end the movie does not live up to the book it's success or brilliance and it doesn't quite meet expectations . It's some good intelligent entertainment but it's just not one of those movies people will still talk about in 10 years from now , I would reckon .
" Crimson Tide " is a movie that has grown onto me in the last couple of years . The movie had never been really any of my favorites , I never really cared much about the story and never thought the movie was tense enough for a thriller , in which never enough happened . This has changed the recent years . I now see how relevant the movie is and I am able to appreciate what the movie tries to tell and of course also the performances from actors Denzel Washington and Gene Hackman , which already is reason enough to watch the movie . Mutiny occurs on a nuclear submarine when the captain and his Lt . Commander disagree about firing a nuclear missile on the Russians , when the launch message is received , followed by an incomplete followup . Hackman is legally , by the Navel rules right , while Washington is morally right . So both are right in a way but you can't help routing for Denzel Washington , since Gene Hackman just basically plays a mean old piece of . . . Not that I mind though . It keeps the movie totally great and interesting to watch , since Washington and Hackman are just great in every sequences that they're together in . There always is a constant tension between them . They're different characters with different opinions and they perhaps never really liked each other but yet they always respect each other , right till the end . It provides the movie with some really effective and memorable moments . The movie is filled with many more big names in it , of who most were still fairly unknown actors at the time , such as Viggo Mortensen , James Gandolfini , Rick Schroder before his " NYPD Blue " period and Ryan Phillippe among others . So a real good job on the casting here , since it also features some already at the time established actors , that really all fit their roles really well . But lets face it . How much tense and interesting can be going on in a movie set almost entirely in a submarine . The movie does a good job at keeping the movie always interesting to watch , despite its subject and settings , mainly thanks to a high pace . It keeps the movie surprisingly tense and provides the movie with a constant atmosphere of tension . The story itself is quite interesting and thought provoking , once you start thinking about it how much power a submarine captain actually has ( had ) and how he can unleash a nuclear war with the push of a button . They try to also put some sequences in it with deeper meanings and layers and it certainly provides the movie with some memorable moments but the pace it is too high to actually allow you to absorb things and think about it . The movie also starts to repeat itself after a while . It also features far too many technical details that the viewers just don't understand and only work distracting from the true story and atmosphere of the movie . It really doesn't make the " Crimson Tide " the best , or most tense , movie ever written , though its premise is really more than great thriller material . I can understand that they hired other writers ( Robert Towne , Quentin Tarantino and Steven Zaillian ) the spice up the movie a little , by putting in some more dialog , character development and deeper meanings . Yet the movie really doesn't feel as if it had been written and re-written by different writers . I think that we can also thank director Tony Scott for that , who provides the movie with one overall consistent fast style and atmosphere . Some of the things that really make this movie better than just your average submarine movie is the very lively cinematography by Dariusz Wolski and the suiting musical score by Hans Zimmer , that works very effective and powerful for some of the sequences . In a way this movie also was his big Hollywood breakthrough , though he had composed some successful Hollywood scores before . Both really lift the movie to an higher level . Not an essential viewing ( though perhaps it are Washington and Hackman that still make the movie one ) but nevertheless a movie worth seeing if you can appreciate a well constructed movie , set almost entirely aboard a submarine .
Just what I had feared after watching its trailer for the first time ; this movie doesn't really feel like its part of the Die Hard movie franchise . Main reason for this is its approach . All of the previous three Die Hard movies had a certain realistic action approach . The movies at all time felt like these events as portrayed could really occur one day . It didn't tried to overdo things and put in any overblown action sequences , even though some moments were still rather far fetched to say the least . And then there is " Live Free or Die Hard " . In this movie John McClane battles a F-35 on an highway with a truck , fights an Asian chick in an elevator shaft will hanging in a van and crashes a car into a flying helicopter . It sort of tells the approach of " Live Free or Die Hard " . It features mostly overblown action sequences and the movie , as well as definitely its story , are far from believable all . But there is nothing wrong with this all , since this movie is still a great action flick on its own right . Still I'm somewhat disappointed that the movie sort of lacks the same feeling and approach of the previous Die Hard movies . What makes " Live Free or Die Hard " a great movie in its genre are its stunts . The movie knows to come up with a couple of highly original action moments and an even better execution of it all . Len Wiseman shows that he's a man who knows how to handle the action genre . But yes , even so I still wished John McTiernan had directed this . The movie is good looking with a nice visual ( though it was a bit too dark in parts perhaps ) style , which looked like they had a serious budget to spend on this movie and they did a good job with the money . The story and its main-plot is overall pretty good but only problem with it is that it's filled with some stupidities . This unfortunately ALWAYS happens when Hollywood decides to make a movie involving high tech computers and other technical aspects . Some things are just not possible as portrayed in this movie while others are just utterly ridicules ( Really , press the delete button to make hacker leave your computer ? ) . Hollywood always spends lots of money on hiring experts who tell them what is really technically possible and what's not but amazingly they all time ignore these advises , all in the best interest of the story and flow , at least in their opinion . I of course can somewhat understand this , since sometimes you just have to simplify a lot and make things happen without having to spend too much time explaining why . But this doesn't take away that the story of this movie is an at times pretty silly one to follow . But oh well , logic just isn't one of the requirements for an action-flick . Bruce Willis is well over 50 but with this movie once more shows that he can still handle an action movie , also as John McClane . The character hasn't changed much , he still manages to get his shirt very dirty only he has lost more of his hair by this time . I have always liked Timothy Olyphant as an actor and I really loved him in " The Girl Next Door " but I had my doubts if he was already ready enough for a big villainous role in a movie such as this one . He was good enough in his role but unfortunately he wasn't exactly among the most or best movie villains of this or any other decade . Did they ran out of Gruber brothers already ? All in all , I can really recommend this movie as a superior mindless action flick . And after all , a movie that features a nice Boba Fett reference ( of course also involving the Kevin Smith character ) just can't be all that bad , even though the fans of the previous three Die Hard movies might still feel a bit cheated by this movie its style , approach and handling .
The humor is good and typical British . Most of the jokes work really well , it's just too bad that some of the sketches are dragging on for too long and the movie itself feels a bit long . Man oh man , let me start of by saying that Peter Cook and Dudley Moore are horrible actors . It was really painful to watch at times for me but since this is a comedy , the acting really is secondary . The real power of course lies in its jokes and one-liners . Who cares really that Dudley Moore and Peter Cook weren't the world finest actors ? The quality of the most sketches is good even though some of course are better than others . But like I said it drags on for a bit too long at times , some more pace wouldn't had been such a bad idea at times . After 2 sins I already got a bit tired thinking about it that I had to watch 5 more sins but luckily the movie never really weakens and keeps you watching to the end . It is a very recommendable movie to kill some time with , also because of Raquel Welch small role !
This is a well made entertaining little movie , told in a wonderful fairytale kind of way and with a great atmosphere , that makes you feel like a child again . This movie had all the potential to become a real great and classic children movie but unfortunately the movie makes some bad choices . The movie can be seen as 4 in one . It features 3 told fairy tales and then there is the storyline regarding the brothers Grimm themselves . The whole story of the brother Grimm is perhaps not the most interesting told one ( especially not for children ) and its not as wonderful and fairytale like as the actual fairy tales told in this movie . And the brothers Grimm have written some of the most marvelous and best known fairy tales but yet this movie decides to use some lesser known and less great fairy tales ( ' The Dancing Princess ' , ' The Cobbler and the Elves ' and ' The Singing Bone ' ) . In my opinion it makes the movie a bit of a missed opportunity . It's not a bad movie now but the whole movie gave the feeling it all could had been more entertaining , humorous filled and a bit shorter . The movie had easily could and also should had ended 15 minutes earlier . The movie now needlessly goes on for too long . The fairy tales are definitely the best told parts of the movie . They flow well , have a fun feeling and atmosphere all over it and all makes you forget your worries for a while . It's kept all perfectly childish and it ensures that it never ever becomes too scary for the young ones . The movie is filled with some wonderful and lovable characters and they're being played by some good actors . Laurence Harvey and Karlheinz Böhm aren't really believable as brothers , mostly because of their looks and very different accent of course but they're still of course good actors . Some supporting roles are there for Terry-Thomas , Buddy Hackett and Billy Barty among others . The movie was made filmed in 3-camera Cinerama . Cinerama is the trademarked name for a widescreen process which works by simultaneously projecting images from three synchronized 35 mm projectors onto a huge , deeply-curved screen . So a technique that works only in cinemas . On the small screen it just doesn't look good and it looks like the images on screen are cut in 3 parts but back then movies just weren't made for home release of course . The movie is good looking . Deliberately campy with its fairytale sequences and good and realistic in its ' real world ' sequences . The sets are all nice ( Oscar-nom ) and so are the costumes ( Oscar-win ) . The stop-motion effects in the movie are all fair looking but it's nothing too impressive really . Wasn't Ray Harryhausen available for this movie ? Good entertainment , for the whole family .
This movie is a rather surprising unknown Dutch production , that has a really great atmosphere and one fine , filled with potential , main concept . What mostly drives this movie is its look and atmosphere , with some nice cinematography as well as good use of old archive footage . It can be described as something coming from a " The Twilight Zone " episode , in which a murder mystery is handled and that constantly makes you question if what the main character is seeing and hearing is real or not . It does this in a realistic way , sort of in the same trend as a M . Night Shyamalan movie . However this movie just doesn't work out as well as it could had . Like I said the movie features a potentially interesting concept , that could provide the movie with plenty of interesting story elements and tension . Yet it feels like the story is never fully getting off the ground . The movie is constantly building up its tension and mystery but it never delivers . At times it really seemed like the movie was getting there and interesting to watch , for instance when it starts to look like the main character is slowly loosing his sense of reality ( just like his deceased uncle ) and the line between the real world and imagination becomes really thin but then again , the movie decided to do nothing with it in the end . The movie features more elements just like that . It constantly hints at the supernatural . It builds up all the time with its mystery but it never ever pays of in the end . The entire movie is like one big build up to nothing and the ending leaves far too many loose ends and questions . It's so unrewarding . Here you are watching a well such a good looking movie , with nice settings and a good overall atmosphere but in the end it all feels pointless that you were watching this for 90 minutes because the ending is so unsatisfying . In that regard this movie also is really like a M . Night Shyamalan movie ( at least like his most recent work ) . Still I'm willing to give the movie somewhat the benefit of the doubt . The concept and the right ideas are there but it's the execution ( the storytelling ) of it all that is mostly lacking . Still is " Het Zwijgen " is an unique and atmospheric Dutch production . The right talent is definitely there but next time ( fore the film-makers deserve another shot ) they just need to pay a little bit more attention to the story and especially the way of storytelling within the movie .
Was " King Kong " a bad movie ? Absolutely not . Was it disappointing ? Slightly . " King Kong " certainly does have it's moments of greatness . What else was to expect from the director who before dazzled the world with his Lord of the Rings trilogy . Most of the emotions work out well in the movie but are perhaps not as powerful as they truly could had been . This is because the movie suffers from some flawed storytelling and a flawed story in general . The editing and pace is lacking at times , which does make the movie a bit tiresome to watch at moments . 3 hours + is of course a long sit and although the movie is spectacular to watch throughout it's entire running time , it's the way of storytelling , editing and a series of unlikely events in the movie that made me loose interest at times and prevented me from really feeling for any of the characters or caring really about the emotions . The movie begins promising but after that it drags for the about next 45 minutes . Seriously did the movie really have to spend so much time on character introductions and were all those sequences aboard the Venture really necessary ? The movie can be divided into three pieces ; 1 . Character introductions and the sequences aboard the Venture . 2 . Skull Island sequences . 3 . Back in New York . All those 3 pieces really feel like separate pieces and the movie doesn't feel as a whole . Also at certain points when characters get divided , or split-up , the story doesn't feel as a whole and every characters seems to play a role in their own personal movie , that were all thrown together again in the editing room to make one movie out of . It makes the way the story is told feel absolutely weak and flawed at certain moments . Jackson obviously had more eye for the visuals and Kong than for the human characters and storytelling . But yes , the visuals of the movie are splendid . Even though the movie didn't really gave me a typical ' 30's feeling , I still admire the way the re-created the New York of the ' 30's . Also Skull Island looks fantastic and has some nice settings . And of course Kong himself also really surpassed me expectations to be honest . He looked good and he is perfectly portrayed by Andy Serkis , who gives the character a more realistic feeling . But that brings me to another problem I had with the movie ; The movie tries to impress too hard . They try to top themselves in basically every sequences when it comes to the special effects . You see a dinosaur ? Let's bring in an even bigger one ! You see an insect ? Let's bring in a faster one with more legs and jaws . It makes all of the spectacular action sequences on Skull Island feel very unrealistic and the story becomes too artificial . It's OK to impress the viewer with some revolutionary special effects but not when the story and storytelling suffer from it . I'm not a that big fan of special effects driven movies anyway ( might sound strange , that coming from a Star Wars fan . ) because of the simple reason that computer effects still look like computer effects , no matter how good they are made . This particular movie overused it's effects , in the never ending effort to impress the viewers and leave them in awe . The actors in the movie are good . The sequences between Kong and Ann Darrow work out surprising good and powerful at times , which is of course also thanks to Naomi Watts , who was really good in her role . Jack Black is a revelation in a more serious role and he shows that he can also really do some good drama . Adrien Brody is of course also a great actor but I still don't really understand why an Oscar winning actor plays a role like this . It's a role without too much importance and flair . I can certainly imaging the movie without his character . Other fine actors in the movie are Thomas Kretschmann , Jamie Bell , Colin Hanks and Andy Serkis also plays an entertaining , enjoyable role as Lumpy the cook . All of the characters however are given very little screen time in the second and third act of the movie , with the exception of Ann Darrow of course . The movie truly mainly focuses on Kong and Ann Darrow . It does provide the movie with some good , powerful and emotional moments but at the same time it also provides the movie with many missed opportunities . The slowly turning evil transition of the Jack Black character for instance and how Preston ( Colin Hanks ) at certain points later in the movie forms his only link to the realistic normal world , instead of the money and fame driven world Carl Denham imagines himself in . The movie could had been so much more powerful and certainly more realistic if they had only spend more time on the script and gave the other characters also some more screen time , instead of just mainly only focusing on Ann and Kong . Of course it's a summer blockbuster and of course the story comes secondary . However in this particular case I really feel that the movie suffers from it's flawed story and storytelling . It's so obvious that the story is just almost totally empty and the movie is nothing more than one spectacular but yet unlikely event after the other . The movie forgets about its story at times and try too hard to impress the viewers with its special effects and other visuals . It makes the movie too artificial and forced to watch at times . The movie still remains almost perfectly entertaining to watch , just because so much spectacular happens . Some of the action is impressive and unforgettable but really the movie deserved a better story and character treatment . If that was the case , I almost surely would had regarded " King Kong " as one of the best movies of
This is a good and above average political thriller with action elements in it . Still the movie gets a bit too complicated at times and isn't always easy to follow . The movie is also long and some point of the movie are dragging on , even though the pace always remains good and high . It's hard to say in which genre this movie can be put . For an action movie it doesn't have enough action and for a thriller the story isn't good enough . It makes " Clear and Present Danger " a bit of a mixed movie that is far from perfect but still remains a perfectly watchable movie with some great actors and some memorable moments . Main problem I had with the movie is that it lacked a distinctive visual style . A problem all Phillip Noyce movies always have . That's why I'm not a too big fan of Phillip Noyce movies , with the exception of " Dead Calm " maybe , which simply had a very solid and tense story . " Clear and Present Danger " is a good made movie but it just is too simply and standard done all and it isn't really anything new . The cast is great and has some big names in it ; Harrison Ford , James Earl Jones , Harris Yulin , Donald Moffat , Henry Czerny , Joaquim de Almeida , Miguel Sandoval , Benjamin Bratt , Willem Dafoe , Ted Raimi in a small role and a still very young Thora Birch . The music by James Honer is really good . Even though it's typical Horner stuff , like he always used in his ' 90's movies , it works really well for the movie and truly uplifts the movie at times . There are some good moments in the movie that are highly memorable such as the convoy ambush which has become a bit of a classic already perhaps . Yes , the movie is perfectly watchable but the story isn't always the best to follow and at times the storytelling is lacking . Still , a movie that I would recommend to you .
This movie always has been compared a lot to " Fargo " , not just because its from the same directors but also the story and just the movie as a whole show lots of similarities . To be honest , I wouldn't exactly say that this movie is like " Fargo " at all . I wish it would had been though , since that probably would had meant that I would had liked and enjoyed the movie much better . My main problem I had with this movie was that the story and foremost its storytelling got unnecessarily complicated at times . The movie has all the right ingredients in it to make a good and typical Coen brother's movie with but some of the ingredients are not present good enough and not mixed in well enough with all of the other ingredients . It doesn't make " No Country for Old Men " as tasty as I would had hoped and also expected . After all , this movie was the big winner of the 2008 80th Annual Academy Awards , where it won Oscar's for best movie and directing . It mainly lacks some witty and subtle comedy . Yes , " No Country for Old Men " does obviously still feature this all but the movie just gives you the feeling if it all had been a tad bit more comical and not as serious , the movie would had been a way better one . It's still a superior shot and made movie though from the obvious talented Coen Brothers . It foremost also really shows how acting can really make a movie . Coen brother movie characters are of course always something unusual and unforgettable and " No Country for Old Men " also truly features some unforgettable and unusual characters in it . Of course most memorable is Javier Bardem as a serial killer with some odd weapons as choice . He deserved his Oscar . He plays his character chilling , as well as with a sense of comedy , despite the fact that his character doesn't ever show some emotion . A real great achievement from Spanish born actor Javier Bardem . But the entire movie is basically well cast with some big names such as Tommy Lee Jones and Woody Harrelson in it , as well as some unexpected choices , such as Josh Brolin and Kelly Macdonald in some roles I had never ever seen them in before but they fit and play their roles surprisingly well . The movie is slowly build up with some long shots . It makes " No Country for Old Men " also a real beautiful movie to watch , also not in the least of course thanks to Roger Deakins Oscar nominated camera-work . I would say ; beware not to expect another " Fargo " and you'll probably end up liking this movie but if it had been a bit more entertaining all it really truly would had been one of the movies of the year .
Not much was to be expected from this movie and it wasn't very widely advertised at the time of its release . I also hadn't heard much about this movie before watching this movie , neither from the common crowd or the media . Besides , it stars Liam Neeson in an action-role , how good can that ever turn out to be ? " Taken " is however unexpectedly good and one of the more pleasantly surprising movies of 2008 . Within its genre this is simply one fine movie . It's a quite tough and bold action movie , in which we see lots of graphic killings . It's real pleasing though to see the main hero shooting and fighting his way through France , leaving a real killing-spree behind him . We can feel for the character and therefore are also more into the action . We understand his motivations and we even cheer for him when he bluntly kills another person point-blank or shoots someone in the back . A real accomplishment for an action movie to get its crowd so drawn into the movie its action . It's pretty obvious though that this movie got heavily influenced by the also unexpected bug success of the Tony Scott movie " Man on Fire " . It uses a similar type of plot as well as main character and it also handles its action in the same kind of way ; Very bold , raw and straight-forward . The movie is not as fresh or well constructed as " Man on Fire " though but the movie also deserves better than to be merely called a " Man of Fire " - wannabe . I must say that action movies really seem to get tougher these days , in terms of its violence and mainly the handling of it . Movies now days often pick a more realistic approach instead of going over-the-top with any of its action . Because of this the action actually looks and feels more tough . It's a real welcome development within its genre . It's not in the least thanks to Liam Neeson that this movie also works out really . Of course it seems like an odd for a 55-year old Liam Neeson to go Jason Bourne-style but it works out surprisingly well for the movie . He handles his role and also its action really well . His character makes the movie and its story work . Not that the story is much special though . It's suiting and good enough for within its genre but it's just not all quite good and fresh enough to truly consider this a brilliant - or the most original recent action movie around . I therefore was also real surprised to see its rating on here , which is extremely high for a movie of this type and its given the movie a bit too much credit . Like I said , it's a real unexpected great movie and I really enjoyed it from basically start till finish but really an 8 people ? Just really too much , especially when considering that there are far too many great movies out there who have a far lower average rating on here . Oh well , the average voting score will probably settle down in a couple of years from now , giving the movie its place and rating it in all sincerity and objectivity deserves . But to end completely positively ; " Taken " is a real unexpectedly great movie within its genre , in which Neeson perhaps surprises the most as a convincing action-hero .
Guess I never realized it but Wes Anderson biggest inspiration as a film-maker probably always has been Quentin Tarantino . It shows best in this 13 minutes early short from the director of movies such as " Rushmore " , " The Royal Tenenbaums " and " The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou " . The movie is really made in Tarantino-style , so with long dialogs about nothing , sympathetic crook-like simple characters and a criminal plot . The acting and dialog is really what makes this movie , since the plot itself is actually rather thin and almost non-existing . The Wilson brothers were great and to be honest I've never seen them better in anything else . The movie is rather well made with some simple standard but well thought out camera positions and editing . It makes the directing also one of the highlights of the movie . But the movie remains just a 13 minutes short which is too short to ever let the movie reach a level of true greatness . It's not long enough to develop the story or any of it characters and therefor the movie mostly remains a flat and distant one , although it definitely is a well made one . It's hard to rate a thing like this , since it obviously shows that the talent is there but it it doesn't fully express in this movie .
This is a rather enjoyable movie that is nothing too impressive but is a good watch nevertheless . The movie begins slow and dull because it's mostly just so formulaic . From the beginning on it isn't clear which approach the movie picks and what the movie is all about . Really no thriller elements in the first halve , just some formulaic drama and romance . Only halve way through the movie the movie starts to become interesting when the thriller elements of the movie start to appear in to the story . The movie is more thriller than it's film-noir really , which might be a surprising thing , considering the time the year was made in . So yes , in a way the movie is quite original , despite being formulaic . It has a typical thriller build up that builds up that leads to the unavoidable ending . The movie has some good genre moments , which mostly works out due to the fine cast and suitable atmosphere of the movie . How often do we get to see Humphrey Bogart in the role of a psycho really ? That is quite awesome ! The supporting cast is also one to die for . Barbara Stanwyck was one of THE leading ladies at the time and Alexis Smith was also quite popular . Nigel Bruce , who everyone knows as THE Dr . Watson from the Sherlock Holmes movies starring Basil Rathbone , also plays a quite amusing small role in the movie . Despite its genre clichés , this is still a rather well made movie . It's effectively directed and the story flows well , despite being quite silly at times . It's an above average movie due to how professionally it's made and how well the actors handle the script and its more silly ( clichés ) and unbelievable moments . Perfectly watchable movie , especially for the Bogart fans , who want to see him in a role that is different .
This is one of those typical silly early ' 80's comedies , that features lots of immature teenage type of lame humor and nudity and sex jokes . No , this by no means is a great movie and it also is hardly the best the genre has to offer but it's a movie that simply serves its purpose and brings some good entertainment . The movie features dozens of silly and over-the-top characters , who are the main reason why this movie is such a maintaining and silly entertaining one to watch . It features Tom Hanks in an early comical movie role and it actually is sort of a shame he doesn't do movies like this anymore , since he certainly was very talented at it . Not that I mind the movies that he does now days of course but it at the same time is also a waste of his comical talent . The movie also tries to feature some more serious elements , that concentrated on what it means to be married . Not that this works out horrible for the movie but it of course is also distracting a bit from what the movie is really truly about ; simple immature comedy . Further more there is very little story actually and it simply features on the events during and around a bachelor party . The movie is so silly , simplistic and immature that you just can't help being entertained by it all . No matter how bad and cheesy it all gets , you can't help laughing at this movie . Some comical moments are just plain great . A real enjoyable silly ' 80's comedy , starring a young Tom Hanks .
In a way this movie has some wasted potential in it . It's not like this is an horrible movie to watch but with such a fine original concept ( for its time ) , the movie truly could had been a much better - and way more fascinating one . The movie now doesn't always work out due to its writing , that isn't always convincing , even though it still at all times remains a good perfectly and watchable movie . It's concept already provide the movie with a certain dark and moody atmosphere , which gets strengthened by its real fine and effective cinematography , that seems just perfect for this type of movie with its mystery and thriller elements , that mostly rely on the movie its atmosphere . I also surprisingly much liked the musical score for the movie . Roy Webb isn't that well known as most other composers from the same era but he truly made some great stuff throughout his career and also worked with some big name directors like Jacques Tourneur , Robert Wise and Alfred Hithcock . It's a bit of a too old fashioned movie , in the way it got made . You can blame the inexperienced director Mark Robson for this , who with this movie made his directorial debut . He directed this movie like an ' 30's movie , while this movie itself got made in 1943 . I haven't seen that many movies directed by him but his movie always seem to be minimalistic ones . He could make and tell a story with limited resources and without too much happening in the actual movie itself . This was a quality by him that often provided his movies with some strong and memorable sequences but at the same time also kept all of his movies on the level of being average ones , or ones slightly above that . The movie would had perhaps also been a better one with some better actors in it . Kim Hunter , who made her movie debut with this movie , was only in her early 20's at the time , plays the real main character of the movie but her character just never really becomes you care about , fore her character constantly looks scared and shy . Sure , the movie still has Tom Conway but not as much as his billing might suggest . All in all it still remains a good and moody movie to watch and it has some moments of greatness in it but overall the movie as a whole doesn't reach the level of true greatness , due to its writing and old fashioned way of directing style , which was a bit too distracting all .
Yep , this is a ' 70's movie alright . It has an unmistakable ' 70's style and atmosphere , with some great camera-work and some small scaled but spectacularly shot action . It also isn't the easiest to watch or easiest to follow movie though , which I found a disappointing aspect of the movie . Thing with " Get Carter " is , is that so many sequences make a redundant impression . While watching it you don't really realize it and wait for something to happen but when a sequence is over and it didn't contributed much to the movie and it's story , you'll feel sort of cheated . Yes , I know , this sort of is also part of ' 70's film-making and its style but it just didn't made " Get Carter " always the most pleasant movie to watch . Not really the directing or writing its fault . It has a solid story and some tight directing by Mike Hodges . It isn't really an usual crime movie , in which the man character starts blasting everyone away . Instead the movie is more personal and humane and shows a realistic character , dealing with some tough personal situations when his brother dies and he starts to suspect it was foul play . It of course also helps that the main character is being played by Michael Caine , who is of course still successful now days but perhaps did his best work in the ' 70's and even prior to that . Amazing once you start thinking about the career this man had and still has actually . From playing tough guys and lady-killers early in his career to playing kind old men in his later movies , such as for instance he does now in the new Christopher Nolan Batman movies , as the butler Alfred . A good ' 70's movie , just not the easiest or most pleasant one to watch .
This movie is so patriotic that it's not even funny anymore . I mean when the main character is literally fighting the English with an American flag , then you know that it can't get any more patriotic as this . Yet the movie is made with lots of profession and is still eye candy and entertaining to watch . The movie is not as heavy to watch as " Braveheart " but is still full with many epic battlefields of the same proportion . The balance of drama and spectacular scene's is fairly well and acceptable , with the exception of some needless plot lines that only waste time and the same goes for some of the characters . I have some mixed feeling about the story . The movie begins dramatic with Mel Gibson as a family man that is still coping with the loss of his wife , then it suddenly starts to focus much more on his oldest son ( Heath Ledger ) and finally for most parts on the war of independence . The way the story is told is not always good or logical . Another problem with the movie is Mel Gibson . A lot of complaints were that he played to much of the same character as he did in " Braveheart " . I experienced this the same way back in 2000 when I saw " The Patriot " in the theater . Basically what I saw was an American William Wallace fighting for freedom . But yes I must admit that now 4 years later this hardly is a complaint anymore . Jason Isaacs once again was a pleasure to watch . His character was an incredibly stereotyped bad guy but he is such a great actor with such a great villain look that he actually made the character an enjoyable villain . Biggest surprise for me was Chris Cooper . Now , I know that nobody is going to believe me for saying this but I already felt back in 2000 that this guy would some day win an Oscar , something that happened in the year 2003 for his role in " Adaptation " . The cinematography by Caleb Deschanel is wonderful and so is John Williams musical score , which both got nominated for an Academy Award along with Kevin O'Connell , Greg P . Russell and Lee Orloff for the category best sound . You'll most likely appreciate this movie much better if you are a ( patriotic ) American . For those people I rate this movie an . For everybody else this movie is nothing more as an entertaining movie without any memorable scene's or deeper meaning . For this majority I rate this movie an :
Laurel & Hardy getting in trouble with one or both wives has got too be the most used plot line in the long series of Laurel & Hardy movies . In this movie Oliver Hardy gets into trouble with his wife when she is fed up with cooking for every friend that her husband takes home . The story sounds simple and so is the movie . It's simple but effective . The comical situations work out well and it makes this movie a worthy first ' talkie ' for the two boys . It's not their best or most original movie but it serves its purpose . The plot line for this movie was later reused for the other Laurel & Hardy picture ; " Block-Heads " , which to be honest is better executed in that movie and it's a more superior movie in general . Nothing remarkable , just another fine executed and timed enjoyable comical short from Laurel & Hardy , with also the Laurel & Hardy regulars Thelma Todd , Mae Busch and Edgar Kennedy in it .
This is a very straight forward action flick with lots of violence and tough characters . Fans of the action genre will most definitely not be disappointed by this movie . From the start on , you know that this movie is a violent one that doesn't hold back . After we've seen the entire family of Frank Castle being killed ( and I mean every single last family member , both young and old ) you know that this movie is going to be different from most other action movies . It's a movie that is very straight forward and doesn't hold back but at the very same time it doesn't try to force , or go too much over-the-top . I think this is most probably thanks to the directing skills of Jonathan Hensleigh and the talented cast that was involved with this movie that makes it a very enjoyable , cool and still somewhat credible , summer-action-flick . The story is basically very simple and is set around one very simple good old fashioned concept ; vengeance , or maybe even better said ; punishment . It's not really a sort of action movie that needs much story . The characters , both the main ' hero ' and the main villain are interesting enough to carry the entire movie and make it a very pleasant one to watch . Even though the main ' hero ' is pretty dark and brutal himself , you still root for him because you understand him . Thomas Jane is pretty good as the leading man and he proves that he is a great and perhaps somewhat underrated action movie star . It's always a pleasure to see John Travolta in a villainous role and he certainly also does not disappoint in this movie . Same goes for Will Patton , who also was really great in this movie ( he's beginning to look old and fat now by the way . ) . Roy Scheider also shows up in a small role , or better said cameo as Frank Castle Sr . Kevin Nash plays a pretty cool role as a Russian hit-man . The fight sequence between him and the main character was one of the highlights of the movie to me . But seriously , were all those sequence's with the Punisher's neighbors really necessary ? I understand that they were put in the movie to still give the main character an humane and more soft side but the sequences just didn't worked out good enough and perhaps only were distracting from the main plot line . The sequences also are really a waste of Rebecca Romijn's qualities . She doesn't get to do anything good or interesting in the movie . Why did she even agreed to be in this ? It's nothing too memorable all and the action and story themselves are nothing more than average but it's the straight-forwardness of the movie that makes me regard this one as an above average one , that has more to offer than the average , simple action flick . The style of the movie also ain't bad and hopefully we'll hear more from director Jonathan Hensleigh ( who already is a successful writer of many well known action movies ) in the future .
This movie has something that other Star Wars " fan films " lack : Originality . While other fan films waste time on simple average stories set in woods with Jedi fighting the Sith and sometimes even if you're are lucky a bounty hunter with ( with all respect ) cheap looking effects , this movie doesn't have any of that . The story is very well written and I must say that it's nothing more then perfect ! The voice cast is excellent and so are the animations , especially Bail Organa looks superb ! And you can see that Adam Bertocci really understands film making . Only one small point of critic : The sound is sometimes pretty messed up , sometimes the sound or the music is too loud or too soft . But that's OK , it doesn't make the movie less pleasant to watch . I've seen lot's of Star Wars fan films in my life but this one is up there with the bests , along with " Troops " and " The Formula " , two other excellent and original fan films . Certainly a very entertaining animated movie . Don't stop making movies Adam ! P . S . : You must probably see " Lola Rennt " first , to fully understand this movie 100 %
This is a perfectly good and entertaining movie to watch . However as a biopic the movie remains pretty shallow and we never fully get to understand the character , though that also would had been virtually impossible , considering who's the subject of the movie . Not really Milos Forman's fault that the movie remains too shallow , since he's obviously capable of making an unsympathetic and unpredictable character accessible and likable ( watch " The People vs . Larry Flynt " , for instance ) . This movie doesn't ever really gives us an impression of the real Andy Kaufman . It's hard to tell in the movie when he's trying to be serious and when he's joking around . This is also due to Jim Carrey's acting . If you look at footage of the real Andy Kaufman you'll notice how incredibly natural and subtle his humor is He's not ever acting , he's just natural . Jim Carrey , no matter how great he is in his role , is clearly acting and playing a character . Guess that Andy Kaufman just wasn't the right subject to pick . He was too complex and unpredictable to make a fascinating and engaging biopic about . It has always been hard to define Andy Kaufman , since he was not your ordinary comedian and never referred to himself as being one . Having watched this movie , I still have no idea of who the real Kaufman was and what drove him and went on in his head . Don't get me wrong , Carrey is great , I mean he gets really absorbed by its character but he just isn't Kaufman . It perhaps makes his performance - as the entire movie a bit overrated . It's fun to see that lots of persons involving Kaufman's life and career play themselves in this movie such as most of the " Taxi " cast , Jerry Lawler and David Letterman . But the movie also features some other great ' real ' actors such as Danny DeVito , Vincent Schiavelli , Paul Giamatti and Courtney Love . The movie focuses on Kaufman's entire career as a comedian ( and wrestler ! ) . Obviously a lot to put in a merely 2 hour movie but the movie manages very well to put the interesting and groundbreaking legendary things of his career into the movie . It also makes sure that the movie always keeps pace , though its not always for the best of the movie . Basically in a 15 minutes time-span we go from the beginning illness , to Kaufman's Carnegie Hall performance and his death . The movie doesn't leave much room for thinking . Perhaps also a reason why the movie remains pretty shallow , though the movie still has some good emotions in it . So the story-flow is a little offbeat at times and things happen to fast and are forgotten in the next sequence again . It's perhaps the only flow in the otherwise great directing ( though the audience reaction in the movie were also distractingly overdone at times with lots of over-the-top laughing and standing ovations , as if Kaufman was some sort of God to everyone . ) and entertainingly written story . It's definitely true that the movie focuses on the more merry aspects of Kaufman's life . For instance the birth of his give up for adoption child with his only 17 year old girlfriend is not mentioned at all in any form in the movie . The movie focuses on the humorous side of life and is made in the same style as Kaufman's kind of humor . Guess that the movie is pretty much like Kaufman himself would had liked it But even if you weren't a Kaufman fan , I think this movie would be still one worth watching . It's greatly directed with good productions values and a solid cast . More entertaining than engaging or interesting really .
As a spoof of murder-mystery movies and plays this movie is great fun . It has all the clichés from that genre in it and perfectly spoofs those clichés and characters in this movie . The movie has the usual suspects in it and a police inspector ( Fred Kelse ) who tries to solve the case . Yes , like I said before , it perfectly spoofs some of the murder-mystery clichés . As a spoof it sill applies today . The ' spooky ' elements of the movie are also a welcome addition and provides the movie with some fun moments . Seeing the boys being chased by a white-sheet is a pretty funny sighting . Frank Austin is also perfectly spooky as the stereotype old butler . Too bad that the pace of the movie isn't the best at times . The movie is dragging on for too long at times , which makes some of the jokes feel stretched out a bit too much . It overall does have its moments , especially when it spoofs the murder-mystery genre but it's a bit too much dragging movie to find it a hilarious one , or a must-see for the Laurel & Hardy lovers among us .
What this movie does well is not showing too much . This could had easily turned into a cheesy monster-flick , in which you see a guy dressed up as a scarecrow killing people . The scarecrow actually isn't shown until the very end it is being implied often in the movie that the killer is not a ghostly scarecrow rising from the grave to take revenge upon his killers but a normal person of flesh and blood who has their own motivation to kill the bad men . It relies further more on a very simple plot but due to its approach it works out original and effective nevertheless . Not that the movie is a very scary one but it still turns into a creepy and atmospheric one , when you're not fully knowing what is going to happen next . The movie is definitely less worth and cheesy than its title at first sight might suggest . You could say that the movie doesn't show much and doesn't has any gore in it because it's a cheaply made for TV movie . That might be so but however the movie simply uses this to its own benefit . In this case less is more within this movie . Director Frank De Felitta actually directed a couple of more made for TV horror movies like this throughout his career and it's short of a shame that he never really broke through . Although I don't know if his movies would had been better though if they had a bigger budget and a global world wide theatrical release . He actually made one big movie in his career , starring Sharon Stone which did flopped . The movie doesn't feature the world's best actors ( though Charles Durning has done some good things throughout his career ) but this suits the movie and its atmosphere and style well . It is a surprising sight though seeing Marlon Brando's older sister Jocelyn Brando in this . It also was weird seeing Larry Drake in this , as a retarded man , who can only think and act like a child . It was weird seeing him as this , since Larry Drake to me while always be that tough criminal Durant from the " Darkman " movies . A movie really worth watching .
Lets face it . The ' film-noir ' period was already over its peak and as good as death already in 1965 , when this movie was released . This movie is a late attempt to revive the film-noir genre , with some big names involved . They partly succeeded . The movie works quite well as a crime / thriller movie but it lacks the certain style , characters and subtle style of film-making to consider this movie a good attempt at the film-noir genre . All of the classic ingredients are present here but everything doesn't always connect very well . Some of the story lines are underdeveloped and it often leaves more questions than answers . I still don't fully understand what the point was of the robbery / killing in the beginning of the movie . Some of the events in the movie feel silly but it luckily doesn't make the movie any less pleasant to watch . So even though everything in the movie is far from flawless it still is a good enough crime / thriller to watch . The main plot line isn't anything too terribly exciting but it's told in a good way . Director Ralph Nelson brought the standard and thin story well to the screen and even manages to make the movie look exciting , thrilling and surprising . The musical score by Lalo Schifrin is quite odd but its suits the movie very well and therefor I liked it . The characters and cast are good and interesting . OK so Alain Delon might not be the best leading man but the supporting cast certainly compensates for this . Ann-Margret shows she is a great actress although she mainly only does some screaming and crying in this movie . It gets a bit too much after a while . Van Heflin and Jack Palance were also great and John Davis Chandler beautifully plays a ruthless villainous looking villain . He absolutely stole the show in most of the sequences he was present in . A good enough crime / thriller that deserves to be seen .
To be honest , the movie began as a typical - and not so great , teenage comedy flick , in which a couple of youngsters are going on a spring break holiday . " Where the Boys Are " however handles delicate themes delicately and the movie is way more than just another teenage comedy . Actually quite amazing considering that this movie got made in 1960 . The movie and its theme seems far ahead of its time . It makes the movie all the more relevant for the time period it got released in and all the more interesting now days to watch . This movie is basically a good observation of how teenagers handled sexual themes in 1960 , without ever getting raunchy or not honest . It's a straightforward flick with its theme but its style ensures that this movie at all times mostly remains an entertaining and light one to watch . The movie also really doesn't feel like it was made in 1960 . It's an all the more interesting movie since it tells the story from the viewpoint of the female characters , which works refreshing for a change . The movie knows to create a perfect balance between its more serious moments and its entertainment value . With movies like this the drama would often feel forced and out of place since the entire movie is done in a comical style of film-making . The creators of this movie however managed to find the right balance , without ever crossing any lines . Above all things it's still a very entertaining movie to watch . It's still mostly a comedy that provides some good entertainment and has some likable characters in it . The characters are also really a reason why the movie works out . Lot of the characters are very stereotypical but luckily the actors don't go over-the-top with their roles , which ensures that we can also really start to like - and feel for some of the characters . The acting was way better than expected . Paula Prentiss really impressed me , also with her beauty and the movie further more features George Hamilton and Frank Gorshin in some early roles . Gorshin is still perhaps best known for his portrayal of the Riddler in the early " Batman " series . A surprising and fresh movie that deserves to be seen by more .
This movie doesn't receive much love but I think it really deserves some . It's understandable why this movie is regarded as a bad one . It's the third establishment in a series of unneeded " Jaws " sequels . Both 2 and 3 were disappointing movies , especially compared to the first of course so how could the third sequel be possibly any better ? It's easy to bash a movie like this but I'm not going with the majority here on this one . I'll explain why I feel that this is the second best movie from the " Jaws " series . Despite the previous two sequels it actually tries to recapture the atmosphere of the first movie . Also of course the fact that Lorraine Gary reprises her role as Ellen Brody adds to this feeling and atmosphere . The movie has lots of returning character and references to the first " Jaws " movie , something that the previous two sequels mostly ignored . This movie is actually the closest to the first " Jaws " movie in its atmosphere , story and tension . The only reason why this movie is not as good as the first " Jaws " movie is the fact that it hasn't got the characters Quint , Chief Brody and Hooper in it . Also of course Spielbergs skill and subtle touch is missing and so is John Williams ' musical score . The use of some archive footage from the first " Jaws " movie , in some flashbacks scenes might be a bit cheap but in my opinion it works effective . It perfectly binds the first and last establishment of the " Jaws " series . It also explains the ' lame ' story better . The story is that a shark wants to take revenge on all the Brody's . It's of course incredibly silly that a shark would ever do such a thing but a story like this was necessary to put an end to the " Jaws " series . After this vengeful shark would die , it would be highly unbelievable that any of the Brody's would have a later encounter with a great white . This sort of story was simply needed to put an end to the series and for me it's really satisfying . It is a really great and enjoyable monster movie . It has some well build up and executed sequences and an ending that also doesn't disappoint . In my opinion it's a great way to end the " Jaws " series , even though my opinion still is that none of the " Jaws " sequels should had ever been made because they are simply pointless .
I have the feeling people call this movie a great one just because it's made by Hitchcock . But truth being told , the movie really isn't among the greatest in its genre . Even the master himself obviously still had some learning to do . No disgrace , since this is the first ' talkie ' from the master of suspense . Well , not exactly entirely a talkie in my book , since the movie is still mostly shot in silent movie style . Sound came available during the making of this movie , which was reason for Hitchcock to re-shoot certain parts of the movie with sound . It doesn't exactly give the movie a very consistent style and makes the editing look clumsy at parts . The movie is a bit of a drag at points , with also some overlong pointless dialog and long shots . The movie does luckily get better when the suspense kicks in and the movie turns into a real thriller . But soon again the movie starts to tend to be overlong at points . It also restrains the movie its story and keeps it rather simplistic . The movie gives you the feeling it had more potential in its story really . There are some great , almost artistic like looking shots within the movie , which still makes this a certainly better than average one and also more interesting to watch . it's a very creatively put together movie , with also some great camera-work , lighting and use of shadows . Of course the museum chase at the end of the movie is the highlight of the movie . It's a greatly directed sequence that is great looking and constructed . It showed Hitchcock's talent and was a premise of things to come . The actors certainly aren't among the greatest of their period . Their excuse could be that this was their first talkie as well though . It's not the most exciting Hitchcock you'll ever see . Even as an early thriller and for 1929 standards it isn't among the most exciting or best ones but it's a movie worth watching for its artistic creativity .
" Rambo " establishes a new world record of limbs flying around . With an average of 2 . 59 killings per minute , of which some are also innocent civilians such as women and children , this has got to be one of the most violent movies ever made . But its not just the quantity that's amazing but also the quality of it all . Getting an arrow through your head apparently isn't enough , you also need to feel atop of a mine , that has to explode . Obviously " Rambo " is not a recommendable movie just to everyone . It actually makes quite sense though that this fourth Rambo movie installment is so incredibly violent . You have to remember that the first Rambo movie " First Blood " from 1982 was quite renewing and violent for its time . As the Rambo series progressed with " Rambo : First Blood Part II " and " Rambo III " the movie became more and more violent and actually daring for its time . They could had decided to do " Rambo " in the same style as its predecessors , which probably would had gotten them a good movie as well but instead they decided to keep pushing the envelope and see how far they could go now in the 21th century with its gore and violence . Rambo always had been a trend setter for action movies and with the fourth movie " Rambo " it continues to do so . Hard to say what it is that makes " Rambo " such a surprisingly fine movie . Perhaps because it shows balls and this movie is basically one big testosterone driven action flick , that will keep your adrenaline pumping throughout . It foremost is a real man movie and I can't imaging too many women enjoying this movie . But its also a movie of a great quality . The cinematography by Glen MacPherson gives the movie a gritty but beautiful look . But of course its mostly the action that impresses . It's extremely violent but its also done extremely well . Bodies and limbs are flying through the air , limbs are being shot and cut off and the movie features more exploding heads than several zombie movie flicks combined . The movie obviously has some professional stunt-work and pyrotechnics / special effects . Of course when you start analyzing the movie it simply is a very poor one with a very formulaic but also almost non-existent and developed story . It's just a movie you have to experience . This of course goes for most action movies but for this one even more than others . I just have a thing for over-the-top going movies . The Rambo movies are all an example of this , as well as the Rocky series , which also stars Sylvester Stallone in the main lead . Despite the fact that he already was well over 60 years old already at the time of shooting this movie , Sylvester Stallone is still convincing enough in his role of the iconic action hero Rambo . As the tag line says ; ' Heroes never die . . . . They just reload . ' Besides playing the title role , Stallone also directed the movie , making this the first Rambo movie that he directed . I think that the movie deliberately didn't cast any other ' big ' names in it , in order to put the emphasis mainly on Stallone and his character . This is the way it also should be in my opinion . When you have a movie with a character such as Rambo in it , you basically don't need any other interesting characters anymore . Yes , it would had been great if Col . Trautman also had been in the movie , who always had been sort of Rambo's conscience but he isn't missed as much as some people would had expected and feared really . Of course the reason why he doesn't appear in this movie is because the actor Richard Crenna , who played the character in all of the previous Rambo movies , passed away in 2003 . Jerry Goldsmith , the composer of all of the previous Rambo movies had also passed away , in 2004 . His replacement for this movie is Brian Tyler , who's expertize is the action genre . He however did not forget Goldsmith's previous scores for the Rambo movies , which means that this movie features a lot of reprising themes , besides its new original compositions . Probably the most extreme and violent action movie you'll ever see . Clearly not a movie for just everyone but I really liked and appreciated the movie for what it did to raise the bar again within the action genre , just like the previous Rambo movies had done before in the ' 80's and ' 90's .
This movie is a great achievement when it comes down to the technical aspects of the movie . The movie is visually a great one but story-wise not an entirely successful one . Its visuals are truly the thing that makes this movie such a remarkable piece of work . The movie is nicely put together with the use of drawn pictures from books , miniatures and life action . To be honest , the slide-show and miniature elements were often more effective and impressive and interesting to watch than the life action sequences with actors . Nevertheless , the movie also features some great looking costumes and make-up effects . Especially the devil looks terrific , though he also looks about as formulaic as can be but that maybe also is the beauty of it . In the beginning the movie still shows a good balance between the ' slide-show elements ' of the storytelling and its life-action sequences . The movie remains almost entirely on its visuals . The movie feels like a history book that is being read to you , complete with fantasy and nightmare like images . However toward the ending the movie almost entirely becomes life-action , which really isn't the movie its strongest point . The story and sequences are often overlong and also quite confusing to follow . Story-wise the movie isn't always the easiest one to follow , since its visuals also makes sure that this movie always has a nightmarish , strange and certainly unique feeling all over it , that provide the movie with some beautiful but also strange and difficult to understand and follow , moments . At first the movie seems to be a sort of documentary like telling of witchcraft through the ages . However toward the end it becomes more and more obvious that this movie is way more than that , as it begins to show parallels between the middle ages and modern life , mainly regarding the position of women and treatment of mental states and such . So the movie also makes a clear - and thought provoking statement and you can actually wonder to yourself what has changed between 1922 and this present day , regarding all those subjects . Parelles between events in this movie and modern day life and society can still be drawn , which is both interesting but also shocking to note . A great to watch and also interesting movie regarding the subject of witchcraft , that is still being considered to be one of the most ultimate resources on the subject and inspired many , later film-makers .
While the first Harry Potter was just entertaining , the second one luckily provides more than just that . Good thing about sequels is that they don't have to waste time on character introduction anymore since we already know the main characters from the first movie . " Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets " also introduce some new fresh character , yet again played by an amazing list of well known actors . Favorite is Jason Isaacs as Lucius Malfoy , Draco's father and Kenneth Branagh as Gilderoy Lockhart . The movie has more story and depth than the first movie had , but still yet again the ending doesn't feel fitting . I did some thinking about it what it is that makes the endings of Harry Potter movies so bad and I came to the following conclusion ; The movie is basically about and relies on the three main characters Harry , Ron and Hermione , towards the ending Harry Potter always has to face ' evil ' on his own , without Ron and Hermione . I think this is the reason why the endings always feels so out of place , without Ron and Hermione , Harry Potter is quite boring and not at his best . The movie still has some other downers , such as Dobby the House Elf and the fact that it still relies too much on the book , with as a result too many pointless characters and moments and some elements that are never completely clear for people who never read the books ( such as myself ) . But thankfully the movie has more ups than downs . Visually the movie looks wonderful with nice costumes and sets . Also the special effects have improved big time ! The game of quidditch looks far better and more realistic than it did in the first movie . Entertaining movie , an improvement over the first . Not for people with arachnophobia though !
I'm not one of those persons who praises " Shrek " all the time as one of the greatest movies ever made , like many other persons seem to do . Quite frankly I never really understood what the hype was all about . But still you have to give credit to this movie , it's very entertaining and fun to watch over and over again . A good sidekick is always important , especially in an animated movie . A good sidekick can make the movie better but a bad sidekick can really ruin a movie . " Shrek " doesn't have a good sidekick . . . it has an excellent sidekick ! Donkey is a wonderful and entertaining character thanks to Eddie Murphy who voiced him . The other main voices are provided by Mike Myers , Cameron Diaz and John Lithgow . Further more I would like to add that I absolutely love the character Pinocchio in this movie . The story is told in a good way with a nice pace , I especially like how subtle some Disney movies and characters are spoofed . But for some reason I never really found the story in general that very appealing . The movie is well animated and it shows that DreamWorks is a worthy competitor for Pixar . The music is good and takes the movie to an higher level and I'm not just talking about the evergreen songs but also about the movie soundtrack by John Powell and Harry Gregson-Williams who know how to compose a good and fun score for animated movies . Although it's getting more credit than it really deserves , it's still a fun and entertaining animated movie .
The movie is not as good and effective with its shots as a Sergei Eisenstein movie for instance . You can see in parts that this movie was really influenced by Eisenstein's earlier work , also in the way of camera-work and editing . But nevertheless the movie has some obvious other qualities of its own that make this a great viewing experience . I liked the way the movie progressed . Yes , of course it's propaganda but that doesn't make the storytelling within the movie any less great . It isn't the fastest going movie and it takes its time to establish thing , also with the help of long shots of the countryside and other nature elements and symbolisms , which in essence this movie is of course all about . Of course Russian movie making techniques were a couple of years behind in those days . The quality looks about as good as Hollywood movies from the ' 20's but I like this , since it also shows that Russian movies from those days had a completely different style and approach , then anywhere else in the world . It always makes it refreshing and something totally different to watch a Russian movie from the ' 20's / ' 30's . it's a bit of a dark movie though and you can wonder if it isn't a bit too dark . Death is an important element in this movie and apparently the dark themes within the movie were also the reason why many Russians at the time didn't very much enjoyed this movie . Really worth seeing for its imagery and the way the story slowly progresses .
This is a movie with a very warm and pleasant atmosphere . It has a childish innocence over it , like basically all these typical genre movies from the ' 30's seem to have . It's atmosphere , story and characters make this a very pleasant and entertaining movie to watch . It has a very simple concept , in which a French baker's wife run of with a shepherd , after the first night they moved in to a small village , in the middle of the countryside . After this the baker refuses to make bread anymore . The villagers of course want their daily fresh bread so they together come up with a plan to get her back to the bakery . It all sounds very simple but thanks to its fine storytelling from director Marcel Pagnol it all works out real well . There also is of course more to the story , courtesy of some fine input from the movie its characters and actors portraying them . It's a well cast movie , with French character actor Raimu in the main lead . The other cast members all have some very characteristic look over them , the way only the French can look . I'm not too happy about the casting of Ginette Leclerc though . She is supposed to be a very pretty woman in the movie but just look at the way Leclerc look . . . she is no natural beauty . Or perhaps her looks just were the idea of a true beauty , in the France of the 1930's . It takes a while for the movie to pick up its pace and the movie also tends to drag on a bit in its middle part but in the many parts that the movie finds its right pace , the movie is a great one . It's a real enjoyable comedy , that is not the type of comedy that has some hilarious moments that will make you laugh out loud in it but it's more the type of comedy that tries to constantly entertain . It doesn't fail at that , thanks to the movie its very pleasant atmosphere , simplistic story and likable characters . Especially the movie its last halve , in which the villagers start to undertake action , is just great . A fun and warm little movie .
This movie was a great little surprise . It's a wonderful Dutch family movie with some good dramatic moments but it's also a movie that is entertaining to watch . The movie is perfectly made ! It perfectly mixes the dramatic moments with the sport and fun elements of the movie . The storytelling is truly excellent and reminded me of the better Scandinavian family movies . The portrayal of the normal everyday Dutch family is perfect , this is mainly thanks to the actors Thomas Acda and Wendy Van Dijk who both are very believable in their roles as parents . The story is told in a perfectly realistic way . The whole plot line in which the father returns as a ghost might sound lame but it works surprising well for the movie and its emotions . Nothing in the movie is ever over-dramatized and everything in the movie feels highly realistic . It makes most of the emotions and events in the movie really powerful because they feel very real and understandable . The story is really great . Even though nothing in the movie happens as a real surprise , it all is perfectly told . The story is about every 11-year old boy's dream ; becoming a football ( or soccer for you Americans ) player for the national team . The football scene's in the movie are all filmed in a beautiful way and really show the beauty , of the game that is football . There really are some unforgettable moments in the movie . One of those unforgettable moments is a match between some old deceased football legends versus the ' 58 crashed Manchester United squad . There is plenty to enjoy here in this movie for the football fans but still also people who aren't fans of the game will enjoy this movie . Even though this is a sports movie the emphasis of the movie is on the drama and is about realizing dreams . Everyone should be able to recognize himself in most of the events in the movie and should be able to relate to the characters . This all is both thanks to the way the story is told and because of the actors . Yannick van de Velde is a great young talent and Thomas Acda and Wendy Van Dijk are perfectly cast . Also most of the supporting actors are strong in their roles . This really is a wonderful family movie that is dramatic , realistic , beautiful and entertaining at the same time . Especially if you like Scandinavian movies this is a must see but also to everyone else this movie is highly recommendable .
It's the combination of the ' 70's - and dark horror atmosphere that makes this movie such an highly effective and great one . It's a real shame that this made for TV Dracula version , based on the Bram Stoker novel , is not any better known . The movie has an amazing dark atmosphere that adds to the tension and horror of the movie . This is a true genuinely scary horror movie and definitely amongst scariest of all the Dracula movies out there . The movie uses some great settings . Despite the fact that this is made for TV movie , it's not a cheap looking film . They did a real good job with this and its low budget can be seen nowhere back on screen . It's certainly true that the movie uses a bit too many zooms into the characters faces and all but that all was part of ' 70's film-making when film-makers experimented a lot with cinematography . Perhaps it was also an homage to the old days of horror cinema . Technically its a fine made movie by TV director and horror expert Dan Curtis . Too bad that the acting is also quite laughable at times . And no I'm not talking about Jack Palance as Dracula . I actually quite liked him in his role and I think he did a good job with his interpretation of the character . Too bad that he never played the famous count again after this movie , despite having several movie offers to do so . All the other actors in this movie aren't obviously amongst the most experienced or talented ones . I especially disliked the way Nigel Davenport portrayed the Dr . Van Helsing character . It's not like this movie version is adding anything new with its story to the Dracula movie legacy . As a matter of fact it's rather leaving out stuff then putting in some new elements . For instance there is no Renfield character in this movie or any mentioning of him . If you're familiar with the Dracula story or any of its movies you'll notice that this is a movie version that runs pretty much by the book with its story . A version truly worth seeing !
Most horror movies made between the ' 50's and ' 70's weren't very much psychological once and featured for instance monsters , gore and tons of blood . In that regard " Diary of a Madman " is a quite refreshing movie . It lies its emphasis on the psychological aspects of the movie and uses it for its tension , mystery and just overall horror , even though the movie still features a ' supernatural ' horror theme . The movie has a well build up and constructed story , that only gets better and better as it heads toward the ending . The movie begins quite typical but soon becomes very intriguing when it becomes obvious that just is not just another average standard ' 60's horror flick , with Vincent Price in the lead role . The movie shows how the highly respected magistrate / sculptor slowly looses his mind when he is being possessed by a strange mysterious spirit called an Horla . Of course no one believes him at first when he starts to hear and see things . He starts to question his own sanity , until the Horla has him in his almost complete control . Good old Vincent Price however decides to fight back and we already at the start sort of know what has happened , since the movie is told in the past time , when people read his diary in which he described the strange events that had happened . So you don't really have to expect an horror movie with monster , gore and scare effects . This movie is mostly about its build-up and overall atmosphere . It's a psychological movie , though visually the movie is also a good one . The movie features quite some early and variating special effects and other cinematic tricks . It's quite clumsy looking all of course but at least you can say that they really tried and put some effort in it to making something new . Vincent Price of course always had been at his best in roles such as these , so this movie forms no exception to that . He is highly convincing as the respected magistrate but also as the ' madman ' . Two of course total opposite elements , which Price perfectly knows to handle , without ever making anything look ridicules or totally unbelievable . It's a real surprisingly good and quite different ' 60's horror flick , that deserves to be seen and known better , starring genre-legend Vincent Price !
As entertainment this movie is perfect . The movie is a fun adventurous one , with lots of spectacular moments and fights . From a technical point of view this movie is even a masterpiece . The stop-motion scene's created by special effects pioneer Ray Harryhausen is simply brilliant and makes this movie one of the most influential and important one's , when it comes to special effects . But also the movie uses clever camera tricks and some well made miniatures . Yes , of course the effects all look out dated now but they still surprisingly , look convincing enough and at times they are even still simply breathtaking and spectacular to look at . Especially of course the legendary , fantastic end fight against the skeleton warriors . The story is like good entertainment should be ; Adventurous , exciting and simple to follow . The movie truly is none stop fun entertainment to watch with lots of spectacular moments with the legendary skeleton fight as the ultimate highlight . You don't have to be a fan of ' classic ' movies in order to enjoy this movie , everyone should be able to appreciate this movie and be entertained by it , especially when you are a fan of ancient Greek tales . Something that is not praised enough of this movie is the musical score by Bernard Herrmann . The movie is not exactly filled with impressive and memorable actors . As many movies as I have seen in my life , I don't think I have ever seen any actors from this movie in any other movie , with the exception of course of Honor Blackman who will always be remembered for playing the Bond girl Pussy Galore in " Goldfinger " . But this movie clearly isn't a character-adventure movie , it's a special effect adventure movie . The special effects are really the most important element of the movie . So for the fans of special effects this is especially most definitely a must see . A movie that should be fun and enjoyable to everyone , of all ages .
All inconsistencies and imperfections aside , this is simply a fine and enjoyable short from Boris Paval Conen . Basically it's very hard to create a perfect short movie . You never have enough time to develop your characters or to set up a proper story . This means that you need to rush things in order to tell what you want with your story and movie . This times goes at the expensive of the logic in the story , which is also certainly the case with this movie . The story basically isn't explained within the movie . Time stops when a boy almost gets hit by a big truck , except for one man who witnesses it all happening . Why this happens for this one man never gets explained within the story and how certainly also doesn't get explained . I see the movie as about one that shows that everything is happening for a reason , not sure if this also was the message which the writer / director of the movie tried to send out . It's a greatly shot and beautiful looking movie , despite not being set at the most beautiful location imaginable . It's obviously not just an ' amateur ' short but all those involved are professionals within their business . Director Boris Paval Conen previously made the TV-series " De 9 dagen van de gier " , set in Rotterdam , which also was a beautiful shot movie and made Rotterdam look like New York City . Seems like he is a man who knows how to handle a visual style and to tell a story . Unfortunately he works mostly on short movies and TV projects and he hasn't found his big break through yet . Or perhaps this is also his own choice and he wants to remain as much independent as possible as a film-maker and therefore sticks to short projects instead , in which he remains in total control of . It's only 10 minutes short and it's certainly worth your time . Also if your not into ' foreign ' movies or reading subtitles , don't be scared off , since this movie features zero dialog in it .
This is one irresistible great cheerful - and technically greatly made movie ! The movie features some of the greatest looking sets you'll ever see in a ' 30's movie , even though it's all too obvious that they are sets , rather than real place locations . Often if a character would fall or shake a doorpost too aggressive , the entire set would obviously move . The best moments of the movie were the silent , more old fashioned , slapstick kind of moments . It shows that René Clair's true heart was at silent movie-making . The overall humor is really great in this movie . Also of course the musical moments were more than great . This is a really enjoyable light and simple pleasant early French musical . Though the best moments are the silent moments , that does not mean that the movie is not filled with some great humorous dialog , that gets very well delivered by the main actors , who all seemed like stage actors to me , which in this case worked extremely well for the movie its overall style and pleasant no-worries atmosphere . No wonder this worked out so well , since this movie is actually based on stage play by Georges Berr . It's a technical really great movie , with also some great innovation camera-work in it and some really great editing , that create some fast going and pleasant to watch enjoyable sequences . There is never a dull moment in this movie ! René Clair was such a clever director , who knew how to build up and plan comical moments within in movies . It's a very creative made movie , that despite its simplicity still at all times feel as a totally original and cleverly constructed movie , that never seizes to entertain . The last half hour is especially unforgettably fun , without spoiling too much , and is really among the greatest , as well as most creative moments in early comedy film-making . The movie is filled with some really enjoyable characters , who are of course all very stereotypical and silly and were obviously cast because of their looks . It all adds to the pleasant light comical atmosphere and cuteness of the movie . One of the most pleasant movies you'll ever see !
The movie has a realistic , almost documentary like feeling , thanks to the way the movie is shot and acted . It provides a good and realistic view of the life of mid - ' 90's New York young teenagers . However the movie falls flat when it comes to shocking the audience . Some of all the things that are happening in this movie most probably happened to everyone once in their lifetime when they were a teenager , so everyone should be able to relate to some of the characters and events that are occurring in this movie , rather than be shocked by it . But the makers obviously tried to create more than just a realistic view on teenage life , it tried to shock the audience with its ' controversity ' but due to the documentary style of movie making and the story that is almost non-present , it just falls flat as a ' shocker ' . I would had preferred a movie with more story and consistency in it . It would had made the movie more interesting to watch and perhaps because of that it would had also worked better in terms of shocking the audience . Now the makers only try to be controversial without just having a real story . That simply didn't worked for me . Would this movie stop teenagers from having unprotected-sex , drinking alcohol and taking drugs ? I don't think so . . . The movie doesn't make a powerful enough impression and the ending is too abrupt and leaves an unsatisfying impression . It would had so much more interesting to see what actually truly happened to all those character after the party at the ending . The ending only leaves us guessing . Sure we mostly know what possibly happens afterward but why not show it in the movie ? Those could had been some really powerful and confronting scene's but it sadly now remains nothing more than a missed opportunity . Of course all of that doesn't automatically mean that this movie is a bad one . It still is good as a raw , honest and truthful portrayal of teenage-life . What makes " Kids " mostly a realistic movie is not only the documentary style of movie making , it's not only the ' acting ' , it are not only the events occurring in this movie but it is mostly the dialog that does this . This movie marks the debut for actresses Chloë Sevigny and Rosario Dawson who both were really excellent and believable in their roles . Both impressed me . The main character to be honest didn't exactly impressed me and to me it seemed an odd choice to cast Leo Fitzpatrick . He hasn't got the right look and talent for his role , so his character doesn't quite work and is not believable enough . In short , it works well as a view on the life of teenagers but when it comes to being powerful , controversial , making a statement and leaving a message it isn't good enough . I ' enjoyed ' watching this movie and thought it was really good but it simply failed at what it really tried to achieve . It didn't really mattered to me though and I could still recommend this movie to everyone . It's not a movie that makes you start thinking but it is a movie that you'll remember .
This is of course not the first film in history and presumably the Edison Manufacturing Company did dozens of test before actually shooting this and of course also shot " Monkeyshines , No . 1 " , 2 and 3 prior to this but it is the first film that was shown to a wide audience and press , at The National Federation of Women's Clubs , through a motion picture exhibition device the Kinetoscope , an invention of mostly William K . L . Dickson that let a strip of several images passing front of an illuminated lens behind a spinning wheel . Therefor this 3 second short plays an important part in movie history , as being the very first to be shown to an audience . The motions are perfect , though because of the shooting speed it all seems to occur in slow motion . There are no jerky movements and also the images is surprisingly clear . The film was shot with a Kinetograph , another William K . L . Dickson invention . He therefor is also credited as the inventor of the motion picture camera . The color white is shiny and the less dark colors of Dickson's clothing distinct itself well from the pitch black background used to film this . You can clearly see Dickson's face and also the more detailed look of his hair . Still I feel they could had done a bit more with the movement in this film . Show the audience some more of the possibilities of moving images . Instead now basically all Dickson does , is bring his hat from his one hand to the other , as a sort of wave toward the audience and he moves his head slightly , supposedly as a small nod toward the audience but that isn't all too clear to see . In a way this movie is a great metaphor for William K . L . Dickson and Thomas A . Edison literal greeting and welcoming us to the world of film . It perhaps provides the movie with just as much impact and significance , as it did 116 years ago .
Forrest Gump in the good old Wild West , that's the best way to describe this movie in just a few words . The character of Jack Crabb sees and joins all the sides of the Wild West during this movie . As an Indian , a gunslinger , a drunk and as a scout for the cavalry under the command of General Custer during the battle at Little Big Horn . The story is told lightly with some relieving humor but also still with some successful dramatic moments . I'm probably not the biggest fan of the Western genre , around but I found this movie to be enjoyable and entertaining . The story perhaps consists out of too many coincidences to really find it believable but at least it makes the movie light and entertaining to watch . The movie is perhaps a bit of an underrated and certainly forgotten movie that deserves recognition and to be seen by all . Dustin Hoffman plays a good and likable main characters that truly carries the entire movie . Some smaller roles are for Faye Dunaway and a truly great acting Chief Dan George , who also got an Oscar nomination for his role in this . Most likely the fans of the Western genre will like this movie the best but to everyone else , this movie is also an entertaining one to watch .
It's amazing that he man who has made so much crap movies in his career , in which giant crabs , enormous leeches and other unlikely monsters are threatening the Earth , can also make good movies as well . Roger Corman is sort of the uncrowned king of B-movies but this movie is simply above that . It's the second out of six movies he did based on an Edgar Allan Poe story . Ironicaly those are perhaps also the six best movies that he ever did in his still going on long career of directing and producing movies . Most of his Edgar Allan Poe based movie he made also starred Vincent Price as the movie's main lead . The movie perhaps more looks and feels like an Hammer studio movie but it in fact isn't one . Good to see that not only the Hammer studios had a sole monopoly on horror film-making in the ' 50's , ' 60's and ' 70's . This movie uses the same sort of atmosphere , character treatments and story-telling , completely with the same sort of ( fake ) looking sets and locations . The movie obviously benefits from the presence of Vincent Price , who plays the mysterious main lead of the movie . Vincent Price was a true Shakespearean like actor , who just happened to like playing in horror . He and others such as Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee truly uplifted the genre at its time and gave the world many enjoyable and great horror flicks . Price starred in many different movies based on Edgar Allan Poe stories and poems . Like usual for these type of movies , all of the other actors in the movie aren't much good and are some big unknowns that never really made it in the business . It's truly an atmospheric movie . The movie its horror spawns from the movie its mysterious and eerie atmosphere . It also features some great stylish done flashback sequences , which adds to the overall horror atmosphere of the movie . The movie further more features some truly memorable horror moments . It's a movie that definitely gets better toward its end . The movie has some great atmospheric music , which really suits the genre . The score is composed by Les Baxter , who spend most of his career working for these such movies , which also explains why he never broke through to the general audience . Wonderful and effective Corman / Price Edgar Allan Poe movie within its genre .
To be honest , I didn't expect this movie to be as good as it turned out to be . No way this movie seemed like one deserving its current rating on here . This seemed to me like just another fluffy ' light'-Lord of the Rings children movie . But even though this movie borrows heavily from other movies , it remains a good and certainly fun quality production . Best choice the movie made , was that it was one that didn't took itself as seriously . You obviously have to take this movie with a grain of salt . It knows it is ridicules in parts and it doesn't try to hide this but rather even exploit it further . This is mostly what makes the movie so fun to watch . Because of this you also tend to forgive this movie from ' borrowing ' elements or entire sequences from other movies . Fact that his movie doesn't take itself as serious can also be seen in the delicious over-the-top roles from Robert De Niro and Michelle Pfeiffer roles . Because the movie needs to be taken with a grain of salt , also the humor works out the best . The humor within this movie feels non-forced , even though it got put in - and planned out all deliberately into the movie . It knows to remain fresh and it doesn't overly try to make you laugh . It's often more subtle and not something you would expect from a genre movie such as this . It's mostly the fun level and atmosphere of this movie that makes it such a good one to watch . Because lets be fair , if this movie purely had to rely on its story , this would had been a rather weak and simple movie to watch . It's quite formulaic stuff all and of course the way the story progresses is rather predictable . I also don't know if this is really a kids movie . Even though the movie got obviously targeted towards this audience , I strongly feel that it are the adults who will mostly enjoy watching this . The humor and overall story is too mature for that . Also the diverse wide range of characters makes this movie a real fun one to watch . Most characters are really over-the-top and are often being played by some fine big name actors . Besides the earlier mentioned Michelle Pfeiffer and Robert De Niro , the movie also features Sienna Miller , Ian McKellen , Peter O'Toole , Mark Strong , Rupert Everett , Claire Danes , Nathaniel Parker , Dexter Fletcher and Ricky Gervais among others . Most of them are well known respected British actors , which also already gives the movie a certain atmosphere . But it needs to be said , with all the many different characters in the movie it at times feels that most actors looked as if they were making a movie on their own . The movie doesn't always feel like a coherent one . Also the pacing isn't always right and the movie gave the feeling that it also could had been easily 15 minutes shorter . It on the other hand is a fine looking and constructed movie , even though it doesn't feature the best special effects around but this sort of feels suiting for the movie and its entire atmosphere . Highly recommendable and in this case believe the hype !
Italian horror movies from the ' 70's and ' 80's especially , are not really know for their subtitle or overall brilliantness . Let's face it , they always have low production values and has a cheap look over it , with actors in it that really can't act . In essence all of the movies are also the same with its story and development . " Antropophagus " is really no exception to this all but has as a big difference that it's really well developed and build up , which provides the movie with a great horror atmosphere that is both tense and gory , despite being predictable from start till finish . Next to the gore , also all of the other typical Italian horror movie elements are present here ; many young characters , a scary kid ( although she is only scary in one sequence ) , cannibalism and a psychotic monster like killer . No sex or nudity present though this time , which was a bit of a surprise . The movie is really well build up . It features many scares and false-scares . Also the tense ending does not disappoint . It also definitely helps the movie and its tension that the killer his face isn't shown until about halve way through the movie . It makes the movie more mysterious and tense at the same time , which also really adds to the atmosphere . Also the environment adds to this atmosphere . The movie is set on a small Greek uninhabited island , where all the former residents were slaughtered . It makes the island empty , moody and claustrophobic , which all suits the horror genre really well of course . There are also two sequences that make this movie a memorable one and through that also makes it distinct itself from other genre movies . The first is the one in which our psychotic monster rips an unborn fetus out of the belly of a woman and starts to eat it , while the dying husband is watching and the second one is the ending when the killer is starting to eat his own intestines after being stabbed in the belly . Really some unforgettable and gory sequences . The movie is filled with also some other great gory sequences and scare moments , such as the head in the bucket and the Irina Karamanlis suicide . The movie is also helped by it's killer , that is a great character , who is also quite scary looking . The budget for the movie obviously wasn't very high . Like with all Italian genre movies is the case , the sound is terrible , the movie cheap looking and the actors are amateurs . I also at the same time adds to the charm of the movie and it gives B-slasher movies like this one ( because let's face it , this is a B-movie , no matter how well its made ) a big cult following . And in that perspective , this movie by specialist Joe D'Amato is definitely one of the better ones out of its genre .
This was a great little surprise . Most film-noir's from the ' 40's are always a good watch and this movie is also certainly among the better one's of its period . A real surprise , considering that this movie is a fairly unknown one and is directed by Michael Curtiz , who had his most success - and is best known for directing entertaining , adventurous movies . To be honest , the movie really doesn't begin well . At first it seems like the movie is a typical mystery / thriller in which a woman cannot remember a man , who claims to be her husband . The movie looks like a mostly talking-flick with standard characters and a good story that however lacks in serious tension and just isn't interesting enough . However soon the movie starts to take a positive turn , when it slowly abandons this plot line and turns into a murder-mystery . The movie becomes tense , atmospheric and completely captivating . The movie really gets better by the minute , as it heads toward the ending and it begins to develop better layered - and more developed story lines . Too bad that still the fine second halve can't fully compensate for the more weaker first halve of the movie . The movie is skillfully put together by cast and crew . The movie has a great visual look and I especially love the use of shadows in this movie . It makes some of the sequences really look marvelous , while they serve a purpose as well . They also help to make the movie as a whole a very atmospheric piece of work , that has a perfect required tense , dangerous and mysterious feeling all over it . It shows that Michael Curtiz could handle the genre really well as a director . Claude Rains really plays a great role in this movie . Joan Caulfield also showed that she was beautiful as well as talented . Too bad that Ted North for most part ruins the first halve of the movie with his stiff and weak acting . Apparently he agreed with me , since this movie was his last movie role ( or did he die shortly after this movie ? ) . The movie further more features some great cast supporting actors , such as Jack Lambert and Harry Lewis . A great little unknown genre movie from Michael Curtiz , that film-noir lovers will surely be able to appreciate , despite its weaker , less interesting , first 40 minutes , or so .
Don't expect a crappy little amateur film . " Batman : Dead End " puts some of the superhero movies made these days till shame . The style and atmosphere is even darker and more sinister then in the 2 Tim Burton Batman movies . You can say that " Batman : Dead End " is a more daring movie . The movie shows how the makers can handle several styles and it's the crew that really deserves credit . Everything works perfect especially the cinematography . But let's not forget the cast . Clark Bartram is actually a very convincing Batman ( Better then Val Kilmer and George Clooney anyway ) and Andrew Koenig is the perfect Joker his character is actually much more different then from the original movie in a good way . The character is more sinister and psychotic in a scary way instead of an entertaining . The characters are much more closer then the ones from the comic books . Sure the story is just beyond silly but that's not the point , the crew really showed how they can handle different moments and styles . This little film is filled with wonderful little moments and is a shear pleasure to watch . Awesome fights , great make-up , wonderful costumes , excellent directing , great cast , most excellent cinematography and a great and daring atmosphere and style , what is there not to like ?
What this movie does very well , and what it is so well known for , is the fact that it perfect blends the comedy with its horror , without letting the one element weaken the other . Because for instance in lot of other horror / comedies , the comedy really weakens the horror . It makes them ineffective as scary and gory ones but this really isn't the case with " An American Werewolf in London " . Perhaps this is because the comedy within this movie is more subtle and B-movie like . The movie doesn't take itself too seriously which allows the movie its comedy to work out so effective and subtle . John Landis obviously made the movie deliberately B-movie like in parts , especially by picking not the best actors and by not giving them the best dialog imaginable . It on top of that features some great typical B-movie like moments , which perhaps is only truly notable for the genre fans and most other people will probably write it off as lame and simplistic . Just because the movie features humor and has B-movie elements in it doesn't mean that this movie is ineffective as an horror movie . In that genre this movie also really stands out . It does this by featuring some great imaginative and gory looking sequences . but it also does this not in the least with its make-up effects . Especially the dream sequences within the movie are quite memorable . This movie was actually the first to receive and Oscar for its make-up . Before this , best make-up wasn't even a category at the Oscar's , believe it or not . But thanks to this movie the academy realized that this was a profession to take seriously and to include in the award ceremony . The award of course went to legendary make-up artist Rick Baker . It was the first out of 6 Oscar's he has so far received during his career . The movie is actually surprisingly gory . It's just not something you would expect from an horror / comedy but this movie is basically just as gory , if not gorier , than most other ' serious ' genre movies . Director John Landis actually now days is surprised how gory this movie actually is when he looks back at it . Of course the movie doesn't feature a too complicated plot ( luckily so ) but it nevertheless know to pick an original approach with its story and all . It doesn't feature an usual werewolf plot in which the victim is battling his transformation during full moon and is plotting to kill the werewolf that bite him in order to lift the curse . I won't tell what the actual plot of the movie is , since it will probably spoil to much but fact is that it's original , which also means that the movie doesn't end in a typical ' Hollywood-way ' . When watching this movie it actually becomes more painfully obvious how bad its sequel " An American Werewolf in Paris " , which got made 16 years ( ! ) after this movie , actually is . It tries to achieve the same thing as this movie , by picking the same type of approach but in moments like that it becomes obvious that directing is a real important job and that some directors are simply more talented than others . Anthony Waller just obviously ain't no John Landis ! John Landis would also later impress with the legendary Michael Jackson video-clip for the hit song ' Thriller ' . The special make-up effects again came from Rick Baker . The clip definitely shows similarities to this movie in especially its style . A great as well as enjoyable unique werewolf movie !
Although this movie is obviously aimed toward children with its story and characters , adults shall also be drawn into the movie and its story . Sweet likable characters , an adventurous story . Really , what is there not to like about this movie ? It's a Japanse animated movie , based on the TV-series " Moomin " . The animation style is typically Japanse and so are all of the characters . So the fans of the genre shall surely not be disappointed by this movie . You don't really must have watched an episode of " Moomin " before watching this movie . It's a story on its own and can be watched separately from the TV-series . The story is simple and it purely relies on its characters and adventurous , though formulaic , elements of the movie . No , the movie doesn't ever surprises at any point but yet the story works out , thanks to its pace and storytelling and really likable characters . It also still has its great and unique moments , such as the part when the comet is about to hit the Earth , which is done surprisingly tense and provides the movie with a good finale . The movie is greatly fun and humorous and makes sure that it never becomes too serious and therefor never really too scary for to watch for young children . It perhaps sometimes goes at the expense of the movie its tension and predictability but so be it . Doesn't matter if you're a child or adult , this movie is a great one to watch !
" Soylent Green " is science-fiction but it's the more realistic type of science-fiction . So it's a movie set on Earth , rather than in space and it's set in the future but not a further of high tech gadgets but a future in which the whole world has basically gone to hell . " Soylent Green " might very well feature one of the most depressing portrayals of the near future . Earth is being overpopulated and there is a serious food shortage . On top of the the greenhouse effect has kicked in and the worlds temperature has risen some degrees . Electricity and running water are rare , so in other words , there's a shortage in basically everything we are so accustomed to . Life goes on but just not as it used to . " Soylent Green " is not just a science-fiction movie but perhaps even more a cop movie , in which New York cop Robert Thorn , played by Charlton Heston , starts to investigate a murder on an corporate official of the Soylent company , the company that provides the world with it's mysterious new green food . As for the ' big twist ' of the movie , without spoiling anything . . . The entire movie builds up to it and it becomes apparent from basically the first minute that this movie is going to have a twist in its story . Personally , the wasn't the powerful or shocking twist I had hoped for . Perhaps in a subconscious way it even was a bit predictable . Even though the twist is not weak and is definitely still good enough , it's just not the stuff featured in an early M . Night Shyamalan , to give an example . This movie made me realize that Charlton Heston was actually one of the earliest kings of science-fiction . In the late ' 60's and ' 70's science-fiction really wasn't a popular much watched genre . It certainly always wasn't the most respected genre to star in as an actor . Nevertheless Charlton Heston did this , despite getting more than enough movie offers to star in different movies , in more popular and higher respected genres . I guess he must had had some love for the genre , or perhaps it was because of the success and experience of working on " Planet of the Apes " . He starred in some real great and significant genre movies in the ' 60's and ' 70's , of which this movie is also really one of them . Even though this movie is not as well known - it still can be called the " Blade Runner " of the ' 70's . It's clever and realistic enough and not afraid to show a depressing near future , with rotten and corrupt characters in it . I's a movie that's great in its details and little things , rather than really with its main plot-line or such . Of course the movie is also made great by it's performances . Charlton Heston got really great cast in his role and he's obviously in his element . It was also really great to see Edward G . Robinson in this . He was one of the greatest actors of the ' 40's and ' 30's , mostly playing tough gangster roles . He had to star in lots of crap after that in order to remain active in the business but it was great that he could end his career with a movie such as this one . He died days after he finished shooting on this movie . He was already seriously ill at the time of production and it was apparent that he had not long to life . Having never received even an Academy Award or even nomination for any of his great roles , he received posthumously an honorary award for his entire career in 1973 . This movie was a role worthy last role for him and the movie features some great sequences , involving his character . Despite not being a special effects laden science-fiction movie , it's still a great looking one , with its costume design , sets and overall atmosphere . Some of the things still look futuristic , while others look as time hadn't stopped since the ' 70's . So it's an overall really great and original look that the movie has over it . It's a futuristic movie with an ' 70's atmosphere over it , what is there not to like ? Great ' 70's science-fiction !
This movie is realistic in many ways . The way the two brothers play , the way the boy meets the girl , everything is made just as it would happen in real life . Yep , it's Scandinavian movies at its best . The story is oh so simply but oh so recognizable . A boy is playing with his younger brother in the dunes , suddenly a young girl turns up , the boy who is obviously in the beginning of discovering his sexuality is of course immediately taking interest in this young girl . The younger brother doesn't like it and doesn't understand and maybe even gets a bit jealous , all he wants is to play with his older brother . At the ending the boy is forced to make a choice between his younger brother and perhaps the opportunity to fool further around with this young girl . The way the story is told and filmed is excellent . Nothing feels like it couldn't happen in real life . OK maybe the acting isn't exactly top-class but it's all about the story in this short . I'm sure that this short is not easy to catch but be sure to not miss the opportunity to see this one when you get the chance .
Movies mostly set in trains often work out extremely well . It's an enclosed and restrained environment , that creates a feeling of claustrophobia and tension but also with a lot of pace , since the train is always on the move . Just think about other movie examples set - or partly set on trains such as " North by Northwest " , " Murder on the Orient Express " , " Shanghai Express " and " From Russia with Love " . This is a movie that deserves a spot on this list as well . This is a rather intriguing and original movie concerning plots to assassinate Abraham Lincoln before or during his inauguration as the president . It's based on true fact . There really were several plots being brewed to assassinate Lincoln because of his outspoken opinion against slavery and because he mostly was seen as a friend of the north , among various other reasons . But of course the movie takes lots of liberties with the story , also because nobody really knows what happened really . The story focuses on a New York police man who suspects that there is plot to kill Lincoln . Only problem for him is his superiors don't believe him and won't take him serious , which is reason for him to take matters into his own hands . Aboard the train to Baltimore , where Lincoln would pass through on his way to Washngton D . C . to be inaugurated , there is a lot of political talk aboard between Lincoln ' fans ' and ' haters ' and other various characters that act very suspicious . It makes this a good and interesting movie on several levels . It gives a good view into the time and minds of American people who lived in the 1860's and at the same time also gives the movie a tense mysterious / thriller story . In 1951 , action-movies were still non-existent so to speak but this movie at times show some early premises of the genre . It's mostly notable in its pace and toward the ending of the movie . Interesting detail is that the main character in this movie is named John Kennedy . There always have been a surprising lot of similarities between Abraham Lincoln and the other assassinated US president John F . Kennedy , so the fact that the main character is named John Kennedy in a movie about Abraham Lincoln , 10 years before Kennedy became president is an odd coincidence to say the least . Also one of the plots , as described in this movie , to kill Lincoln in this movie show a surprising amount of similarities to how John F . Kennedy many years later got assassinated . One of those movies that really deserves to be known better and needs to be seen be more .
No doubt Laurence Olivier must have been real proud of this project . It's really ' his ' movie , since he directed , produced as well as played the main lead . It actually earned him a special Honary Award during that year's Academy Awards ' for his outstanding achievement as actor , producer and director in bringing ' Henry V ' to the screen ' . It's a real Shakespeare movie , so expect lots of stagy looking settings and long dialog . Laurence Olivier however knows to bring it in a good and original way and actually manages to use it's ' stagy ' elements to the movie its own advantage . As an historical movie , concerning mostly the battle of Agincourt , I don't feel the movie is being completely accurate . The movie is a bit too patriotic by purely picking the British side , by showing how noble and brave they all were . It's presented as if Henry V willingly and fully knowingly walked into about , against a much bigger French force . Reason why the British won the battle of Agincourt was because of the supremacy of their longbows and the fact that the French completely underestimated them and made some tactical blunders during the battle . I don't really see much of that back in this movie . Also some of the cruelties being committed by the British and the mistakes they made during the campaign are simply not shown or mentioned in the movie really . The movie actually got financed by the British government , thinking that it would be a good moral boost for the English citizens and those fighting abroad , during WW II . So Shakespeare used as propaganda , how odd is that ? This is not really something uncommon by the way . ' Old ' movies often were very black & white with its themes . So good was being entirely good and bad totally bad . It's also not really something that troubled me too much but by todays standards its too simple and too outdated for the present movie norms . Also for a movie about the ' chronicle history of King Henry V ' the story focuses surprisingly little on the aspects of Henry V's life before and also certainly after the battle of Agincourt . The story ends at the peak of his life . But of course thing to blame for that is the movie its source , William Shakespeare's play , from 1600 . It's pretty nice that this is a 1944 movie that got shot entirely in color ( also much have been one of the reasons for its high budget though ) . It's actually the first ever Shakespeare movie to be made entirely in color . Still I feel that it would had suited the movie and its story better if it had been done in black & white . It would had suited the acting performances and the historical settings and characters all better . It's not like I hated this movie , of course not - far from it , but I don't want to sound all praising about it either . It's a good movie that however is not without its flaws and perhaps would had been a better one had it been made a decade earlier , at the time Laurence Olivier was playing the character on stage already . So not during WW II and not in color . But there is simply no denying it that this is such a well made and handled movie . Olivier did well and came to some creative solutions but by staying as much to the original source as possible , despite its undeniable WW II influences . The movie is perhaps at its best during the famous battle but also its dialog provide the movie with some real fireworks . A Shakespeare movie of course always has some amazing and often memorable dialog , especially when it remains so faithful to its source as this movie did . It of course also helps that the lines are being delivered by some real fine and capable actors . Laurence Olivier was an actor that simply lived and breathed Shakespeare throughout his career . A must-see for the fans of Shakespeare .
Purely comical orientated movies weren't a that common thing in the ' 40's . it makes this movie an all the more refreshing and delightful one . It's a simple movie , with a simple story , that at all times is kept pleasant to watch . But that doesn't mean that the story is not a well written one . Often though of course most elements in it are generic and predictable , it is still all brought in a fresh way , which makes the movie still original enough in its genre and definitely for its time . The dialog is especially well written , as you would expect from a ' 40's movie , when writers understood their craft . It even in the end has a great Christmas spirit in it , which adds all the more to the pleasant warm feeling of the movie . To me it seemed pretty redundant though that the movie was set in Hungary . It added nothing to the story or characters and worked only confusing , since the characters all had Hungarian names but of course were all talking in plain English . I understand they let this movie take place in Hungary because it was based on an Hungarian play but movie-wise it didn't added anything . This was something the later movie versions of the play " In the Good Old Summertime " and " You've Got Mail " understood . James Stewart wasn't really known for his leading comical or romantic roles , so his role in this movie is quite surprising and he does a good job at it as well . He still looked so very young in this and in his first scene I didn't even realized it was him , simply because I didn't recognized him . The rest of the cast isn't that well known but the movie is filled with many and delightful characters , that are by no means standard or one dimensional . The many characters within the movie definitely adds to the movie its fun . It's not the sort of comedy that will make you laugh out loud but it's more the sort of movie that will put a smile on your face , all the way through .
" X-Men " was a bit of a disappointment to me . Don't get me wrong it was entertaining and fun but it didn't had the right comic book / cartoon feeling to me . " X2 " is an huge improvement and it really surprised me how good this movie was ! One of the surprises of the year ! Advantage of " X2 " is that it doesn't have to waste time on character introduction because it begins were " X-Men " had ended . As a result the action starts right away ! And what an action this movie has , the opening attack of Nightcrawler is truly spectacular and an achievement in movie making . The movie has many , many more spectacular fights of which you never get bored and that are all done wonderfully . But not only the action has improved . Also the character have improved in a major way . Storm and Jean Grey have finally become much more interesting and had a bigger role to play , especially Jean Grey plays an important part this time . Also the story has improved a lot . It is a much more interesting story compared to the first movie and it actually has the same feeling as the comics / cartoons , something the first movie was also lacking . I also like how they " teamed up " Magneto and Mystique with the x-men this time . Another thing that had improved was the music . I'm sorry to say but Michael Kamen's score for " X-Men " was simply not good and didn't fitted the movie . John Ottman's " X2 " score suits the movie much better and even gives it a more " superhero " feeling . So all in all there are only improvements and there isn't much negative to say . Great action , great characters , great story , great movie ! Bring on part 3 . . . and 4 and 5 and . . . See it , even if you didn't liked the first one very much , this movie is an huge improvement .
Even though the story is probably less impressive - and overdone when compared to the other Wallace & Gromit shorts , it still probably is my favorite . It's simply such a fine and entertaining movie to watch , not in the least because it has Preston , the evil villain dog in it and a whole bunch of sheep . It's an impressive looking movie , with some surprising big sequences . What I always love about the Wallace & Gromit movies is that they often feature some amazing build-up and shot action sequences and chases in particular . It's often worth the price alone already . This was the second Wallace & Gromit short to win an Oscar for best animated short , which not only proofs the quality and entertainment level of the Wallace & Gromit shorts but shows as well that you don't need a big budget or impressive new techniques to make a brilliant animated movie with . The claymation is impressive as always and has lots of details to it . It must be an incredibly time consuming but also incredibly rewarding process to make a movie like this . Nick Park must surely enjoy it . He's in the claymation business for over 20 years now , together with Peter Lord . This movie takes some chance to add another human character to the movie . All of the previous Wallace & Gromit movies were mostly purely about the strange friendship between the man and dog , in which the dog always seemed like the more clever and rational of the two . This gamble however worked out fine for the movie and the added love-story plot actually adds a lot to the movie . As a matter of fact , after this movie Wallace had many more love-interests in later Wallace & Gromit adventures , such as the big theatrical released " Wallace & Gromit in The Curse of the Were-Rabbit " and the latest short " Wallace and Gromit in ' A Matter of Loaf and Death ' " . It of course are not just the human characters that make this movie but also really the animals . Preston the dog is such a great and evil movie villain . The sheep in this movie also provide the movie with lots of hilarious moments and they are cute looking as well . perhaps my favorite Wallace & Gromit short .
This 1931 Jean Renoir French movie has a story of all times . It's about a man who falls for the wrong girl and gets deeper and deeper into problems because of it . What can be more lethal than a woman ? The drama is complex and multiple layered and mostly works out so well in this movie since the story by no means is a standard formulaic one . The movie does a very good job at remaining an unpredictable one throughout its entire running time and you just never know how the movie is going to end or in which direction its heading to . Jean Renoir was one the greatest early French movie directors from the 20th century . With this movie he makes his first ' talkie ' . It's notable in parts that this was still all fairly new and all for him and there are some small clumsiness's . He fairly much keeps the same style as movie-making he used for his earlier silent productions . This is mostly notable with the compositions within this movie . Not that this is a bad thing in my opinion . It gives the movie a great look and style that also seems really fitting for this particular movie and its story . It's a great looking movie with high production values . The camera-work is just great and the movie in parts also uses some great editing , that shows a scene from different camera angles . It doesn't do this throughout the entire movie though , since like I said before , the movie mostly keeps is made silent-movie style . Perhaps it was an early sign of things that yet had to come for Jean Renoir , when he in 1937 with " La Grande illusion " , that used lots of deep focus and camera-movements , something that also heavily inspired Orson Welles , among others , which is also really notable in " Citizen Kane " of course . Michel Simon gives away one fine performance as the movie its main character but the rest of the actors in acting within this movie is perhaps a bit uneven . But perhaps this also had to do with the fact that this was Jean Renoir's first sound movie and he had to become yet accustomed to working with dialogs and actors performing them . Unfortunately the movie uses some of its speed toward the ending but the movie at all times remains interesting and compelling enough to make you keep watching and just loving this movie right till the very end . A great first sound movie from Jean Renoir .
This movie is extremely odd . Looking at this movie makes it obvious that most of the cast and crew were on drugs during filming . The end movie result , is an unique one of a kind movie experience and quite possible the best Vietnam war movie ever made . It's not a movie for everyone though , guess true movie buffs are the only ones who can truly wholeheartedly appreciate this movie and the ' beauty ' of all the ugliness in the movie . The movie makes a perfect statement as an anti-war movie . It shows the horror of war and what it does to men . I have to admit that my favorite parts of the movie were the ones with action in it . The chopper attack is truly splendid and a real classic moment of movie history . Still this is not really a movie about shooting and fighting . Its more a movie about the emotional struggles of men during war . The struggles of the main character Captain Benjamin L . Willard ( Martin Sheen ) are told in a most excellent , slow , compelling way . He becomes more and more obsessed and interested in the man he is supposed to ' terminate with extreme prejudice ' , during his journey over the river to Cambodia , where Colonel Walter E . Kurtz ( Marlon Brando ) , the man he is supposed to kill , is located . Once the movie progresses it becomes obvious that the journey and the emotional struggles seem to be more difficult and dangerous than the killing of Kurtz . What makes the movie work are the good and realistically brought characters and the actors that portray them . All of the characters are stereotypes in a way , which works extremely well for the movie and its story . Brando is totally flipped in his role as ' crazy ' mumbling Colonel Kurtz and even though his role isn't THAT big ( ironic sentence , considering the fact that Brando was 40kg overweight , for his role ) , he still makes a lasting impression . Also totally crazy is Dennis Hopper in his role as American photojournalist that lives under Kurtz . Robert Duvall also gives a most excellent performance as Lieutenant Colonel Bill Kilgore . Rest of the cast consists out of big names as Harrison Ford , Scott Glenn , G . D . Spradlin and a 14-year old Laurence Fishburne , in one of his first movie roles . The movie has a fantastic and kind if surreal atmosphere , which makes this movie one of the most moody movies ever made , also thanks to the Oscar winning cinematography by Vittorio Storaro . Perhaps the whole story surrounding the making of this movie ( Sheen's heart-attack , the difficult overweight Brando , the drug abuse , the 16 months of filming in the jungle , the three year editing process . ) is more legendary than the movie itself , it still is a classic , one of a kind movie , that might very well be the best Vietnam-war movie ( yet ) .
Amazing that this movie was actual a debut for its director George Clooney . The movie is filmed with so much class and great storytelling that you would think that this movie was directed by a multiple Oscar nominee veteran director . I predict an Oscar win for best directing for Clooney within the next 10 years . He was already nominated last year for his second movie " Good Night , and Good Luck " but the subject of the movie was a bit too touchy for it to actually win . The movie is a typical Charlie Kaufman written movie , meaning that it explores the thin line between comedy and drama , without ever fully knowing what is actually truth and fiction in the story . The movie is not serious enough to be taken fully as a heavy biopic but it's also not humorous enough to take the movie as a full comedy . Let's keep it to it that this movie is entertaining to watch , from start till finish , due to the well written story , the fine skillful directing and storytelling and also definitely thanks to the cast . The movie is based on the life of game show impresario Chuck Barris , who also claimed that he was a CIA hit-man . It's hard to tell in the movie how much to actually take serious about the story but luckily the movie doesn't really focuses on this question . The movie its purpose is to tell an unusual but compelling story , with lots of flair and fun . The question whether it or didn't really occurred is irrelevant in this case . The movie also shows that fiction can be used in a way to spice up the truth , so I don't see how diverting from the truth can be a bad thing , as long as it's good for the entertainment and the story . The directing is perfect to create an atmosphere that fits the story that is somewhere between the truth and fiction . There are some great film tricks in the movie , which shows that Clooney has both the creativity and the skills to bring it to the screen . Also the Newton Thomas Sigel cinematography works fine for the movie its style and atmosphere . For this movie Clooney used a lot of big names for the cast , who mostly appear in nothing more than cameo roles , such as Brad Pitt and Matt Damon , who are basically in the movie for about 2 seconds . The many cameo's are also reason why you can't really ever take the movie really serious , since you recognize big stars in basically every sequence of the movie . This is not a bad thing , it suits the movie and its style really well . In the midst of all those big names , Clooney decided to give Sam Rockwell the main part , who I wasn't ever accustomed to of seeing in big movie parts . It was a great choice however . Sam Rockwell turned out to be the ideal choice to play this certainly unique character . Drew Barrymore was also given the opportunity to show her skills in a big movie and in a carrying role . The movie also lets Julia Roberts , Rutger Hauer and Maggie Gyllenhaal show up in good roles . George Clooney himself also plays a fine part in the movie . Every character in the movie is unique and also quite quirky but not in an extreme or over-the-top kind of way . I'm glad that Clooney decided to become a director as well !
" The Emperor's New Groove " is a rare hilarious Disney movie . It's very different from any other Disney movie so this movie might also be very watchable to you Disney haters out there . The movie pace is incredibly high and the music by John Debney and Sting are a real surprise . The movie really is a non-stop hilarious comedy with some unique humor . Also the style , both visual and story-wise is different from any other previous Disney movie , which in this case is a positive thing . The characters are great . Kuzco and Pacha are a perfect team . Yzma is a remarkable villain and her sidekick Kronk is hilarious . Yep , Laughs are guaranteed in this very hip and hilarious movie ! The story really is of no importance and most of it never makes sense but that's also why this movie is both unique and hilarious to watch over and over again . Highly recommendable to everyone !
This movie knows to find the perfect balance between British and American comedy . Both the British and American actors are working excellent together and are a great mix . Both act in their own styles with their own sense of humor . It makes the movie excellent to watch for both the fans of the British humor and the more ' forced ' American comedy . The story is really great , especially for a comedy which often just relies on its jokes and comical situations . Sure , " A Fish Called Wanda " also has got its weak moments , such as the whole side-plot with Ken Pile trying to kill the old lady . Yes , it's funny in a comical way but it doesn't really blend in with the rest of the movie . Another thing that distinct this movie from other comedies is the wonderful cast . All of us of course already know John Cleese's comical talent but it really is Kevin Kline that steals the show . The best acting performance I have ever seen in a comedy ! He really , really deserved his Oscar for this movie . Hilarious comedy , watchable and recommendable for both the fans of British and American comedies .
Akira Kurosawa has got to be one of the most influential and inspiring movie-directors of all time . Back in 1958 , there wasn't really an action movie genre . This was before movies like " North by Northwest " and " Dr . No " were made , which both probably are the most influential and earliest ' modern ' form action movies . The action movie genre had yet to be given its trusted form with its formulaic elements in it back in 1958 . This movie is obviously an early step toward ' modern ' action movies and it obviously inspired many later movies , both action movies as well as movies in other genres . Of course the most notable and best known example of this is the first Star Wars trilogy . Lucas was obviously inspired by this movie and he uses several plot elements , characters treatment and sequences from this movie in his Star Wars movies . Some references are more notable than the others and you'll probably discover new similarities on every new viewing . The story is simple but it's made unique through its storytelling . Instead of focusing on the main big heroic character , the main characters of the movie are two simple greedy peasants . The story is mostly told from their point of view which gives the story a whole different and interesting new dimension . It's a surprising and perhaps even daring approach of film-making but it works surprisingly well . It's not the story that makes this movie an unique one but it's truly the way of storytelling that does . The characters are constantly on the move or traveling , which gives the movie an extra sense of adventure . The whole way of acting looks totally different than the acting from European countries , America and the rest of the world . The style of acting might look a bit weird and perhaps also over-the-top these days , especially since we're simply just not accustomed to this way of acting . It gives the movie a style and feeling of its own but it at the same time makes the movie quite hard and not always as likable to watch . But the actors did their job and they served the story well , especially Toshirô Mifune , who always is a pleasure to watch in a Kurosawa movie . All of the characters are given a very strong own personality in the movie . The setting in the movie are beautiful and the cinematography is good and nimble . Masaru Satô delivers a fine musical score for the movie , that fits the movie and its atmosphere like a glove . The movie has some great action sequences in it , that maybe are not too big or grand to watch but the way they are captured on screen and put in the story makes them very spectacular and awesome to watch at the very same time . The whole spear fight after the already fantastic chase sequence was an absolute highlight for me . It was absolutely brilliantly directed , timed and choreographed . Perhaps one of the very best and certainly most memorable directed sequence from Kurosawa . Of course there is plenty more action to enjoy in this movie , although perhaps not as much as you would expect at first sight . The movie is more adventurous and entertain than action-filled to watch . Yet again Kurosawa does not disappoint and delivers a masterpiece in his own unique way and with his own unique style . This movie is perhaps also more accessible than his other , mainly earlier , movies and the movie will surely entertain , even when you're not familiar with other Kurosawa movies or his style of movie-making and storytelling .
Ben-Hur is the mother of epic movies ! Everything about it is big and brilliant . This is one of the few classic movie that has stand the test of time . Even now the movie is spectacular , grand and breathtaking . Even the acting is timeless . Despite it's long running time it never gets close of getting boring . It's mainly because of the story that is just so big and interesting . I especially love the religious scene's and I'm not even a religious person ! The movie is full of grand scene's with of course the chariot race as the highlight of the movie . Visually the movie looks beautiful . Not only the sets look extremely realistic but also the costumes are more then excellent and Miklós Rózsa's musical score adds to the brilliance of the movie . Even after almost 50 years it's still a feast for the senses . This is just a movie that you at least must have seen once in your life . There is nothing more to say about this movie then that it's brilliant ! Go see it now . . .
Possibly the first science-fiction movie ever created , " Le Voyage dans la lune " tells us the story of a group of astronomers who travel to the moon by being shot in a capsule from a giant cannon . More than 100 years later , the movie is still adventurous and spectacular to watch . The movie has a great and intriguing imaginary story , of course based on the well known Jules Verne novel . Of course the events presented in this movie are heavily outdated . The astronomers can magically breath on the moon without any spacesuits and gravity also is not a problem . It becomes all the more hilarious when they decide to take a nap on the moon under a couple of blankets . A man can also fall from space Earth into the water and lives to tell the story . The moon is also filled with lots of giant mushrooms and strange hostile aliens and the moon and stars all have faces . Of course totally ridicules all but what did they know back then ? Space traveling wasn't possible and astronomers knew very little about space and life in space . Even cars , radios , airplanes were yet had to be developed at the time for commercial use . But in essence the movie also has a core of truth in it , about the capsule being shot into space like a bullet . In that regard this movie is quite amazing and revolutionary about its ideas , though of course most credit for that have to go to Jules Verne . Director Georges Méliès makes the story work out believable and entertaining , with lots of early special effects and some overall great storytelling . The movie is only a couple of minutes short but that doesn't mean its not well developed . Lots of different stuff happens in the movie , from the building of the capsule , to the actual launch and landing on the moon and the astronomers mishaps with the hostile aliens and their king . Some of the early effects are amazing , obviously especially for 1902 standards but I perhaps liked the set decoration and costumes even more . It gives the movie a really great adventurous and imaginatively look and feel . It makes the movie very pleasant and entertaining to watch , even by todays standards . Definitely a revolutionary and important classic movie , in terms of its directing , story and special effects , that also is surprisingly entertaining to watch still .
No matter how often I watch this movie , I just never grow tired of it . It's a movie that I always enjoy watching and I find it to be a very entertaining one . The movie has a wonderful story . It's also an unique one , because it for once focuses more on the bad guy than on the good guys . The movie follows the assassin , nicknamed the jackal , on his mission to murder the French president De Gaulle . We see his preparations and how he slowly maneuvers himself into positions , and mingles with people and blend in with the crowd , all to achieve his goal . Of course not everything is going as planned and he has to improvise his way through situations , at times , while the police is getting closer and closer to finding out his true identity - and his track . The entire story is extremely well constructed and build up fantastic . The story takes it time to unfold things and everything eventually leads up to the fantastic end finale , that truly is unforgettable , as is the entire movie as a whole . The cast is also a reason why this movie works so very well and is an unforgettable one . The cast of the movie is not filled with some ' big ' well known names but rather with some excellent , lesser known actors , that were cast because of their abilities to play the character and not because of their well known name . Edward Fox shines as the jackal and he perhaps plays his most memorable part out of his career . Michael Lonsdale , who plays the main ' good guy ' of the movie but yet is only introduced half way through the movie , also plays one of his best and most memorable roles . It certainly is a good and at times tense thriller but it mostly also is a very entertaining one to watch . It's no heavy movie and despite its long running time , the movie never has a slow or lesser moment in it . It's a very consistent movie , due to it's well written script and most excellent directing , from multiple Oscar winning - and nominee , director Fred Zinnemann . For the people who can appreciate a movie with a well build up thriller-story , this is a most definite must-see ! Truly one of the very best thrillers and also certainly one of the most enjoyable ones ever made . It's yet another essential ' 70's viewing .
" The Matrix " has redefined the science-fiction genre . Previous to this movie , most science-fiction movies consisted out of scene's in space with spacecrafts , aliens , all set in a futuristic world . Most movies that tried to be different from this , mostly failed . " The Matrix " does however does not fail and it redefined the science-fiction genre and has taken it to a whole different and more seriously taken level of movie-making . The movie has inspired many different movies ever since and showed that science-fiction and action elements are a great and spectacular combination . From that perspective " The Matrix " is one of the most important movies for film-making , from the ' 90's . This is a superb piece of movie-making . The Wachowski ' brothers ' were obviously inspired by the Japanese anime style and they transform that style spectacularly into a life-action movie . Because of the style and flair of the movie , it makes the action look spectacular and even also look as something totally new . The fantastic bullet-time effects were something unseen before and are already alone reason enough why this movie is already almost a classic and certainly unforgettable movie . The style and new effects used in the movie make this movie to be also a refreshing one . It's an extremely original movie , both story-wise and technique-wise . Especially the action is what truly makes this movie a success . The fight and action sequences are beautifully choreographed . It also all is beautifully shot by cinematographer Bill Pope , who uses some fantastic lighting and camera-angles at times . The musical score from Don Davis is also quite good . Also the costumes and settings most certainly do not disappoint . The special effects are spectacular and also something totally new at times . The cast is not the strongest element of the movie . Keanu Reeves is fairly good as the main character but he lacks some charisma at times . Some goes for Carrie-Anne Moss to be honest . Actors who do not disappoint are Laurence Fishburne , Joe Pantoliano and the fantastic Hugo Weaving in his real big breakthrough role . He is an excellent ' villain ' because of his look and way of acting . But what really makes and shapes the movie is its story . Yes , it's complex and believe , not everything makes sense or is explained in a satisfying way but it at least is something totally original and imaginative . The story really shapes the movie and its style and make the action and science-fiction elements of the movie work fantastically together . The movie is great non-stop spectacular action entertaining that doesn't even get slow or boring even when nothing is really happening . This is mainly due to the imaginative powerful story of the movie . If you don't understand and / or get the story the first time , just watch it a second or third time . The movie is worth it . The movie uses multiple layers , symbolism and elements from religions and other styles of movie-making . It makes you discover more new things , every time you watch the movie . One of the most original and influential movies from the ' 90's and therefor also an absolute must-see !
There are lots of cannibal movies over the years and they are all equally gory and provocative but yet also ridicules because of their overwritten silly stories with silly plot-lines and characters . This really is not the case " Cannibal Holocaust " , since it chooses an effective and realistic approach by partly telling the entire movie in documentary style . It was also one of the reasons why many people at the time and still believe that this is a snuff movie , with real people getting killed in it . It still makes this one of the most controversial films ever made , even to this date . In its genre , this was a quite modern movie at its time . The approach was new to people and it surprised them . Director Ruggero Deodato got almost prosecuted in Italy for slaying real people in front of the camera and the movie was also banned in several countries for graphic gore , sexual violence , and for the genuine slaying of six animals featured in the film . I believe it's even banned in some countries till this date . At least I really wouldn't be surprised if it was . It's quite hard now to believe that people at time thought that the events in this movie were all real . I mean , the acting is so bad and the blood is typically early ' 80's fake reddish looking and all sequences are all too obviously staged , filmed and cut . But then again there will be always people who keep believing these sort of things . Remember at the time of " The Blair Witch Project " , in 1999 , many people thought that one was real as well . The whole controversy , that is even now still surrounding this movie , makes it part of its charisma and cult status . This alone is for many people reason to watch it . But really this movie is so much more than . Intentionally or not ( opinios differ on it ) the movie also works great as a social commentary on various aspects of modern civilization and sensationalism . Themes in this movie still apply today , which makes this movie just as powerful effective and relevant as almost 30 years ago . Especially the plot line with the producers wanting to release the shot documentary , to meet the public's demands and needs still applies and would be relevant today . People always have had an hunger for real violence , war and other things like that on TV . TV stations try to exploit this as best as possible , with shows such as " Cops " and " The Jerry Springer Show " . But also on the regular every day news , with more images of war areas and natural disasters and such coming on , day in , day out . even though you really don't want to see these things , you subconsciously still think and say ; why doesn't the camera move in any closer ? Why don't they show more of what happened ? Etcetera . The human curiosity and fascination for the unknown is simply too big to feed . For instance nobody wanted to see Nick Berg being decapitated an Islamic terror group in Iraq but still thousands , if not millions of people watched the video online , which proofs my point . Yes , this movie is an extremely graphic and gory one . Not only because of the human slaying and cannibalism in the movie but also , if not more , because of the REAL animal killings in it . The turtle sequences is already legendary . For those who've always been interested in how the insides of an turtle look like ; watch this movie ! Also shocking are the many sexual abuse - and killing rituals in this movie . Even though I'm no woman , I can still imaging the pain . But also the male crowed will have something shocking thrown at them , involving the one-eyed trouser snake . The movie looks mostly realistic due to its limited resources and restrained budget . Basically halve of the movie is done in documentary style which only adds to this . The camera-work is extremely effective . Suggestive camera-work often works more effective than cutting back and forth between different camera-angles . Also of course the jungle and natives portrayed in this movie adds to the claustrophobic and more horror kind of atmosphere . The movie has such a great symphonic theme ! Something you really wouldn't expect from a movie like this and it seems out of place but yet perfectly suits the images on screen . Italian horror scores and scores in general are often under-appreciated , simply because of the fact that they aren't really widely known and released . Works great as a fascinating and extremely gory cannibalism movie but perhaps works ever more striking as a social commentary , which still applies today .
Yes , the talent is really showing ! Along with " The Sugarland Express " this is the movie that can be held responsible for Spielberg's breakthrough . How often does it happen that a TV movie gets a thearetical release ? Not often I think , a movie has to be really good and special for that and " Duel " truly is a rare movie like that . What it is that the movie makes so tense is hard to describe . It probably is the lack of explanation . It is never explained who the truck driver is and what his motivation was . Also the tension is build up perfectly and the movie is just one big chase that will keep you in the edge of your seat . The cinematography is simple but yet effective . It fits the movie's story perfectly and helps to add to the tension . It has to be said ; Dennis Weaver does a great job . Although his voice over at times throughout the movie doesn't feel nessecary and distracting from some of the scene's , such as the whole bar scene , I have a feeling that the scene would had been more effective if it would have left the images and Dennis Weaver's expressions speak for itself . A real tense movie , with an ending that doesn't disappoint .
