I wish to confess to being a DOCTOR WHO fan but when I see something like DIMENSIONS IN TIME I feel nothing but shame and deep embarrassment at being a fan . Okay I know that this nothing more than a filler during the BBC's annual children In Need appeal that is not to be taken seriously but that didn't stop my skin turning an extremely deep shade of red at watching it . DIT is possibly the worst thing I have ever seen under the DOCTOR WHO banner as Doctors , companions and monsters come and go for no apparent reason . Nice to know that most fans I've discussed it with also despise it
Original is not a word to describe THE MUTATIONS . To sum up its plot it's a hybrid between a mad scientist film and FREAKS . Unoriginality is not enough to condemn it of course , but what makes THE MUTATIONS a truly terrible film is the fact that it's so sickening . When Tod Browning made FREAKS in the 1930s disabilty and deformatity were I imagine treated differently in those days . Not so in the 1970s when the concept of a traveling " freakshow " wouldn't have drawn an audience . Indeed it's highly unlikely any council would have allowed it to take place on the grounds of taste due to a public outcry . There's no way I'd pay to go and see that and I feel disgusted I watched a film where people with real deformaties are used in the name of entertainment . Perhaps the saddest one was " The skeleton woman " who looked like she'd just been rescued from a Nazi death camp . SPOILERS ( though how can I spoil your " enjoyment " of this filth is beyond me ) I've outlined a good enough reason not to watch it , but may I also point out that this film is also extremely sloppy and underdeveloped in terms of script and production too . For example the hero gets turned into a man eating plant and for no reason consumes a drunken passerby . I say for no reason because he can still control his human emotions which he demonstrated in the previous scene by talking to his girlfriend and demonstrates it again at the end by attacking the villain in his lab . And this action scene seems to have been directed , edited and had make - up artists by people who were too untalented to have worked on the worst school play production . Still it could have been worse , if the rest of the film is anything to go by the production crew might have dug up a decomposed corpse and used that for the villain's death scene . And get ready for a final shock plot twist at the end though how can anyone be shocked by the final scene when we've already seen exploitation of the worst sort leaves me pondering . You're probably asking yourself why I decided to watch THE MUTATIONS all the way through instead of switching it off in disgust ? Make no mistake this film did disgust and disturb me . Well it did star a pre-fame Tom Baker as Donald Pleasence's henchman . I can watch anything with Baker in it and to see him play a nasty piece of work does have a certain novelty value Check out VAULT OF TERROR ) , but even that didn't stop wanting to swith off the TV frequently . And for my sins I had to get into a warm soapy bath afterwards and scrub myself clean , That's how much THE MUTATIONS disgusted me
. . . . Sang both The Beatles and The Breeders and after seeing this black comedy I thought sticking a gun in my mouth would be more preferable than sitting through this movie . What's it about ? Well some of it follows a man ( I use that word in its loosest sense of course ) who likes to have mono-sex while talking on the phone to women who he randomly calls and some it follows a man who has a sexual fixation on children , gawd and I thought JEEPERS CREEPERS was disturbing . I should also point out that I never watched the end of the movie as I switched off half way through wich may invalidate this review , but bare in mind that many people from a mainstream audience will be also be very uncomfortable with the subject matter Film tutor legend Dov S Simens is on record as saying never ever pitch a film script as a black comedy because it's such a vague expression and after seeing a myriad of indie black comedy movies I fully agree with him . Got a weird unentertaining script ? Just call it a black comedy and no one will notice , and no one will produce it either hopefully
If like me you live in Britain and stay up late you often find obscure films being shown on Channel 4 . One night I stayed up and by chance watched BENT . After I watched I realised I should try going to bed earlyBENT starts off bizarrely with transvestites parading around one of which is Sir Mick Jagger so I was expecting a sort of camp version of CABARET , but explicit scenes of gay sex followed and after that the film descended into a very pretentious and obvioulsy stage based drama where Clive Owen looks grim faced and keeps repeating " This can't be happening " over and over again . And despite what other reviewers have said about this film I found myself feeling nothing except terminal boredom . In short this is the type of film that ruins the British film industry but which Britain continues to make despite a very limited market . And no I'm not being homophobic . If the characters had been , Jews , Slavs , trade unionists , communists or any other type of victim of Nazism I would still have hated this film
Oh dear , a thriller about a deranged man who kidnaps children . What's not to like ? Apart from the premise you mean ? Three other things1 ) Dream sequences - The film drowns in these sequences . Someone dreams they're being murdered and they wake it and discover it was all a bad dream . I was actually shocked that the ending didn't revolve around the cop out ending but that would have been just too obvious . It should also be pointed out that because of these sequences the narrative ends up confusing the audience . For example a couple commit adultery by having sex in a woods but they have sex for a ridiculous amount of time which led me to believe it was another dream . But it wasn't . At least I don't think it was . Oh I'm so confused 2 ) John Lithgow's performance - Oh dear . Remember Jon Voight in ANACONDA ? I think Voight based his performance on Lithgow's style in this movie3 ) Brian De Palma's direction - CARRIE was very memorable due to De Palma's slow motion photography , his tracking shots and characters talking without any dialogue being heard . However it seems that he's a one trick pony . Nearly all his films contain this idiosyncratic technique , THE FURY contained it as did DRESSED TO KILL and THE UNTOUCHABLES and CASUALTIES OF WAR was almost ruined by it and here it's totally unnecessary . I should also point out that a pram features in the climax like it did in THE UNTOUCHABLES . Time to move onto some other directing style Mr De Palma
THE EXTERMINATOR is one of the most memorable films I've seen . Okay it's by no means a groundbreaking masterwork of cinema but it does appeal to the wish fufilment in human beings of wanting to rid the world of scum . EXTERMINATOR 2 is also memorable . That's because it's one of the worst films ever made . If you've never seen the original EXTERMINATOR then you'll find the sequel makes no sense at all and if you've seen the first film you'll find the sequel still doesn't make any sense . John Eastland goes around frying bad guys because . . . . well because their bad guys , there's no character development and there's a lack of internal continuity to all this since the feds were on his case at the end of the original , but here there's no spooks putting two and two together and realising it's the same vigilante killer , unless I've missed something the feds aren't involved at all . But what ruins this sequel is the completely OTT scenes and dialogue . ( ! ! ! ! POSSIBLE SPOILER ! ! ! ! ! ) A scene featuring a robbery on a security van by gang X culminates in a police helicopter being shot down and a security guard being tied to a railway track and run over by an oncoming train ! Yes I'm sure that happens all the time . And the dialogue consists mainly of F words as in " I didn't f see that motherf's face man . The motherf had no f face man " . I don't know if he's doing it on purpose but Mario Van Peebles gives one of the most laughably bad performances I've ever seen as the main villain X , most notably at the climax where he struts around a disused factory stalking Eastland spouting lines like " You fought good Johnny but now you must die . Don't take it too hard Johnny we all come to an end one day " I noticed some reviewers have compared this film to DEATH WISH 3 . Please don't . DW3 is an enjoyable film that appeals to the vigilante in all of us . There is nothing to enjoy about EXTERMINATOR 2
SPOILERS It's not very often that I comment on what other people have written in their reviews but it's not very often I see a movie as stupid as THE WICKER MAN get praised to the high heavens . Bryce David and Ray Girvan are totally correct in their views - This film revolves around the plot set-up of someone from a Scottish island sending an anonymous letter to a police station hoping that the policeman who reads it will investigate the case of a missing child - AND WHO WILL BE A VIRGIN ! What's the chances of that ? and as said how would the islanders know in the first place ? It also ignores other logical things like won't Sgt Howie be missed if he's sacraficed ? and is it fair to assume the police will investigate the contents of an anonymous letter ? It also seems to ignore police procedure . Wouldn't CID lead the investigation for a missing child , and don't policemen travel in pairs ? It's rather a clever idea of a character being killed because they're a virgin but not if it's to the detriment of the rest of the story There's other things that annoyed me . If this is a totally isolated Scottish island untouched by modern society then the inhabitants will be Celts , but are their pagan based ideals truly Celtic ? Doesn't the English West country have may poles ? If so then surely people from the West country can't have anything in common with these islanders who have a different cultural background ? The philosophy seen here is more new ageism than Celtic so is there any point of setting it on a remote Scottish island ? It's also obvious that this has been happening for years . Does that mean they've been writing to police stations on the mainland for years and the cops have been sending them virgins ? I can't escape from this ridiculous premise no matter how hard I try I don't know if it's the fault of the production or if channel 4 used a bad print but everything on screen seems very cheap and badly edited as the camera jumps around from scene to scene . The sound editing is very poor but listening to the songs I can't say I'm complaining and I feel I should point out to anyone thinking of hiring Britt Ekland that if they're using a stand in can they please use someone who has a vague passing resemblance to her , you know someone with blonde hair might be start . I know Christopher Lee said pre LORD OF THE RINGS that this is the best movie he ever appeared in , but can anyone name me a good film starring Lee where he doesn't use the words " Gandalf " or " Mordor " ? THE WICKER MAN gets
Ah yes HIDEOUS KINKY that's the one with Kate Winslet getting abducted by a cult and Harvey Keitel races to save the day . I was slightly confused as to why Keitel's name didn't appear in the credits but this is for the simple reason that I had got this movie mixed up with HOLY SMOKE . I won't bother to apologise , it's an easy mistake to make Actually I would have enjoyed Harvey Keitel turning up in this film blowing away a few bad guys because this would have given HIDEOUS KINKY some male appeal since this is a dreary chick flick about nothing much of interest . Julia is a single mother who takes her two young daughters to Morocco , so there you go that's the plot summed up . Anymore comments ? Not much except to say I thought Julia was one helluva poor role model for mothers everywhere . She doesn't mind letting her daughters see her rolling around in bed with a man she's just met , or letting them live in some drug fuelled doss house full of hash heads . In truth women like Julia should be barred from having childrenAnd film makers should be banned from making low concept feature films like HIDEOUS KINKY unless they feature Harvey Keitel blowing away bad guys
In Britain we have a show called 999 where real life disasters are reconstructed on screen . I don't know if there is an equivalent show in the US but watching WITHOUT WARNING made me think I was watching a feature length episode of 999 because this TVM is filmed entirely on video tape so it can be intercut with real life footage of the 1993 world trade centre bombing and feels too much like a reconstruction than a drama . It's all rather understated and fairly undramatic but I suppose that's better than the glossy PEARL HARBOR approach of having hunky up and coming stars shouting " Get me a damn firehose " and running into a blazing building in slo-mo . And I guess there is some irony of seeing a then pre ER George Clooney spending much of this TVM in a hospital bed as an injured fireman . But it's impossible nowadays to write the initials WTC or hear the words " World trade centre " without thinking of the date
Apart from the fact that this film was made ( I suppose it seemed a good idea at the time considering BOTTOM was so popular ) the one thing that puzzled me about GUEST HOUSE PARADISO was what happened to the lighting ? There is absolutely no artificial lighting used in this film whatsoever , and I watched it on network TV so it wasn't a case of watching a dodgy tape . In fact the film was shot so darkly it was impossible to see what the hell was going on . But if the dialogue was anything to go by that's maybe not a bad thing
I don't know if the CARRY ON series was past its sell by date in 1976 but you get the impression that no one is even trying to make a funny comedy here . It lacks many of the regulars like Jim Dale and Kenneth Williams and sees them replaced by the likes of Patrick Mower who lack the essential comic timing the regulars brought to the series . Perhaps worst of all is the casting of Windsor Davies and Melvyn Hayes in very similar roles they had in the popular military comedy IT AIN'T HALF HOT MUM If the movie had played out like a feature length episode of IT AIN'T HALF HOT MUM it wouldn't have been so bad but the simple plot of guys and gals trying to get it on under the nose of a new commanding officer is painfully unfunny as are the gags , I mean when one of the funniest jokes revolves around a trio of characters called Ready , Willing and Able you know the writers David Pursall and Jack Seddon aren't trying
Don't be fooled into thinking that this is a remake as in this years remake of THE TIME MACHINE is based on an earlier film . It's not because this is a pointless re - film . That is the director has used the original camera script shot for shot similar to the " remake " of THE GET AWAY from a few years ago . The scenes are identical to the original , the dialogue is identical to the original , the camera angles are identical , no attempt whatsoever is made to embellish or restructure the original script , ( But with a director like Van Sant at the helm we should be thankful . He sure ain't no Hitchcock ) in fact I might even be correct in saying the costumes might be the same because the private eye wears a pork pie hat . Didn't they go out of fashion in the late 1960s ? Bottom line : Avoid
MILD SPOILERS The title sequence of ELITE features some very obvious exposition ( Just like THE A TEAM ) telling the story of how an elite business cartel are killed in a terrorist attack and how the victims children are brought by a shadowy government department to be trained as an anti terrorist unit , an elite anti terrorist unit , an elite anti terrorist unit composed of spoiled brats . It should be pointed out that the title sequence is preceeded by an action sequence featuring a band of terrorists who detest American greed . I've also got to point out that having the terrorist attack take place before the title sequence somehow feels wrong . The title sequence should have been shown before the terrorist raid . After the title sequence we're shown what these spoiled rich kids are capable of , and boy are they capable of anything , they can defuse a nuclear missile , blow away hundreds - And I'm talking literally of hundreds - of bad guys without suffering a scratch and show us what lovely white teeth they have . I guess being part of an elite anti terrorist has its benefits since they all obviously have access to elite dental treatment - Is this why the movie is called ELITE ? The goes on and I found it very difficult to empathise with 20 something Americans with great hair and great teeth who can do absolutely anything in a tricky situation without suffering a scratch so I found myself siding with the anti capitilist villains which I suppose is something of a compliment to the screenwriter , all too often the motivation for the bad guys is too vague or too over the top unlike here where I could identify with the European villain who has a pathological hatred of globilization and free market economics . Only thing is I don't believe the audience were actually meant to identify so clearly with the bad guy , it was only after being battered over the head as to how well educated and well off the heroes were that I found myself cheering for the baddies in a film that feels like it was cross bred with GOLDENEYE and BEVERLY HILLS 90210
If I have a problem with the modern environmental movement it's with their pacifism at all costs stance . You see the modern environmental movement was founded by quakers who's ethos of non violence is the primary idealogy of the green movement . This is to critical free thinkers a flawed ideal , after all how you going to deal with evil men like Adolph Hitler and Osama Bin Laden without using force ? So it's totally ironic that films always portray environmentalists as gun toting nutters . Can anyone remember these stupid holistic minded thrillers where Steven Seagal shows the world that ecology is all about blowing away everyone who works for an oil company ? Well it's the same with SECONDS TO SPARE though thankfully someone came up with a great idea to make the greenies the bad guys ! ! ! ! ! MILD SPOILERS ! ! ! ! ! There's some really twisted logic in this movie . The eco-terrorist leader Eve is against violence so she and her cohorts join up with a former CIA man ( Has there ever been a film where a former CIA man is shown in a good light ? ) and a Serbian war criminal ( Has there ever been a film where Serbs aren't war criminals ) get some guns , steal a large amount of nerve gas , blow up a nerve disposal unit killing everyone inside , hijack a train to use it as a missile , and it's only then Eve realises she's taking part in something a little more serious than a sit down protest ! Duh hello , Earth to Eve ? I suppose her full name must be Naive ? As for the rest of SECONDS TO SPARE it's basically one of those generic " Hero on a train that's full of hostages " thrillers , a bit like DEATH TRAIN or UNDER SIEGE 2 so it plays out in a fairly predictable manner as with scene of bad guy taking pretty blonde hostage to quiet part of train to rape her but hero pops up and kills bad guy , and scene with man in charge of operation making decision to save millions by sacrificing the hostages on the train . You've more chance of seeing Patrick Moore and Bjorn Lomborg rejoining Greenpeace than you have seeing the bad guys carry out their dastardly plan in this type of film
Did anyone stop to realise what sort of movie they were producing here ? Now let's a former marine officer becomes assinged to a group of kids at a cadet school so this should be a family comedy right ? Wrong . This is just a gross comedy aimed at teenagers with many bad taste moments . It might have been watchable in an extremely dumb way at this point but I found Damon Wayans voice to be irritating beyond belief . Does he speak like that in real life ? If he does then he has my sympathy but he won't be getting any of my money from watching his movies
Oh yes European culture and the Eurovision Song Contest which is like Adolph Hitler and racial harmony appearing in the same sentence . Actually this years contest was far worse than usual because the tunes seemed confused . Croatia's song started off with some bagpipe music while the entries from Greece and the United Kingdom sounded more Turkish than the entry by the Turks . Oh and the Greeks did a bit of riverdancing which probably was a cynical attempt to fool the voters into thinking they were watching Ireland who often win but for some reason didn't qualify for the final this year Okay lets be truthful and say I was hoping the best looking female contestant was going to win . I guess I shouldn't be too disappointed since the Greek contestant had the best legs and she won while Romania had the best cleavage and she came third with the Israeli motek also doing very well . Unfortunately there was a miscarriage of justice with some ugly fat bird from Malta getting the runner up spot which adds fuel to the rumours that it's only middle aged homosexuals who vote in this contest . As for the music it was instantly forgettable . Norway does deserve some credit since they contributed an act that seemed very similar to a tribute band for Brit glam rockers The Darkness and Denmark's entry could easily have passed as a respectable POP IDOL contender . Talking of POP IDOL Britain was represented by Javine a former contestant of one of the reality pop shows but her performance on the night was very very poor and she ended up near the bottom of the final vote As for the voting itself this what gets my goat . Countries continue to vote for their neighbours regardless of the merit of the songs themselves . Greece and Cyprus give each other twelve points while the Balkan , Baltic and Scandinavian countries scratch each others backs . It's totally ridiculous as is the fact that while only 24 countries take part a total of 39 countries vote . In fact I think the majority of the running time was taken up with the voting rather than the singing . Good job nobody takes this competition seriously otherwise it would cause world war three
. . . If I knew what was happening SPOILERS This gets off to a gripping though disturbing start . The computer system at a British maximum security prison breaks down releasing the prisoners who take their frustrations out on the prison officers - cue some distressing violence and it's down to Max Raines to find out what caused the system to fail . The ending is also memorable in its totally totally downbeat outlook , so much so that I doubt if I could watch it again and that must be seen as something for a failure , though WIPE OUT suffers from an even bigger failing The first episode of this five part serial is compelling and as the story goes on it's revealed that the prison computer system has been hacked in to by terrorists . As I sit in front of my PC and as you read this review you don't need any explanation as to what hackers are , you don't need any explanation what computer networks are etc but WIPE OUT was broadcast in 1988 when the average member of the public had no knowledge of computers so for episodes two three and four the plot revolves around Raines being told how computers work and I can't explain how drawn out and tedious this is , and I not ashamed to admit that these conversations went miles above my head and by the end of the second episode I'm certain the average viewer would have been lost as to where the plot was going and decided to do something more entertaining like watch paint dry instead There's also a character subplot involving Raines . He has flashbacks to Kenya as a child where his parents were murdered by the Mau Mau . At the end the terrorists have been stopped in their tracks just as their about to hack into the world's nuclear missile codes causing World War Three . A civil servant then reveals that Raines parents were actually murdered by the British ( I can't remember the reason why ) so in a fit of rage Raines runs over to the console setting off the world's nuclear weapons and the final scene is a montage of missiles in flight . As I said it's such a bleak and depressing ending as to be unwatchable and what is the subtext to this ? I suppose doesn't matter since the ending is as confusing as the bits that preceded it
Anyone remember the docudrama THREADS ? It's a drama documentary which shocked Britain in September 1984 . Whilst not exactly wholly entertained by Mick Jackson's nuclear holocaust horror film I could respect it . Unfortunately I can't respect this docudrama broadcast 20 years later which deals with terrorists letting off a radioactive dirty bomb in the centre of London The problem I have with it is that director Daniel Percival production values are far too good when in fact this would have benefited from rather cheap production values . The cinematography is superb but in this type of speculative drama do we need superb and well lit Oscar standard cinematography ? What we certainly don't need is a musical score as the survivors of the blast slowly stagger out of the smoke . Neither do we need vaguely well known cast members . Did anyone else sit there asking themselves " Hey what was he in ? I know that face " several times ? I know I did and it's very distracting . Perhaps the biggest production flaw with DIRTY WAR is that someone decided to make it a docudrama with too much stylistic emphasis on the drama . In THREADS the action cuts away from the action in Sheffield umpteen times and becomes an edition of HORIZON on the effects of nuclear war before cutting back to the fictional protagonists again and THREADS is very effective because of this . Here the information presented suffocates the drama which drowns in expositional and totally unconvincing dialogue . The characters in the teleplay aren't really characters they're just cyphers there to inform the audience what happens when radioactive material is exploded . It would have been better for the action to cut to captions to convey this type of information ala THREADS . The worse thing is that director Daniel Percival used the same technique as seen in THREADS a couple of years ago with his docudrama about smallpox . He should have used the same style with DIRTY WARI should also lay my cards on the table and state that while I don't consider most Muslims are terrorists I am getting slightly fed up of TV productions like THE HAMBURG CELL , THE GRID and DIRTY WAR having to point out this fact to me by whalloping me over the head with it which is somewhat typical of patronising PC attitudes in TV companies nowadaysI managed to miss the studio debate that Bob mentions here but I have also heard it discussed elsewhere and I can't help thinking it makes better viewing than DIRTY WAR itself with its heated arguments between differing factions of the political spectrum . If DIRTY WAR is remembered twenty years from now ( Highly unlikely I know ) it may well be remembered for the discussion it caused more than anything
This might sound ridiculous but it wasn't until 1991 that I got into De Niro , Keitel and Scorsese in a big way . I'd just seen the classic TAXI DRIVER and eagerly got my dad to tape MEAN STREETS off Sky television . Unfortunately I thought I'd either given my dad a bad tape or the video hadn't been tuned into the TV station properly since the picture quality was very poor and everything was filmed in a sickly red colour and that's just the bits I could make out because for most of the movie the contrast was terrible with everything being dimly lit . It wasn't until a couple of nights ago when I saw MEAN STREETS on network TV that I realised that the poor picture quality wasn't anything to do with duff videotapes or out of tune video recorders - It was down to the fact that the original print suffers from some terrible lighting and cinematography that gives the impression that the movie was made on 8mm by a bunch of twelve year old boysThat's bad enough but what brings the film down ( And I noticed this on first viewing in 1991 ) is that Scorsese has forgotten to write a plot to his screenplay . I think Martin Scorsese is god where making movies is concerned but not even he can escape criticism by making a movie that goes nowhere . For the most part MEAN STREETS resembles those Harry Endfield characters The Scousers with New York accents " You alright Johnny Boy ? " " You asking me if I'm alright ? " " Yeah I am . What the f you gonna do about it ? " It's like this all the way through the running time up until the last ten minutes when Marty finally realises he's got to introduce an incident in order to finish the film The acting from Harvey Keitel is totally convincing while De Niro is superb ( Something that can't be said for most of his recent performances ) but by writing a low concept hyper realistic screenplay Scorsese has effectively ruined the movie in its conception . Ask yourself this : If the driving force behind the movie wasn't Martin Scorsese would you have regarded MEAN STREETS so highly ?
Why is it whenever a serial killer is sentenced TV companies decide to make a TVM about the case ? This is a bad idea on both grounds of taste and artistic licence . UNABOMBER : THE TRUE STORY is no better than most of these true crime TVMs . In fact it's probably worse because much of the storyline descends into soap opera territory - the killer's brother falls in love love ? Oh big deal . But my biggest beef is to do with the portrayal of investigator Ben Jeffries . So much of his early detective work to profiling the unabomber is down to intuition is it ? Great , maybe if the police used simple intuition to catch criminals instead of eyewitness statements and forensic evidence they'd be more criminals in prison - they'd certainly be more people in prison . And seeing as his real life name isn't Ben Jeffries I'm led to ask how much of the other facts in the story have been changed . At no time did I feel there was any explanation as to why Theodore Kaczynski decided to become a terrorist against the technological society . He published an anti - tech manifesto I know and the TVM quotes this but the audience are never told what caused his resentment against the modern era in the first placeGive this a miss because you won't learn anything . And I also wish to point out that if someone is called Theodore it doesn't always make them a mass murderer
This starts with a man wearing a tux getting killed by some Slavic gangsters at a Nu-Metal gig . It's never mentioned on screen but the implication is that the dead man is Bond , James Bond and throughout the movie where treated to an alternative universe where the world is no longer saved by sophisticated suave secret agents but saved by a loud crass extreme sports loving American Did I use the word " treated " in the above paragraph ? Maybe that's too much of a strong word because XXX isn't much of a treat . Okay I disagree with many of the people claiming this was the worst movie of 2002 but Rob Cohen is a very shallow director while Vin Diesel is a laughably bad actor who makes Sylvester Stallone look like Anthony Hopkins in comparison . What compounds this problem is the amount of homage the movie pays to the Bond series . Isn't this movie trying to do away with Bond ? So why does Xander Cage borrow lines like " The things I do for my country " which sounds a lot like " The things I do for England " from YOU ONLY LIVE TWICE . all throughout the movie we're treated ( Again that's maybe not the right word ) to little nods and winks to Fleming's superhero which makes the movie end up being a 21st century homage to JB and I doubt if this was the original intension . The story structure mirrors that of the franchise of cramming in several different locations because it seemed like a good idea at the time , so much so you find yourself forgetting what the original plot was , there's a femme fatale and the bad guy wants to start effectively world war three . Seen it all before XXX is dumb , loud and spectacular when it needed some wit and a better leading man . If your only requirement in a movie is stunts and explosions you'll no doubt enjoy it but I do prefer substance in a movie
I've never read JAWS by Peter Benchley but have of course seen the movie andJAWS is considered to be one of the few films that improves greatly onthe book . Much of this I'm told is to do with a large number of subplots being jettisoned in the adaptation , leaving only the main plot of a man eating shark and of the protagonists mission to kill it . One can't help thinking the producers of this movie should have done something similar The major problem is that much of the running time is taken up with a bunch of bad guys wanting to get their hands on a very expensive Greek opal . In many ways the story resembles another Benchley story THE DEEP which might not be a problem as such but when you've got a film called KRAKEN : TENTACLES OF THE DEEP then a prospective audience is expecting a giant squid to be the focus of the story rather than humans . The producers seem aware of this shoehorning a squid attack just to remind the audience there's a squid central to the plot when in fact it's the producers themselves who obviously need reminding As it's produced by Nu Image Films the production values are rather poor with the squid being a rather obvious CGI creation . Like nearly every film featuring a giant squid it makes a roaring sound ( Squids are mute ) and can grab people off the decks of ships ( Considered impossible by leading scientists ) and of course when someone gets devoured underwater there's a big bubble of blood rising to the surface . Not only that but biologists are all in their early twenties , have blonde hair and walk around in bikini tops thereby exposing their admirable mammary glands . One can't help thinking Nu Image Films and The Sci-Fi channel are in cahoots to get more guys to sign up to university science classes . I doubt however if anyone who worked on this film would be able to spell the word science
After Catherine Tate appeared in the final episode of Doomsday fandom went in to meltdown as to her casting and led to the first murmurings that Russell T Davies should step down as executive producer . These rumblings were ridiculous and I was going to wait until after I saw her in the role of Donna Noble before passing judgment . After seeing her I thought Tate was okay in the role but The Runaway Bride was slightly less than an okay story One weakness is the rather univolving plot . It's one of those stories in which there's a lot of running around but not much else . There's also bits that didn't seem thought through very well such as the return of the killer santas ( Were they included just to show that it was a Christmas special ? ) or having the villain washed down a plug hole . As for the villain herself Sarah Parish was absolutely terrible and her performance ranks alongside those seen in the Colin Baker and Sylvester McCoy eras . Why do normally capable thespians snarl and cackle like some pantomime dames in these type of roles ? Hopefully the little ones enjoyed this story than more critical adult fans of the show
It's obvious that by 1988 the Vietnam war film had nothing more to say . From the pondering self pity of THE DEER HUNTER to the cruel humour of FULL METAL JACKET the sub genre had burnt itself out in a similar manner as napalm had burnt out the jungles of South East Asia . SAIGON ( As it's known in Britain ) doesn't make any pretence at bringing anything new to Hollywood's love affair to the ' Nam and tells us nothing we didn't already know : War is hell - Check The South Vietnamese regime wasn't worth the life of one GI - CheckAll US colonels are crazy - Check SAIGON doesn't really feel more than a gimmick film , the gimmick being that it's a murder mystery set during the war in Vietnam . I should also point that the murder plot is very unconvincing , especially so in the last ten minutes where the murderer is revealed and it becomes a race against time to save his victim . If you want to see either Willam Defoe or Scott Glenn in a movie masterpiece rent PLATOON or APOCALYPSE NOW instead
ALL FOR LOVE ( as it titled when it was broadcast at the weekend ) is a romantic period drama featuring Captain Saint Ives a French officer in Napoleon's army who is captured by the British and imprisoned in Scotland where he meets and falls in love with a young maiden who visits the prison . There's also a storyline involving a murder . I will be honest and confess that I wasn't too taken by the movie since I'm not much of a fan of period dramas and the screenplay feels somewhat episodic but I will say that this is well acted by everyone involved and it's got a good cast that features Miranda Richardson , Anna Friel , Richard E Grant , Michael Gough and Jason Isaacs . The costume design as you can expect is also excellent I'll be very surprised if this movie doesn't get any complaints after being broadcast on BBC2 at teatime . Captain Saint Ives lies in bed with a prostitute where a nipple is fully exposed and there's a scene of French prisoners bathing that includes full frontal male nudity not to mention a murder scene where blood is clearly seen . You really do have to worry if BBC schedulers have any type of clue as to what they're doing
There's an early scene in ARTHUR 2 ON THE ROCKS that sums up this movie . It's the scene where Arthur taps on a fellow millionaires car window to be told " You're an annoying little man " . Couldn't have said it better myself sir . Annoying , that's the word and that's the whole film - Annoying Some people may say that's the whole point of Arthur Bach , he's supposed to be annoying and I'm not disputing any of this , my beef is not the way that he's written but by the irritating manner he's played by Dudley Moore who also executively produced ( Usually the sign of a bad movie when the executive producer and star are the same person ) this unentertaining sequel . Moore plays Arthur to the hilt and goes way over the top and never missing an opportunity to tell the audience that this guy's a drunk who thinks he's funny , and there's nothing less funny than someone who thinks he is . Portraying a drunken character is never easy at the best of times and Moore totally fails in his attempts He's not helped by the script though which has one of those premises that has a good idea but doesn't seem to be well developed at all : Arthur and his wife are trying to adopt a baby after falling upon hard times so Arthur must stop drinking and get a job . It's the kind of idea that personifies good drama of the main protagonist being split between need and desire ie Arthur must needs to stop drinking in order to achieve a better life but he desires to carry on drinking . Unfortunately the drama never really surfaces and the audience are mistreated to numerous scenes of Arthur telling unfunny jokes to the people he meets which doesn't make for a good film
I remember the BBC coverage of the Oscars in 1995 . Barry Norman was asking the Brits in Hollywood - Among them Tracey Ullman and Alan Parker - what they thought of the years nominations and the British view was unanimous that FORREST GUMP was nothing more than an overated mediocre movie . After seeing the film for myself I've got to agree with the standard British view - This is an overated mediocre movie It's impossible to believe anyone outside America could love this movie . The overated ( Third time I've used that word in this review ! ) Tom Hanks plays Forrest the local town idiot who experiences many of the truimphs and torments of 1950s 60s and 70s America , and it's all produced , played and written in a sickly sweet way , so sickly sweet you should watch this with a bucket in your hand so you don't get any vomit on the carpet . Amazing fact . Both American and non American voters on this site give FORREST GUMP an identical voter average - 8 . 1 . I'm at a loss to explain this
I was up watching BBC1 round about midnight so guess what was on ? That's right an American TVM which was called LIVING IN FEAR and amazingly didn't star Jane Seymour or Victoria Principal in a disease of the week plot . But that didn't stop this TVM from being formuliac . As in all these type of films it starts with a dramatic flashback over the opening titles - A woman falling down a flight of steps - then a caption appears informing us that it's now twenty years later as a newly wed couple arrive in town . And being a TVM it's a middle American town while the newly weds - Chuck and Rebecca - are middle American white Anglo-Saxon protestants . Suffice to say Chuck has a very dark secret from his past and Rebecca soon finds herself in mortal peril . The only difference between LIVING IN FEAR and most other TVMs is that this one is slightly more violent than the usual fare and contains the F word a couple of times Oh hold on there ! If it contains the F word then it surely can't be one of those American mainstream network TVMs . Then why is it written , directed and acted as if it is ?
I missed the first few minutes of RAVENOUS which worried me that I might have had my enjoyment of the movie spoiled . Alas if I catched the opening it wouldn't have made any difference whatsoever since this is a totally confused movie that changes mood from scene to scene and has a very underdeveloped script ! ! ! ! ! SPOILERS ! ! ! ! ! Take the scene where the army patrol take Colquhoun to the cave . Colquhoun then stabs the army officer to death and then takes his gun and shoots the Indian scout dead - All in front of an armed soldier ! Why didn't the soldier blow Colquhouns head off ? That's because he's seemingly aware of the fact Colquhoun can't die . In other words the characters are aware of what the screenwriter knows , a major fundamental fault when writing a script . There is a major plot twist later in the film when Colquoun reappears back at the army fort under the name of Ives , an American army officer but this seems to have been written into the screenplay only as a major plot twist . Think about it for a moment . Doesn't it start to fall apart when you think about it ? As for the myths of cannabilism , my ancestors the Picts believed if they ate the hearts and brains of their enemies they would assimilate the knowledge and courage of their dead foes as did many primative tribes but that's all they were - myths and legends , there's no scientific basis for this theory but the screenplay here does believe that if you go about eating fellow human beings you will become immortal . I know it's only a film but this takes fantasy too farDirector Antonia Bird is every bit as guilty for this farce as screenwriter Ted Griffin . As said the mood seems to change from scene to scene and much of this is down to the soundtrack . I did enjoy the Britpop soundtrack to her earlier FACE but here the technobeat score is both annoying and anachronistic . Worse than that she fails to get a decent performance out of Robert Carlyle . Watch the scene where the soldiers enter the cave and Colquhoun suddenly gives a Leo Sayer impersonation . A totally silly and ridiculous performance from one of Scotland's favourite sons who is usually excellent in everything he does . Bird also makes a cock up with the final sequences . First of all an army officer returns to the fort and tries the stew which the audience knows fine well is composed of human meat . Just so the director makes sure we get it the stew contains massive bones . We don't everything pointed out to us thank you . As for the climax of the good guy and bad guy fighting it out it resembles STRAW DOGS meets a Tom & Jerry cartoon . I don't think even the screenwriter envisaged such an OTT endingRAVENOUS flopped at the cinema and I noticed it was also difficult to find on video . After seeing the film I'm actually suprised it went beyond script stage
On the surface this might appear to be a relatively entertaining film since it stars two big names , but stop to consider the careers of both Julia Roberts and Brad Pitt . Roberts was unbelievably lucky to have won the Oscar for ERIN BROCKOVICH while Pitt is obviously a film star due to his sexy boy looks . You're right i'm slightly jealous of Pitt's physique and his face and even more jealous still that he's made a massively successful career out of it and like everything else he's appeared in THE Mexican shows Pitt is not much of an actor The plot revolves around gangster Jerry Walbach being sent down to Mexico by the mob to collect an antique firearm called " The Mexican " and while he's away his girlfriend Samantha is kidnapped by a hit-man called Winston Baldry who also wants to get his hands on The Mexican . I'm not sure if the premise would have allowed for many laughs but what's obvious on screen is that Roberts and Pitt try and milk the humour for all it's worth . This is a mistake because the comedy should come out of the situations the characters find themselves in not by Roberts and Pitt mugging for the camera , shouting or waving their arms about trying to convince the audience that this is a funny film . Even worse is the casting of James Gandolfini as Winston since he's written as a gay version of Tony Soprano , effectively we've got Gandolfini playing a distractingly similar role that he's best known for . Thankfully we don't see JK Simmons playing the head of The Ayran Brotherhood but his character is such a wimp I found myself wishing he'd say something like " From now on Jerry your ass belongs to me " while craving a swastika onto his victim's flesh . It's probably also a mistake to have Gene Hackman in here since his scene seems to have been written just so we'd get a cameo from a living legend . Anything that prolongs the running time of this movie receives harsh judgement from me THE Mexican is a comedy that I found to be far from entertaining . The casting of such big names must have cost a lot of money and more time and attention should have been taken with the script and you do get the irritating feeling that the producers thought having a couple of big names in the movie everything would have taken care of itself . Obviously it didn't . Some people on the message boards have complained that this is the worst movie ever when in fact it's not even the worst movie Brad Pitt has appeared in , but unless you're a die hard fan of either Roberts or Pitt there's not much point in seeing this amigo
This is a sequel to a previous made for television movie ? What you mean producers of TVMs are trying to beat Hollywood at its own game by making sequels ? I fail to see the logic in this since franchise movies are entirely down to money . Having said that it would explain why I felt that AN UNEXPECTED LIFE was underdeveloped where characterisation was concerned . Who are these people ? Why are they so upset about grandma coming to stay ? and so on It's strange but AN UNEXPECTED LIFE feels like it's a sequel to every TVM ever made , or not so much a sequel more a remake . Is there a scene where a sibling feels rejected about a new arrival ? Yes . Is there a weepy court scene involving children ? Yes . Is there a scene where a grown up has angry words with a parent ? Yes . Is everybody going to love one another at the end ? Yes . Will DVD rentals increase when this type of movie is shown on network ? YES YES YES YES
This is an incredibly mediocre disaster movie . So mediocre and ill thought out that you can be forgiven to thinking it's a spoof if it wasn't for the fact that AIRPORT 75 isn't even bad enough to be good . Say what you like about AIRPORT 77 and AIRPORT 80 : THE CONCORDE at least those flying accidents were entertaining A light plane crashes into the cockpit of a jumbo jet killing or maiming the flight crew so it's left to stewardess Nancy Pryor to try and fly the plane to safety and right away you can see a little flaw to this plot - What is it stewardesses do ? That's right they walk up and down aircraft serving food and drink to passengers so gawd knows why the producers thought because someone works on a plane they have an extensive knowledge of flying one . There must be amongst the passengers better qualified would be pilots , though perhaps a bimbo stewardess publicly announcing that the flight crew are either dead or incapacitated would anyone with a pilot's licence please go to the flight deck might cause a panic To be honest causing a panic amongst the passengers brings me to another major flaw with the film . look at the scenes of the passengers in the background . When the scene is supposed to be dramatic we can clearly see extras with totally bored faces and when there's a slower scene where nothing happens extras in the background look like they're having a heart attack through fear . It's difficult to know who to blame , the director or the actors but it's oh so very noticeable Despite the relatively big names the production values are very cheap looking leading me to believe that most of the budget was squandered on Heston's fee . The cockpit looks exactly what it is - a studio prop with back projection in front of it and the whole feel of the film screams that it's a made for television movie . There's no doubt that this is the weakest in the AIRPORT franchise
This has all the feeling of a 1980s disaster movie with its big name all star cast . Alas British audiences will be distracted by the opening sequence where a cruel Nazi is played by the legendary Leonard Rossiter . These type of casting choices can sometimes ruin a movie and iut's not helped by having cameos by megastars like Orson Welles and James Mason in blink and you'll miss them roles . That said the cast do seem more interested in giving good performances rather than enjoying themselves which isn't always the case with movies with a large cast of big names . Special mention should go to Paul Koslo was very prolific in 1970s B movies and who appeared in some utterly pathetic movies in the 80s and 90s , while the always excellent Johnathan Pryce shows us what he can do in an early role . Max Von Sydow as Captain Schroeder gives the best performance in the movieAll the cast do their best but it's really the script that is at fault . I did mention Von Sydow's acting performance as Schroeder , but you often feel his character is written as a litery point illustrating party member = bad , non party member = good , this point feels too forced and unsubtle . Remember it's when people become indifferent that bad things happen , not when they join a political party . I don't want to mention this but Erwin Rommel was a member of the Nazi party and he was the most respected German general by the allies because of his code of chilvary while many Wermacht non party members committed war crimes every bit as brutal as their SS counterparts so don't be fooled that everything is as black and white as seen here , as the caption at the end shows Schroeder himself was questioned about crimes against humanity after the war There's a couple of other flaws with the script . Aaron Pozner is shown being beaten to a pulp by some SA brownshirts in 1939 which is strange considering the SA were liquidated by Hitler in 1934 and lets be blunt in saying that the movie is at least half an hour too long . This is often a problem with a great number of movies featuring anti semitism 1933-45 in that by showing us mans inhumanity to man they often feel the need to labour the point home of the cruelty of the regime and the victims fear when in fact less would been more . It could also be that this is always not a very good subject to base a movie around especially when there's documentaries like THE WORLD AT WAR that shows the very real horrors of what the Nazis did to their victims
Lindsay Anderson was very much a European film maker , whereas the likes of David Lean , Ridley Scott and Alan Parker make spectacular movies involving visuel scope Anderson's movie are more about social commentary and subtext , so much so that the message often ends up taking over the entire film whose primary function should be to entertain the audience What you think of IF comes down to what you think of British film makers . I'm very much of the view that cinema should be a universial medium ( The best Brit movie makes are those who try to emulate Hollywood in my opinion ) , if you want to send a message try pony express , and I find the movie dated , pretentious and too set in the 1960s . 1968 was the summer of love and the year of student rebellion in France . You can just imagine every single French leftist worshipping this movie especially the climax . French new wave film makers will also admire the abstract surrealism of some scenes but a mainstream international will dislike it , and many will dislike it intensely
Once upon a time in the mid 1990s I used to write for DOCTOR WHO fanzines and the whole of fandom was holding its breathe about the new American produced DOCTOR WHO TVM . As soon as it was announced that the Doctor's arch enemy the Master was going to be played by Eric Roberts everyone scratched their heads and exclaimed " Who is Eric Roberts ? " . I should point out this was before the IMDB came online when all you had to do was type in a name into this website to their resume , but one helpful soul wrote into a publication I wrote for to explain that Eric Roberts was best known for a role where he starred opposite F Murray Abraham , the film was called BY THE SWORD and was about a fencing school . Actually looking back now Roberts is best known for THE POPE OF GREENWICH VILLAGE and RUNAWAY TRAIN but that didn't stop the person putting the boot into both Roberts and BY THE SWORD and his mind was made up that this American Master with his southern drawl was going to a debacle . Strangely most fans were furious about Roberts playing the Master but after they saw the DOCTOR WHO TVM a great many fans ( Myself among them ) thought Roberts performance was the best thing about the disappointing American production Yeah I'm digressing but BY THE SWORD was a film that I wanted to see simply because it was the first time I'd heard the name of Eric Roberts but I didn't get the chance to see it untill this weekend and I was fairly disappointed with it . I know nothing about fencing ( Everyone else on this page seems duty bound to mention if they fence or not . I don't fence ) so I don't know how accurate it all is , but as mentioned the film feels somewhat anachronistic even if you saw it on its release in 1991 , the hairstyles seem a few years out of date along with its mixed teenage cast doing a little dance routine that makes you wonder if it wouldn't have worked a lot better if it'd had been produced by Jerry Bruckheimer in the mid 1980s . You could argue this would have meant the relationship between Max Suba and Alexander Villard being off centre for most of the film but I wasn't convinced about their love / hate relationship and Abraham and Roberts have given much better performances before and since BY THE SWOR
! ! ! ! SPOILERS ! ! ! ! The original DEATH WISH was fairly good but soon found itself surpassed in intellect by TAXI DRIVER and entertainment value by THE EXTERMINATOR so it seems somewhat pointless making a sequel to the groundbreaking vigilante drama . The problem with the sequel is that it asks us to suspend our disbelief enough to imagine that Paul Kersey's daughter is gang raped a second time and then brutally murdered . You really have to wonder if anyone is that unlucky , but it gets even dumber , according to this script if you rent a seedy hotel room in a sleazy part of LA you'll have no problem bumping into the scum who raped and murdered your daughter . Must be a very small town ? And apparently if the cops seal off a street a vigilante can still easily turn up at a criminals doorstep to execute him and manage to escape if he fails to do so . I could go on about the ridiculous plot holes but I won't bother . DEATH WISH 3 had even more plot holes but at least it was great entertainment unlike number two in the series . The only entertainment to be had is watching Laurence Fishburne ( Yes that one ) body popping while wearing pink sunglasses
How could anyone hate the comedy capers of Norman Wisdom ? Me for a start . Just how much mileage is there in a man with an ill fitting suit falling over while screeching " Mr Grimsdale " in a silly voice ? I wouldn't say it was mileage I would say it was inch-age . You have to forgive the unsophisticated slapstick approach of Wisdom comedies because they were produced in a far less sophisticated not to mention less cynical era but I'm never in a forgiving mood where Sir Norman Wisdom is concerned ON THE BEAT is - if not better than most of his comedies - certainly by no means Wisdom's worst comedy . Much of this may be down to the fact that Wisdom plays several roles : Tough , fearless Inspector Pitkin , criminal mastermind Giulio Napolitani and wannabe cop Norman Pitkin . Okay he's hardly going to win an Oscar but at least Wisdom doesn't pratfall about too much , and there is a sequence where Pitkin leads what must be the whole Lodon met on a wild goose chase which is almost charming in a surreal type of way . If we're going to be cynical then we have to ask when Pitkin applies to be a policeman why isn't he given a sarcasm test ? No doubt Wisdom fans ( Yes both of them ) will love this movie while everyone else will merely dislike it
I don't believe the original ROCKY should have won the Oscar for best picture but in themselves the franchise is fairly inoffensive with my favourite one being ROCKY 2 and by far my least favourite being ROCKY 5 . ROCKY IV is very strange because more than any other movie in the series it's the one that has dated the most , it's painfully obvious it carries all the production values of a movie made in the mid 1980s with its MTV feel . Drago gets into the ring and we get a musical montage with the godfather of soul and a bunch of dancing girls . Rocky drives a car and the movie suddenly turns into a not very good pop video where we're shown the highlights of the first three movies . You won't need me to tell you that there's a rather pro American bias to the movie too , not as bad as RAMBO ( Can you guess the connection between John Rambo and Rocky ? ) but still very cheesy in its jingoism There is another problem that I can't quite put my finger on in that despite having a ring of truth about some aspects the movie doesn't develop them very well which gives a slightly ridiculous feel to everything . It's summed up by having one of the fighters train in a high tech gym in America while the other one does cross country running in the austere Siberian tundra . The crazy thing is that it's the American who's training in Siberia while the Soviet is using the American high tech Gym . Can you see what I'm getting at ?
Someone once asked me " What's the inhabitants of the isle of mute called - Mutants ? " " No Corporal " I replied " It's the isle of Bute and they're called Brandanes " But come to think of it when I walk down the streets of Rothesay on the Isle of Bute and see the inbred lumpen underclass drinking on top of empty heads I do think Corporal Williams may have been right . It is the Isle of Mute and the inhabitants are Mutants SLIGHT SPOILERS Anyway you get the drift , I live on an island and I come across mutants all the time so I was going to relate to a film dealing with mutant babies being confined and I wasn't disappointed by what I saw . ISLAND OF THE ALIVE is a very entertaining bad taste horror comedy , maybe not a classic like Peter Jackson's BAD TASTE but still fairly good as the film opens with a woman giving birth in a New York taxi cab and a cop trying to shoot the new born baby , while the next scene features the knowingly stupid line " It took four bullets before it died - That's some baby " , and of course there's scenes of the mutant killer babies ( Done by stop frame animation , none of this CGI rubbish ) going on killing sprees , and I haven't even mentioned Michael Moriarty doing a great Al Bundy impression . I've no idea why people are slagging this movie off , it's supposed to be silly . My only criticism about ISLAND OF THE ALIVE is it slows down in the final third and the expected HUMANOIDS OF THE DEEP ending with the mutant infants emerging from the sea attacking everyone in the city doesn't appear which made the ending a complete anti-climax . And if Larry Cohen is thinking of doing a sequel to ISLAND OF THE ALIVE showing what happened to the mutant youngsters after they've grown up he should come to the Isle Of Bute . He won't need a script , only a camcorder
Maryam arrives in the UK as an illegal immigrant then tries to claim asylum in this confused short film . I say confused because I have a large amount of difficulty in what it's trying to say to the audience . Certainly we are supposed to be on the side of Maryam and there's no way anyone is going to confuse this with having a " Little Englander " agenda , it's just that if it's to be viewed as polemical statement it fails to a large extent I have to point out to readers overseas that asylum and illegal immigration are the hottest hot potatoes in British politics . When NON PEOPLE was made a year ago tabloid headlines were screaming about the number of illegal immigrants and asylum seekers being granted leave to stay in this country and the British home office meekly bleated that being signatories to the 1951 UN convention on refugees and EU human rights law they couldn't deport refugees back to their country of origin if there was the slightest danger they'd face either the death penalty or inhuman treatment even if their application for asylum had been turned down . This is the political context that NON PEOPLE is set in To be fair the drama does point out that Maryam is given a council house house and a 40 ( About 70 dollars ) allowance by the state which while accurate is different from what all the do gooders say about the way asylum seekers are treated by the British state . It's this honesty from director / writer / producer Elena Karathanassi which confuses the drama because later on we're shown something dishonest where Maryam has her application for asylum turned down ( The application takes a ridiculously short time . Normally this process takes many months and often several years ) and finds herself living on the streets with absolutely no money . In real life even if Maryam's application had been turned down she'd still have been given residency and benefits paid for by the British taxpayer I can't say I was impressed by NON PEOPLE . It's confused since it says illegal immigrants are badly treated AND well treated by the British state and the technical aspects are hardly outstanding either , though perhaps the murky cinematography is an attempt to make the story look like a fly on the wall documentary . The one stand out aspect is the performance of Bita Taghani as Maryam and I'm slightly surprised that this is her sole appearance in anything
I have to be honest and confess that I'm not a Robert Altman fan . His movies suffer from being cluttered with too many characters having their own sub stories which detract from the narrative COOKIE'S FORTUNE can be used as a good example . For the first half hour of the movie we're introduced to the characters of a small deep south town called Holly Springs , yes that's right a film that lasts two hours wastes quarter of its running time on umpteen different characters . After this has taken place an event happens which sets up the main plot of where a black man is blamed for something he didn't do and if you're able to stay awake at this point you're doing well Did I mention this was a comedy ? I thought I have to mention it since some people might be confused that this might be some type of hard hitting drama like IN THE HEAT OF THE NIGHT and the movie continues in the same type of unlikely manner of blackly comical characterisation and plot twists . But if you like Altman you'll probably like this movie . I don't much and I didn't much
Despite enjoying the sequel more than the original I thought GOLDMEMBER was the weakest in the Austin Powers trilogy possibly due to the air of entire self indulgence that runs throughout the movie . This is personified by the appearance of Michael Caine as Nigel Powers . You can just imagine Caine picking up the script and reading : " Nigel is surrounded by four sexy skimpliy dressed bimbos in knee length boots " and Caine thinking " Well I grew up in absolute poverty and fought in The Korean war so what have I to feel guilty about " In other words the cast are in serious danger of enjoying themselves far more than the audience and you do get the feeling the film is more for the people who worked on it rather than the worldwide audience Take the highly intrusive self referential pre title sequence cameo appearances . How does the film benefit from this ? It doesn't . Likewise there's some clumsy continuity from Jay Roach . For example Austin is in the villains base and chase's after the villain , the only thing is the base is crawling with the villain's henchmen and at no point do they interact with what's going on . I should also confess that having seen this movie several days ago only one funny sequence sticks in my mind . One where Austin grabs the wrong end of the stick involving Mini Me while there's several scenes that stick in my mind because they're painfully unfunny like the subtitles and the joke that was recycled from the previous movie . Watching GOLDMEMBER isn't quite a painful cinematic experience but certainly the producers could have come up with something far better . Hopefully this will be the last ( And it's certainly the least ) in the Austin Powers franchise
I haven't seen the classic 1925 version or the 1943 version , in fact the only version I've seen of PHANTOM OF THE OPERA is this 1962 very British film . I say " very British " because not only is the action transferred to London but their seems to be a little Englander mentality of sticking two fingers up at the pretentious European crap that is opera . ( ! ! ! ! ! MILD SPOILER ! ! ! ! ! ) The scene I enjoyed most is when the arrogant glum singers are doing their rendition - And how good their rendition is I have no idea , it's probably crap since it's about a French heroine - of Joan Of Arc . Drop curtain . Raise curtain and international opera star Maria stands there as Joan . She opens her mouth and a sound similar to chalk being scraped against a blackboard rises throughout the theatre . Oh gawd she's singing , then stops as she sees the screen to her side ripping . She stands petrified and suddenly makes an even higher pitched wailing as a stagehand swings into view hanging from a rope . Scene fades out . Next scene fades up to reveal that Joan Of Arc has been canceled while Maria has left Britain never to return . The implication that being a foreigner Maria scares too easily because she lacks moral fibreAnd I'm probably not having to read between the lines too much to think that this film was made by xenophobic philistines . Well thank goodness for that because I'd hate to see Hammer produce a film dealing with art and internationalism . That said however I can't say THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA to be one of the better Hammer films despite its witty jingoism . It does feature future DOCTOR WHO star Patrick Troughton in a small role as a rat catcher but apart from that here's not much else to hold the interest
Pop Svengali Marty Starr is in a little bit of trouble with shady American Bruce whose son has ambitions to be a pop star so Marty decides the best way to keep his kneecaps is to come up with a get rich quick scheme BRING ME THE HEAD OF MAVIS DAVIS has few fans and while it's not exactly consistently laugh out loud it's by the same token not a truly terrible British comedy , I did see THE WEDDING TACKLE the previous night so I know what an abysmal comedy from this small island looks like believe me Much of criticism may have to do with the casting of Rik Mayall as Marty , as everyone is keen to point out his character is very similar to Alan B'stard from THE NEW STATEMAN but dissimilar enough to make you notice that Marty is very much an inferior comic character to that of the Tory MP but any deficiencies are made up by the supporting cast especially Jane Horrocks and Marc Warren The script by Craig Strachen is slightly uneven containing mainly moments that are fairly predictable but one or two bits are very funny . Perhaps the script can be summed up where Marty goes to buy some drugs from a rent boy where the audience are one step ahead of the script ( You can guess what's gonna happen next ) but contains a misunderstanding at the police station where Marty's cell mate starts to pull his trousers downOften predictable , sometimes amusing and there's worst movies I've seen this week that were made in Britain
I didn't have any idea what THE CICERONES was going to be about before watching it but after seeing it I can only describe this short film as " LEAGUE OF GENTLEMEN Go To A Slavonic Country " An English art lover travels abroad during the inter-war years and visits a cathedral that is inhabited by an assortment of weird characters . Can you see the parallels ? When I say the art critic is played by Mark Gatiss you can't help but be reminded of the cult BBC comedy and the only thing missing is the guy done up like a black minstrel wondering where Dave is I wouldn't go as far as saying THE CICERONES will only appeal to LEAGUE OF GENTLEMAN fans but Bob misses the point . If he was a regular viewer of the cult BBC comedy he would have noticed the structure and atmosphere is identical to LEAGUE . Thankfully Gatiss and co aren't a one trick pony but this is fairly disappointing short film
The plot to GUINEVERE is as follows : Harper Sloane a young woman aged twenty embarks on a sexual relationship with photographer Con Fitzpatrick a man old enough to be her father There that's the entire plot summed up in a few words . Notice how the plot is cogently summed up in a few words ? This means the story is rather threadbare and not much happens . The unlikely duo do things together like attend parties , have sex and take photos mainly of Harper's naked adolescent body but even this isn't exciting as it sounds and is in no way intended to be an " erotic " tale if you know what I mean Looking through the comments on GUINEVERE it seems opinion is very much split as to what the audience makes of this movie . Some people enjoyed it as a character study while others think it's a ridiculous movie . To be fair Stephen Rea and Sarah Polley do make the most of their slightly bland roles and the music is haunting and a line of dialogue " You will have a twelve inch cck up your ass very soon " did make me giggle but that says more about me than the quality of this movie
Hey get this , a FATAL ATTRACTION clone ! How original . No doubt if us men watch enough of these films we'll empathise with women who've been stalked in real life . I don't think so . This is how HER DEADLY RIVAL plays for the most part . Hunky married man keeps getting horny phone calls from a secret admirer then when he rejects her suggestions she gets angry . But there's a final twist at the end as to the identity of the stalker which is very hard to swallow . It's even harder to swallow when we're told that this is based on a true story because I don't recall reading about this case in the newspapers , and make no mistake if the events in HER DEADLY RIVAL did happen it would have made front page headlines all over the world
I have to worry about these channel 4 list shows . They seem to be produced at an alarming rate while there doesn't seem to be any genre left for a 100 GREATEST list show anymore . Can we please now bury these schedule fillers ? As with all the other 100 GREATEST shows I found myself agreeing with some of the listings while passionately disagreeing with most of what was included . There were some heartwarming moments where films received the recognition they deserved such as the criminally underrated CROSS OF IRON at 37 which I rate as the greatest war movie set during the second world war ( Though the reviewer David Aaronovitch shows he has no idea what he's talking about when he describes the villain as " A Nazi officer " Schell's villain is clearly stated as being a Prussian aristocrat opposed to egalitarian Nazi ideals ) , and we see a couple of very deserved top ten placings for ZULU ( 8 ) and A BRIDGE TOO FAR ( 7 ) but much of the problem with this chart is what qualifies as a " war film " I mean at number 100 we have FIRST BLOOD . Is John Rambo shooting up a redneck town a war movie ? If that's classed as a war movie then why not include DOG SOLDIERS or 28 DAYS LATER ( The soundtrack for 28DL is played between segments ) since they have battle scenes with soldiers , and are movies like TROY and BRAVEHEART war films ? But it's what wasn't included that made my heart sink . Thankfully we didn't get garbage like THE GREEN BERETS , PEARL HARBOR and OBJECTIVE BURMA but the list was missing well regarded - Well regarded by prolific critics at least - movies like THE BRIDGE AT REMAGEN , DER UNTERGANG , TOO LATE THE HERO , LOST COMMAND , THE BLUE MAX and SAVIOR . Perhaps the most ridiculous non inclusion is J'ACCUSE ! a movie that was filmed during the first world war that used real French soldiers as extras many of whom were later killed in battle . Are we to use this list as a definitive survey as to what the greatest war movies ever made are ? Of course not and you do get the impression that a great number of people voted for the last war film they saw . As for the top five they were : 1 ) SAVING PRIVATE RYAN 2 ) APOCALYPSE NOW 3 ) THE GREAT ESCAPE 4 ) SCHINDLER'S LIST 5 ) FULL METAL JACKET I've always thought SPR was very overrated and is so well regarded due to Spielberg's technical achievements in the first 20 minutes and last 15 minutes of the movie but most of the story is composed of Uncle Sam winning the second world war single handed . Mind you it's amazing to see channel 4 conduct a 100 GREATEST list that wasn't won by THE SIMPSONS
I don't know if you can describe the plot of THE PROFESSIONALS as versatile but it can certainly be described as generic . Someone's wife is kidnapped by bad guys so the husband pays four tough gringos to get her back . This plot could easily have been set in the 21st century with the heroes traveling to the Central American rain forest or even the deserts of Iraq to hunt down the kidnappers and save the damsal in distress . The movie even touches upon politics with Marvin and Lancaster's characters discussing good guys and bad guys : " Only thing is does anyone know who the good guys are ? " , but since it's a western format everything soon settles down to being a straight forward action adventure with the gringos taking on both bandits and idealistic revolutionaries . Fans of both westerns and action movies will certainly enjoy it . I was entertained myself but I kept getting the feeling the movie wanted to make political statements somewhere down the line and bottled out at the last minute which does give the movie a slightly confused feel , but maybe I'm reading too much into it
Many , many years ago I remember seeing a film that had The Master from DOCTOR WHO in it ( In fact many of the characters looked like The Master to me ) and the climax took place upon a zeppelin but I had no idea what the film was called untill today when BBC 2 showed THE ASSASSINATION BUREAUWell yes THE ASSASSINATION BUREAU does have a sort of late 1960s charm to it and is very very inoffensive and I can understand why many of the reviewers on this page like it but it probably won't appeal to anyone half as cynical as me . I don't suppose I can criticise the unconvincing banter between Oliver Reed's hero and the baddies or point out how really crap the special effects and the back projection are can I ? Nope thought notI'm not an assassin . I'm a critic
Talk about having friends in high places and merciful ones at that because what other excuse is there to make a belated sequel to STAKEOUT ? " Belated " is the operative word here because if it was made two years after the original movie I could understand this because that's the only reason the Hollywood industry exists - To make money and let's not forget that whatever the shortcomings STAKEOUT made a lot of money at the box office . So it seems very strange that the studio waited six years before making a sequel to the original , stranger still that both buddy movies and sequels weren't in fashion in 1993 Despite the lack of imagination in producing ANOTHER STAKEOUT it's nowhere as terrible as it could have been . In between episodic comedy adventure scenes the original heroes ( Dreyfuss and Estevez ) are given a new assignment where they team up with a female DA and have to go through a charade of being a family in order to find a witness to a very important trial . I suppose that's the problem the plot is a one trick pony and the further the film goes on it becomes clearer that the pony wasn't too healthy to start with and on the subject of animal euphemisms did anyone notice the jokes involving all creatures great and small ? There's an octopus , a fish , a cat and dog ! It's not a bad film and will pass the time on a rainy afternoon but it does demonstrate how lazy studios are at producing movies
I didn't have hopes for this at all . Lee Evans is kind of like Jerry Lee Lewis cross bred with Norman Wisdom while Kathy Burke is a good actress but is type cast in roles as council estate scum so a film where they both appear as two down and out losers didn't strike me as a great film The opening scene opens with Mr Martin looking up at the sun telling his son that this time tomorrow they'll be going on a foreign holiday , the back drop disappears and you realise the characters are standing at a busy motorway junction . It's a clichd scene but an amusing one . They go home and have a barbecue - By setting a couple of tyres on fire . Again this is very amusing but then everything starts to fall apart as Evans goes OTT and waves a gun around . There's many scenes like this where Evans and Burke and the supporting cast give either very humorous or very moving performances only to ruin it by suddenly spouting expletives , screaming or gurning . One moment you're about to enjoy this film then the next you're holding the remote wondering if it might be a good idea to see what's on the other sideSeveral people have commentated on the way THE MARTINS changes mood not only between scenes but during scenes too and it's impossible not to notice this . Yeah it's a comedy but what else is it trying to be ? Is it a bizarre romance ? A social drama ? certainly Evans and Burke do their best with the shaky material but writer / director Tony Grounds should have developed his idea a bit more before he shot the movie which is an ironic thing to say considering the number of scenes featuring a gun
I agree with the commentator who described this as a chick flick because my gut instinct is that the second half of the movie takes on the quality of a bizarre love story . However any female sitting through this would have to endure a story of a ruthless Nazi spy slaughtering anyone who stands in the way of his mission and some of the violence is quite brutal ( Channel 4 showed this in the late afternoon ) which I doubt would appeal to a female audience or indeed a family audience . As I said the second half of EYE OF THE NEEDLE changes in genre slightly so for all the lads who enjoyed the war / spy story will become rapidly bored with the second half romantic interlude . I've never read Ken Follet's novel but I got the impression it was something of a pot boiler that women read on sunny beaches so perhaps the story has been badly translated to screen ? That's not to say the movie is bad . Donald Sutherland carries the movie as the cold , ruthless but charming " Needle " who'd probably cut his mother's throat if it expanded the cause of Hitler . It'd be easy for Sutherland to go right over the top in the role but he plays the part in a subtle manner and I did enjoy the aspects where it's revealed he's a spy and the subsequent hunt for him ( Even if it leaves a plot hole - How was he able to operate in Britain for four years after his first murder ? ) , but unfortunately if you enjoyed this aspect then you'd probably be annoyed with the second half and the amount of violence in the early part of the movie means much of the audience the film was intended for wouldn't want to see the latter half
THE LAST DAYS OF FRANKIE THE FLY is an entertaining film . It's by no means a classic but everyone plays their parts well enough especially Michael Madsen and I'm somewhat surprised as to why it went straight to video . Think about it for a moment if Martin Scorsese had directed this instead of Peter Markle it'd be called a brilliant romantic comedy thriller , and it does have an extremely Scorsese feel to it . Watch it and you'll see what I mean
I think director Edward Zwick has a massive inferiority complex . Primarily a maker of TV shows he sets out to make LEGENDS OF THE FALL the biggest cinematic epic the world had seen for many years and it goes without saying he fails SPOILERS The story starts in 1914 in Montana where one of three Ludlow brothers - Samuel - is getting married to Susannah . All this is accompanied by great cinematography but the music is often intrusive and unwarranted . Not content with marrying a beautiful young woman Samuel and his two other brothers Alfred and Tristan enlist in the Canadian army to fight in the great war where Samuel dies . Alfred and Tristan return to the Montana landscapes where Alfred falls in love with Susannah but it's Tristan who embarks on a sexual relationship with her to the strains of intrusive music , but then Tristan decides to become a hunter on a Pacific island , and after a few years he returns to find Susannah is now married to Alfred who is now a congressman Got the idea ? Got any of the ideas ? There's so many ideas in the above paragraph to keep a Hollywood studio in business for several years . Oh and did I mention that we're only half way through the film or that much of the film centres around Native American mystical mumbo jumbo ? This film makes THE DEER HUNTER look tightly plotted . And I'm sure I missed something . In fact I'm sure I missed everything because I can't recall how all these subplots tie in with each other . What's the reason for the Ludlows being so Anglophile ? Why did Tristan decide to become a hunter ? Oh I forgot to mention that several other of the main characters die which means their relationship to plot becomes superflous in the end . So in the end LEGENDS OF THE FALL is an overproduced mess instead of the epic that Edward Zwick hoped it would be . I'm sorry but sticking a bunch of massive subplots together and setting it to great cinematography and irritating music ( And I can't tell you how annoying I found the music ) most certainly does not make a great film
What a good cast . Burt Lancaster , Dennis Hopper , John Hurt who is probably Britain's greatest living actor - why hasn't he been knighted ? and Rutger Hauer before he became known as Rutger " straight to video " Hauer , but the cast never seem to be able to rise above this silly twisty turney cold war thriller . The most disappointing thing is Sam Peckinpah's directing which is so cold and mechanical you'd think Tony Scott made this . If you want Peckinpah at his best try THE WILD BUNCH , THE GETAWAY , or CROSS OF IRON . If you want Peckinpah at his most excessive try STRAW DOGS or BRING ME THE HEAD OF ALFREDO GARCIA . And if you want Peckinpah on an off day then watch this . A very poor swansong for one of cinema's great mavericks
France in the early 1940s was hell on earth . Nazis would round up Jews and execute them in cold blood . We know this because this is how THE STATEMENT begins . What we didn't know was that London geezers participated in the cruel murders . It's so obvious you can't ignore it because the victims are told to stand against the wall as in " Cor blimey guv . If it ain't a bunch of Jewish geezers we're going to murder . And after I've murdered them I'll be popping up the apple and pears to see me old china Mary Poppins for a rendition of me old bamboo and knees up mother brown " For goodness sake if you're going to portray French people then please get someone to at least try and make a go of a French or vaguely European accent . Words fail to describe how bad the opening sequence is having Michael Caine dub over a French character . At best it's unintentionally funny , at worst it's offensive . Seeing characters being murdered due to their perceived race is no laughing matter As for the rest of the film it's beautifully shot but boring and once again I have to point out that not one single character sounds like they're French . Not only that you're never even convinced that Tilda Swinton's character is female , her dialogue seems as if it's written for a man . It's also without doubt the worst film Michael Caine has starred in for several years and his bizarre out of place performance reflects this
Thankfully the only dodgy thing about LOLITA 2000 is the title . Come to think of it it's a really stupid title for a soft core porn movie which may turn off a potential audience , but take it from me that the cast are well above the age of consent . I should know because watched this movie over and over again , made a note of the cast members names , typed them into an internet search engine to find out their dates of births and I can confirm it's all above board . We're not talking Traci Lords hereAs you'd expect in these type of movies there's a very basic premise that's just an excuse to show some soft core sex , but LOLITA 2000 is better than most simply because the cast look like they might actually be having sex , and boy are the actresses fit with special mention going to Gabriella HallIf I have any complaints it's to do with the sound cutting out during the sex scenes to be replaced by muzak which is my main gripe about all these soft core movies . But I musn't grumble too much because the cast are hot which is not something I can say about many hard core movies
It's a poignant fact that only days after this film was released Christopher Reeve suffered a tragic accident and the headlines were about his last role as a paralysed cop which means it's impossible to watch ABOVE SUSPICION without being reminded of Reeve's real life situation so I'll try and review this movie on its own merits While not being the greatest actor in the world the one thing I have noticed about Christopher Reeve on-screen is that he comes across as being Mr nice guy so it's somewhat surprising to see him starring in a thriller featuring sex , violence and strong language . The plot itself is intriguing enough to hold the attention and revolves around a cop maimed in the line of duty wanting to set himself up for a murder so that his wife will cash in on his life insurance . It's a fairly clever thriller and even though it's a HBO production featuring sex , violence and swearing these elements don't overshadow the plot unlike many other HBO films that drown in excessive violence . That scene in the court at the end made me wince
CASINO is by no means a bad film but I'm left with with the distinct impression that I'd seen it all before , and it's not the first time director Martin Scorsese has done this , remember THE KING OF COMEDY is an inferior remake of TAXI DRIVER . Robert De Niro plays a very similar role as he did in GOODFELLAS , Joe Pesci plays more or less the same role that earned him an oscar with GOODFELLAS while Scorsese uses the same directorial techniques as he used in GOODFELLAS , but GOODFELLAS is by far the superior film . Taken on it's own CASINO is good . On first seeing it I could remember all the great scenes like the choice between getting the money or the hammer , the cowboy with his feet on the chair , the " Enjoy your meal officers " the scenes of extreme violence and the extremely witty caption of " A few years back " . However seeing it again a couple of years later I realised this film is about an hour too long and became very irritated by myriad of scenes composed of flashy camera work and voice overs SPOILER Most irritating of all if Joe Pesci's character gets killed at the end how is able to do voice overs in the flashbacks ?
When you've seen one heist film you have seen them all . The plot revolves around 1 ) Introducing the characters 2 ) Explaining how they're going to carry out the heist 3 ) Grab the money and . . . 4 ) Sometimes have a twist at the end What sets this film apart from many others from the same sub-genre is the cast . Okay a heist film needs at least one massive big name to carry it while OCEANS ELEVEN contains four in the shape of Clooney , Damon , Pitt and Roberts who are ably supported by other well known names such as Gould and GarciaDepending upon how you look at it this film is either a failure or a success due to the cast . If you watch movies for the same reasons everyone used to watch classic Hollywood cinema then you will not be disappointed at all . Unfortunate if you're watching for any other reason then you'll notice failings such as the predictable plot or Don Cheadle's incomprehensible accent or the fact that Soderbergh has made a relatively shallow film . But it's another Hollywood Summer blockbuster so it's stupid to complain too much
COMBAT SHEEP tells the story of four protagonists , Commander Harris , Peaches , Moose and Cooper , who having served their country now find themselves struggleing to survive in a society that no longer cares about them . Did I mention they were sheep ? This is a very entertaining and amusing one off show . The sheep themselves are very well realised , there's a smattering of satire in the script and it's good to see Christopher Ellison of THE BILL fame sending himself up in the role of a tough CID cop . The only down point is some obvious product placement involving Cooper a sheep with a drink problem who keeps swigging from a brand of lager that's infamous for its super strength . Isn't this meant to be a family show ?
The thing to strike me about this remake of the 1942 movie CAT PEOPLE is how 1980s everything is . Everything is image and soundtrack . Unfortunately I mean that literally , there's little in the way of substance , there's little in the way of great acting , there's little in the way of inspired directing , everything is centered around a synth soundtrack and you won't be shocked to learn that the name Jerry Bruckheimer appears in the creditsI did enjoy Giorgio Moroder's electronic score for the movie but I should point I was 15 years old when CAT PEOPLE was released therefore I did apreciate synthesiser music in my youth . For those people born before or after the 1960s they will probably detest the artificial and intrusive soundtrack . I also agree with many of the comments here that the acting , directing and editing is all that good but it's not as bad as other Bruckheimer productions from the 80s and considering that there's a subtext of incest and beastiality the film does deserve some credit for never being as offensively explict as it could have been
John Ritter plays a car salesman ! Don't know about the States but over here in the UK car salesmen are treated as a bit of a joke so a TVM starring a TV sitcom actor as a car salesman has got to be a comedy right ? No . UNFORGIVABLE is about a car salesman who likes to beat up womenTo be honest Ritter doesn't make a very good job of playing Paul Hegstrom but he's not helped by the way the character is written . In most of these types of domestic abuse stories the character should have a large amount of juxtaposition - cruel to his wife and family but charming to customers and work colleagues . But UNFORGIVABLE shows Hegstrom to be an abrasive bad tempered jerk to everyone and the viewer will be surprised as to why on earth anyone would want to go for an after work drink with him . But the main problem I have this TVM is that it comes close to painting Hegstrom as a victim too . As a child young Paul saw his father beat his mother and UNFORGIVABLE insinuates that this is the root core of his violence . Can anyone give me scientific proof that this is the case ? Likewise can anyone offer clear evidence that group therapy will break a cycle of violence ? It's a bit like saying the Middle East conflict can be solved by world leaders attending a meeting three times a week where they can all shout at each other
I had given up on ever seeing an episode of THE GOODIES ever being broadcast on British network TV . Apparently much of their humour would today be classed " racist " and I have seen clips where the cast use variations of the N word which would no longer be allowed on British television nowadays so it was something of a shock to see Channel 5 broadcast THE GOODIES AND THE BEANSTALK at Christmas I was looking forward to watching this again and could recall seeing it as a child . To be honest though much of the humour has somewhat dated with a fairly long early sequence similar to THE BENNY HILL SHOW where there's no dialogue , only a muzak soundtrack as the eponymous goodies try and make some money after falling on hard times . As with all the goodies sketches there's a policeman involved and a scene that will have the PC brigade falling out of their chairs since it might be classed as " homophobic " . There's a sequence later featuring a competition involving puppies " And remember if no one wins the puppies they'll be sold to Indian restaurants " and a sequence featuring a savage done up as Man Friday , but nothing that will cause great offence to someonewith a sense of humour . The only criticism I have about the humour of THE GOODIES AND THE BEANSTALK is that it's maybe a little too cartoonish and surreal for a modern day audience who think THE OFFICE and FRIENDS is the be all and end all of comedy . The goodies might have have been unsophisticated but they still remain amusingThere is one other thing I noticed while watching this that might be classed as criticism and that's the laughter track - It's too intrusive . People complain about the canned laughter in things like I'M ALAN PARTRIDGE , LITTLE Britain but it's just as bad here which goes to show it's not a modern phenomena
The info button described MISTRESS as thus " An earnest screenwriter sees his dream mangled in the Hollywood movie machine . Robert DeNiro is a crass moneyman demanding a role for his talentless mistress " Great I thought , this is going to be like THE KING OF COMEDY except it's set in Hollyloot . Twenty minutes later DeNiro's still not appeared and I'm aware of one thing - info buttons are never right The info button wasn't so much wrong but it was rather misleading . DeNiro does indeed play a crass moneyman who is after a role for his mistress but she's not exactly talentless . The plot mainly revolves around a failed director / screenwriter called Marvin who finds himself having to severly alter his script if he wants it produced , it's a sort of satire / black comedy on the Hollyloot system of film making and once you get over the initial disappointment of it not being a Scorsese / DeNiro masterpiece it's an enjoyable film , and one with a lot of scathing truth like a pitch is all down to presentation , casting is down to who the actress is sleeping with and a producer's vulgarity is only matched by his ignorance . Also watch out for the line " This isn't BATMAN 3 " which at that time hadn't been produced yet . I guess someone made BATMAN 3 as a homage to MISTRESS ?
I first saw THIS ISLAND EARTH in the mid 1970s when I was about 10 years old and could remember liking it very much much as a colourful epic adventure complete with mutant monsters but after seeing it again tonight I was severly disappointed SPOILERS The problem mainly lies with a totally illogical plot . Scientists ( Including a woman - What female scientists existed in the 1950s ? ) from all over the world are given a test by aliens from another planet who then gather the scientists at a hidden retreat ( Don't ask why a superior race would need the help from humans ) , later the aliens wipe out most of these humans except for the hero and heroine who they take to their planet in a flying saucer ( I did say the plot was illogical ) where it's revealed the aliens need urainuim for their defensive shield ( You do think the aliens might have considered opening an urainium mine on Earth instead of kidnapping scientists but this is a totally illogical plot ) , the good alien helps the hero and heroine back to Earth killing a couple of mutants ( Pronounced " Mu - TANTS ) along the way . The hero and heroine escape the saucer which becomes a blazing tomb for the good alien and that's the plot of the movie , a totally illogical one There are some good points . The special effects like the saucer flying through the galaxy and the firestorm on Meta-Luna are adequate though in some places the lightning bolts striking the fleeing car are poor , and the mutants ( Though there's supposed to be several it's obvious only one costume was built ) are fun despite their short screen time , and I guess if you're a sucker for this type of pulp B movie you'll still enjoy it . I know I did but not as much as I did first time I saw it
TWISTED DESIRE isn't oscar material but it's better than most TVMs I've endured . Based on a " true story " the script is far better and involving than something like MURDER BETWEEN FRIENDS as Jennifer Stanton manipulates boyfriend Nick Ryan into murdering her parents . I honestly felt sorry for Nick . Anyone know when he's up for parole ?
I remember when this film was first released there was a lot of marketing hype about how this was " based on a true story " , but what wasn't pointed out was how this " true story " took place in the 1960s and for some inexplicable reason the producers updated it to the year 2000 or there abouts to the detriment of the story . It may have been difficult enough to believe THE MOTHMAN PROPHECIES was a " true story " if it had remained set in the 60s but by placing it at the turn of the millenuim it's impossible to take seriously . For example after an incident a character is seen calling 911 on a mobile phone something that couldn't have possibly happened in the 1960s . It's a bit like SCINDLER'S LIST when you know a scene couldn't have happened like that and find yourself questioning how much else has been inventedDespite this serious criticism I did like THE MOTHMAN PROPHECIES . Okay so I didn't believe this was a true story but there's still much to admire . Director Mark Pellington brings a bleak atmosphere to the movie and there's a couple of scenes that made me jump out of my seat . The cast are fairly good but Gere is inconsistent . Let's face it , he's a movie star because of his looks not because he has an abundance of thespian talent , but I'll give him credit for his performance opposite Debra Messing at the start of the film which both poignant and moving . So a thumbs up from me because it's a haunting supernatural drama , even though I take the true story with a big pinch of salt
The problem with this film is that it has so many big name stars that the story fails to do justice to the characters involved . Having said that the film does have its moments and does try to present the Luftwaffe crews as being no different from their opponents in the RAF . But after seeing CROSS OF IRON the previous week any film about the second world war is disappointing after that . Historical fact about the 1940 air war over Britain : Even if the Luftwaffe managed to destroy all RAF airfields they still wouldn't have the means to invade . The Nazis only had barges to cross the channel while the Royal Navy's fleet remained intact
For a movie made in 1943 SHADOW OF A DOUBT seems to lack period detail . The second world war was at its height with American troops landing in North Africa and leading the fight against the Japanese in the Pacific . Strangely these events are ignored in the narrative and unless I'm greatly mistaken I don't even think the war is referred to in any depth . Mind you Hitchcock had previously made a movie set around Nazi traitors in America ( As had several studios at the time ) so I guess many movie makers just wanted to move onto conventional thrillers devoid of patriotic subtextWatching this movie today I'm in two minds about it . I found the " Uncle Charlie is a good guy " slightly overplayed as he gives presents to his family and they greatly receiving them without any questions as to where the money came from or where he got them from but I did remind myself that very few people ever look a gift horse in the mouth and human beings are often overwhelmed by successful people in the hope that this rubs off on them so I shouldn't criticise any characters in the movie as being too gullible . I also guess people in those days were a lot more trusting than in the cynical late 20th and 21st centuries At the end of the day SHADOW OF A DOUBT has the persuasive idea that people aren't who they always say they are and you shouldn't take people on trust , but is this actually groundbreaking enough to make it a classic thriller in the way NIGHT OF THE HUNTER is ? Despite this criticism at least Hitchcock cast character actor Joseph Cotton as Uncle Charlie . If it was remade today we'd have Brad Pitt or Tom Cruise all teeth and smiles and a very poor script
! ! ! ! MILD SPOILERS ! ! ! ! A Woody Allen comedy featuring a scam where his character Ray Winkler and his wife Frenchie buy a florist shop next to a bank so they can tunnel through the wall into the vault and steal the money . Not actually a bad premise and I had everything nailed down as to how the plot would develop : Neurotic hen pecked idiot hires an incompetent gang and we the audience are treated to a light weight though amusing example of sods law where everything that can go wrong will go wrong but that's not really how the story pans outUnfortunately once the plot twist of the Winklers turning the former florist shop into a bakery which then becomes a massive success I found myself thinking SMALL TIME CROOKS itself became less of a success since it veers into a direction I didn't expect it to take . We're also introduced to an English character played by Hugh Grant but maybe I shouldn't use the word " character " in the sentence because Grant is unable to play anyone in a film except himself . Can producers stop hiring him please since I've had enough of his cartoonish English fop since FOUR WEDDINGS AND AN UNDESERVED MOVIE CAREER It's not a bad movie but by the same token it's miles away from being a great one and would have worked much better if it had stayed to the task of having the world's worst bank robbers trying to tunnel their way into a bank
I had often thought this was the best movie in the CARRY ON series , an opinion brought about by the fact that there's a couple of DOCTOR WHO references and that it combines the genres of comedy and horror . After seeing it recently I would say that both CARRY ON CLEO and CARRY ON UP THE KYHBER are better movies But CARRY ON SCREAMING still remains one of the better films in the series even if ( Or because ) it's off centre with its peers : the main character is played by an actor who's not a regular member of the cast , there's references to other popular TV shows of the time like Z-CARS and STEPTOE AND SON , and there's little of the cringe making innuendo seen in the later movies . There are some flaws that may rile fans of the post modernist SCREAM movies like no one noticing monsters stalking the woods or a lack of internal continuity where monsters being able to knock down doors then not being able to when the script requires it but CARRY ON SCREAMING remains a fairly entertaining movie almost 40 years after it was made
A film doesn't have to be good to be entertaining and GIRLS IN PRISON is a case in point . The intelligence of the script starts and ends with a discussion of The Korean War " It's supposed to be a police action " " Yeah ? Then why the hell didn't they send cops " Which is dialogue that will be forever synonymous with Samuel Fuller who used the line in another film set around The Korean War . But after this exchange strange things start happening where we're shown live footage for the battlefront , something that didn't happen till ' Nam . The McCarthy witch hunts are alluded to but somehow feel overblown and false while someone refers to an ashtray that was given to him by " The King " . What in 1952 ? Maybe he meant the King of England ? I won't go into too much detail but in a contrived series of events a teenage girl called Aggie O'Hanlon finds herself serving a life sentence for a crime she didn't commit , and it's essential for anyone wanting to enjoy this TVM that they turn off their brain because there's plenty of things that don't make sense . For example a couple of inmates called Melba and Carol promise to protect Aggie . It's never revealed why they do this . Obviously being lesbian lovers it's very easy to jump to the conclusion that they want to involve the sweet and innocent Aggie in female love games but this isn't their motive at all because there is never any explanation for their motive , the audience just have to accept this without question . The audience have to accept a lot of things that defy credibility as the plot twists and turns but I have to confess I felt very involved in all this , yeah I know melodramatic and far fetched doesn't even begin to describe this movie but it is enjoyable thanks to the good looking cast ( Yes there is some T & A ) and some impressive pastal coloured cinematography from Jean De Segonzac
Though I find HARRY ENFIELD AND CHUMS a very funny show I wasn't really expecting much from KEVIN AND PERRY GO LARGE and I was right . The problem is that Kevin and Perry were created and written for a comedy sketch show where sketches are tightly written and last for a couple of minutes so to stick them in a feature film in which plot and character development revolves around a couple of 14 year old virgins trying to get their legs over seems like a lost cause . That said I did snigger a couple of times like when Kevin is confronted by a girl he claims to have sh @ gged or when Perry does a poo in the sea , but the banal unsophisticated humour wears thin very quickly . Perhaps it would have worked better if we'd had a couple of cameos from other Enfield characters like the Scousers and Mr you don't wanna do that
I first saw this movie in the mid 1970s and didn't think much of it possibly down to the fact that the much hyped exploding octopus didn't make an on screen appearance . I then saw it again in 1982 when I was a teenager and vaguely remembered enjoying it as highly entertaining camp nonsense so when I read it was going to be broadcast on channel 4 I set my video recorder in order to tape it but after viewing BATMAN I did feel some pangs of disappointment The plot is stupid of course and the production values are relatively poor but surely that's part of the appeal of the original TV series isn't it ? I think what has happened is that memories have been slightly mutated into believing that this film version of BATMAN is some sort of sophisticated camp post modernist master work when in fact it's far from self referential . The classic scene of Batman running around with a bomb doesn't feature the title character addressing the audience - When he says " Some days you can't get rid of a bomb " he is actually talking to himself and no one else least of all the audience . Likewise the sententious statements on the sanctity of all life , good people , bad people , fluffy animals and the noble porpoise seem sickly sweet by accident rather than by design Despite the disappointment BATMAN remains very undemanding rather silly entertainment and should be congratulated in its unpretentious nature unlike the franchise that was started by Tim Burton in 1989
Harry Caul is a surveillence expert who records a conversation that places himself as a witness to a murder plan . I thought I'd point this out because watching THE CONVERSATION it's obvious within seconds as to what Harry is but any possible plot development involving a possible murder plan doesn't take place until about 40 minutes into the movie's running time . Instead of cutting to the chase those of us with a low attention span have to wade through a story that doesn't appear to be going anywhere . Harry sits in a van , Harry plays the sax , Harry celebrates his birthday , Harry gets to meet Hans Solo before he became a space pirate . Maybe the slow pace shouldn't be taken as a criticism since no one is under any pretension that THE CONVERSATION is a fast moving thriller but at the same time it could have done with a little more excitement , or at least tighter plotting with more obvious high concept aspects Francis Ford Coppola amazingly is on record as saying this is his favourite directorial feature . I guess that as a director it was far more enjoyable to make than APOCALYPSE NOW but as a piece of breath taking art it is lacking . I won't be too negative though since Gene Hackman is as good as he always been even though he gives one of his more subtle performances and despite the criticisms this is a much more involving film that the very similar BLOW UP
In its favour MAN DANCIN ' opening titles shows us exactly where it's set - On a rundown council estate in Glasgow which I'm fairly certain in the notorious Gorbals so director Norman Stone can be proud that he's brought a very strong sense of place to his film . Unfortunately Sergio Casci's screenplay then hits the audience in the mouth with a clich as soon as the credits stop . Hardman Jimmy Kerrigan is released from jail and gets into an argument with a couple of local yobs which ends up with him getting a serious doing . A few minutes later we're introduced to the local gangster kingpin Donnie McGlone and then local DI Pancho Villers and it's at this point you realise you're watching a Western uprooted to present day Glasgow . It's almost like watching Jean Luc Goddard's ALPHAVILLE where the visuals on screen are entirely different from what is written down on the page . Honestly you get the suspicion that the screenplay was written as a star vehicle for Clint Eastwood in the early 1970s where the man with no name is trying to go straight Having said that at least the production team of MAN DANCIN ' haven't aped the style of Guy Ritchie which is a major problem with British films featuring gangsters from the same period but would it be uncharitable to point out that both film makers and audiences had become terminally bored with this genre ? The cast do their best with the material but it's a very clichd melodrama that is entirely about redemption but for some reason remains watchable . It's as forgettable as it is watchable too
A man has apparently committed suicide in he New Mexico desert and beside his body is a bag containing $500 , 000 so local sheriff Ray Dolezal decides to keep the dead man's rendezvous to unravel the mystery A lot of people have complained about WHITE SANDS being implausiable , contrived or over plotted . My complaint is that it's really none of these things but suffers from a fundamental flaw we're warned about at basic screen writing course " Show , don't tell " . For much of the screen time the plot twists and turns well enough but ion the last 15 minutes we have to listen to characters state " I'm not how you think I am , I'm really . . . . " or we listen to characters give away the plot which means the climax is very much spoon fed to the audience which is something of a shame since while not being a truly great thriller WHITE SANDS deserves to be remembered more than it really is . I guess the dislodge heavy last act conspires to make this a very forgettable movie
Post Battle Of Britain there were two campaigns of the second world war that were almost exclusively British led and British fought . One was the North African campaign and the other was the Burma campaign , and unlike the inaccurate American flag waver OBJECTIVE BURMA the production team of MERRIL'S MARAUDERS have taken the time and effort to point out the British contribution of the campaign . A British patrol is spotted " A five hundred mile hike and the eighteeneth Japanese imperial army are waiting for them , I'm glad I ain't in that British Army - Amen to that " and later General Stilwell points out " That the British have been fighting alone here for three years " , so a big thank you to Sam Fuller and co for pointing out a few truths that American didn't win the war single handed . If only Spielberg , Hanks and Ambrose had done the same with BAND OF BROTHERS
! ! ! ! MILD SPOILERS ! ! ! ! I can imagine Kathryn Bigelow and James Cameron marching into the excutive offices with a movie idea . One of them pitches an ideas driven movie about virtual reality while the other pitches an old fashioned character driven thriller about a couple of corrupt cops wanting to get hands on evidence that will implicate them in a crime . The studio exec stratches his chin , can't decide what movie he wants then has a sudden brain wave of merging the two plots into the same movie . That might have happened , it might not have happened but watching STRANGE DAYS I had the gut instinct that somewhere along the line someone had engineered the two above plots into the one movie . All through the running time I felt there were two screenplays trying to escape . Needless to say STRANGE DAYS starts to collapse under the weight of its ideas . There's also several more unnecessary sub plots such as racial politics , rising crime levels and the mechanics of the music biz which by the end don't feel like they really belonged in this movie . Not only that they also add to an overlong running timeI awarded STRANGE DAYS . What stopped me from awarding it lower marks is the amount of kinetic energy director Bigelow has infused into the film , it's by no means an unwatchable thriller despite its flaws and with a cast featuring Fiennes , Basset , Lewis , Sizemore , D'Onfrio and Fitchner at least there's some well known character actors on display . Saome complained at the time that Cameron should have directed the movie instead of Bigelow , but there's not much wrong with the directing unlike the script which was written by CameronHow's this for a VR plot . A corrupt state frames a heroic and noble subversive by implanting memories of sexual abuse into the minds of children thereby framing the hero and jailing him as a child molestor . A deeply disturbing and adult premise for a sci-fi drama , and one that had been done before in the opening episode of BLAKE'S 7 . So you see the rather weak premise of STRANGE DAYS in comparison ?
This opens with a great hook , maybe not as great as some of the very best hooks seen in DOCTOR WHO and THE X-FILES but still very effective as to pulling the audience into the story . The screenwriters have also written a very well paced script that gives a background story featuring a German mercenary during the American revolutionary war . Yes it's a good script well directed by Tim Burton who has resisted the temptation to cover the movie in his own bizarre signature , okay he has included a couple of unnecessary ( Probably solely made to give his girl friend at the time Lisa Marie a part ) dream sequences , but there's not much else that had me think " Oh my god a Tim Burton film , I really must do something more interesting like watch paint dry " as can be the case with his movies . Yes it's stylized but not to point where it becomes unbearable and I doubt if Burton will ever make a film this good againI mentioned the script and direction but perhaps the best aspect of the movie is the cast . How many movies set in late 18th century North America have characters with North American accents ? That's right - Far too many so it's nice to know someone had the common sense to realise that American people of that period spoke with a sort of bastardised Anglo accent and therefore it's logical that a bunch of British character actors were cast with the American actors adopting none American sounding accents . Johnny Depp so awful accent wise in FROM HELL has no problem with his voice here and the more I see of him the more I think that he's not taken seriously by a large amount of critics is simply down to the fact he's just too damned good looking . Depp will one day be remembered as one of the finest actors of his generationSo a good film . Maybe not a classic but it's well written , well acted and well directed . Almost certainly the best film by Tim Burton
I've heard so much about this " Wonderful , mind blowing masterpiece " . Interestingly enough most of the rave reviews of DONNIE DARKO came via this very website which goes against the grain of other reviewers . Roger Ebert only gave the movie two and a half stars while many other websites dedicated to film reviews claim this movie is confused and overrated . It should also be mentioned that if it's such a great , thought provoking piece of cinema then why did it miss out on so many nominations at the more prestigious film award ceremonies ? And don't say politics , an independent feature like IN THE BEDROOM didn't pick up any Oscars but that didn't stop it being nominated for severalDONNIE DARKO is by no means terrible but it is overrated . Dare I say it's a case of the emperors new clothes ? That is people are somewhat embarrassed upon seeing this film and not understanding it that they feel they must praise it in order to spare their supposed ignorance . Let me ask you this - What genre of film is this ? Everyone will give a slightly different answer I'm sure and if an audience is undecided about the genre then how can they decide what the ending is about ? And there is a quite serious plot hole involved in the story . Donnie sees a demonic rabbit called Frank throughout the movie who tells him at exactly what moment the world will end . Wormholes , time warps etc may actually exist in scientific reality as may the ending but the central plot does not since the whole movie rests on Frank or Donnie being able to see into the future and no scientist will claim there's any scientific basis for fortune telling . So you see it's not really about time travel , it's about mysticism , predestination and other superstitious mumbo jumbo which Richard Kelly is using to fool the audience . In effect this movie is one big cheat and most people have failed to notice this Having said that Richard Kelly does deserve some credit for making a movie that's not about car chases and explosions , this is a movie dealing with teen angst and the dark side of middle American small town values but Kelly has missed an opportunity to make the most of the potential . I know the film was released before the war on terror so there'd be little need to see news broadcasts on the fall out of the original Gulf war but from a pop culture point of view wouldn't this have been better set in the early 1990s when grunge culture was the rage instead of 1988 ? I mean what music best suits this movie's atmosphere ? Echo And The Bunnymen or Nirvana ? In fact if it had have set in the presidential elections of early 1990s this would have coincidentally tied in with what's going on in the world today with Saddam and Iraq getting a mention ! And wouldn't this movie be held up in superstitious awe now ? As it stands it's nowhere as clever as it thinks it is for the reasons outlined . Perhaps Mr Kelly started out on with two movies , one a high concept science fiction thriller and the other a low concept drama about a mentally ill teenager and decided to merge the two with not too successful results . Watching DOnnie Darko this was the gut feeling I got
. . . . but strangely enough that didn't stop me from enjoying it . This even more surprising because I found the start of the film slightly tedious with its shots of city streets and the close ups of characters faces which kept reminding me of the work of Stanley Kubrick , a director I'm not at all keen on . But THE SIXTH SENSE is a haunting film with more than a few spooky atmospheric moments . The more I think about it the more I like it . Here's hoping that the critics are wrong when they say that M Night Shyamalan is a one trick pony
I was interested in seeing this remake simply to find out if it was as bad as a myriad of critics have suggested it to be . I did love the 1960 version and I am not keen on people remaking my favourite movies , but surely last year's remake of HG Wells romantic fantasy wasn't going to be as bad as painted was it ? Herbert George Wells wrote the source novel so why not call the hero Herbert or George ? It's also a Victorian sounding name so why's the hero got a name that resembles Steve Martin's character in THE MAN WITH TWO BRAINS ? This screenplay just like David Duncan's from the 1960 version lacks an opening hook but it does speculate that even if time travel did exist it would be impossible to change ones destiny , an interesting thought . ScreenwriterJohn Logan adds a post modernist sequence featuring both HG Wells and STAR TREK . I didn't think the humour worked very well but I had to admire his cheek , and since everyone cycles everywhere Logan suggests that in the mid 21st century America has elected a president from the green party which no doubt caused civilisation to collapse . Like most other movies set in the far flung future there are illogical gaps in the screenplay . For example remnants of the present day would still exist . Put it like this : The pyramids of Egypt are a few thousand years old and at the present rate of degeneration they won't exist in a few thousand years but Alexander goes 798 , 000 years into the future and the skeletal remains of 21st century New York still remain ! , but as I said this is a common flaw in time travel stories as is the ridiculous notion that hundreds of thousands of years into the future people will still be able to understand and speak English , so this can be forgiven on the grounds of dramatic license . My only real criticism of the screenplay is that John Logan borrows a bit too much from Duncan's earlier screenplay , otherwise this is a fairly good adaptation on Wells groundbreaking novel . Adding the ubermorlock is an inspired idea that works very wellI'm in two minds who to credit / criticise as director . As you may know Simon Wells left the project days before the project was completed and was replaced by Gore Verbinski so for the purposes of this review I'll refer to the director simply as " The director " , and the director does manage one show stopping moment as the camera pans out from Alexander at the end of the 19th century across an ever evolving landscape eventually stopping on a lunar colony . The most controversial aspect of the film seems to be the casting or more especially the casting of dark skinned actors as the eloi , but I fail to see what the problem is . The eloi live on the surface in bright sunlight so why shouldn't they be dark skinned ? It's also in keeping with the social darwinism of Wells novel . The eloi have evolved due to environment the same way as the ubermorlock has evolved , and social darwinism is totally amoral so there's no right or wrong , or good and bad involved . I do wish people would stop playing the race card . As for the ordinary morlocks they're superbly designed with some great make up involved but the director throws a massive spanner in the works by having them running a hundred miles an hour and being able to jump great heights which suddenly makes them unconvincing which is a great pity , they would have worked better as men dressed up rather than CGI supermen . I did like Jeremy Irons as the scene stealing ubermorlock though . A word of warning for those of you who suffer from photo sensitivity , sadly once again this is a movie that heavily features strobe lighting . I'm not epileptic which is just as well because I wouldn't want to risk a seizure watching THE TIME MACHINE . Sadly there seems to be more and more films being produced with this technique in style used and sadly I've had to keep saying - Stop using strobe lighting in movies . It's totally irresponsible for directors to do this . To sum up the 2002 remake of THE TIME MACHINE was light years away from the debacle I'd been led to expect . It's fairly good in its own right but not as good as George Pal's 1960 version , maybe because it lacks the charm of the former , a charm that movie had in abundance , but this version is still pretty good as remakes go
When this was released in 1997 there was talk of writer / director Johnathan Mostow being the new Spielberg . I have to confess if you want to compare him to anyone then James Cameron would be the best comparison . Cameron is a director who works best with tight scripts and small budgets and ironically Mostow went on to direct TERMINATOR 3 . I think it might be a bad idea to make anymore Terminator movies though . I digress You can understand where the Spielberg comparisons come from . Aged only 26 Mostow wrote and directed this impressive thriller that makes a nod or two to DUEL . Yeah it's not an original movie because there's a few moments that remind you of DELIVERANCE and THE VANISHING but there's only so many times you can take a plot , reshuffle it and come up with something original and " car breaks down in the middle of nowhere " stopped becoming original in the 1970s I think Jeff and Amy Taylor breakdown in the desert and Amy gets a lift to the next town from an affable truck driver who promises he'll drop her off at the nearest diner . Jeff finds the cause of the breakdown fixes it and drives to the diner expecting to meet Amy there . Only thing is she isn't and when meeting the truck driver he denies having met the couple never mind giving her a lift Doesn't that premise sound intriguing ? It sure does and I was thoroughly involved for much of this cinematic journey as the plot takes some sharp and exciting bends . A very impressive road trip . However the climax is slightly disappointing as in much of this genre as the main character - Who the audience can relate to totally - becomes maybe too much of a courageous action hero . It's not a totally unconvincing character arc as in something like 28 DAYS LATER but I didn't think it was an utterly convincing one either and as in many of these stories if you think about the details too much everything collapses . For example why didn't Jeff bother to phone a breakdown service at the start of the movie since it's shown later that he did posses a cell phone ? But I won't nit pick since BREAKDOWN is an involving and entertaining thriller . It's beautifully paced and Kurt Russell is in his element at playing nice guy everyman characters
The thing to strike me about HEAT is that it's overlong . I don't know if I've been watching too much MTV but a major problem I've had with a great number of movies coming out of Hollywood studios since the early 1990s is that they're too long for their own good and I wish to add HEAT to this list since its running time is taken up with too many unnecessary scenes . If these scenes had been ditched at script stage not only would we have had a shorter film we'd have had a far better one . Take the scene in the coffee bar where the gang have just carried out the initial heist and Neil teaches Waingro a lesson by banging his head off the table . Seeing as they're shown throghout the story to be well organised , professional villains why would Neil draw attention to themselves by assaulting Waingro in this way ? It's a scene that lacks any credibility and should not have been included . There's another problem with too many domestic scenes , the film tries to show the audience the marital marital / romantic life of every major character , cop and robber . I know Michael Mann's later movie THE INSIDER is also full of scenes involving home life but that's necessary to the plot and characterisation . Here it is not HEAT isn't by any means a bad film , on the contaray it's a good one . DeNiro and Pacino in the same movie , boy what a casting coup . Not only that we get to see Val Kilmer when he was famous plus up and coming names like Portman , Sizemore and Fichtner , and once the story gets going it is very compelling with a breath taking shootout . Unfortunately because someone ( I'm guessing Michael Mann deserves all the blame for this ) thought they'd stretch out a two hour movie into a three hour one HEAT remains good instead of great
BLOCK-HEADS is set up with an idea which must have seemed totally ridiculous in 1938 but when you stop to consider that Japanese soldiers were being found on remote Pacific islands 30 years after the second world war ended the idea stops being ridiculous and becomes shockingly propheticThis is possibly the last of the great L & H movies ( FLYING DUECES being the only other contender ) , after this the comedy duo started appearing in studio features that didn't seem to show much respect to their genius , made them slightly off centre and stretched stories out for almost 90 minutes when a 60 page script would have worked much better This means that BLOCK-HEADS suffers from the mild irritation of so many other Stan and Ollie star vehicles - It's rather episodic . But seeing as it's so funny what have we got to complain about ? Listen out for Stan's tagline " Is there gonna be a fight ? " which is repeated several times and the surreal sequence of closing the blinds on the stairway . Strange when people discuss the films of these two comedy gods they always think of slapstick but forget they were also masters of surrealist visualism too . The funniest moment is probably the final scene in Ollie's apartment involving the married couple from next door I still think THE LAUREL AND MURDER HARDY CASE is the best of their vehicles but BLOCK-HEADS deserves its own mention as being one of the very last superb Stan and Ollie comedies
This came third in Channel 4's recent 100 GREATEST WAR MOVIES poll a few months ago which did rather surprise me since I've always found it somewhat overrated but it does remain a fairly entertaining American movie Yes THE GREAT ESCAPE is an American movie and I'm glad that the IMDb classes it so . It's directed by an American , is produced and financed by an American studio and most ironic of all the theme tune that is adopted and chanted by English football fans was written by the American composer Elmer Bernstien . It may contain many British actors but notice also the likes of Garner , Bronson and Coburn playing British Commonwealth characters which is down to what's known as " Audience identification " ie if a movie is made with American money the Yanks want their movie to do well in America hence nearly every " British " movie you see has a major character played by an American actor As for the story itself everyone has seen the movie ( We in Britain get to see it almost once a year usually at Xmas ) so I won't linger on it too long except to say it comes in what can only be described as two parts . The first part centres on the build up of the escape with the movie's tongue firmly in its cheek ( Werner the stupid German , man jumps on bunk and it collapses etc ) with the prisoners on the run making up the second part of the story which is more serious in tone . Also watch out for the ironic scene early in the film where a character chastises someone for replying in English to a question in German as the escapees plan their escape with the character later on making the same mistake himself . Who says Americans have irony deficiency ?
The Mcmartin / Buckey allegations even made news reports in Britain such was the scandal of over 300 children being molested . So does this TVM give the definitive account ? In my humble opinion - No The problem I have with INDICTMENT is despite often using transcripts from the actual trial there is no real attempt by the script to show a wider picture as to why the children and their parents made the allegations and to who was guilty of what . There are some suggestions of course like the children being asked very leading questions by child psychologists , the DA's office being under heavy pressure to prosecute in an election year and even that some of the childrens own guardians being responsible for sexual abuse . But much of this is never followed up . What happened to the parents where it's suggested they were responsible for sexually abusing their own kids ? Were any of them prosecuted for example ? And thinking about these loose ends meant I wasn't too convinced about Ray Buckey's innocence who's side I felt the film tried to be on but which failed to show me inarguable evidence that he was a victim of a miscarriage of justice . Maybe that's how the case ended in real life , a decision that satisfied no one . Being a HBO production this is unlike most TVMs you'll see . James Wood - As always - gives an intense performance of a man obsessed . The supporting cast are good too and it's very well directed by Mick Jackson . It'd be very easy for Jackson to sensationalise the subject of child sex abuse but he keeps his discipline and confines the victims to telling their accounts from the witness stand . These accounts will haunt you for days afterwards
It's probably well known that Kevin Costner once had Republican party sympathies , something that wasn't to fashionable in the Hollywood of the late 80s / early 90s . What might not be so well known is that he switched his allegiance to the environmentalists / greens at the turn of the millennium . This perhaps isn't so surprising because if you watch a film either directed by or starring Costner there always seems to be a running theme of the characters existing in a wilderness away from civilisation such as DANCES WITH WOLVES , PRINCE OF THIEVES and WATERWORLD alongside the philosophy that guns don't kill people , people kill people , or to be more accurate bad people kill people then good people kill bad people as seen in THE UNTOUCHABLES and THE POSTMAN with PRINCE OF THIEVES and WATERWORLD also coming into this category also OPEN RANGE continues this Costner philosophy as we're shown men or horseback against a breath taking panorama of the untouched American wilderness . You can't help thinking that Costner would like nothing better to see the end of industrialisation and when landscapes are this remote and beautiful who can blame him . The story itself may be rather old fashioned almost in the vein of John Wayne but that doesn't stop it from being the best film with Kevin Costner for a very long time . The cinematography helps of course but the director's best idea was to employ Robert Duvall as co-lead Boss Spearman . Duvall of course is the type of very rare actor who can make a shopping list come alive and Michael Gambon is memorable as bad guy Denton Baxter Some people might be put off by the fact that it stars and was directed by Costner and therefore expected a three and a half hour epic about nothing in particular . I also had these reservations but was glad I saw this . Duvall's performance and the bloody shoot out at the end had a lot to do with my positive opinion
I often criticise westerns because they bare no reality on what really happened in the wild west . Unlike the Hollywood version most gunslingers met their end after getting shot in the back , they never stood in the middle of the street telling their opponent to draw , this is a myth that only happened in Hollywood movies , and WESTWORLD is an enjoyable celebration of this myth where ( Rich ) holidaymakers can spend ( For $1000 a day ) their holiday drawing their guns on gunslingers , taking part in bar room brawls and visiting ladies of ill repute and it's really fun to watch people play up to all the wild west cliches in a film that's entertaining , funny and a little bit scary too . As good as WESTWORLD is as entertainment it rather flawed . James Brolin and Yul Brynner are fair in their roles but Richard Benjamin is very wooden as Peter Martin . Imagine you're being chased by an unstoppable killing machine ( And had paid one thousand dollars a day for the privilege ! ) you'd be terrified , or at least upset that you're not getting value for money , but Benjamin doesn't seem to convey enough fear . It should also be pointed out that the more you think about WESTWORLD the more it falls apart , and another thing I notice the more I watch it is that you see nothing of Roman World but that theme park probably consists of middle aged housewives taking part in Roman orgies so on second thoughts maybe it's just as well we learn nothing about the place So if you get the chance watch WESTWORLD and make sure you don't think about it
The only problem I have with the Laurel and Hardy shorts is that the memory cheats a little , that is watching many many years after I first saw them as a child they're not as funny as I first remembered due to the technical aspects of film making of the time . The shorts are rather stagey , slightly stilted . But if you can forgive that you'll have no problem enjoying Stan and Ollie . And I consider MURDER CASE to be just about the best L & H short . Classic moments are the bat hidden in the bed sheet , the picture illuminated on the wall , and the tailors dummy , scenes that had me laughing out loud . The only weak point is - as many reviewers have noted - the cop out ending which I suppose may have been fresh in 1930 but has been done to death by too many lazy writers since then
This has got to be one the most funny and entertaining films ever to have been set in Scotland . My only gripes are the accents are obviously West of Scotland when it's set in Edinburgh , a pedantic point but I come from Edinburgh originally but have spent most of my life in the West of Scotland so the erroneous accents stick out a mile to the trained ear , and the fact RESTLESS NATIVES suffers very badly from a weak ending . But this film is still a lot of fun
I've seen TOTAL RECALL many times over the years and I'm never failed to be impressed with it . Some people dislike it and I feel I must defend the movie " Confused plot " - Sorry but I managed to understand the complex plot first time I saw the movie and was impressed that Hollywood had merged a high concept plot with a FX laden extravaganza , such a pity this didn't lead to more thoughtful action adventures . If you want to see a confused plot try watching a James Bond movie from the 1980s " The violence " - Yeah this is a violent movie for sure but I do wish people would educate themselves to the work of directors before they criticize . Paul Verhoeven had previously made FLESH AND BLOOD and ROBOCOP so a futuristic adventure by Verhoeven that was awarded an 18 certificate isn't going to be confused with an episode of the teletubbiesWhat I liked from Verhoeven's directing is that he's made everything so recognizable , nothing is ridiculously futuristic looking and we see the characters wearing clothes that wouldn't look out of place in the 1980s . Verhoeven also brings little satirical stabs to the proceedings as he did with ROBOCOP and it's a great shame we see less and less of this European director working for Hollywood Verhoeven even gets a good performance from Big Arnie , okay this body builder was never in danger of winning an Oscar but Arnie doesn't send himself up and nor do his wise cracks like in his other blockbusters but he does make for an affable - Though violent - hero . Michael Ironside gives the most memorable performance which considering he spends most of the movie running around with a gun is no small achievement . One interesting thing I noticed about TOTAL RECALL after seeing it again last night is that it's unapologetic on being on the side of the rebels who are waging a war against the greedy Mars company . Anyone believe that if it was made today the rebels / terrorists would be the bad guys ? Anyway this is along with the original TERMINATOR the best movie starring Arnie though most of the credit for this movie belongs to the screenwriters and director and it's a great pity Hollywood is reluctant to mix a high concept SF plot with a crowd pleasing action adventure
Hearing that 300 is based upon a " graphic novel " which is a pseudo intellectual phrase used to describe a comic book I didn't go out of my way to watch this because the present Hollywood movie making factory spends too much time and money bringing these type of stories to the screen . Also I was very unimpressed with director Zack Snyder's previous film the remake of DAWN OF THE DEAD which is a pale imitation of a superior movie . Sometimes prejudice can get in the way of judging a film of its own merits because 300 is one of the more memorable movie moments from last year and one that seems unforgivably ignored at the more prestigious film award ceremonies Being based upon a comic book you could say in all honesty that the visuals mirror those of a graphic novel , but I would claim it goes far , far beyond that and say it's like watching a painting come to life . The battle scenes are entirely different from those seen in LORD OF THE RINGS or KINGDOM OF HEAVEN but are no less impressive and some of the battle sequences , most notably the ones featuring the immortals are terrifying . Did I say this film is like a painting come to life ? In some sequences it looks like a nightmare come to life and this stylish formalist type of cinema will send a chill down your spine . This is cinema strictly for adults onlyFans of ancient history and classical studies will find a lot to criticise because it's not an accurate depiction of ancient Greece but you should always make the legend according to John Ford . Unfortunately by concentrating on the visuals there's other aspects lacking . The Spartans don't really come across as real characters from ancient times , more of a crowd of wise cracking macho cyphers and let's be honest here , with the exception of voice over the dialogue is rather poor . It often reminded me of something present day Scottish folk hero John Smeaton might say : " Dinnae come tae Sparta , we'll set aboot ya up here " But despite these very noticeable flaws this is a truly memorable movie down to the jaw dropping visuals and it's the visuals the film will be rightly remembered for . It's a pity that the Oscar voters have ignored 300 because certainly make up , cinematography , editing and possibly best supporting actor for Andrew Tiernan as Ephialtes should have been nominated at least and this film will be highly regarded in years to come
TRAINSPOTTING exploded in a burst of hype in 1996 . I'm not sure if this helped the movie . It's a good movie but no film can live upto the amount of hype this one got , compared to TRAINSPOTTING the LORD OF THE RINGS trilogy was a production that went straight to video with very little fanfareThe script was Oscar nominated and deservedly so since Irvine Welsh's cult low concept novel was deemed to be basically unfilmable , but there is a slight problem in that an all important scene where Begbie stands waiting for a train to take him away from Leith hasn't been included . This passage from the book explains the title . What suprised me though what wasn't included in the Oscar nominations , for example the editing where Rents hides under the bedsheets only to be met by Begbie is superb and talking of Begbie he's without doubt one of the most evil characters ever to have appeared on the silver screen and this is down mainly to Robert Carlyle's heart stopping performance . Ask yourself this : If another actor had played Francis Begbie would TRAINSPOTTING have been half as good ? Of course not . It's like watching DIRTY HARRY without Andrew Robinson or GOODFELLOWS without Joe Pesci and it's shocking that Carlyle wasn't even nominated at the Oscars for best supporting actorAs a personal footnote I'd just like to add I was born in Leith where this story is set . I do hope that gives me some street cred
A common question to this movie is : If Karen Silkwood and her colleagues are so worried about being contaminated by plutonium at a processing plant then why do they smoke so many cigarettes if they're worried about their health ? Duh Because they volunteered to smoke ! They're adults and as adults they should be able to choose their own paths to hell . Even in 1973 the setting of this bio-pic everyone knew the risks of smoking related diseases and it's their health so if they want to ruin their health why should they be stopped from doing so ? ! ! ! ! MILD SPOILERS ! ! ! ! I don't know if it's irony on the point of director Mike Nichols but there does seem to be an awful lot of cigarette consumption in this movie . Certainly if there's any one wanting to give up the weed they should give this movie a miss . But the point remains that in 1973 ciggie packets carried government health warnings and everyone knew of the dangers even though they didn't want to admit it . Was the plutonium industry quite so honest ? What I liked about this collaboration between director Nichols and screenwriters Alice Arlen and Nora Ephron is that the audience is allowed to think for themselves on the issue of conspiracies and possible state sanctioned murders . Was Karen Silkwood bumped off for knowing too much and for being a trouble maker ? Possibly states the film but much of this is left somewhat ambiguous unlike say JFK by Oliver Stone . Likewise Karen's urine sample . Was it tampered with or was the radiation levels high because Karen was contaminated by a plutonium leak ? Once again the audience is left to make up there own minds Some people have criticized SILKWOOD because it feels very much like one of those cheap TVMs that even having a well known cast can't disguise . I won't disagree too much but this is because films of the period lacked much gloss and you can probably use the opposite argument in that nowadays Hollywood movies feature too much gloss and visual superficiality . Compare SILKWOOD with THE INSIDER or ERIN BROCKOVICH and make up your own mind if one's not glossy enough or the other two are too glossy to be effective . Certainly Nichols directs a scene where Karen walks through detectors and a jump cut occurs where she is undergoing decontamination procedure . I have no idea why but this scene shocked me to the core and this scene alone makes SILKWOOD a very memorable movie
A GUIDE TO ARMAGEDDON was part of the BBC science show QED that seemed to be marketed to an audience that had no interest in science . There was an edition where the production crew showed what happens when you explode gas canisters , or set fire to a cloud of custard powder ( It explodes like napalm ) , or what happens to a lift when the braking system fails . There was also an edition with a young boy with an unfortunate condition that makes him swear without being able to control it so the cameras followed him and his mother out shopping in a crowded supermarket . You can guess what happens next can't you . QED often seemed to have a voyerism to it . I digress A GUIDE TO ARMAGEDDON is a speculative documentary of what would happen if Britain suffered a nuclear attack . We're shown via specially shot scenes and still pictures of the damage and terminal consequences wrought upon the people of Britain with the narration ending that " Would the survivors envy the dead ? " Has it rung any bells yet ? Let me remind you of a few scenes featured : Meat cooking in a butchers window due to the heat generated from the initial nuclear flash , milk bottles melting on door steps along with childrens toys . That's right , much of the footage shot and stills used were expanded , edited or re-used by director / producer Mick Jackson in his nuclear holocaust docudrama THREADS a year later . A couple of points 1 ) Some of the footage seen here is absent from THREADS ( Like the meat cooking in the butcher shop ) down to the fact that it interferes with the context of the docudrama . People have been panic buying for days before the bomb drops in THREADS hence meat cooking in shop windows contradicts this scenario 2 ) It's clearly stated that the smoke and dust from a thermo-nuclear war would lead to a " nuclear winter " . Considering both A GUIDE TO ARMAGEDDON and THE DAY AFTER were produced at exactly the same time it's clear that THE DAY AFTER has ignored the concept of a nuclear winter on purpose since it would have been known to the scientific community . One can't help thinking TDA has ignored the nuclear winter on purpose rather than through ignorance . Indeed on its broadcast critics of TDA like Lord Denis Healey pointed out that the American TVM didn't go far enough pointing out the consequences of global nuclear war and I couldn't help thinking that was a straight referrance to this documentary A GUIDE TO ARMAGEDDON is even more obscure than its offspring THREADS which still has a small but very hard core fan base . It would have been perfect as a companion piece on the THREADS DVD but like the cold war seems to have been consigned to forgotten history
I don't like comedies but I do enjoy much of the Farrelly Brothers stuff and THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT MARY is their greatest achievment which is probably down to their casting . Ben Stiller is perfect as Ted while Matt Dillon is absolutely outstanding as sleazy ( And boy do I mean sleazy ) private investigator Pat Healy . My only criticism is of Cameron Diaz who's slightly bland , but she is attractive and that's all that mattersI suppose how funny you'll find this film is down to your own subjective opinion of what should or shouldn't be made fun of . I'll be honest and say that jokes featuring stalking , serial killers , semen , spiking doggie snacks with drugs and learning difficulties are all fair game , and perhaps I'm being too honest in saying I laughed out loud at these serious subjects being made fun of ? Sorry if this review has been very short but I find it difficult to write hundreds of words about a film I love
