Clancy Malone ( as Don Gregor ) is an " over 21 " juvenile delinquent ; he carries an illegal gun , gets arrested , is bailed out , and helps pal Timothy Farrell ( as Vic Brady ) commit burglaries . Mr . Malone's father Herbert Rawlinson ( as Boris Gregor ) is a very successful plastic surgeon ; later , his skill comes in handy . Blonde Dolores Fuller ( as Marilyn Gregor ) is a concerned sister . Lawmen Lyle Talbot ( as Inspector Johns ) and Steve Reeves ( as Bob Lawrence ) investigate the unfortunate circumstances surrounding Malone's criminal escapades . Strong competition for worst performance honors . The Spanish guitar is annoying . " Cotton Watts and Chick " perform the " blackface " act . First feature film for Herculean Reeves , who gets to appear shirtless in a scene . Last feature film for Mr . Rawlinson . Not even good Wood . Jail Bait ( 1954 ) Edward D . Wood Jr . - Lyle Talbot , Dolores Fuller , Herbert Rawlinson
" In this macabre tale of a trip gone horribly wrong , an innocent family becomes lost and find themselves at a remote farmhouse . The only apparent resident of the property is a strangely deformed man named Torgo , who insists he is watching the place for ' The Master ' . What our travelers don't know is ' The Master ' and his demon-worshiping wives have awakened from their slumber to prey upon them for their sacrifices , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Although John Reynolds ( as Torgo ) manages an interesting characterization , it isn't enough to lift this film from rock bottom , unfortunately . Manos : The Hands of Fate ( 1966 ) Harold P . Warren - John Reynolds , Diane Mahree , Tom Neyman
A singularly awful movie . Very few films have the awful power of " Façade " . There is evidence some form of satire was attempted . It's a botched job . Eric Roberts ( as businessman Colin Wentworth ) meanders through the proceedings in a hopefully inebriated state . The obligatory " hot chick " moment is over quickly , blessedly ; if you're watching for that reason . The soundtrack rips off " Strangers in the Night " ( doesn't anyone own the copyright on that song ? ) . Quite possibly , this is the worst film ever made with Eric Roberts . One would certainly have to hope so , anyway . The credits end with a 1997 production date , so this may have been unreleased for a number of years . Really , they needn't have bothered . Facade ( 1997 ) Carl Colpaert - Eric Roberts , Camilla Overbye Roos , Angus Macfadyen
In Chicago ( Canada ) , it's hard times for goateed ex-superman Dean Cain ( as Lt . Cornelius Morgan ) ; he is suspended from the police force for being too generous with his bullets . Mr . Cain and Baywatch blonde Erika Eleniak ( as Catherine " Cat " Morgan ) might have to send their children to public school . ( Gasp ! ) Worse off is ex-gangster Eric Roberts ( as Jimmy Scalzetti ) , who must return to his more successful life of crime . Mr . Roberts ' son has leukemia , and desperately needs an expensive bone marrow transplant . ( Choke ) So , Cain and Roberts have a " Die Hard " shoot-out in the mall , where Ms . Eleniak becomes a lipstick and blood hostage . Written and directed for Christians , by Charles Robert Carner . Re-titled " Breakaway " to lure in unsuspecting non-believers . This is an unforgivable waste of resources . There is no laugh track . Those involved surely found a chunk of coal in their stockings . Christmas Rush ( 2002 ) Charles Robert Carner - Dean Cain , Eric Roberts , Erika Eleniak
" A man in town for a convention gets lost while trying to return to his hotel room , after seeing a woman , and ends up being taken in by a mortician to wait out a storm . To pass the time , the mortician shows the man four recently deceased people and begins to tell him how each person ended up as an occupant of one of his coffins , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . John Ericson ( as Talmudge ) is the man who finds refuge with mortician Ivor Francis , during the rainstorm . Mr . Francis ' four stories aren't as enthralling as his characterization is appealing . Bernard Fox ( as McDowal ) is featured in the , passable , third story . Mr . Fox was , perhaps , most memorable the delightful witch doctor first called upon by " Samantha Stevens " on " Bewitched " ; but , even " Dr . Bombay " can't save this plodding film . Charles Aidman ( as Toliver ) banters well with Fox . " Alien Zone " was appropriately re-titled " House of the Dead " . Steve March , vocalizing the theme song " The Sound of Goodbye " , sounds a little like his famous father .
This film has an astonishingly ludicrous , unbelievable plot . Doris Day and Richard Widmark are unable to conceive while ol ' reliable neighbor Gig Young has kid after kid , despite having ( arguably ) the biggest substance abuse problem on the block . With all the single beds and double shots , it's a wonder . Anyway , an adoption agency finds a baby for the childless Day / Widmark pair . Mr . Widmark is convinced he actually fathered the child they find , during a drunken one-night-stand . . . It gets worse . Ms . Day recognizes the newly adopted baby as Mr . Widmark's , and storms out on her bicycle ! The movie makes absolutely no sense . Day and Widmark are terrible parents . Widmark also sings , by the way , at a cocktail party and to the baby . Be warned ! Won't reveal the film's climax , but it should be easy to guess ? The Tunnel of Love ( 1958 ) Gene Kelly - Doris Day , Richard Widmark , Gig Young
On Christmas Eve , Judge Harry Solter " throws the book " at gypsy George Gebhardt ; the convicted man's wife , Marion Lenard , delivers a furious protest , and is hauled out of the court . Later , the gypsy woman trails Judge Solter to his home , seeking revenge . Home , the Judge and wife Florence Lawrence are preoccupied with Christmas - - he is sneaking around a packaged frock for her ; and , she has wrapped a rifle for him . Little Gladys Egan , their daughter , is ( presumably ) looking forward to the arrival of Santa Claus ; instead , Gypsy Lenard climbs in through the window , ready to enact her terrifying revenge ? Director D . W . Griffith's 1908 Christmas gift to filmgoers doesn't quite deliver the goods ; though , the final scene captures the spirit of the season . Mainly , " An Awful Moment " climaxes with an often filmed set-up involving : a bound and gagged woman , a gun , and a string . In this film , the awful moment isn't very suspenseful . Probably due to camera and budget restrictions , it's not very clear how a rescue is to be achieved ; additionally , you have to assume this family takes some heavy sleeping potion - - little Gladys is an especially heavy Christmas Eve sleeper !
Everyone in Laredo is heading over to the annual fiesta in nearby San Gill . Chad ( Peter Brown ) and Joe ( William Smith ) want to join the celebration ; but , Capt . Parmalee ( Philip Carey ) assigns them office duty in Laredo . The Rangers try to trick Reese ( Neville Brand ) , returning from last week's assignment , into taking over , with limited success . Of course , the Rangers go anyway . At the fiesta , they try to avoid Parmalee ; and , later , become involved in thwarting an assassination plot . Colorful , silly , and predictable . Chad wears a Devil mask , Joe is the Rabbit , and Reese sometimes plays the Frog . Lonny Chapman guest stars ( as Julius ) . Given the festive tone of the episode , and the lightheartedness of the series , the scene featuring Reese being brutally whipped is startling . His back is covered with bloody , realistic welts , sadistically administered by Theo Marcuse ( as Waldo ) . The apparent severity of the whipping does not match the character's later antics . Laredo - The Heroes of San Gill ( / 65 ) Paul Stanley - Neville Brand , Peter Brown , William Smith
Buster Keaton ( as Elmer ) is an incompetent Hollywood manager assigned to beauty contest winner Anita Page ( as Elvira ) . Robert Montgomery ( as Larry ) is around as romantic rival . Interestingly , the three main players are " stars " in the film ; however , they show little star quality in " Free and Easy " . There are several " cameos " and references to MGM stars of the time ( Garbo , Shearer , Davies , Crawford . . . ) . Mr . Keaton speaks well during early scenes ; and , he is sometimes nicely expressive . However , the film is amateurish and embarrassing . Keaton singing the title " Free and Easy " song is a low point . Keaton's sobriety is doubtful . You may find more entertaining shows at your local Elementary School . Free and Easy ( 1930 ) Edward Sedgwick - Buster Keaton , Anita Page , Robert Montgomery
Roy Rogers ( as Vance ) is appointed sheriff of a Texas town , following the Civil War . A former Confederate P . O . W . , Mr . Rogers faces wicked carpetbaggers , led by Cy Kendall ( as Ballard ) . Assisting Rogers is his ever present pal George " Gabby " Hayes ( as Gabby ) , who happens to have a fetching niece , Marjorie Reynolds ( as Jeanie ) . Sally Payne is along for the ride , as Belle Starr . Rogers must be the " Robin Hood " of the title , protecting the people from big tax collectors . Rogers and Ms . Payne have a cool brawl ( not with each other ) and the acting from Rogers and team are a notch above the norm . However , Rogers ' role of an ex-Confederate , in a post-Civil War setting , lends itself to some understandable questions about the representation of race - not the worst you'll see , but enough to stand out in a western with little else to notice . Robin Hood of the Pecos ( 1941 ) Joseph Kane - Roy Rogers , George ' Gabby ' Hayes , Marjorie Reynolds
Dana Andrews , Marilee Earle , and Mel Tormé are the main attractions . I don't know how anyone can play scenes with the great Mr . Tormé . I would crack up ! Mr . Andrews , Ms . Earle , and the others are incredibly awful in this film . I don't have any idea what's going on with Andrews ' physical condition ; but , he seems healthier as the film goes on . As a " cold war drama , " this movie fails . The plot and performances are ludicrous . BUT , as an unintended comedy , the movie succeeds . I found it moderately funny . I'm not sure what kind of political message this film is trying to make - but , it adds to the hilarity . I can't rate it highly , because I'm sure the filmmakers ' intentions were quite different than my reception . The Fearmakers ( 1958 ) Jacques Tourneur - Dana Andrews , Marilee Earle , Mel Tormé
Lon Chaney Jr . is completely wasted as Charles " The Butcher " Benton . Chaney as " The Butcher " , a man convicted for bank robbery and murder , is executed ; then , he is accidentally revived , by a doctor seeking a cure for cancer . So , the mute and murderous Mr . Chaney goes on a lumbering rampage , to Los Angeles , knocking off ( among others ) the gang members who betrayed him . The dull , unimaginative story is augmented by a even duller " Dragnet " - style descriptive narration . The location footage is a relative strength . Otherwise , this one is criminal . Indestructible Man ( 1956 ) Jack Pollexfen - Lon Chaney Jr . , Max Showalter , Marian Carr
Pat O'Brien portrays Knute Rockne , the All-American Notre Dame football coach . No doubt , this film will be considerably more appealing to those interested in some aspect of " Knute Rockne All-American Notre Dame Football " - probably , it's most interesting to serious followers of football and / or Notre Dame football . You will see some good documentary-style film footage . Otherwise , it's difficult to recommend this as a FILM . It's not much more than an historical document . You'll " know " the end is near when Gale Page gets a chill - and , don't blink or you'll miss Ronald Reagan doing , of all things , " Camille " ! Knute Rockne - All-American ( 1940 ) Lloyd Bacon - Pat O'Brien , Gale Page , Ronald Reagan
One Body Too Many ( 1944 ) Frank McDonald - Jack Haley , Jean Parker , Bela Lugosi " A timid insurance salesman decides to place a call upon an eccentric recluse at his mansion only to find that he has just passed away . What he also finds is a home full of relatives who are , according to the will , all bound to remain in the mansion until the authorities arrive to claim the body . Seeing that the man's niece may be in harm's way , the salesman decides to remain at the mansion to protect her from harm while they discover who killed their uncle , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . A thinly disguised re-make of the relatively recent re-make of silent spoof " The Cat and the Canary " . Possibly , the very successful Bob Hope version of 1939 had been removed from circulation ; and , movie producers felt the story had more traction . Otherwise , it's difficult to explain this inferior treatment . Star Jack Haley ( as Albert Tuttle ) is curiously ill-suited in the leading role . Still , it's enjoyable to see Mr . Haley without his " Tin Man " silver . And , leading lady Jean Parker ( as Carol Dunlap ) is an attractive old dark house inhabitant . The most entertaining of the cast are spooky servants Bela Lugosi ( as Murkil ) and Blanche Yurka ( as Matthews ) . Dependable Lucien Littlefield ( as Kenneth Hopkins ) was also in the 1927 version . Writers Winston Miller and Maxwell Shane do add some witty new lines and situations to the formula ; but , the resulting product compares very unfavorably with earlier versions .
" An archaeologist visits a remote island to bury his late father and , despite the warnings from the local people , opens the tomb of the vampire queen , buried over 700 years ago . This foolish act by the archaeologist and his reporter friend places the entire island in danger , including the local schoolteacher ? With the schoolteacher in danger of being a sacrifice to the vampire queen , the duo sets out to stop the vampires , rescue the teacher , and destroy the vampire queen , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Just so you know , the " schoolteacher " Patty Sheppard ( Mary ) is bad guy Mark Damon ( Peter ) ' s sister . Andrew Prine ( Chris ) is the good guy . The film is atmospheric , and features an able cast - but , it takes an interminably long time for anything to happen . When it picks up , it isn't much . And , suddenly , after getting very long in the tooth , it flames out . . . How can a 1970s vampire film be so anemic ? La tumba de la isla maldita ( 1973 ) Ray Danton , Julio Salvador - Andrew Prine , Mark Damon , Patty Sheppard
I thought Mr . Crosby had a great voice . He should have had more singing time in the film . Mr . Hope seemed a bit hapless - perhaps he and Crosby were not ready for the film . They seemed very unrehearsed , especially during the " song and dance " bit . The movie is very dated . My grandmother says this " comedy " wasn't even funny , to her , back then . I believe these " native / road " movies sent a coded message that there would be a lot of " skin " time shown . . . well , this doesn't work , today . The players don't show all that much skin ; perhaps , at that time , it was enough ? The " clever " jokes ( Sadie Thompson was the hooker in " Rain " ) seem not to move the characters along . Many of the scenes look disjointed , and cheap . The ending is a mild pick-up . Despite the obvious " come ons " , the film is sexless . Road to Bali ( 1952 ) Hal Walker - Bing Crosby , Bob Hope , Dorothy Lamour
Popular political columnist Katharine Hepburn ( as Tess Harding ) guest-stars on a radio program ; and , after muffing a question about " America's National Pastime " ( baseball ) , declares the sport should be abolished . Of course , this irks her " New York Chronicle " colleague , sports columnist Spencer Tracy ( as Sam Craig ) . The two writers begin inking out " World War III " in their respective columns . When Mr . Tracy finally meets Ms . Hepburn's legs , in person ( it's a spacious office building ) , it's love at first sight . But , can Tracy domesticate a feminist-leaning Hepburn ? In their first feature film team-up , Tracy and Hepburn get off to a surprisingly rocky start - the main problem with " Woman of the Year " is its insulting , offensive script , credited to Ring Lardner and Michael Kanin . These writers , along with producer Joseph L . Mankiewicz and director George Stevens , would certainly suggest a better product than what appears on the screen . How is it that Hepburn , a worldly enough woman , knows zilch about baseball ? A early scene , with Hepburn at a Yankees game , would have worked if she , in an aside , revealed she was putting Tracy on - otherwise , the scene belongs to someone like Betty Grable ( or Judy Holliday ) . It is strange to see Hepburn almost get her neck caught in a window cord , and Tracy having trouble closing a refrigerator door - suggesting re-takes may not have been a priority . The very weak ending has Hepburn as a watered-down " Lucy Ricardo " , trying to make breakfast for her man . Tracy , who was somewhat likable ( relatively speaking ) through most of the film , ends with a bizarre violent act . Obviously , the characters played by Hepburn and Tracy should not be married . . . Thankfully , the Tracy Hepburn films got better ? Woman of the Year ( 1942 ) George Stevens - Katharine Hepburn , Spencer Tracy , Fay Bainter
Captain Parmalee ( Philip Carey ) takes the Rangers out to police a nearby homesteaders land giveaway . The Laredo quartet check in with Fred Clark ( as Commissioner Smoot ) , who will administrate the proceedings , in Fort Hall . While waiting for the " land rush " to begin , Chad ( Peter Brown ) romances shapely brunette widow Audrey Dalton ( as Alice Coverly ) ; and , Reese ( Neville Brand ) entertains the homesteaders ' children , including Ms . Dalton's son Keith Jones ( as Robert Coverly ) . Joe ( William Smith ) tries to keep his pals focused on their job . Grandfatherly uniformed Alan Napier ( as Major Donaldson ) steals the show . The lucky TV antenna would soon point Mr . Napier in Batman's direction , where he would memorably run stately Wayne Manor , as Bruce's butler " Alfred " . Young Mr . Jones gives Reese a good lesson on Indians . This episode's story is misshapen on several levels , unfortunately . For example , the thugs who want to cheat during the " land rush " get around so quickly , it was unnecessary for them to break the rules . And , the charming Coverly family certainly features an odd progression of British accents . Laredo - The Land Grabbers ( / 65 ) R . G . Springsteen - Neville Brand , Peter Brown , William Smith
French-accented William Farnum ( as Drifter ) trudges from the snowy mountains of Canada , to his valley hometown . Along the way , he partners up with old Charles Sellon ( as Whitey ) , who has just finished a 20-year prison stay . In town , the men meet their stated objectives : to find work and women . Mr . Farnum and his pal get a jobs with the Canadian Lumber Company , run by Noah Berry ( as John McNary ) , after Farnum rids the town of ruthless Russell Hopton ( as Montana ) . Mr . Berry's pretty blonde daughter Phyllis Barrington ( as Bonnie McNary ) catches Farnum's eye , but she is seeing business rival Bruce Warren ( as Paul LaTour ) . Farnum , a huge silent film star beginning with " The Spoilers " ( 1914 ) , uses techniques from that medium , and stage experience ; he's interesting , at least , in this unsuccessful picture . " The Drifter " suffers from some distracting technical flaws , also . Of the supporting cast , Mr . Sellon outperforms the reliable brother of Wallace Berry . Mr . Hopton is good , also ; in one of the film's better scenes , Farnum shoots him at Church . The Drifter ( 1932 ) William O'Connor - William Farnum , Noah Berry , Phyllis Barrington
" A flight wing of the Air Force has been experiencing difficulties with some of its aircraft so as a test they send aloft a jet with a four man crew . Once airborne , the jet picks up three mysterious objects on radar and when two interceptors are sent to investigate , they mysteriously disappear , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . While Air Force Col . Glenn Ford ( as Pete Moore ) and his men try to investigate events surrounding the UFO sighting , US government officials move to cover-up the incident . Mustached David Soul ( as Roy Bishop ) heads a cast of familiar and likable TV actors , in a TV movie . One is not as familiar as the rest : " Dark Shadows " star James Storm is partially obscured by a dark cap ; he is manning the " Digger Control " that diverts Mr . Soul's plane .
Crippled violinist David Miles ( as Filippo ) is very much taken with lovely young Mary Pickford ( as Giannina Ferrari ) ; when she tosses him a flower , he lovingly places it in a special vase . Ms . Pickford is rather free with her flowers , however , and also has one for Mr . Miles ' dashing friend Owen Moore ( as Sandro ) ; for Mr . Moore , Pickford includes an amorous " come hither " look . The residents of Cremona are apparently violin enthusiasts ; Miles and Moore enter a contest to see which man can make the best violin in town . The prizes are a gold chain and ? Mary Pickford's hand in marriage , allowed by her father Herbert Prior ( as Taddeo Ferrari ) ! Who will the winner be ? Interesting as an early co-starring role for Pickford ; with a few exceptions , she is not as impressive in her early film roles as might be expected after viewing her later , sometimes exceptional , performances . Pickford's best moment is her repulsion when she realizes the " lame " Miles will enter the contest to win her hand in marriage , obviously because he is disabled ! Miles is the real star of this D . W . Griffith film ; given the best role , he gives the most interesting performance . A hundred years later , you can finally call " The Violin Maker of Cremona " lame . The Violin Maker of Cremona ( 1909 ) D . W . Griffith - David Miles , Mary Pickford , Owen Moore
After the classic " Slim Shady " and " Marshall Mathers " LPs , Eminem hit the Hollywood show biz button with " The Eminem Show " ( album ) and " 8 Mile " ( film ) . The film is tailor made for the White Rapper . Eminem ( as Jimmy " B Rabbit " Smith ) blows a " Rap Battle " , hangs with his Detroit ' hoodies , and nails slutty Brittany Murphy ( as Alex ) . Eminem wants to be a Big Rap Star . He lives with trailer park trashy mother Kim Basinger ( as Stephanie ) and lil ' blonde sista Chloe Greenfield ( as Lily ) . Ms . Basinger gets to say the line , " Greg won't go down on me . " Word way up . Curiously , Eminem does not sport his familiar ( at the time ) short , bleached do ; instead , he wears a knit hat over more natural brown locks . Eminem doesn't contribute any rent money , but he works hard . He is careful to avoid drugs , unlike boozy mother Basinger . Who knew Detroit's " 8 Mile " was so drug free ? The soundtrack highlights are " Lose Yourself " and a fun rap-up of Lynyrd Skynyrd's " Sweet Home Alabama " , which comes off better here than on " youtube " . Still , Eminem's pre-Hollywood studio work is much more highly recommended than this semi-autobiographical movie sanitization . 8 Mile ( 2002 ) Curtis Hanson - Eminem , Kim Basinger , Brittany Murphy
" A count who experiments with electro-stimulation of human blood discovers that his wife is having an affair . Catching the two lovers together , the count tortures and kills them , using their hearts and blood to further his experiments and to restore the beauty of his own lover . After his wife's death , the count discovers that her castle and fortune are to be given to her sister instead of him . Hoping to continue his lifestyle and his experiments , the count manipulates the sister and marries her , hoping to eliminate her as he did his first wife , not knowing that the spirits of his wife and her lover are out for revenge , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Barbara Steele ( as brunette Muriel Arrowsmith and blonde Jenny Arrowsmith ) is the main attraction . Ms . Steele plays step-sisters who look extraordinarily alike . Re-titled " Nightmare Castle " for US consumption , the production seems too rushed . The movie features a jolting opening , with scenes of bondage and torture . After that , it becomes a slow , atmospheric Gothic . The filmmakers should have considered opening the film as a mysterious Gothic , and closing with " flashback " sequences - - the lurid scenes with brunette Steele and her lover - - to explain the preceding events . Then , end with the comeuppance scenes . But , what do I know ? " Hampton Castle " is a great setting . Gli amanti d'oltretomba ( 1965 ) Mario Caiano - Barbara Steele , Paul Muller , Helga Liné
The film begins with an interesting premise : A writer and a newspaperman are anti-Capitol Punishment . They decide to " frame " the writer ( Mr . Andrews ) for murder ; after he is tried and convicted , they plan to reveal he didn't commit the murder - saving him from the electric chair and showing how easily an innocent man can be killed with circumstantial evidence . The movie held my attention , albeit barely . For a movie requiring you to THINK ( as in , think about Capitol Punishment ) , you really can't THINK at all . The more I thought , the more I had questions - about the PLOT of this story - like WHAT do these guys think should happen to the " REAL KILLER " of this woman ? You really have to turn off you brain to fully enjoy Beyond a Reasonable Doubt , because it makes no sense if you think it through . . . I had events pretty much figured out before they happened . I thought too much , I guess . I don't think the film says much about Capitol Punishment , but the IDEA is a good one ; it would make a much better film in more adept hands . Beyond a Reasonable Doubt ( 1956 ) Fritz Lang - Dana Andrews , Joan Fontaine , Sidney Blackmer
Lucille Ball ( as Connie ) is going to college . Her wealthy father is afraid she'll get into trouble , so he hires four football players to be her bodyguards . NOT a very bright man , obviously ! The bodyguards are : Desi Arnaz ( as Manuelito ) , Eddie Bracken ( as Jojo ) , Richard Carlson ( as Clint ) , and Hal LeRoy ( as Al ) . Ann Miller and Frances Langford are around to dance and sing . It's a fair musical , with an " Indian " subplot ( Huh ? ) , and budget problems . You should know that Lucille Ball and Desi Arnaz are not paired up in ( on-screen , anyway ) this film ( Ms . Ball is partnered with Mr . Carlson ) . This is a routinely presented film , with a few highlights . Unfortunately Mr . Le Roy and Ms . Miller do not have a real dance off / team-up together . Mr . Arnaz steals the show from his future wife with a charming performance - look for the scene where he plays " guess the lipstick " ! Too Many Girls ( 1940 ) George Abbott - Lucille Ball , Desi Arnaz , Ann Miller
The mysterious disease Pellagra strikes hundreds of thousands of Americans dead , mainly in the Southern United States , at the turn of the century . Dr . Joseph Goldberger ( played by Shepperd Strudwick ) , a Jewish immigrant , suspects the illness may be connected to nutrition . Mr . Goldberger's experiments , which include feeding Northern prisoners a Southern diet , are criticized as " torture " - but , Goldberger safely identifies the cause and cure for Pellagra . This episode of narrator John Nesbitt's " Passing Parade " is bracketed with Isaiah 44 : 19 , " Behold , I will do a new thing - I will even make a way in the wilderness . " Notable for Mr . Strudwick's convincing performance , and its director . Passing Parade : A Way in the Wilderness ( 1940 ) Fred Zinnemann - Shepperd Strudwick , John Nesbitt , Edward Hearn
Sent off on a World War I spy mission , Bruce Lester ( as Frank Bennett ) is shot down during an aerial attack ; he survives , and believes he has fallen in love with nurse Margaret Lindsay ( as Helene Von Lorbeer ) , after she nurses him back to health . Mr . Lester doesn't know it , but Ms . Lindsay is really German spy Frances Hautry ; coincidently , her mission involves moving into Lester's own home , where she makes contact with newly-hired family servant Boris Karloff ( as Valdar ) . Mr . Karloff is really German spy Karl Schiller . With Lester away , Karloff and Lindsay will play ; their game is delivering Allied secrets to the Germans . But , wait , Karloff appears to also be working for " British Intelligence " ; their mission is to eliminate mysterious German spy " Strengler " . Now , hold on , Lindsay reveals she's also a double agent , when Lester returns home and recognizes her as Nurse Helene . . . Third time around for " Three Faces East " ( 1926 , 1930 ) . Fairly predictable , if you think about it - - but Karloff and Lindsay are fun to watch .
" A young man , recently engaged to be married , is the victim of a traffic accident and dies as a result of his injuries . His father , desperate to revive his son , agrees to let a scientist friend try his experimental soul transmigration process to save him . After the young man returns to life , the father and fiancée notice a dark and violent change in the young man's behavior , leading them to believe something went horribly wrong in the revival process , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . At one point , Edward Norris ( as Philip Bennett ) is asked , " What do you think this is , Boys Town ? " Mr . Norris should know , since he was in " Boys Town " . " The Man with Two Lives " is more like " Black Friday " minus Karloff and Lugosi . You do the math . This film might have been a contender , with a re-worked script ; it does feature an intriguing final act . After a tepid " shoot out " , hang in for the drama to pick up with a well-played scene between star Norris and pursuing detective Addison Richards ( as George Bradley ) . The Man with Two Lives ( 1942 ) Phil Rosen - Edward Norris , Eleanor Lawson , Addison Richards
When radio singer Lee Bowman refuses to renew his contract , talent scout Jack Carson ventures out to look for a new star . He finds Doris Day - a significant improvement ! The story is similar to " A Star Is Born " . How Ms . Day goes undiscovered for so long with such a striking voice is not convincing . Day is a single parent ( in the film , it is stated that she lost her husband during World War II ) , which helps set up the film's highlight - a cute dream sequence for her son features an animated Bugs Bunny . The soundtrack isn't exceptional , but Day performs the songs well . " My Dream Is Yours " is colorful and routine . My Dream Is Yours ( 1949 ) Michael Curtiz - Doris Day , Jack Carson , Eve Arden
In order to protect a $100 million inheritance , commitment-shy bachelor Chris O'Donnell ( as Jimmie Shannon ) learns he must marry before he reaches his impending 30th birthday . Naturally , Mr . O'Donnell proposes to the woman he loves , beautiful blonde Renée Zellweger ( as Anne Arden ) . But , Ms . Zellweger senses O'Donnell's heart really isn't in his " ( empty your intestine ) or get off the pot ! " proposal . Zellweger bails , with sister Marley Shelton ( as Natalie ) . So , O'Donnell , with pal Artie Lange ( as Marco ) assisting , tries to locate a marriage-minded woman , who is willing to share $100 million , and produce a baby . Any takers ? Ms . Shelton is a sweet sidekick , and Brooke Shields ( as Buckley ) stands out among the unfortunately wasted supporting cast . Gary Sinyor's " The Bachelor " is a lesser re-make of a well-remembered Buster Keaton comedy ( " Seven Chances " ) . No cigar and not even close . The Bachelor ( 1999 ) Gary Sinyor - Chris O'Donnell , Renee Zellweger , Marley Shelton
Invisible Ghost ( 1941 ) Joseph H . Lewis - Bela Lugosi , Clarence Muse , Betty Compson " Bella Lugosi stars in this Monogram thriller as Charles Kessler , a man living with his daughter while hoping for the return of his wife . Upon seeing her peeking through a window , he falls into a trance and murders the maid . The maid's boyfriend is framed for the murder and dies in the hands of the police . The man's twin brother and Kessler's daughter team up to clear the brother's name and discover the true identity of the killer , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . First of all , there is no " Invisible Ghost " . This was the first of Mr . Lugosi's " Monogram " movies ; and , predictably , the studio sought to cash-in on its star's previous horror success with the misleading title . The " ghost " is Betty Compson ( as Mrs . Kessler ) who survived a car crash while attempting to run away with her lover . Ms . Compson's status , and the identity of the killer , are not mysteries . Surprisingly , this does not , in itself , make the film uninteresting . With better scripting ( more attentive to character development and motivation and performances ) , " Invisible Ghost " could have been a fine picture . Though poorly edited , at times , the direction is sometimes artful ; for example , consider the slipshod scene regarding Jules ' " death " and the excellent " The Lord Is My Sheppard ? " sequence . The " romantic " couple , Polly Ann Young ( sister of Loretta , ending her film career ) and John McGuire would have benefited from more work on their characterizations ; interestingly Mr . McGuire's " Paul Dickson " is an improvement over his " Ralph Dickson " . A couple of supporting performances rise above the material . Compson's portrayal of the " crazed-with-guilt " wife is dead-on ; and , Clarence Muse ( as Evans ) ' s portrayal of Lugosi's manservant is a lesson in dignified acting .
Mad scientist Boris Karloff ( as Dr . John Garth ) is sentenced to hang , as an admitted " mercy killer " . But , since his research in medicine is so important , Mr . Karloff is permitted to continue experimenting , in a laboratory behind bars . Karloff thinks human cells could be prompted to reproduce forever , curing both disease and old age . Believing he is going to be executed , Karloff uses his experimental serum on himself , and is transfused with the blood of a convicted murderer . Then , suddenly , Karloff is paroled . He becomes twenty years younger , but must fight the urge to kill , Kill , KILL ! A cheap , ludicrous , but bearable star vehicle . Before I Hang ( 1940 ) Nick Grinde - Boris Karloff , Evelyn Keyes , Pedro de Cordoba
Brawny Kevin Dillon ( as David McLean ) takes a plane to Germany , where he plans to meet his estranged brother . Upon arrival , he is told what we've seen open the film , that brother Rod Wilson ( as Michael McLean ) blew up in a car . Mr . Dillon identifies his brother's burned-beyond-recognition body by observing his tattooed arm . You'd be suspicious , and Dillon is too . He discovers his brother was ( is ? ) tied up in a web of espionage . The Berlin morgue makes room for more bodies , as unsavory types search for a missing computer disk , thought to be in one of the McLean brothers ' possession . Dillon befriends pretty blonde motorcycling Andrea Roth ( as Monika Engelmann ) who , of course , is also interested in finding the disk . Supporting actors Christopher Plummer ( as Ulrich Steiner ) , J . T . Walsh ( as Jonathan Zanuck ) , and Michael Wincott ( as Larry Gleason ) give the picture some weight . Mr . Plummer works out of the Berlin police department ; in a sex shop , he suggests a nuns in bondage video . Mr . Walsh and Mr . Wincott are situated at the American Embassy . Wincott is soft-spoken , but powerful . This was dependable character actor Walsh's last filmed appearance . So , Iain Paterson's " Hidden Agenda " is , appropriately , " Dedicated to the memory of J . T . Walsh . " Hidden Agenda ( 1998 ) Iain Paterson - Kevin Dillon , Andrea Roth , J . T . Walsh
On his wedding day , nervous Harold Lloyd is one minute and four seconds late for a pre-nuptial meeting with impatient bride-to-be Bebe Daniels . Ms . Daniels scolds Mr . Lloyd , and persuades him to buy her " a few things " in a nearby store . After an hour of shopping , Daniels wants to go home for a frock change , leaving Lloyd to manage her towering purchases . Lloyd's method of getting the packages to Daniels ' home is the highlight of " I'm on My Way " . While Daniels dons a new outfit , Lloyd spends some time with neighbor " Snub " Pollard , who has been " married so long he has lost all sense of pain . " Mr . Pollard's bugling family and noisy neighbors give Lloyd second thoughts about going through with his own wedding plans . I'm on My Way ( 1919 ) Hal Roach - Harold Lloyd , ' Snub ' Pollard , Bebe Daniels
It's Monday , April 1 at the morning " Megaphone " , the newspaper that's six months behind all big public events . Cub reporter Charley Chase ( as Jimmy Jump ) arrives to find the newsroom involved in " April Fool's Day " hi-jinks . Mr . Chase is the victim of several tired and true April fool jokes . For example , Chase drinks from a water dribble glass . Then , Chase sits in ink . And , Chase lights an exploding stogie . When the editor's wife telephones for help , after her house catches on fire , everyone thinks it's an April fool joke . Editor's daughter Blanche Mehaffey , whom Chase loves , wouldn't play a cruel April fool's joke on Chase , or would she ?
In the near future , vampire and non-vampire people have a difficult time getting along . Renegade bloodsuckers don't help matters by creating vampire mischief among the tasty humans . In order to help a government plan to integrate vampires into mainstream society succeed , vampire cop Adrian Paul ( as Aaron Gray ) teams up with human cop Bokeem Woodbine ( as Steve Grant ) . Mr . Paul , who survived Nazis by becoming undead , is a vampire rights proponent . Paul is troubled by flashbacks , and has to avoid bloodlust . Mr . Woodbine has to overcome his prejudices against vampires , when he finds himself falling in love with sexy Chinese vampire Bai Ling ( as Lucy Westenra ) . Michael Oblowitz ' " The Breed " has a good supporting cast , and a stylish look ; but , the plot doesn't really dig . Most obviously , the mishmash of symbolism is confusing ; and , the movie becomes absurd . The " love story " between Woodbine and Ms . Ling has no teeth ; in fact , the shooting of a gay vampire's testicle is played as sexier . Nosferatu and Dracula are obviously referenced . And , so is horror queen Barbara Steele , who co-starred with Adrian Paul in " Dark Shadows " , as " Her name is Barbara Steele ? " introduces the film's most bloody victim . The Breed ( 2001 ) Michael Oblowitz - Adrian Paul , Bokeem Woodbine , Bai Ling
" A string of mysterious deaths and disappearances of young women have all been traced to a drama school , where all the girls were students . The district attorney suspects the school may be a front for a prostitution ring and sets out to investigate it . After the D . A . is blackmailed into dropping the investigation , a female reporter decides to go undercover to learn the truth , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Writer / director Elmer Clifton manages to squeeze a few drops of blood from this stone . A scene between villain Philip Van Zandt ( as King Peterson ) asking " Do you mind if I smoke ? " and hero John Archer ( as Jimmy Horton ) replying " I don't care if you burn " piques interest . Mr . Clifton and H . B . Warner ( as " Mac " McVeigh ) were bigger names during the silent film era ( look for Walter Long , also ) . Mr . Archer was a fine actor , who did not get the parts he deserved ; and it shows , in this film . Teenage Gale Storm ( as Mary Phillips ) , who unexpectedly became a 1950s TV and rock ' n ' roll era recording star , is irresistibly cute ; she , and brief pair of vivacious dancing girls , give the film some much-needed oomph . In spite of some strengths , " City of Missing Girls " remains oblique and recumbent . City of Missing Girls ( 1941 ) Elmer Clifton - John Archer , H . B . Warner , Gale Storm
This film peaks near its beginning with a production number featuring Doris Day and Gene Nelson dancing with both an infinity mirrored wall and the New York skyline showing outside ( of some huge windows ) . The later production number , a blend of " No , No Nanette " and " Tea for Two " , is tellingly anti-climatic . The plot is easy - Ms . Day has to say " No " to everything for a day . But , the movie goes on and on with several songs and dances having little / nothing to do with the story . Other characters and sub-plots are thrown in ; with all the extra songs and dances , I have no trouble believing everything in this film was not in the original " No , No Nanette " . Some of it all is very good - Day and MacRae sing well , Gene Nelson dances well , and Eve Arden does her thing - but this feels more like a string of songs and scenes than a movie . Tea for Two ( / 50 ) David Butler - Doris Day , Gordon MacRae , Gene Nelson
With her film career fading , Donna Reed answered the television call . That black thing ringing in each episode's catchy theme song is what a " telephone " looked like in the 1950s - and , it must have been an upscale model . Producer husband Tony Owen and the ever elegant Ms . Reed assembled a terrific TV family : Donna Reed ( as Donna Stone ) , Carl Betz ( as Alex Stone ) , Shelley Fabares ( as Mary Stone ) , and Paul Peterson ( as Jeff Stone ) . They looked like a family even before the arrival of Paul's little sister ( 1963 ) . In the first aired episode , Donna tries to arrange a skiing weekend for the family , because she and the kids aren't seeing enough of father Alex . Donna can't understand why their obstetrician friend Jackie Kelk ( as Burt " Bo " Boland ) can get off , but not Alex . This one's okay , but the seventh episode's " Three-Part Mother " plays like a better series introduction . Weekend Trip ( / 58 ) Andrew McCullough - Donna Reed , Carl Betz , Jackie Kelk
Donna ( Donna Reed ) and Alex ( Carl Betz ) return home from a dinner party to learn that neighbor Kathleen Freeman ( as Celia Wilgus ) almost called the police , due to a noisy " party " at the Stone's house . Mary ( Shelley Fabares ) confesses , " Some of my friends stopped by , " including a bongo drummer . Their parents warn Mary and Jeff ( Paul Peterson ) , " People expect a doctor and his family to set an example . " So , when Jeff injures his arm in the drummer's stolen car , he's afraid to see his father for treatment . Posing as " John Smith " , he goes to another pediatrician . . . This cute episode is highlighted by the dependable and delightful Ms . Freeman's first appearance in the series . Jeff's Double Life ( / 59 ) Oscar Rudolph - Donna Reed , Paul Peterson , Kathleen Freeman
William S . Hart ( as Jim Treen ) , the most eligible bachelor in Canyon City , is finally getting hitched , to pretty blonde waitress Leona Hutton ( as Molly Stewart ) . His fiancée doesn't know it , but Mr . Hart is secretly the western town's " Most Wanted " bandit . However , Hart is planning to go straight , due to his marriage plans . Unfortunately , Ms . Hutton discovers Hart's secret stash , whilst cleaning up his untidy cabin ; so , she calls off the wedding . Next , Hutton succumbs to the charms of mining swindler Frank Borzage ( as W . Sloane Carey ) . Serviceable entertainment from superstar Hart ; he was ranked no less than # 1 at the box office , by Quigley Publications , for the years 1915 and 1916 ( ahead of Mary Pickford ) . The principles perform capably . Later on , Frank Borzage was quite a director ; and Leona Hutton , a suicide . . . A Knight of the Trails ( / 15 ) William S . Hart - William S . Hart , Leona Hutton , Frank Borzage
The " Hotel Continental " has seen 50 years of romance , intrigue , and tragedy . But , in one day , the bustling building is going be demolished , " until the last brick is carted away . " Its " last night " attracts many nostalgic patrons to the " Continental " , but most importantly ( for the sake of this motion picture ) , it attracts embezzler Theodore von Eltz ( as James Bennett ) . The suave Mr . Von Eltz has just finished a stint in prison , and needs to collect a stash of money before the hotel closes . Von Eltz checks in as " A . R . Cooper " , and maneuvers his way into the suite where he stashed the money . Along the way , he falls in love with suicidal Peggy Shannon ( as Ruth Carleton ) . Von Eltz doesn't know it , but the duplicitous Ms . Shannon has ulterior motives ! You will need to check your brain at the door of the " Hotel Continental " , if you want to fully enjoy the movie . There is NO WAY this building is ready to be torn down . Every fixture remains in place - probably , even the soap and towels haven't been removed . The place is , also , doing rather brisk business . Mostly , director Christy Cabanne follows the Von Eltz / Shannon storyline , with drunken Irishman Bert Roach ( as Charlie Layton ) providing comic relief . Mr . Cabanne was a D . W . Griffith " Biograph " veteran , as was Henry B . Walthall , who has a small role ( as Tommy Winthrop ) . " Tiffany Productions " got this film out in time to get some box office overflow from MGM's impending " Grand Hotel " . Hotel Continental ( 1932 ) Christy Cabanne - Theodore von Eltz , Peggy Shannon , Bert Roach
" A scientist is working on a suspended animation process where a human being is frozen and then revived later . Deciding to use himself as a guinea pig , the scientist has his assistant place him into suspended animation to prove the process works . While in the process , the scientist's ex-wife ( sic ) is murdered ( sic ) and he becomes the prime suspect in her death , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Actually , the woman is not " the scientist's ex-wife " , and nobody is conventionally " murdered " . The scientists in question are dedicated veteran Mark Stevens ( as Dr . Frank Overton ) and his attractive young assistant , Marianne Koch ( as Dr . Helen Wieland ) . They are drawn to each other at work , a fact first noticed by Mr . Stevens ' perceptive wife , Delphi Lawrence ( as Joan Overton ) . The cybernetics storyline seems most interesting , initially ; but , Ms . Lawrence's characterization is the best part of " Der Fall X701 " ( re-titled " Frozen Alive " ) . Lawrence pouts , shouts , drinks , and smokes up the screen ; she not only steals her scenes , but also the entire movie .
Rosalind Russell is a patriotic widow with time on her hands . She decides to volunteer her services as a spy for the C . I . A . Agreeing her retiring housewife manner makes her a good candidate for undercover work , the C . I . A . accepts " Mrs . Pollifax - Spy " , and assigns her a mission - she is to obtain some microfilm from an operative in Mexico . The plan goes badly , however ; Mrs . Pollifax is handcuffed to Darren McGavin , then kidnapped by Communists . The film starts off nicely , with Ms . Russell in good form , convincing both the C . I . A . and the viewer that " Mrs . Pollifax - Spy " is a good concept . Don't be fooled into thinking the movie is about a lady James Bond , however . Russell as Pollifax is abducted quickly , and spends the entire film in DANGER - she endures prison , scales mountains , and braves the raging rapids . It all looks silly , and unrealistic . We don't get a chance to see her succeed in a few cases , getting to know the character and seeing her worth . We have no idea why the " mission " is important . Mr . McGavin only begins to help later in the film ; otherwise , he's bedridden and uninterested . A " lady sleuth " role might have been a better choice for Russell , at this point in her career . Mrs . Pollifax - Spy ( / 71 ) Leslie Martinson - Rosalind Russell , Darren McGavin , Dana Elcar
Enterprising " Times Herald " reporter John Harron ( as Jerry Ross ) investigates " The Murder in the Museum " of a city councilman . This " Museum " isn't what you may be expecting ; although there appear to be a few paintings on display , it's really a traveling freak show - " The World's Largest Collection of Natural and Unnatural Wonders " . Among the attractions : an armless man , a bodiless woman , and the mysterious Henry B . Walthall ( as " Professor Mysto " aka Bernard Latham Wayne ) . Patrons seem more interested in scantily-clad dancing women ; unfortunately , they are told to keep it " tame it down plenty " when " the law " is spotted . The " Sphere Museum " is also a front for drug-runners ( which has attracted police and politicians ) . Just before the murder , Mr . Harron meets shapely blonde Phyllis Barrington ( as Lois Brandon ) ; and , the two fall in love . Mr . Walthall is appropriately mystic ; his casting , alongside the brother of frequent co-star Robert Harron , is inspired . Unfortunately , this production is very poor . The cast and crew manage to get through the picture smoothly enough , considering the obvious lack of rehearsals and re-takes . The Murder in the Museum ( 1934 ) Melville Shyer - John Harron , Henry B . Walthall , Phyllis Barrington
Investigative reporter Ronald Reagan ( as Matt Sawyer ) is at odds with his editor , and may lose his job permanently if he's wrong about a big story with dangerous gangster connections . Mr . Reagan thinks a millionaire was murdered , but officials say suicide . The dead man's daughter , pretty Joan Perry ( as Jane Abbott ) , comes to agree with Reagan ; and , the two are mutually attracted . He is finally fired , for getting the story wrong , but more murders may prove Reagan right , after all ? Reagan , who doesn't always dominate the films he is advertised as the " star " of , really lives up to his top billing , this time around . A . Edward Sutherland's " Nine Lives Are Not Enough " is an intermittently bright and funny comic murder mystery , with Reagan showing promise as a light comic ; he is the movie's main asset , maintaining interest throughout an unfortunately fair feature . After this appearance , Ms . Perry took herself out of cinema circulation , for marriage with Harry Cohn . Nine Lives Are Not Enough ( 1941 ) A . Edward Sutherland - Ronald Reagan , Joan Perry , James Gleason
Robert Hutton is a World War II soldier who dreams of meeting actress Joan Leslie . In Hollywoodland , dreams come true - so , in a trip to the " Hollywood Canteen " ( hosted by Bette Davis and John Garfield ) , Mr . Hutton meets Ms . Leslie . He kisses her . Later , he dates her ( as he is the one millionth soldier to visit the Canteen ) . Mr . Hutton's pal Dane Clark is around to take up some of the two hour running time . Many Warner Brothers studio stars appear . Some may not be as recognizable today as the were in 1944 . The main reason to watch " Hollywood Canteen " is for a dose of Hollywood-style music , circa 1944 - hits like " Don't Fence Me In " and " Sweet Dreams Sweetheart " . You also get to see the Los Angeles locale of the time . Hollywood Canteen ( 1944 ) Delmer Daves - Robert Hutton , Joan Leslie , Dane Clark
Good physician Charles Hill Mailes is always generous with only son Charles West ; but , the latter spends his father's money like it's going out of style . In order to keep his son's lifestyle luxurious , Mr . Hill Mailes invents Dopokoke " For His Son " . Dopokoke is a cocaine-laced soft drink . With the drug included , Dopokoke is a smashing success ! Robert Harron mans a busy Dopokoke fountain , where Mr . West and his friends enjoy quite a few pops . West's fiancée wards off the stuff , but secretary Dorothy Bernard succumbs . Soon , there are junkies among the cast ? This is a relatively highly entertaining early D . W . Griffith film , as it deals with the cocaine addiction . It was , likely , a topical film subject for Griffith ; in the past , the drug was legal ; and , it was once rumored to have been included among Coca-Cola's " secret ingredients . " Otherwise , the film is a morality play - - note that the father is aware of the danger in Dopokoke ; and , he uses the drug for selfish reasons , which come back to haunt him . Ms . Bernard gives the stand-out performance , as the father's secretary . For His Son ( 1912 ) D . W . Griffith - Charles Hill Mailes , Charles West , Dorothy Bernard
Dorothy Bernard ( as Grace ) is a railroad telegraph operator , admired by all , especially by men . Though men like W . C . Robinson try to tickle her fancy , she prefers Wilfred Lucas ( as Jack ) . After the two flirt , Ms . Bernard receives word that a $2 , 000 payroll will be arriving by train , and placed in her trust . This attracts some bad elements ; specifically , tramps Edwin August and Alfred Paget ; they are plotting steal the $2 , 000 . . . Director D . W . Griffith's " cross-cutting " makes " A Girl and Her Trust " an exciting early silent , improving on the his earlier " The Lonely Villa " ( 1909 ) ; however , the story situation is not nearly as good as the forthcoming " An Unseen Enemy " ( 1912 ) , with the Gish sisters , which also improves on " The Lonedale Operator " , which this film is practically a re-make of . . . Bernard performs very well as the heroine ; Mr . Lucas steals both her heart , and co-acting honors . Griffith's cast of " extras " is always extraordinary . Though memorable , the way Bernard uses : a bullet , a keyhole , and scissors as a gun may have you shaking your head .
Good-looking Ewan McGregor ( as Stephen " The Eye " Wilson ) is a secret agent man assigned to stalk wigged-out Ashley Judd ( as Joanna Eris ) . Merrily posing through several stages of undress , Ms . Judd is a sexy serial killer . Mr . McGregor keeps his clothes on , but matches his prey in the emotionally disturbed department , as it turns out . Stephan Elliott's " Eye of the Beholder " is long on style , and short on substance ; unfortunately , its meandering story is difficult to follow . Still , whatever director Elliott , McGregor , and Judd are doing , they often make it look good . Cinematographer Guy Dufaux excels . The film is reminiscent of director Alfred Hitchcock , especially his " Rear Window " and " Vertigo " . The supporting cast includes Patrick Bergin , veteran Geneviève Bujold , and a non-singing k . d . lang . But , Jason Priestley ( as Gary ) gets the best part , and turns it into the film's strongest individual performance . Mr . Priestley is startlingly convincing as a bleached blond junkie on the make . Priestley is better with Judd and McGregor than they are with each other ; and , his characterization is the film's best representation of its obvious amoral intentions . Eye of the Beholder ( 1999 ) Stephan Elliott - Ewan McGregor , Ashley Judd , Jason Priestly
With " The Great Southwestern Tent Show " in town , cowboy king Roy Rogers ( as Roy Rogers ) learns a featured attraction , his singing " Sons of the Pioneers " pals , have a $10 , 000 I . O . U . debt due . From sleepwalking constable Andy Devine ( as Cookie Bullfincher ) , Mr . Rogers learns about a convenient $10 , 000 reward for the capture of a bandit known as " The Gypsy " . Rogers wants to capture the Spanish outlaw , and pay off his friends ' debt . But , Rogers ' target , Tito Guízar ( as Rico ) , may not be the guiltiest gun in the west ? This colorful " cross-over " western for singing cowboys Rogers and Mr . Guízar is better than " The Gay Ranchero " ( 1948 ) , a similar vehicle . Pretty Dale Evans stand-in Jane Frazee ( as Candy Martin ) arouses romantic feelings in both men ; she has an amusing introductory scene , with Rogers collecting her undergarments from a fallen suitcase - watch as he holds her slip in his teeth ! Estelita Rodriguez ( as Lola ) is memorable . The songs are smooth and forgettable , except for Ms . Rodriguez ' lively " Guadalajara " . The ending is well staged . On the Old Spanish Trail ( 1947 ) William Witney - Roy Rogers , Tito Guízar , Estelita Rodriguez
Gary Cooper plays a singing cowboy named Melody Jones who is mistaken for a robber named Monte Jarrad ( they have the same initials ) . Loretta Young is his love interest Cherry de Longpre - she helps out Mr . Cooper and pal William Demarest . The odd character names are a a clue this was intended as a comedy . With a couple of exceptions , the comedy isn't all that funny . There are other times when " Along Came Jones " didn't look at all comic ? so , I was confused . The best part of the film is the first kiss between Cooper and Ms . Young . It happens after they do a saddle switch . Cooper wipes his lips on his sleeve and kisses Young . Then she says , " Thank you ! " in brilliant movie star focus - do not miss this kiss ! The worst part of the film was the obvious cheap looking way they rode along on their horses in front of a projection screen . Even worse that that is the fact that you can't really tell , from the overall film , how we ( audiences ) are supposed to take the movie . Whatever the filmmakers intended missed , obviously . I'll take it as a comedy with top stars and a couple of good laughs . Along Came Jones ( 1945 ) Stuart Heisler - Gary Cooper , Loretta Young , William Demarest
After Mary Pickford ( as Marget MacTavish ) loses her father at sea , she becomes " The Pride of the Clan " ; this makes Ms . Pickford the leader of her Scottish island community . For most young women , the responsibility would prove too daunting ; but , the spunky Pickford perseveres . She whips the town into shape . Pickford finds romance with Matt Moore ( as Jamie Campbell ) ; but , a secret from his past threatens their future . This was the lesser of the collaborations between Pickford and director Maurice Tourneur . The perpetually stormy coastline photography is a strength , with Marblehead , Massachusetts doubling for Scotland . John van den Broek and Lucien N . Andriot handled the camera . Despite the promising storyline , Pickford's role as leader of her community disappoints . She appears to be a divine link between the people and God . When the Church needs parishioners , Pickford runs around town cracking her father's whip , which frightens worshipers into their pews .
Dustin Farnum is " The Virginian " , a cow-puncher who arrives to settle in Bear Creek , Wyoming ; where , he meets , and falls in " lov " ( sic ) with newly arrived schoolteacher Winifred Kingston ( as Molly Wood ) . His life is complicated when his best friend Jack W . Johnston ( as Steve ) gets involved with town gangster William ' Billy ' Elmer ( as Trampas ) . The part , early on , with Mr . Farnum and Hosea Steelman ( as Lin McLean ) exchanging guests ' babies while they dance and drink whiskey , is amusing . There are some interestingly set-up outdoor shots from director Cecil B . DeMille . The story is sometimes odd ; for example , Mr . Johnston takes up with Mr . Elmer , it's stated , as Farnum " neglects " him to be with Ms . Kingston . Later , Johnston writes something on a newspaper - " good by ( unreadable ) i couldn't speak to you without ( unreadable ) the baby Steve " . I watched it with my finger on still , and still couldn't figure it out . Among the featured players . Johnston delivered the best performance . Farnum and Kingston , who had just co-starred in " The Squaw Man " ( 1914 ) , would later marry . The Virginian ( / 14 ) Cecil B . DeMille - Dustin Farnum , Winifred Kingston , Jack W . Johnston
Robert Wagner ( as Tony Petrakis ) and Terry Moore ( as Gwyneth Rhys ) are an attractive couple ; and , the color cinematography is lovely in " Beneath the 12-Mile Reef " . Gilbert Roland ( as Mike Petrakis ) heads up an entertaining supporting cast . Mr . Wagner's hair is darkened to appear more Greek ( but his on-screen sister's locks are spared ) . Ms . Moore is fetching . Still , Edward Cronjager ( photographer ) and Bernard Herrmann ( musician ) are director Robert Webb's most valuable players . The film helped put Wagner on the map ; he won a " Photoplay Gold Medal " as filmdom's best new actor ; moreover , he and Moore easily made Martin Quigley's Annual Top 10 " Stars of Tomorrow " list , for 1953 . Beneath the 12-Mile Reef ( 1953 ) Robert D . Webb - Robert Wagner , Terry Moore , Gilbert Roland
Betty Hutton ( as Pearl White ) works in a clothing factory ; she sings to her co-workers , and dreams of stardom . When famed stage actress Constance Collier ( as Julia Gibbs ) comes in for a costume , Ms . Hutton reveals she is a fan . Since Ms . Collier doesn't have the $98 for an ordered garment , Hutton offers to deliver it to the troupe , and retrieve payment . There , Hutton receives no $98 ( nobody has the money ) ; instead , she is invited to audition for " The Farrington Players " a Shakespearian troupe . Although she can't act , handsome John Lund ( as Michael " Mike " Farrington ) hires her . Of course , they fall in love . After Hutton ruins one too many plays , she leaves " The Farrington Players " , and gets a job working for William Demarest ( as George " Mac " McGuire ) in the fledging motion picture industry . At " Artcraft Pictures " , Hutton becomes a big star , in movie serials like " The Perils of Pauline " . BUT , stardom has its pitfalls ? This is a very glossed over version of silent film actress Pearl White's life . Hutton plays well in the re-created " silent " scenes ; though neither she nor the script offer any real characterization . Billy De Wolfe ( as Timmy Thompson ) is good in a supporting role ; he inexplicably teaches her how to " project " after her very successful stage audition ( again , it's the script ) . De Wolfe would have made a nice rival for Hutton's affections . Collier steals the show , and she gets to say , " Greetings , fellow thespians ! " An early song , " The Sewing Machine " , is performed poorly by Hutton - - you would have the impression she can't act or sing ! However , she sings and performs the additional songs well . " Rumble , Rumble , Rumble " is the musical highlight . If you think you've heard " The Sewing Machine " somewhere , it's really just a re-make of " McNamara's Band " , which was a big hit for Bing Crosby when this movie was being made . Possibly , the filmmakers liked it , and ordered up a copy . If you're watching for original silent screen actor appearances , like William Farnum , don't blink .
The story is familiar - Oscar Wilde's Dorian Gray wishes his painting would grow old whilst he remain young . The sets , direction , and photography are beautiful . Through no fault of their own , the actors ' characters falter - for example ; Angela Lansbury is strikingly beautiful and terrific , but annoyingly sings " Goodbye Little Yellow Bird " ( foreshadowing ? ) , and Hurd Hatfield grows into the role , but annoyingly stabs a table ( more foreshadowing ? ) . Mr . Hatfield ends up impressing , but the film's early going makes it difficult . George Sanders is delicious , as usual . More often than not , the script is way too subtle . Why couldn't the frequent narration help explain things more mysterious , instead of things more obvious ? AND , the switching from " black and white " to " color " is a gimmick that almost worked the first time . The Picture of Dorian Gray ( 1945 ) Albert Lewin - Hurd Hatfield , George Sanders , Donna Reed
Loretta Young stars as the wife of University professor Kent Smith . Life seems wonderful ; however Ms . Young is told , after a second miscarriage , she can never have children . Later , she is speeding home , after some event , and hits a child with her car . A truck driver ( also on the road ) takes the boy , and leaves the desperate woman wondering what injuries she's caused . " Paula " begins as a seemingly routine Loretta Young drama , but keep your eye on the picture for a grabber . The story becomes very interesting as circumstances make Young a dramatic hit-and-run driver . The story builds suspense in several ways - - beginning as Young searches for the boy she hit , while the police search for Young . Although it's a great story , the script becomes more and more sentimental - - by the end , it's so maudlin you'll want to scream ( if you're not crying ) . Tommy Rettig is notable as the boy ; in fact , he is Young's co-star . Mr . Rettig also played one of Lassie's famous owners ( Jeff ) . Young and Rettig do well , but they would be even better after a realistic script re-write . The film has some unexpected depth , and raises some interesting crime / punishment questions ; perhaps , its flaws could be addressed in a modern re-make . Paula ( 1952 ) Rudolph Maté - Loretta Young , Tommy Rettig , Kent Smith
A little too-standard re-make of the " Cowboys and Indians " western drama ( " The Lost Patrol " , " Sahara " ? ) . It does update the budget - with scenic location camera-work , and interesting direction by Andre De Toth . Broderick Crawford is fine , but seems a little out of place in western gear . Barbara Hale adds feminine charm . Johnny Stewart is fine as the Indian boy ; but , certainly not as mesmerizing as in " Boots Malone " ( 1952 ) . But , there isn't as much potential in this film's parts . Lloyd Bridges looks similarly under-appreciated . " Last of the Comanches " shows a formula getting tired , with not enough newness in the storyline . The production is good , though . The film is bracketed by exciting " Cowboys versus Indians " battles , and there is a lively series of line explosions , in-between . Last of the Comanches ( 1952 ) Andre De Toth - Broderick Crawford , Barbara Hale , Johnny Stewart
Handsome young John Wayne ( as Breck Coleman ) helps settle the great American West by serving as scout for a pioneer wagon train . An expert trailblazer , Mr . Wayne was trained by good Indians . With Wayne's help , the travelers overcome both bad weather , and bad Indians . Bad acting is not so lucky . Along the way , Wayne falls for fetching young Marguerite Churchill ( as Ruth Cameron ) . Another attempting to catch Ms . Churchill's eye is dressed-in-black gambler Ian Keith ( as Bill Thorpe ) . This creaky film is , of course , most significant as Wayne's first shot at a starring role . Seeing this film confirms the " real " John Wayne premiered in " Stagecoach " ( 1939 ) - the difference is amazing . Raoul Walsh's " The Big Trail " is most impressive in its wide-screen photography , advanced by the director and photographer Arthur Edeson . Lucien Andriot's work is also good . The rest of the cast is interesting , at least ; with stage star Tyrone Power Sr . ( as Red Flack ) leading the charge , in his only " talkie " appearance . The Big Trail ( / 30 ) Raoul Walsh - John Wayne , Marguerite Churchill , Tyrone Power Sr .
Clark Gable and Loretta Young look MGM production perfect as they play two Mayors who meet at a convention in San Francisco . Mr . Gable is the rough one , ex-longshoreman Steve Fisk . Ms . Young is the softer focused Clarissa Standish . The well-named twosome clash , of course , during the Mayoral proceedings - but , can romance be far behind ? It's an average film for the two stars . Recommended scenes : the " Balloon Dance " woman who loses most of her balloons , and the " Barroom Brawl " which follows . All that gets Young in trouble with her constituents . Notable also as Frank Morgan's final film . Gable tussles Mr . Morgan's hair . Key to the City ( 1950 ) George Sidney - Clark Gable , Loretta Young , Frank Morgan
Although they are not at their relative best in this rather routine drama , actor Richard Barthelmess ( as Jim Blaine ) and director William A . Wellman make " Central Airport " worth visiting . Mr . Barthelmess is in a familiar role as an accident prone World War I pilot . He catches Sally Eilers ( as Jill Collins ) hanging from a tree , after a parachute drop . This funny / sad sequence , early in the film , is a highlight - - Ms . Eilers and Barthelmess have a great meeting , which is immediately followed by great tragedy . Although the two fall in love , Barthelmess won't marry ; he thinks daredevil pilots are unstable husband material ( a keen observation ) . Instead , Eilers marries Barthelmess ' little brother Tom Brown ( as Bud Blaine ) . Eilers appears in a far too brief scene in her slip , by the way ( about 30 minutes into the running ) . Later on , an interesting scene occurs with Barthelmess and Eilers in separate rooms , divided by a wall ; then , the camera moves is a way which pleasantly violates the " Fourth Wall " rule ( showing the set ) . Another notable sequence occurs later in the film , near the end ; wherein , John Wayne appears as an extra . Mr . Wayne plays Mr . Brown's co-pilot , on a downed plane , to the left of your screen . He tries to save a drunken passenger . A somewhat unpredictable ending keeps the film above average .
The story is familiar - Oscar Wilde's Dorian Gray wishes his painting would grow old whilst he remain young . This is the version from Dan Curtis Productions , which produced the TV-series " Dark Shadows " from 1966-1971 ; the television show incorporated a version of " Dorian Gray " into the series ' " 1897 flashback " ( 1969 ) . The next film , the sexually charged " Dorian Gray " ( 1970 ) , starred Helmut Berger . But , the most well-known version remains " The Picture of Dorian Gray " ( 1945 ) , which starred Hurd Hatfield . This " The Picture of Dorian Gray " ( 1973 ) was produced for late night TV , and the " videotape " quality shows , sadly . Still , it plays . Few actors could play the part as deliciously as Helmut Berger ( who fitted the part like a glove ) ; but , Shane Briant takes a fine turn in the lead role . Mr . Briant's Dorian is sweeter-looking , but much more evil . Nigel Davenport , John Karlen , and Fionnula Flanagan head a great group of supporting players . The 1973 TV film , oddly enough , portrays Dorian as more wicked than other versions . For example , Briant's character has sex with a child ; and , it's not ambiguous ! In addition to upping the wickedness , the film is played more for horror than drama . Briant's blackmailing of pal John Karlen ( as Alan ) by reciting his lovers ' names tops other versions ; the 1970 movie had Dorian and Alan's wife in some naked photographs . The Picture of Dorian Gray ( 1973 ) Glenn Jordan - Shane Briant , Nigel Davenport , John Karlen
William Haines ( as Brice Wayne ) is a cocky West Point cadet , and star football player , who alienates his teammates with his arrogance , and lack of team spirit . His steadfast pal , William Bakewell ( as Tex McNeil ) , can't defend Mr . Haines without ending up in the hospital ; and girlfriend Joan Crawford ( as Betty Channing ) grows more distant as Haines juvenile behavior becomes more and more tiresome . What will it take for Mr . Haines to win Ms . Crawford's heart ? Will Mr . Bakewell regain his health ? Can Haines straighten up in time to help his teammates win the big game ? " West Point " is a typical Haines film vehicle ; it is worth checking out to see the popular actor's performance , and enjoyable screen presence . It is neither his most satisfying characterization , nor his best film ; but , Haines is still great . Crawford's emoting is less polished , in an early role . Surprisingly , Bakewell offers the film's strongest performance ( highlighted by his hospital bed scene ) . Edward Sedgwick's direction makes the most of Haines ' silliness , and David Davidson's soundtrack is wonderful ( albeit sounding too seasonal , at times ) .
" Sneakers " are a team of " security specialists " who specialize in computer hacking . They are : computer expert Robert Redford ( as Bishop ) , former CIA employee Sidney Poitier ( as Crease ) , gadgets wizard Dan Ackroyd ( as Mother ) , young genius River Phoenix ( as Carl ) , and blind soundman David Strathairn ( as Whistler ) . The men are joined in progress by Mary McDonnell ( as Liz ) , likely a former " Sneaker " and definitely a former girlfriend of leader Redford . Mr . Redford , who dominates the action , is also connected to the film's main villain , Ben Kingsley ( as Cosmo ) . Mr . Kingsley's identity isn't too surprising , once you realize he didn't grow up to be the character played by Mr . Ackroyd . The mission is to retrieve a " black box " for some nasty men , who claim to be representing the United States government . The best chunk of the film involves the extended " computer date " Ms . McDonnell has with Stephen Tobolowsky ( as Werner Brandes ) as Redford breaks into the man's office . It begins about the time Mr . Ackroyd arrives with the man's trash and ends with Mr . Phoenix crashing into a scene between Redford and nasty Eddie Jones . Director Phil Alden Robinson , and WarGames-men Lawrence Lasker and Walter F . Parkes , create a good deal of suspense , highlighted by a light sense of humor . But , the picture's conflict ( Redford / Kingsley ) isn't very interesting or dramatic . Although the terrific " Sneakers " team falls short of expectations , their participation alone makes it a film worth watching . Sneakers ( 1992 ) Phil Alden Robinson - Robert Redford , Sidney Poitier , Mary McDonnell
Entranced by her mandolin playing , Caine accompanies little Jodie Foster ( as Alethea Patricia Ingram ) to a waiting stagecoach . When the coach arrives , an unwelcome gunfight results in Ms . Foster mistakenly believing she sees Caine shoot an innocent man to death . Foster's testimony results in Caine being convicted as a murderer . Although she likes Caine ( she cannot understand why he did it ) , Foster is compelled to tell the truth . And , Caine supports her honesty . Will it result in Caine's death by hanging ? Carradine and Foster are excellent ; they make the somewhat uncertain story believable . Perhaps the oddest moment is when Carradine seems to sigh regretfully when a " lie " saves his life . The episode challenges perceptions about truth . At least , it ends well ; how could it not ? Of the fine " Kung Fu " supporting cast , Radames Pera ( as the younger Caine ) is featured well . With Foster and Pera highlighted , grasshoppers rule the day . Kung Fu - Alethea ( / 73 ) John Badham - David Carradine , Jodie Foster , Radames Pera
Devil-may-care buckaroo J . B . Warner ( as Jim Gregory ) is torn between two pretty women : south-of-the-border Senorita Elinor Fair ( as Mercedes Aloyez ) catches his romantic eye - but , beautiful Caucasian waitress-in-distress Wilamae Carson ( as Mary Moore ) also captures his attention . Probably , the weakest part of the story involves how the women become a dilemma for Mr . Warner , because he is scripted to favor Ms . Fair almost exclusively ; Ms . Moore unexpectedly attains an equal romantic status , later in the running . And , Warner's selection seems strangely xenophobic . Despite its shortcomings , " Big Stakes " is an enjoyable , well-paced silent western . The handcuffed " big stake " opening leads a few clever bits , and the cast performs them very well . The climax provides some old-fashioned D . W . Griffith-styled excitement . Tall-in-the-saddle Warner is comically supported by rotund ton-of-fun Hilliard Karr ( as " Skinny " Fargo ) . This film provides a rare look at Warner , a western star who died unexpectedly . Les Bates and Robert Grey , the actors playing the two main villains , also died too soon . Big Stakes ( 1922 ) Clifford S . Elfelt - J . B . Warner , Elinor Fair , Hilliard Karr
One of the more interesting World War II propaganda films , due to outstanding writing ( by Emeric Pressburger ) , direction ( by Michael Powell ) , and performances . The opening credits and sequences may be confusing . The story involves six Nazis making their way from Hudson Bay ( in northeastern Canada ) to cross the " 49th Parallel " ( the United States / Canadian border ) , after their U-boat ( submarine warship ) is damaged . At the time the film was made , the U . S . would have been a " safe " ( neutral ) country . Also , the film does not " star " Leslie Howard and Lawrence Olivier - rather , the lead actor is Eric Portman ( as Hirth ) . Mr . Portman and crew do very well in their roles . The most interesting aspect of the film is that the Germans are written to include a " good " Nazi , who wavers in his support for the Fuehrer . The most satisfying of the film's loosely threaded stories involves the " good " Nazi bonding with a Canadian immigrant settlement , led by Anton Walbrook ( as Peter ) . This , and the segment with Raymond Massey ( as Andy Brock ) , is where you'll find the filmmakers delivering their most palpable ( and eloquent ) sermonettes . The film is too episodic for its own good - one story , with more focus on Portman's crew , would have sufficed . 49th Parallel ( / 41 ) Michael Powell - Eric Portman , Leslie Howard , Laurence Olivier
In 1969 , peace loving hippies Eric Roberts ( as Fred ) and Cheech Marin ( as Hesus ) flee to Central America , to avoid being drafted into Vietnam War service . Why the US government believes Mr . Marin would be of any real use during warfare is never explained ; but , Mr . Roberts looks like a major Commie-killing loss . Anyway , they spend the next 20 years hiding in the jungle , smoking marijuana , and enjoying peace . Their hippie friends , Julie Hagerty ( as Petra ) and Robert Carradine ( as Sammy ) , remain behind . While in Central America , Roberts and Marin learn about a US invasion plan , and decide to return to New York , and stop the war . They are in for a rude awakening . . . In 1989 , the peace movement appears dead . Roberts and Marin try to adapt to the changes in American society . They try to re-connect with Ms . Hagerty and Mr . Carradine , who have become materialistic yuppies . How can they erase their friends ' 1980s brainwashing , avoid capture by perseverating FBI man Cliff De Young ( as Brubaker ) , and stop the war ? Aaron Russo and Neil Levy's underrated " Rude Awakening " certainly doesn't always work ; but , it's funny more often than not . Roberts and Marin are almost a satirical casting in-joke ( sixties , meet the eighties ) . One of the film's most obvious misses is that the main attempt to transcend a 20-year-gap is an unconvincing pair of pasted-on beards . Although , to answer Roberts ' later , more general question , " How's my hair ? " Great . It's impossible to hold back laughing at Marin's first meeting with the " fish " . But , they should have used Don Knotts voice . Of the four " hippie " friends , Carradine's is , performance-wise , most convincing . Check out Louise Lasser ( as Ronnie ) ' s customers ! The highlight of the film is a terrific " cocktail party " hosted by Carradine and uptight wife Cindy Williams ( as June ) . They are visited by the " Stools " , Buck Henry ( as Lloyd ) and Andrea Martin ( as April ) . A cocktail party attended by Cheech Marin , Eric Roberts , Robert Carradine , Buck Henry , Cindy Williams , and Andrea Martin is every bit as funny as it sounds . If only they could have figured out how to get Lasser there ( and the overhead mike out ) . There are enough funny moments , all around ; but , the hilarious supporting characterizations by Martin and Williams , alone , make this well worth watching . Rude Awakening ( 1989 ) Aaron Russo - Eric Roberts , Cheech Marin , Andrea Martin
After Norma Shearer ( as Mary ) discovers her husband is having an affair with Joan Crawford ( as Crystal ) , she learns women must not be proud . Rosalind Russell ( as Sylvia ) leads an MGM parade of supporting players - all women ; in fact , only women appear in the film ! But , don't expect a " feminist " statement from George Cukor's " The Women " . The message may waver , but it never really gets too far away from putting women in their place . If the film is about anything other than being faithful and subservient to your man , it's about gossip . It could have been titled " Gossip " . What's appealing about " The Women " is enjoying some of its fine , albeit dated , dialog and situations . There are scores of actresses to watch ; Ms . Shearer and Ms . Russell come off best , but appreciators of any will like their favorites . Ms . Crawford likes to smoke in her bathtub . The film's fun is severely weakened by an extremely distracting interlude - the " Fashion Show " - which is presented in COLOR . " Gimmicks " like the color segment and the all female cast ruin " The Women " ; and , the acceptance of a " double standard " for men and women is presented as part of a great woman's character . The Women ( 1939 ) George Cukor - Norma Shearer , Joan Crawford , Rosalind Russell
Loretta Young acts up a storm as a woman ( Ellen ) married to a terminally ill man ( George ) who believes she is planning to murder him . Husband Barry Sullivan composes a letter to the District Attorney , explaining how exactly Young will commit the murder ? The film is a showcase for Young , and she delivers a fine performance . The story , however , is very hard to accept . There are many things happening on the screen which needed to be more fully explained . For starters , the husband's illnesses - how does his heart condition affect his mind as manifested on screen ? Then , there are several actions Young takes which do not seem to be the choices most level-headed thinking individuals would take . So , maybe she's not exactly a level-headed thinking individual ? Cause for Alarm ! ( 1951 ) Tay Garnett - Loretta Young , Barry Sullivan , Bruce Cowling
Appropriately subtitled " Love and Sacrifice " , director D . W . Griffith's fictionalized account of revolutionary " America " should have been more successful , given the obvious costly effort in evidence ; it is weighted down by lack of imagination , and a significantly unsuitable performance from the leading actress . Still , it offers many worthwhile scenes ; and , some legendary scenes are brought beautifully to life . Griffith gentlemanly reveals prejudices early , explaining , " The story of the sacrifice made for freedom in the American Revolution is that of a civil war between two groups of English people ; one group , the Americans , being merely Englishmen who settled on the American Continent . " Moreover , Griffith asserts , " The government which Canada and Australia now enjoy was absolutely denied to America through the stubborn and false ideals of the autocratic powers guiding the hand of King George the Third . " During the running time , Griffith uses Royalist Walter Butler to represent the evil on the other side of the Atlantic Ocean . Were it not for Mr . Butler , the Revolution might have been settled amicability ! Not as despicable a thesis as presented Griffith's similarly plotted Civil War epic , but neither is " America " as excitingly presented as " The Birth of a Nation " . And , try as they might , Neil Hamilton ( as Nathan Holden ) and Carol Dempster ( as Nancy Montague ) are not Robert Harron and Lillian Gish in " Hearts of the World " . Griffith's epics are much more convincing with when characterizations and relationships are well presented . Mr . Hamilton , as the poor young New Englander , has no rapport with Ms . Dempster . And , as the Virginia belle , Dempster is wrongly directed . Compare Dempster / Hamilton with Gish / Harron in " Hearts of the World " . Or , even better , with Gish / Harron in " A Romance of Happy Valley " . The later film shows how well Ms . Gish and Mr . Harron played the " bedroom window " scene which Griffith re-visits in " America " . Hamilton , a promising actor , had a great career highlight , later , as " Commissioner Gordon " of " Batman " in the 1960s ; but , ribald Lionel Barrymore ( as Butler ) steals the acting honors . Griffith used his stars better in the forthcoming " Isn't Life Wonderful ? "
" Two French Foreign Legionnaires are lost amid the shifting sands of the Sarah Dessert when they stumble across the entrance to an underground world . Searching this new found subterranean passage , our heroes are surprised to find the lost city of Atlantis . Ruling over this fantastic underworld realm , an evil queen sets her sights upon these strangers to her kingdom , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . To begin , Legionnaire John Stuart ( as André de Saint-Avit ) responds to modern speculation about the lost city of Atlantis by proclaiming he and partner Gustav Diessl ( as Jean Morhange ) actually visited the legendary city . A flashback recounts the men being kidnapped , and brought to Atlantis ; it is still in existence , a labyrinth beneath the Sarah Desert . Beautiful and bewitching Brigitte Helm ( as Antinea ) is the city's ruler ; descended from ancient queens , she has an insect-like agenda for the men caught in her web . Extraordinarily directed ( by G . W . Pabst ) and photographed ( by Eugen Schüfftan and Ernst Körner ) , " The Mistress of Atlantis " offers a lot of eye-appeal ; but its storyline suffers considerably , in comparison . Searching for information on Pierre Benoit's original novel , " L'Atlantide " , will uncover the sexuality buried in the mix . Ms . Helm and Mathias Wieman ( as Ivar Torstenson ) heat things up a little , however . " Die Herrin von Atlantis " ( 1932 ) , the German version , must be considered definitive . The Mistress of Atlantis ( 1932 ) G . W . Pabst - John Stuart , Brigitte Helm , Mathias Wieman
Friendless Mae Marsh has been left , as a baby , at " The Clarissa Parker Orphanage " , on Friday the thirteenth . Due to the superstitions associated with the date , she becomes known as " Hoodoo Ann " . Still , she " lives in sweet unconsciousness of her unhappy lot . " Young artist Robert Harron ( as James Vance ) lives in the same town , on Peaceful Street . One day , Ms . Marsh steals Mildred Harris ( as Goldie ) ' s doll , which seems to trigger some " hoodoo " ( bad luck ) in the form of a fire ; actually , the fire is caused by stepping on matches . Obviously , they are the self-striking kind of matches . Although Marsh hides the doll under a dirty mop , it cleans up well . The fire sequence is well done ; and Marsh becomes a heroine . This leads to her eventual adoption . After riding in a very cool looking early 1900s Ford automobile , Marsh is taken in by a kindly couple . " You are going to stay here and be our little girl , " they explain , dressing her in a very funny looking outfit . Marsh gratefully begins to scrub chairs . As luck would have it , Marsh discovers Mr . Harron is her new neighbor , and they begin to date . Harron takes Marsh to see a western move , which they enjoy ; oddly , the other members of the audience seem bored . Then , a shooting incident makes Marsh think her " hoodoo " has returned ? The director of record is Lloyd Ingraham ; but , it's a safe bet D . W . Griffith , who also wrote the scenario , helped out behind the camera . The story is rather absurd ; it's difficult to accept the legend of " hoodoo " based on Marsh's arrival date , and the superstitious palm-reading of " Black Cindy " ( Madame Sul-Te-Wan ) . The cast performs well , considering ; notably , young Mildred Harris caught Charlie Chaplin's eye . The folks running that orphanage must have had a parallel place , where they kept the older boys and younger girls . Though " Hoodoo Ann " has charms , they're much better presented in Griffith's similarly-themed , and highly recommended , 1918-19 films . Hoodoo Ann ( 1916 ) Lloyd Ingraham , D . W . Griffith - Mae Marsh , Robert Harron , Mildred Harris
" The investigation into the mysterious death of an aging Nazi war criminal hunter brings a surprising revelation to the cop working on the case . It appears the old man was actually following an individual with ties to the Nazis , who seems to have not aged in appearance in spite of the passage of over 30 ( sic ) years . The policeman and some other individuals decide to track down the mysterious individual to find out his horrifying secret , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . The appropriately named Faith Clift ( as Dr . Claire Hansen ) and atheist writer husband Richard " Charles " Moll ( as James Hanson ) go to sinful Las Vegas to see the shows and promote Mr . Moll's book " God Is Dead " . Ms . Clift is troubled by nightmarish dreams about Nazis . Meanwhile , Marc Lawrence ( as Abraham Weiss ) , a blathering Jew , has traced Nazi war criminal Robert Bristol ( as Mr . Olivier ) to Vegas ; and , he reports the finding to police lieutenant Cameron Mitchell ( as Sterne ) . At first , Mr . Mitchell won't believe old Mr . Lawrence , because young Mr . Bristol hasn't aged in 35 years . " Cataclysm " ( aka " Satan's Supper " aka " The Nightmare Never Ends " ) is a classic " so-bad-it's-good " film . Although others try , nobody in the cast can best Clift's supremely awful performance ; her effort is astonishing . Also , watch Mitchell ( " High Chaparral " ) defeat Moll ( " Night Court " ) for best artificial hair . Bristol is delightfully devilish ; it's too bad he , Maurice Grandmaison ( as Papini ) , Klint Stevenson ( as Jim ) , and Christie Wagner ( as Ann ) have so few screen credits ; their characterizations are perfect . Films like this hardly ever have good endings ; admittedly , it's truly difficult to appropriately end a story as bad as this one - - but writer Philip Yordan and company come up with a real winner ; it may make you want to click your heels ? or hooves , as the case may be . See it with an open heart , or liver ?
Handsome college student Robert Wagner ( as Bud Corliss ) gets his heiress fiancée , Joanne Woodward ( as Dorothy " Dorrie " Kingship ) , " in trouble " . Unfortunately , this means Mr . Wagner can't marry the two months pregnant Ms . Woodward - because her savvy father George Macready ( as Leo Kingship ) frowns on sex before marriage . Wagner realizes he will have to drop out of school , and support his disinherited love child , unless he can come up with another solution ? When Woodward gets up unscathed , after her fall on the bleachers , it's almost like you're watching a cartoon . She suffers nary a scratch , and is too stupid to ask why Wagner expressed so little concern . Still , it's fun to watch 25-year-old Wagner try to get away with it ; his is a cool , subliminal performance . And , just when you thought the film couldn't get any better looking , Jeffrey Hunter ( as Gordon Grant ) and Virginia Leith ( as Ellen Kingship ) enter the storyline . Director Gerd Oswald gets in some good Hitchcock-like licks ; and , Mary Astor ( as mother Corliss ) dresses up well . A Kiss Before Dying ( 1956 ) Gerd Oswald - Robert Wagner , Joanne Woodward , Virginia Leith
Macao looks very beautiful . The photography and setting make it very watchable . However , the movie never really takes off . All the beautiful photography seems wasted . The actors are also somewhat wasted ; though , they often appear to be doing the best they can . One scene , in particular , illustrates missed directorial opportunities : It's when Ms . Russell slices a pillow with an electric fan . There is so little menace . . . the scene loses so much potential , and it could have helped characterization . Beautiful looking , but really lacking substance . Macao ( 1952 ) Josef von Sternberg - Robert Mitchum , Jane Russell , William Bendix
Ramon Novarro ( as Tony Amatto ) works in a steel mill ; he is the son of Italian immigrants , and seems likely to remain a member of the working class . Then , as luck would have it , he wins a college scholarship . At Yale , Mr . Novarro becomes a football star ; but , he still faces class discrimination . Don't miss the opening sequence of this film ; it's a terrific introduction to the film , and defines Novarro's character : Novarro is seen in his " working class " job ; he gets into a fistfight , encounters a beautiful woman , and ends up under a pile of rubble . The woman with the irresistible legs is Madge Evans ( as Rosalie Stone ) ; she is both beautiful , and " upper class " . Novarro re-encounters her later in the film , along with Una Merkel ( as Thelma ) and Martha Sleeper ( as Barbara Winston ) . Novarro's nemesis is Ms . Evans ' brother Kane Richman ( as Tom Stone ) ; and , his roommates are John Arledge ( as Jim " Pidge " Pidgeon ) and Frank Albertson ( as Larry ) . Silent star Ralph Graves is a sound coach Malcolm Gale . Mr . Arledge , as Novarro's second roommate " Pidge " is the best supporting performer ( beating off some stiff competition ) . " I've lived with twelve fellas in my time and only liked three of them , " Arledge explains , after Novarro chases him around the dorm , trying to get some first aid down his pants . The film is a little too long for its own good ; and , it wavers too far from the main story of a poor working class youth winning a chance to attend college , and break class barriers . It's difficult to determine what Novarro is actually learning at Yale . He already knew how to fight , and doesn't seem to have accumulated too many career options - though , he is certainly better off with a Yale diploma . Novarro ( # 44 ) and the cast are certainly appealing , even when the story wavers . The end game plays well . Huddle ( 1932 ) Sam Wood - Ramon Novarro , John Arledge , Madge Evans
" Johnny Depp and Charlize Theron star as courageous NASA astronaut Spencer Armacost and his beautiful schoolteacher wife Jillian , a seemingly perfect couple whose lives are momentarily shattered when Spencer's mission mysteriously loses contact with Earth for two minutes . But neither Spencer nor Jillian know that those 120 seconds of terror will ultimately threaten their sanity , their future and their lives in this heart stopping psychological thriller the critics call , ' One scary edge-of-the-seat nightmare ' , " according to the film's official synopsis . Everything you see about this movie gives away the story ; the trailer makes the plot obvious , and every other critic compares it to " Rosemary's Baby " ( 1968 ) . Indeed , it is an updated version of Roman Polanski's classic , with Aliens substituted for Satan - the old devil has clearly been replaced as top villain , after his 1960s-1970s heyday . Although nothing is outlined , anyone with rudimentary knowledge about plotting will figure out what's happening in " The Astronaut's Wife " ; its flaw is that it takes no real risks . Even the swipe has been done . Ms . Theron is the lead . She and Mr . Depp look great ( eyebrow and hair color are perfect ) , but Theron only has a couple of scenes approaching the level of Mia Farrow's characterization in " Rosemary's Baby " . She looks almost too good during her pregnancy , whereas Ms . Farrow looked more and more sickly . Director Rand Ravich shows promise more as a director than writer . Allen Daviau's photography is excellent . The film is so derivative it dims the impact of some excellent supporting performances , led by a dazzling Joe Morton ( as Sherman Reese ) . The moronic ending should be chopped off and sent to deleted scenes hell . . . before that , the film's strengths outweigh its weaknesses . The Astronaut's Wife ( / 99 ) Rand Ravich - Charlize Theron , Johnny Depp , Joe Morton
Masked bandits enter a railroad office , and tie up the telegraph operator ; they are planning " The Great Train Robbery " . When the approaching train makes its pit stop , the robbers jump aboard . The bandits find their booty in a box , which they blow up , after a bit of shooting . Next , the bandits force the train passengers to lineup , and loot their valuables . Meanwhile , the railroad operator has recovered , and rounds up a posse ; then , they go after the robbers ? A landmark Edwin S . Porter film , with future western star Gilbert M . " Broncho Billy " Anderson . The lasting image , and film highlight , however , is Justin D . Barnes firing away , in the film's closing seconds . It still packs a punch , since the final shot is so unexpectedly different from the rest of the film .
Spencer Tracy ( your average Joe ) and Sylvia Sidney ( Katherine ) have fallen in love . Mr . Tracy , who loves to eat peanuts , doesn't feel he is financially able to marry as the film begins . Ms . Sidney gives Tracy the ring that her father gave her mother . After awhile , luck turns for Tracy , and he goes to get Sydney to the alter . On the way through a small town , he is stopped by Walter Brennan ; turns out , Tracy fits the description of a wanted kidnapper . The townspeople don't want to wait for a trial - they want a lynching . You won't believe how the story evolves ? " Fury " has a lot going for it - Mr . Tracy performs supremely . The direction and photography are likewise excellent - by Fritz Lang and Joseph Ruttenberg . Moreover , he film addresses interesting , thought-provoking topics ; and , it makes a good case for justice and the rule of law . On the down side , I did find some of the other performances inconsistent . The biggest problem with the film , however , the stretch you have to make to believe the characters as the movie progresses . It takes a lot of twists and turns , which are entertaining ; yet , the characters Tracy and Sidney play are stretched to the breaking point by a script that goes in so many directions . Fury ( / 36 ) Fritz Lang - Spencer Tracy , Sylvia Sidney , Walter Brennan
Interesting early film , directed by D . W . Griffith . Walter Miller and Henry B . Walthall are partners in business , and rivals for the affections of Blanche Sweet . Ms . Sweet chooses Mr . Walthall , and the two are married . Soon , he goes out on the town , leaving her and the baby home alone . Then , Mr . Miller realizes Walthall is stealing from their company to pay off gambling debts ? This film is given great depth by Griffith's use of windows , doorways , and a mirror in background shots The performances are noteworthy , especially Walthall and Sweet , during the film's climax . A contemporary automobile is featured in the exciting race to save Walthall's life . For it's time , this must have been a shocker . The absence of blood is strange , but the performances make " Death's Marathon " worth running . Death's Marathon ( 1913 ) D . W . Griffith - Henry B . Walthall , Blanche Sweet , Walter Miller
Homicide detective Robert De Niro ( as Vincent LaMarca ) has a skeleton in his closet . Mr . De Niro's father was executed as a baby killer . However , De Niro " turned his life around " and , with help from a law-abiding father figure , became a respectable police officer . Unfortunately , he left his wife and young son on the wrong side of the tracks . Fourteen years later , De Niro's handsome son James Franco ( as Joey LaMarca ) has become a gaunt Long Beach junkie , with a neglected son of his own . While scoring some junk , Mr . Franco knifes a dealer , in self-defense ( this is the film's opening ) . Then , father De Niro is assigned the task of bringing in his estranged son as a murderer . If you give " City by the Sea " a chance , it should make a good impression , thanks to the skillfully focused cast and crew . De Niro is particularly good at elevating the story ; he keeps everything real . The story is , otherwise , not structurally sound . To give an example ( without giving anything away ) note that Franco's opening " killing " is hardly a crime . Wouldn't the film's theme have worked better if this was a real , however warranted , passionate murder ? This would strengthen the sense of loss / salvation expressed by De Niro and Franco in the final act . There are other puzzling story developments , right up until the final " beach " visit . Director Michael Caton-Jones ' near-ending " auto body shop " segment is exciting , though . City by the Sea ( 2002 ) Michael Caton-Jones - Robert De Niro , James Franco , Frances McDormand
In an ancient European kingdom , sultry Seena Owen ( as Queen Regina V ) lounges , awaiting her nuptials with dashing Walter Byron ( as Prince Wolfram ) . Nearby , convent girl Gloria Swanson ( as Patricia Kelly ) encourages the Lord's wrath by sleeping with her photographs of the handsome Mr . Byron . While he is out riding one day , Ms . Swanson gets a chance to meet the idolized Prince , and embarrassingly loses her knickers ! For Swanson and Byron , it's love at first sight . But , how can a simple convent girl get the Queen's stud ? Director Erich von Stroheim and actress Gloria Swanson , with their skills in full tilt excess , are a joy to behold . Yet , " Queen Kelly " emerges as a fairly strong film , despite its self-indulgence . Once considered a hopelessly unfinished work ; the film has been restored , with great integrity , through intertitles , stills , and imagination . There is no doubt Swanson would have played the final reels expertly ; but , there is no way to tell if Stroheim and Swanson would have re-shot some of her opening footage . Few convent girls looked as gorgeous as Gloria Swanson , with her amplified eyelashes . Though she isn't the first ( or last ) Hollywood convent inhabitant to look so ravishing , it would have been wise to tone down the look , until later in the film . Flaws notwithstanding , " Queen Kelly " is full of great stuff . Tobacco-stained Tully Marshall ( as Jan Vryheid ) and whip-wielding Ms . Owen are delightfully outrageous . Byron , pocketing her knickers , is a thoroughly charming partner for Swanson . Stroheim , and photographers Gordon Pollock and Paul Ivano , are outstanding ; a simple scene of Swanson praying , with candles dripping around her , is beautiful . Ah , they had faces then ?
This is an excellent , flawed film spin-off of the classic TV serial " Dark Shadows " . It captures Jonathan Frid , Joan Bennett , Grayson Hall and many of the cast on film , in character , during the time of the original Dark Shadows-mania . For that , we should be eternally grateful . Other favorites David Selby , Kate Jackson , and Lara Parker can be found in the next Dark Shadows movie . What keeps this movie from becoming truly exceptional is that it overindulges . The thing you expect too happen in a vampire horror story happens over and over AND OVER again , to seemingly every character . It's all very stylish and well-done - but , it's OVERKILL . The production , by Dan Curtis is marvelous , but he takes the characters too , too far away from their television characterizations ; at times , they seem like strangers . If considered another in the band of Dark Shadows ' " Parallel Time " , it works . It's a surprise Dick Smith's make-up and Bob Cobert's music weren't Oscar-nominated . House of Dark Shadows ( 1970 ) Dan Curtis - Jonathan Frid , Grayson Hall , Joan Bennett
After her mother mortgages the family's " Sunnybrook Farm " , Mary Pickford ( as Rebecca Randall ) is sent to live with two aunts : Josephine Crowell ( as Aunt Miranda ) is stern and heartless ; she overrides kinder , broken-hearted , Mayme Kelso ( as Aunt Jane ) . Predictably , Ms . Pickford finds things are not so sunny in Riverboro . Moreover , she finds her self at odds with teasing peers , like Violet Wilkey ( as Minnie Smellie ) . Pickford perseveres . And , eventually , she warms folks up , like her older man crush Eugene O'Brien ( as Adam " Mr . Aladdin " Ladd ) , who Pickford hopes to marry when she " grows up " ? In a first class production , Pickford has some nice moments ; though , her affected " little girl " persona doesn't really succeed in effectively portraying the young heroine of Kate Douglas Wiggins ' " Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm " , as evidenced on film . In sometimes startling contrast , several of the other young performers are noticeably more natural and / or charming . Ms . Wilkey , one of the younger set , regrettably " retired " shortly after her convincing portrayal of " Minnie Smellie " . Wilkey , who also played young " Flora " in " The Birth of a Nation " ( 1915 ) , was one of many marvelous young players Pickford employed , to shine by her side . Happily , kids like Wesley Barry and Milton Berle did not retire after appearing herein . Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm ( 1917 ) Marshall Neilan - Mary Pickford , Eugene O'Brien , Violet Wilkey
In the slums of 16th century London , young Billy Mauch ( as " Pauper " Tom Canty ) makes the most of his life as a beggar ; though , he is beaten by his father , and thrown in the mud . Meanwhile , royal Bobby Mauch ( as " Prince " Edward VI ) lives a life of luxury ; soon , he will replace father King Henry VIII on the throne . One evening , Pauper Mauch takes refuge from a storm on Prince Mauch's palace grounds . The look-alike boys meet , and strike up a friendship . Prince Mauch invites Pauper Mauch over to the palace , where the two become intrigued by their different lifestyles , and identical appearance . After they exchange clothing , they become separated , by happenstance . When nobody believes their stories , the boys are forced to assume each other's identities . This is a well-produced version of the Mark Twain classic . Sadly , the unevenly paced scenario does not produce the film classic which was , evidently , possible ( considering those involved ) . The " Mauch Twins " and Claude Rains ( as the Earl of Hertford ) are especially strong in their portrayals ; and , Erich Wolfgang Korngold's soundtrack should be noted . Don't expect to see top-billed Errol Flynn ( as Miles Hendon ) until later in the film , as a supporting player . Alan Hale , Barton MacLane , Henry Stephenson , and Montagu Love are also worth noting ; but , the film's main strengths are Mr . Rains , Mr . Korngold , and the " Mauch Twins " . The Prince and the Pauper ( 1937 ) William Keighley - Billy Mauch , Bobby Mauch , Errol Flynn
Great opportunity to see three of the biggest child actors of the 1930s , at different stages in their careers . The 1930s started with Jackie Cooper on top ; then , mid-decade , Freddie Bartholomew ruled ; and , finally , Mickey Rooney reigned . This film was made during Mr . Bartholomew's peak of popularity . After some promising scenes , it becomes obvious Bartholomew , Cooper , and Rooney are not being well served by the production . Some of their scenes appear rushed ; at times , it looks as if they are rehearsing alongside each other , rather than acting together . Possibly , this is due to director W . S . Van Dyke being assigned to the film , after the firing of Rowland Brown . Mr . Van Dyke was known for his sometimes hurried direction . Still , the actors are professional , and earnest ; and , some on-screen rapport is in evidence . Rowland Brown's story is excellent - - much more realistic than several similar 1930s " young hoodlum " dramas . Rooney gets the best part ; and , naturally , he makes the most of it ; scene stealers Bartholomew and Cooper wouldn't have missed a similar opportunity . This is one of Rooney's best-written , best-performed early roles ; he is a terrific actor , and his portrayal of " Gig Stevens " should be more renown . Writer Brown , fired as the film's director , would go on to pen " Angels with Dirty Faces " . With some more care , this film might have been as classic .
" The Catered Affair " was the movie adaptation of a Paddy Chayefsky's TV drama , which starring Thelma Ritter and Pat Henning . I'm guessing this was made due to the success of Ernest Borgnine's " Marty " . The film is interesting in its depiction of a different time , when the ceremonial aspects of weddings were very strange . Today , I doubt these people would go on and on about such trivialities . But , then , there were certain " ways " people married . There are some terrific " period " scenes . The Hurley's home is a real time trip . Great kitchen ! I loved the scene when Bette Davis takes in the frozen laundry from a clothesline outside her window . Ms . Davis totally commands the film - at times , her presence is overbearing . Her performance is excellent , but sometimes veers very close to going over-the-top . Ernest Borgnine , Debbie Reynolds , and Barry Fitzgerald hold their own in Davis ' presence . I believe , due to the presence of Bette Davis , the film should have been altered to focus more on her character . Reworked , this could have been Davis ' " Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf ? " You really have to pay attention to get what the film is really about - there is one instance where Davis ' own wedding is explained . There should be more about both Davis's dwelling on the past , and Borgnine's hopes for the future . The Catered Affair ( 1956 ) Richard Brooks - Bette Davis , Ernest Borgnine , Debbie Reynolds
In depression-era Kansas , Bible selling con man Ryan O'Neal ( as Moses Pray ) takes 10-year-old Tatum O'Neal ( as Addie Loggins ) from her mother's funeral , to locate an aunt in Missouri . Along the way , the father and daughter figures find something more important . Peter Bogdanovich's direction , László Kovács ' beautiful black and white photography , and the nostalgic soundtrack help put " Paper Moon " over . The O'Neals are at their very best - - full advantage of their genetic harmony is taken ; and , it's not an idea that always works , on screen . Madeline Kahn ( as Trixie Delight ) heads up an outstanding supporting cast . Mr . Bogdanovich's vision of Joe David Brown's " Paper Moon " may not always find its place on the " comedy-drama " scale ; but , it's still an excellent film . Paper Moon ( 1973 ) Peter Bogdanovich - Ryan O'Neal , Tatum O'Neal , Madeline Kahn
As the film begins , William S . Hart ( as " Blaze " Tracy ) is off-screen , in the appropriately named town of " Hell's Hinges " . Mr . Hart is a " man-killer whose philosophy of life is summer up in the creed ' Shoot first and do your disputin ' afterward ' ! " He believes neither law nor religion will ever come to the wretched town he loves . He is wrong . Jack Standing ( as Rev . Robert Henley ) is on his way to town ; he is , as you'll witness , a recently ordained minister with an eye for something other than ladies ' souls . Mr . Standing will also reveal a fondness for drink . Accompanying the bad reverend is his good sister Clara Williams ( as Faith Henley ) . Ms . Williams combines " the strength of character her brother so woefully lacks " and leads Hart to God ( the Jesus Christ version ) . But , is Hart a faithful servant of God , or just another Hell-raising western rogue ? This is an excellent , albeit absurd , film . Steely-eyed Hart is well heeled ; and , the fiery ending is tremendous . Standing's debauched preacher is unexpectedly entertaining . Williams was a noted actress ; but , she doesn't play innocent and alluring ; mainly , she looks admiringly at Hart ( and her brother ) . You may wonder what Hart sees in her , when they first meet ; although , Hart plays the scene well . It's difficult to understand the Williams / Hart attraction , which worked in other films . Thankfully , Louise Glaum ( as Dolly ) is around to play guiltily alluring ; presumably , Hart has had his fill of such women by the time Williams arrives . Hell's Hinges ( / 16 ) Charles Swickard - William S . Hart , Clara Williams , Jack Standing
Alone and friendless , drifter Richard Barthelmess ( as " Bilge " Smith ) visits a New York aquarium , and observes the sea creatures . Seeking employment and pals , Mr . Barthelmess decides to join the Navy . Meanwhile , in coastal Wautucket , dressmaker Dorothy Mackaill ( as Connie Martin ) longs for male companionship . " Shore Leave " brings sailor Barthelmess to Ms . Mackaill's attention ; and , she invites him over for a home-cooked meal . Barthelmess steals a brief kiss , and sets sail - but , he promises to return for more . Mackaill is smitten with her sailor date , and waits ? for years ? until Barthelmess returns ? A charming picture , but , today , it requires some suspension of disbelief . There are a couple of hints Barthelmess ' character was likely a " randy " sailor , so why did he settle for that lackluster first kiss ? And , the film explains the town of Wautucket was a fledgling seaport , but " spinster " Mackaill is lovely enough to have attracted some local attention . Later , Barthelmess rejects her because she's wealthy ! . . . but ? the actors make it believable . The film was much-admired in its day . Barthelmess ' performance in " Shore Leave " was one of the " Motion Picture Magazine " best of the year 1925 , alongside Lon Chaney , W . C . Fields , John Gilbert , and winner Emil Jannings ( for " The Last Laugh " ) . Mackaill ( a frequent co-star ) is also very good . There is a sweet , natural quality to their acting ( which certainly fits the storyline ) ; witness her falling in love over supper , and his recognition of her , after two years of sailing . John S . Robertson ( director ) and Roy Overbaugh ( cinematographer ) manage the New York locations and set pieces nicely . Debuting Ted McNamara ( as " Battling " Smith ) handles his comic sidekick role well ; he probably would have been a character actor long into the talking picture era , but died of phenomena in 1928 . Barthelmess has named his " Shore Leave " characterization as a personal favorite - still , it was his last collaboration with director Robertson ? who replaced Henry King ? who replaced D . W . Griffith ? Shore Leave ( / 25 ) John S . Robertson - Richard Barthelmess , Dorothy Mackaill , Ted McNamara
Helen Hayes is a World War I nurse who falls for wounded soldier Gary Cooper . The war , and Adolphe Menjou , threaten to come between them . . . This film features some startling , indelible images . The acting is also first rate . Mr . Cooper and Ms . Hayes make their characters ' courtship very believable - with performances transcending what could be acted , or shown on-screen , at the time . Their closing scene is classic . Mr . Menjou leads a strong supporting cast ; interestingly , his interest in Cooper looks highly ambiguous , intentional or not . Arguably , Menjou's character shows more interest in him than her . The story is just a little too soapy ; and , it lacks a certain cohesion . It's unsteady , at times . Yet , director Frank Borzage elicits some dazzling performance and images in " A Farewell to Arms " . Peace . A Farewell to Arms ( 1932 ) Frank Borzage - Helen Hayes , Gary Cooper , Adolphe Menjou
Mary Pickford ( as Jerusha " Judy " Abbott ) is found , as a baby , in a garbage dump . Orphaned , she is brought to the " John Grier Home " , where young boys and girls are treated more like convicts than children . By the time she is 12 , little Mary is leading the orphans in a strike against eating prunes . Some years later , Ms . Pickford is the beneficiary of a lucky , life-changing event : one of the orphanage's new trustees wants to sponsor an orphan's higher education ; and Pickford is chosen . At college , Pickford is a fetching young woman , which sends Cupid's arrows flying . Love-struck Princeton man Marshall Neilan ( as Jimmie Mc Bride ) and " older man " ( as Jarvis Pendleton ) vie for Pickford's hand in marriage . Pickford becomes a writer ; her first effort fails , but she instinctively follows the advice " write what you know " in creating a successful tome about orphans . Finally , Pickford must choose her man , and payback her " mysterious benefactor " . Some of " Daddy-Long-Legs " doesn't ring true ; vignettes are cute , in isolation , but add little to the overall film ; it's obvious , for example , that the children experience some childhood fun , which is said to be completely absent . And , the cruelty of the " John Grier Home " is hardly comparable to a prison ! You may also wonder why a fully clothed boy is considered " naked " , how a baby might have digested a mouth organ , how that girl got in and out of the well , and other stuff . The film is not at all unpredictable . However , Mary Pickford is outstanding . She very believably plays " Judy " - - growing from a precocious 12-year-old girl to young career woman . As the film progresses , Pickford seems to add layers upon her character . For example , in some later scene , beginning at a society party where Pickford admires some ancestral portraits ; watch , as the party progresses , both Pickford's past , and future , register on her face . Pickford constructs her character extremely well . Director Marshall Neilan ( who also appears , as Jimmie Mc Bride ) was an important Pickford collaborator ; and the supporting cast is delightful . Wesley Barry is wonderful as Pickford's early orphan pal ; he manages to steal scenes from Mary Pickford - - 11-year-old Barry play " drunk " better than Pickford ! Carrie Clark Ward is delightful as love-weary " Mrs . Semple " , and Fay Lemport ( as Angelina Wyckoff ) shows how pampered , selfish little girls grow up . " Daddy-Long-Legs " was filmed again and again , but this is the definitive version , thanks , mainly , to Mary Pickford .
As the film itself states , " This is a depiction of the events of the civil war and of the formation of the Ku Klux Klan from the point of view of the American South . " Let that be a warning ! Still , expert motion picture making from D . W . Griffith , G . W . Bitzer , and company . This film should receive a perfect " 10 " - - but the aggravating and overt racist theme is sometimes worse than the actual war . The " Negro race " is , if you think about it , blamed for the Civil War - - beginning with the unbalanced opening : " The bringing of the African to America planted the first seed of disunion . " The " Civil War " depicted in " Birth of a Nation " isn't over until the end of Part 2 ; when Confederates band together as the Ku Klux Klan , and defeat the " Negroes " . In this film , the KKK wins . Part 1 , by the way , is somewhat more tolerable - - but , by the end of Part 2 , the film's message becomes obvious . Note that Jesus Christ makes a God-blessed-this-film appearance . Otherwise , Lillian Gish ( as Elsie Stoneman ) and Henry B . Walthall ( as Ben Cameron ) are extraordinary in the lead roles ; she represents the North , and he represents the South . The Stomeman and Cameron families ' friendship and conflicts , due to the war , would have been a good , singular film focus . Of course , Mr . Walthall's character is a racist hero , but he performs the role exceptionally well . Ms . Gish is at her silent best ; don't miss the scene where , after a date with Walthall , she caresses her bedpost ! Second leads Elmer Clifton ( as Phil Stoneman ) and " daughter of the south " Miriam Cooper ( as Margaret Cameron ) hold their own against the powerful Gish and Walthall . Ms . Cooper has eyes which seem slightly askew in some shots , giving her an eerie quality . Josephine Crowell ( as Mrs . Cameron ) shines , among the more mature performers . Mae Marsh and Violet Wilkey ( both as Flora Cameron ) are quite memorable , also . In a supporting role , Robert Harron ( as Tod Stoneman ) is at Gish-level acting ; don't miss the scene with Harron embracing George Beranger ( as Wade Cameron ) when the " chums " expire on the battleground . Harron makes the scene especially touching . Note that Harron appears later on , in an unexpected role . Joseph Henabery is another appearing in different roles ; he is most memorable as Abraham Lincoln ; the assassination sequence is another film highlight , with Raoul Walsh ( as John Wilkes Booth ) . Harron and Ms . Marsh would be even more dazzling in Griffith's next , " Intolerance " ( 1916 ) . Another great scene occurs when Walthall walks unsteadily out of the hospital with Gish , while guard William Freeman gives Gish a last longing sigh . And , it's easy to see why Wallace Reid ( as a blacksmith ) ' s search for Walter Long ( as Gus ) , in " Joe's ginmill " , was a star-making brawl . The Birth of a Nation ( / 15 ) D . W . Griffith - Lillian Gish , Henry B . Walthall , Mae Marsh , Robert Harron
One of the best of its type , " Angels with Dirty Faces " epitomizes the " gangster " and " juvenile delinquent " pictures of the 1930s ( and 1940s ) . These are the films showing how unfortunate circumstances turn young men into hardened criminals . It's the " Nature vs . Nurture " argument . And , don't waste any time wondering about this film's stance - the title says it all - if you rub that dirty criminal's face hard enough , you'll find a hidden Angel . This is the case with tough guy James Cagney ( as Rocky Sullivan ) , who landed in reform school for stealing , and was seduced into a life of crime . It may be too late for Cagney , but not for the younger generation of dirty-faced angels known as " The Dead End Kids " , who worship the charismatic gangster . At least , that's the way scarred priest Pat O'Brien ( as Jerry Connolly ) sees things . Father O'Brien , who escaped Cagney's fate , wants salvation for the little tough guys . Cagney's courageous , shoulder-rolling turn as " Rocky " is entrancing ; absolutely , he deserved a " Best Actor " award - which the " on target " in the 1930s New York Film Critics delivered . Directed by Michael Curtiz , the classic line-up of " Dead End Kids " - Billy Halop as " Soapy " , Bobby Jordan as " Swing " , Leo Gorcey as " Bim " , Gabriel Dell as " Pasty " , Huntz Hall as " Crab " , and Bernard Punsly as " Hunky " - are a symphony of spitting , smoking , and ( mostly ) smacked upside the head young punks . The memorable Warner Brothers supporting cast includes rheumy-eyed lawyer Humphrey Bogart ( as James Frazier ) , sultry Ann Sheridan ( as Laury Ferguson ) , and perfectly cast Frankie Burke ( as a young James Cagney ) . " Social Consciousness " - raising films can often trip over themselves , so don't watch this one in the wrong frame of mind . Angels with Dirty Faces ( / 38 ) Michael Curtiz - James Cagney , Pat O'Brien , Billy Halop , Humphrey Bogart
After his stunning 1990s success , Steven Spielberg satisfied those salivating to despise him , with " A . I . Artificial Intelligence " . The poised knives could be released , at last ! So , the initial reactions took an undeserved negative tone , while , still , offering praise to individual efforts too obviously evidenced in the production to ignore . This is really an excellent , thought-provoking film . The beginning of the film could have been improved by combining the character " Professor Hobby " into " Henry Swinton " . The resulting " Henry Swinton " would , then , more closely resemble " Geppetto " from " Pinocchio " . This would , necessarily , make " David " the image of their dead son . Then , the parents ' conflict would be the focus of the film's first act . This would have made the relationship between the parents much more dynamic ; and , it would throw the mother " Monica " ( Frances O'Connor ) into incalculable conflict with the robotic " David " , resolved in the film's already powerful ending . Mr . Spielberg marvelously breathes life into Stanley Kubrick's unrealized project ( he died before realizing this dream work ) ; and , he directs Haley Joel Osment ( as David ) to a peak performance level . Mr . Osment , Jude Law ( as Gigolo Joe ) , and " Teddy " ( voiced by Jack Angel ) are an unforgettable " mecha " ( short for " mechanical " ) trio of humane robots . Janusz Kaminski and the Spielberg crew are magical . Good night , David . Pleasant dreams . A . I . Artificial Intelligence ( 2001 ) Steven Spielberg - Haley Joel Osment , Jude Law , Frances O'Connor , William Hurt
" A group of research scientists based at an Idaho facility discovers a means to travel forward in time , whilst remaining at the same locale . When one of the group's trips reveals a bleak future for the human race , the government steps in to shut down their research . The researchers decide to travel forward in time to find the cause of the horrible accident that apparently will ruin the ecology and threaten the very existence of man , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Actually , the research scientists send young people to the future , to study the discovered ecological crisis ; and , the young men and women contemplate starting a futuristic civilization there . Watch for the lead actress Kelly Bohanan ( as Karen ) visit the dentist early in the running time ; she emerges as the film's main character . Without her metallic dental braces , Ms . Bohanan is able to join sister Caroline Hildebrand ( as Isa ) in time traveling exploration . Ms . Hildebrand and sister Bohanan nonchalantly take off their pants for the camera ; because , anything with metal ( like zippers or buttons ) must be put in the " Material Projection Department " for time travel . The women are very attractive , but nothing is gratuitous . The first scene with Hildebrand explains the rules of time travel to Bohanan is where the film first grabs you . It is absolutely ludicrous : two hippie-type women explaining time trip rules , in their underwear ; but , it is also absolutely believable . " Idaho Transfer " succeeds , at this " guidelines for travel " moment , because you are ( or should be ) putting your trust in the young travelers . It's obviously going to be a very unusual movie . Most of the characters ' dialogue helps explain events ; still , it's not always clear what is happening , or where . And , yet , the movie is never dishonest . Director Peter Fonda and writer Thomas Matthiesen create a very captivating , thought-provoking world , with its own rules . Mr . Fonda should consider directing more often ; and , with the so often neglected type of performances from this cast . Kevin Hearst ( as Ronald ) emerges as Bohanan's " leading man " ; and , Keith Carradine is most notable among the other players . Although Fonda undoubtedly guided them , it's surprising so few in the cast achieved later fame , especially Bohanan . The character " Karen " is where you will find the real story ; it's in her almost constant longing for a child . Bohanan's face , and Fonda's camera , capture the desire frequently . And , of course , it is not an easy prospect . " Ronald " may be homosexual and / or asexual , along with others . Although it is discussed , you won't see sex . The desire for children symbolizes hope for the future , which may not be likely , in this world . Instead , industry eats up , and ruins things , like the derelict car " Karen " and " Ronald " find . And , literally , the train Mr . Hearst discovers has " eaten " its skeletal passengers . The ending is a perfect culmination of events . The ecological and environmental issues addressed in " Idaho Transfer " were certainly ahead of the curve . Idaho Transfer ( 1973 ) Peter Fonda - Kelly Bohanan , Kevin Hearst , Keith Carradine , Caroline Hildebrand
Patient , kind Lillian Gish ( as Sarah Webber ) and contrary , cantankerous Bette Davis ( as Libby Strong ) are two aging sisters ; who spend what is likely to be their last summer together , arguing about their limited future . Ms . Gish wants to have a " picture window " built for the house ; but , the blind Ms . Davis thinks not . Gish awaits the annual appearance of " The Whales of August " , and Davis reminisces , instead , about " The Swans " . Nothing overtly extraordinary happens . There are no picture windows , whales , or swans . Beneath the surface , Gish is a romantic dreamer , and Davis is sad and wise . These qualities , and the sisters ' love for each other , are demonstrated by the actress ' remarkably delicate performances , David Berry's subtle script , and Lindsay Anderson's steady direction . Vincent Price , Ann Sothern , and Harry Carey Jr . are a great supporting cast . Gish's name was a curious omission from the " Academy Award " list of nominations ; the " National Board " hedged its bets with a special lifetime achievement award ; but , Gish won their " Best Actress " award anyway . Davis ' performance was also award worthy . You may ache for the film to be technically better , or more " dramatic " ; but , you will never again see the constellation of stars within . The Whales of August ( 1987 ) Lindsay Anderson - Lillian Gish , Bette Davis , Vincent Price , Ann Sothern
" My name is Lester Burnham . This is my neighborhood . This is my street . This is my life . I am 42 years old . In less than a year , I'll be dead . Of course , I don't know that yet , and in a way , I'm dead already . Look at me . . . jerking off in the shower . This will be the high point of my day . It's all downhill from here . That's my wife Carolyn . See the way the handle on those pruning shears matches her gardening clogs ? That's not an accident . That's our next-door-neighbor Jim , and that's his lover Jim ? " That opening narration is a terrific invitation to " American Beauty " , a dead-on depiction of sexual fantasies and foibles in suburbia . Writer Alan Ball and director Sam Mendes construct an amazingly intuitive and artful picture . The cinematography ( Conrad L . Hall ) and music ( Thomas Newman ) are perfect . The entire cast is marvelous . Kevin Spacey plays his " Lester " to perfection - the moment when he decides NOT to indulge in a fantasy is just as uplifting as it would have been otherwise ; it is salvation . American Beauty ( 1999 ) Sam Mendes - Kevin Spacey , Annette Bening , Thora Birch , Wes Bentley
