The " Old Mother Riley " series of comedies , starring Arthur Lucan ( in drag ) as an Irish scrubwoman , and his wife Kitty McShane as Mother Riley's daughter , are all quite dire , but this one is the worst entry in the series . At least the other entries have titles which give you some sense of their plotlines , but " Old Mother Riley's New Venture " has a distressingly generic title which strongly implies that the film went into production before its script was written . It certainly feels that way , too . About 20 minutes into the film , it seems to be about a stolen gem called the Hoola Diamond ( is that name meant to be funny ) ? Then the diamond goes unmentioned for several reels while Mother Riley gets suspected of murder . Then the plot shifts gears again . The film opens with a vaguely amusing routine about a Lowell Thomas-like newsreel narrator whose script doesn't match his visuals . This leads into a long boring exposition scene with no laughs at all . Mr Grigsby is the workaholic owner and operator of a posh hotel . He hasn't had a holiday in years , because he can't trust anyone to run the hotel in his absence . Then he suddenly decides to take a holiday after all , and ( get this ) he decides to hand over his authority to the very next person who walks through his door . So of course that person is Old Mother Riley . One of my least favourite cliches is the one about the plain-spoken prole with no education who takes over a huge business concern and immediately does a better job than all the educated experts . For a moment , I thought " Old Mother Riley's New Venture " would fulfil that cliche . Instead , it does something worse . Arthur Lucan , neither Irish nor female , was never convincing as Daphne Snowdrop Riley ( as her name is given here ) , but in this film his panto-dame impersonation is even worse than usual . The film's first shot of Mother Riley is a close-up of her hands holding a dish , while we hear her voice offscreen . This is a terrible directorial decision , because it emphasises Lucan's hands and falsetto brogue , which were the least convincing parts of his female impersonation . There is one good gag here , which must have earned a rueful laugh in postwar Britain , as Mother Riley smashes several plates , finds one plate that's unbreakable , and turns it over to discover that the underside bears the words ' EXPORT ONLY ' . A more typical ' joke ' occurs when Mother Riley is challenged to provide the exact date of an event , and she answers : ' How should I know ? My name is Old Mother Riley , not Old Moore . ' ( This is an unfunny reference to an almanac publisher . ) In this film , unlike most of the other Mother Riley instalments , Kitty McShane speaks her lines in a brogue , and her dialogue gives her several ' Oirish ' figures of speech . She also attempts to impress us with her vocal talents in a long dull production number built upon ' I'll Take You Home Again , Kathleen ' . This occurs in a St Patrick's Day sequence , in which several Anglo-Irish tipplers get nostalgic for the auld sod ( no , not Arthur Lucan ; I mean Ireland ) . I can abide it when Americans or Australians of Irish descent get nostalgic for distant Hibernia , but I have very little patience for Irish immigrants and Anglo-Irish who get shamrock-happy while living in England . If it's so wonderful back home in Ireland , why don't you jump on a ferry ? Sebastian Cabot ( the only actor who worked with Jerry Lewis , Bob Dylan AND Old Mother Riley ) shows up briefly as a sheikh who can't speak English , so we get a long dialogue scene when his aide ( also Arabian ) speaks to him in pidgin English . Can't these Arabs speak Arabian ? SPOILERS COMING NOW . It gets worse . Grigsby goes on holiday and leaves no forwarding address . Then he dies in an accident , and it turns out he died intestate . ( This fool is a businessman ? ) Then it turns out he wasn't dead after all . I did like one clever touch , during a scene in which police inspectors question Old Mother Riley as a murder suspect . We see the hands on a clock revolving rapidly to show the passage of many hours . Yes , plenty of films have used this visual device . . . but here , the hands move rapidly in accelerated time while we continue to hear Mother Riley's and the detectives ' voices speaking offscreen in normal time . I've never encountered this visual device used over dialogue before . There are also a couple of clever optical wipes . Gobsmackingly , this film ends with a pie fight ! There are one or two vaguely original gags here , but suddenly - in the midst of the pie fight - the film cuts to some guy we've never seen before , sitting in a canvas chair and shouting ' Give me more ! Give me more ! ' Huh ? Who's he ? It took me a few seconds to realise that this guy is supposed to be the director of the movie we've been watching . . . and , for all I know , the man appearing onscreen in this shot might actually be John Harlow , the man who directed this mess . This gimmick is so confusing , the scene loses any comic momentum it possessed . He gets hit with a pie ( he deserves one ) , and then the travelogue narrator ( from the very beginning of the movie ) gets hit with a pie too . What a proper mess ! I have a great fondness for variety-hall British comedy , but I don't ever want to see " Old Mother Riley's New Venture " again . I'll rate this rubbish 1 point out of 10 . Faith and bejabbers !
" Amos ' n ' Andy " was a phenomenally popular American radio programme , transmitting five days a week from 1929 to 1960 ! Although this was a comedy series , Freeman Gosden and Charles Correll ( the actors who wrote the scripts and played all the male voices ) had the brilliant idea of using serialised plotlines which continued from one episode to the next . Often , the Friday episode would end with a cliffhanger . . . keeping the show's huge listening audience on tenterhooks over the weekend . Nearly all the characters in " Amos ' n ' Andy " were Negroes ( this being the accepted term at the time ) . Gosden and Correll , who were white , performed the black characters ' voices in a broad minstrel-show dialect with heavy reliance on malapropisms and catchphrases such as " Amos , I'se regusted " . Amos ' n ' Andy made a few half-hearted movie appearances ( featuring Gosden and Correll in blackface ) , but these were never remotely as popular as the radio series . For the transition to television , producers Gosden and Correll wisely hired a talented cast of black actors to play their characters . Filmed at the Hal Roach studio in California , the tv show " Amos ' n ' Andy " originally aired on CBS from June 1951 to June ' 53 and was a huge hit , but was yanked off the air under tremendous pressure from the NAACP . " Amos ' n ' Andy " was also the very first American sitcom to air in Britain , where the BBC televised it fortnightly from April 1954 to September 1957 . My stepfather has told me of the great interest which this programme aroused in the mid-1950s among British televiewers , both white and black . Eventually , social pressure led to the 78 television kinescopes of " Amos ' n ' Andy " being suppressed for more than 20 years . Was " Amos ' n ' Andy " racist ? The dialogue and situations in the tv series were slightly more realistic than the ( much cruder ) radio version . To its credit , this tv series gave steady employment to some talented African-American actors . Several of my black friends ( in America and England ) , have told me nostalgic tales of how their families eagerly watched this show because ( in the 1950s ) it was the only tv programme that showed black men and women who weren't servants . The Negro characters in " Amos ' n ' Andy " were businessmen , homeowners and housewives , not shoeshine boys or mammies . ( In one episode , Kingfish quotes the Wall Street Journal . ) The characters in " Amos ' n ' Andy " had unfavourable traits , but they were no worse than white sitcom characters such as Gilligan , Eddie Haskell or Ralph Kramden . In fact , the Raccoon Lodge ( in ' The Honeymooners ' ) is clearly inspired by the Mystic Knights of the Sea , the fraternal lodge that inspired so many " Amos ' n ' Andy " episodes . Andy's friend Amos Jones was definitely a positive role model : a hard-working cab driver , a loving husband and father . But these positive traits made him a poor figure for comedy plotlines . In the radio series , Amos ( voiced by Gosden ) was a major character . . . yet when this sitcom moved to television , Amos ( now played by black actor Alvin Childress ) was demoted to a mere narrator , speaking into the camera at the start of each episode to describe the antics of the more rascally Andy and his lodge brother the Kingfish . " Amos ' n ' Andy : Anatomy of a Controversy " was a tv documentary produced in 1986 , timed to mark the release of the tv show's 78 episodes to video . This documentary's television format is painfully obvious : there are crude gaps for commercial breaks every few minutes . The onscreen narrator is George Kirby , a very talented African-American actor who had no connexion to the original series , but whose comedy style is firmly in that vaudeville tradition . In the first half of this hour-long programme , he gives us a rundown of the tv series , its actors , and the social controversy . Annoyingly , we see NO clips from any of the episodes , nor any interview footage of anyone connected with the tv series . We DO get some irrelevant soundbites from a few black celebrities who offer their opinions of the tv show . . . but these are only opinions , from people who have no direct link to the series . For the second half of this documentary , Kirby announces that we will now see an episode of " Amos ' n ' Andy " in its entirety : shown on tv for the first time in more than 20 years ! We see the episode in which the Kingfish sells Andy a house . . . but the ' house ' is actually a flat backdrop left over from a recent movie shoot . It looks good from the front and the back , but it's only half an inch thick . When Andy walks through the front door , he finds himself standing in the back garden ! " Amos ' n ' Andy : Anatomy of a Controversy " served a useful purpose in 1986 , when most people had heard of this notorious tv series but nobody had seen it for many years . Now that all 78 episodes are available on video , we can make up our minds without this documentary . I'll rate " Anatomy of a Controversy " 1 point out of 10 . Here's a trivia note which you WON'T learn from this documentary : Joe Connelly and Bob Mosher , the headwriters of the " Amos ' n ' Andy " tv show , later created ' Leave It to Beaver ' . . . a series which was a lot less funny than " Amos ' n ' Andy " .
' Doctor Rhythm ' is the worst film Bing Crosby ever starred in . Bing made this movie at his home studio Paramount during one of his best career arcs . The film has good production values , especially an impressive studio mock-up of Manhattan's Central Park . So , why is this film so painfully dull ? Part of the problem is down to a weak score . The best song here is the insipid ' This Is My Night to Dream ' . The script is even worse . Ostensibly , this movie is based on O . Henry's story ' The Badge of Policeman O'Roon ' . In that story , a fictional war hero clearly based on Theodore Roosevelt impersonates his friend O'Roon ( a mounted police officer assigned to Central Park ) when O'Roon is unable to fulfil his duties : the brief story ends with one of O . Henry's trademark coincidences . If Paramount had actually filmed that story ( which had barely enough plot to sustain a feature-length film ) , the result would have been better than this mess . Instead , we have a weird plot in which Crosby is a white-coated medico who illegally substitutes for his policeman friend , foot patrolman Andy Devine . The trim-figured Crosby looks dapper in a patrolman's tunic , but the huge slobby Devine looks so different from Bing that it's difficult to imagine Crosby substituting for Devine . And where did Crosby's character find a police tunic that fits him so well ? The opening scene of this movie - - an illicit midnight foot-race in Central Park - - is fast-moving and shows promise , but the film's all downhill from there . I blame screenwriter Jo Swerling , a man of little talent who nevertheless got his name onto several prestigious projects . Swerling is contractually credited as co-author of the great Broadway musical ' Guys and Dolls ' , but that theatre classic does not retain a single word of Swerling's original ( and worthless ) script . The single worst problem with ' Dr Rhythm ' is that someone at Paramount intended it to be a star vehicle for Bea Lillie , who only briefly appears alongside Bing in this movie . The Canadian-born Bea Lillie was married to a British peer and was often mistakenly assumed to be English . In the 1930s , Lillie was a huge star in Broadway musicals . . . however , it's notable that she only starred in revues : shows with songs and skits but no plot . In the 1960s , Lillie played Madame Arcati in the Broadway musical ' High Spirits ' : this was her one and only success in a book musical . Lillie simply didn't have the acting ability to carry a narrative story . She starred in a semi-amusing silent , ' Exit Smiling ' , but most of her other film work is in supporting roles . I found her performance in ' Around the World in Eighty Days ' deeply annoying . In ' Dr Rhythm ' , the banal plot and Bing's groaning are interrupted a couple of times so that Bea Lillie's specialities can get crowbarred into the movie . We see the routine in which she orders a double dozen double damask dinner napkins from a flustered shop clerk ; Lillie had done this routine on Broadway but was careful never to perform it in Britain , where audiences knew that Lillie had stolen the routine from Cicely Courtneidge . We also get here another of Lillie's stage schticks : she is seen standing still on stage , wearing a formal gown that reaches to the floor , entirely concealing her feet . With much pomp , Lillie recites a dignified speech . . . then she hikes up her skirt to reveal that she's wearing roller skates , and she skates merrily away . That's about as funny as this movie gets . It doesn't help that Lillie is physically unattractive . She looks like a cross between Norma Shearer and Jughead Jones . Mary Carlisle , Bing's love interest here , is blonde and pretty but dull as dishwater . Bea Lillie simply didn't have enough material to carry a starring role in a feature film , but there's enough of her on offer here to seriously weaken ' Dr Rhythm ' as a Bing Crosby vehicle . Usually , when an important stage performer makes a rare screen appearance , I commend the film for preserving the performer's act . In this case , ' Dr Rhythm ' serves the useful function of proving that Bea Lillie wasn't very funny . I can't recommend this movie to anyone but Bing Crosby completists , for whom I'll rate it just 1 point out of 10 .
It's not impossible for propaganda to be artistically successful . Quite a few German movies produced by the Third Reich ( and blatantly pro-Nazi with it ) have entertaining storylines and good performances despite their dreadful political agenda . I've seen a few Soviet movies that succeed as artistic endeavours while promoting communist agitprop : a few , but very few . ' Clown Giorgi ' is not one of those movies . It stinks , comrade . First , I'll give the Russians some credit . In Britain and in America , where Jonathan Winters calls people ' clown ' as a term of abuse , we give very little respect to clowns . . . and very few of our clowns deserve respect . ( In America , clowns are one step above street mimes on the comedy food-chain . ) In Russia , however , clowns are respected craftsmen . . . and they deserve that respect . A typical clown in a Russian circus has spent years of apprenticeship in mastering acrobatics , juggling , animal-training and many demanding physical disciplines . ( I've seen clowns in the Moscow State Circus who are truly astonishing . ) In America , any jerk can be a clown with just some greasepaint and a dodgy wig . ' Clown Giorgi ' takes place in the Ukraine during Russia's civil war of 1918 , and the propaganda is so thick you can cut it with a samovar . The communist Red Army are clearly depicted as the brave heroic good guys . . . peace-loving commies who aren't afraid to die in battle , but who yearn for the war to end so they can go back to their agricultural collectives . The Menshevik forces of the White Army are the deceitful bloodthirsty oppressors . I would have put it just the other way round , but this movie asserts that ' Bolshevik ' ' good ' . The hero of this Russian film is a circus clown , so ( by Russian standards of clowndom ) audiences would perceive him as an admirable and resourceful figure , not a baggy-pants buffoon . In the opening scenes , we briefly see Giorgi doing his circus act . After the October uprising , he's conscripted into a Red Army brigade ; he serves loyally but without distinction as the company clerk . The heavily-bearded brigade commander has been severely wounded in previous battles , but is still determined to fight onward . He needs a brave man to infiltrate the White Army's lines and learn their battle plans . Giorgi's experience as a clown makes him a master of disguise , so he volunteers for the mission . Giorgi succeeds , and gets back to the Red Army encampment just in time to see his bearded commander die selflessly and heroically . Someone must take this fallen hero's place to lead the Red brigade into battle . . . but the soldiers will be demoralised if they learn that their commander has died . BLATANTLY OBVIOUS " SURPRISE " ENDING . Next thing we know , the bearded commander has risen from the dead . . . and he courageously leads his valiant commie brethren into battle against the White Army . Just when the communists win the battle , their commander is shot dead . The corpse turns out to be wearing a false beard . Who can this be ? Giorgi was a master of disguise , da ? Eto pravda ! The brave clown gave his life for the Communist Revolution . I have such utter contempt for communism ( especially the Soviet variety ) that I was tempted to hold my nose with one hand while I cranked this borscht through my Steenbeck viewer . It would take a very , very , VERY loyal Marxist-Leninist to enjoy this movie . I'll rate ' Clown Giorgi ' . Bring back the czar !
I viewed a very poor print of this very poor film . Marjorie Daw stars as Joan Thayer , a wronged woman - - apparently American - - who somehow ends up in Paris , where she tries to drown her sorrows by jumping off a quay into the river . ( She must be in Seine . ) She's rescued by a handsome Legionnaire ( Warwick Ward ) . They fall in love , but a vamp comes between them , vamping until ready . Clive Brook lurks about the proceedings as a Parisian impresario . Although Marjorie Daw has the lead role in this film , her participation appears to have been minimal . For much of the story , it's bang obvious that some other woman is doubling Daw . When Daw is on screen , she seems distracted . . . as if she's too busy thinking about her next film role to bother playing this one properly . Worse luck : after Ward fishes Daw out of the river , she spends much of this movie wearing a truly grotesque hairstyle that looks like the wig Paul Wegener wore in his role as the Golem . In fact , Daw's leaden performance resembles the Golem too . My rating for this mess : 1 point out of 10 .
George K Arthur ( a chirpy little Aberdonian ) and Karl Dane ( tall and slack-jawed ) were an immensely popular comedy team of the silent era whose career slowed in talkies , largely due to Dane's thick accent ( he was a Dane by name and a Dane by nature ) , combined with the fact that neither was an especially good actor . The film historian William K Everson told me that he owned prints of all the Dane-Arthur team-ups , but that he very seldom viewed them because ( in his opinion ) they just weren't funny . I'm inclined to agree . What most intrigues me about Dane and Arthur is that , uniquely among major comedy teams , they tended to play adversaries rather than allies . This is especially prominent in ' Brotherly Love ' , set in a penitentiary . . . in which Arthur plays a young lag trying to escape , and Dane plays the warder trying to stop him . The army comedy ' Rookies ' is probably the best of the Dane-Arthur films . Someone at MGM must have agreed , because here's a movie called ' Circus Rookies ' : not in any way a sequel to ' Rookies ' , yet titled to make us think it is . Mister Magoo ( no , not THAT one ) is a circus impresario who keeps losing his gorilla-keepers , because Bimbo the gorilla insists on mauling them . Along comes Oscar ( Dane ) , who manages to tame Bimbo by the brilliant stratagem of offering the gorilla a banana . . . apparently nobody ever thought of this before . Eventually , Dane has got Bimbo so well-trained , he tells him to ' Kiss papa ' . . . and Bimbo complies . Karl Dane never won any beauty prizes , and the sight of this lanky fellow being kissed by a gorilla ( played by a man in a too-obvious ape cozzy ) is not a pretty sight . George K Arthur , much handsomer and a more conventional personality type than Dane , tended to dominate their films together . Here , possibly for the only time in the team's brief history , Arthur has far less to do than Dane . There's an unfunny running gag : every time Dane runs out of bananas , Bimbo dunks him in a water-trough . ' Circus Rookies ' has a high budget and MGM's usual excellent art direction , but it's wasted on a bad script and not enough humour . I'll rate this movie just .
I'm very much a Bing Crosby fan , but his TV special " Goldilocks " is nothing special . This is a musical cartoon , retelling the famous story of the Three Bears : a story that really can't sustain itself over a half-hour format , even with the addition of songs and commercials . The cleverest aspect of this cartoon was the decision to retell the story from the viewpoint of Papa Bear . . . but that decision was probably made merely to pad Bing Crosby's part . Crosby supplies the speaking and singing voice of Papa Bear , and he also narrates . The ( very few ) songs are by the Sherman brothers , who have done superlative work elsewhere but stumble badly here . By far , their best song in this cartoon is the one sung by Papa Bear ( Crosby ) as he explains to Junior Bear about those weird creatures called humans : " Oh , it's the human race , the human race , the hustlin ' bustlin ' people-chase . " I wish all the songs in this very un-special TV special reached that level . The animation , by the sadly underrated DePatie-Freleng Studio , is not up to that studio's usual standard . " Goldilocks " is quite bad . The fact that all the voice-overs are performed by members of Bing's family only adds to the amateurish , vanity-production feel of this very poor special . Purely out of admiration for Crosby's long career , I'll rate this show 1 star out of 10 .
Alfred Abel had a long career as an actor in German films , but is remembered for only one role : as the master builder in ' Metropolis ' . Two different film historians in Europe have separately told me that Abel also directed a substantial number of films , but neither historian has offered me specifics for this . IMDb lists only a few films which Abel is known to have directed . One of these is ' Alles um eine Frau ' ( ' All for a Woman ' ) . The attractive actress Charlotte Susa ( blonde , with a regal Prussian accent ) stars as Blanche Keyne , the wife of an English industrialist : her husband Frederick ( Gustav Diessl ) was an aviator in the British Expeditionary Force during the Great War , but after the Armistice he made a fortune manufacturing aeroplanes . During the war , Blanche was a cabaret dancer , but she has long since put those days behind her . By chance , Frederick crosses paths with an old acquaintance , with the unfortunate ( and unintentionally funny ) name Heinrich Droop . During the war , Heinrich was a German air ace . At one point , he shot down Frederick's ' plane over France . When the English aviator's aeroplane caught fire , Heinrich landed and risked his own life to pull Frederick from the burning wreckage . ( I found this absolutely plausible ; during World War One there were many examples of German and British servicemen violating the rules of battle for the sake of chivalry . Very few such examples in World War Two , alas . ) Heinrich did not prosper after the war , and he's now running a petrol station in Germany . Frederick straight away offers him a job managing Frederick's largest aircraft factory in England . When Charlotte and Heinrich meet , they are instantly attracted to each other . Ach , du lieber ! Meanwhile , out of the past emerges Charlotte's former dance partner ( Hubert von Meyerinck ) . When he discovers that Charlotte and Heinrich are having an affair , he starts blackmailing Charlotte . This movie is a soap opera , and not a very good one . What's the German word for ' turgid ' ? There is some unfunny ( and patronising ) comic relief from Willi Schur and Carsta Löck as a couple of servants . This film assumes , as a given , that a German man is automatically sexier than an Englishman . Based on what I see here , Alfred Abel wasn't a very good director : the film's pacing is bad , and the actors ' performances are much too erratic . Bad photography , too . I'll rate this movie .
" When You're in Love " is notable for two trivial reasons , neither of which brings any merit to the movie . The first trivium is that silent-film star Louise Brooks appears in this film as a chorus girl . In 1929 Brooks had poisoned her Hollywood career , refusing to participate in the re-shooting of one of her silent films as a talkie . Eight years later , trying to recover her brief stardom , Brooks was desperate enough to strike a one-sided bargain with low-budget studio Columbia : former Denishawn dancer Brooks would accept a chorus-girl role in " When You're in Love " , at a chorus girl's wage and indistinguishable from any of the other chorus girls . Columbia would circulate photos of Brooks in the chorus line , hoping to drum up publicity for this film with the angle of the ex-star beginning all over in the chorus . The back end of this deal was that Columbia promised to give Brooks a starring role afterwards . The chorus-girl angle did nothing to save the box-office of " When You're in Love " , and the starring vehicle never came . ( I find Louise Brooks very sexy , but most of her fans seem very creepy . The Louise Brooks cult is determined to delude itself that Louise Brooks herself was identical to the character she played on screen . Most Marilyn Monroe fans are creepy too , for the same reason . ) The second trivium is that " When You're in Love " is the only film ever directed by screenwriter Robert Riskin . Riskin was the principal scripter on most of Frank Capra's best films : most of the distinctive touches that define Capra's movies are actually Riskin's creations . When Riskin resented that Capra got all the credit for their collaborations , Capra suggested that Riskin should try to direct a film himself . This movie was it . . . and a very bad directorial debut . In his autobiography , Capra was openly gleeful about the flop of Riskin's one directorial effort . " When You're in Love " stars opera singer Grace Moore , which is part of the problem . Opera singers tend to be failures as movie stars . The success of Jeanette MacDonald was due much more to her sex appeal rather than to her singing voice . Ironically , one of the few opera singers to succeed in movies was Geraldine Farrar : a box-office hit in silent films . Grace Moore lacked Jeanette MacDonald's sex appeal and acting skills . Hedging their bets , the producers of " When You're in Love ' have larded this film's score with music that's highbrow , lowbrow , middlebrow and everywhere else on the brow spectrum : some genuine opera , some operetta , some Jerome Kern . The most ludicrous moment occurs when Moore dresses up as Cab Calloway and sings ' Minnie the Moocher ' with bowdlerised lyrics . It's not pretty , folks . The plot , you ask ? Nobody sees a movie like this for its plot . Well , if you insist . Grace Moore plays a successful opera singer , who - as an implausible publicity stunt - gets married in name only . Her husband is a charming ne'er-do-well , played by Cary Grant . Guess what happens in the last reel . Go ahead , have a guess . It really irritates me to see movies about a woman who falls in love with a completely irresponsible jerk because he's handsome and charming . This happens in real life too , but I don't need to see it in the movies . " When You're in Love " is froth , utterly without substance . That's no crime , but the bubbles in this champagne have gone very flat indeed . I found this film tedious . Many of the musical numbers were extremely dull , and all of them were badly staged . Some character actors whom I've liked elsewhere ( Henry Stephenson , Luis Alberni ) give listless performances here . Robert Riskin was a brilliant screenwriter but this is one of his poorest efforts . Based on this one film , he shows absolutely no talent for directing , although perhaps he might have acquired the proper skills if he'd continued . ( One of the greatest scriptwriters of all time , George S Kaufman , also directed only one film . . . but Kaufman was a brilliant stage director . ) I'll rate ' When You're in Love ' precisely .
As previous IMDb reviewer Bob Lipton correctly notes , Charlie Chaplin's ' tramp ' films were so popular that he spawned many imitators . ( The Gloria Swanson performance which Mr Lipton cites was in 1973 , on - - wait for it - - the Carol Burnett show . Carol Burnett played Buster Keaton , no less . ) Chaplin impersonation contests were hugely popular in America from 1914 onward . . . but there is NO truth to that urban legend about Chaplin entering one and losing . Quite a few of the faux Chaplins impersonated him outright , copying his tramp costume and his plot lines : the most successful of these imitators was Billy West . One actor even cried himself Charlie Aplin , until Chaplin sued him off the screen . The more imaginative of the Chaplin impersonators merely emulated the Little Tramp's pathos without copying his physical appearance : the most successful of these was Harold Lloyd as a character yclept Lucky Luke , before Lloyd developed his own original horn-rimmed characterisation . Quite a lot of forethought went into Lloyd's development of Lucky Luke : Chaplin's moustache was one dot , so Luke's moustache was two dots . The tramp's trousers were too loose , so Luke's trousers were too tight . And so forth . Some of the Chaplin copycats even ' borrowed ' the stories and gags from specific Chaplin films . For instance , the first half of Snub Pollard's short comedy ' At the Ringside ' blatantly copies the first half of Chaplin's ' Easy Street ' . Only in the second half does Pollard's film diverge into a plot of its own ( a boxing match ) . Minerva Courtney impersonated Chaplin - - even copying his ' Tramp ' costume - - in at least three low-budget shorts . The only notable aspect of Miss Courtney's impersonation is that she is a woman portraying a man , and she actually manages to be somewhat convincing : not only as a biological male , but specifically as an impersonator of one of the most famous men ever to appear on the screen . I noticed that this particular ' Charlie ' was broader in the hips than at the shoulders , but the Tramp's baggy trousers do a great deal to disguise Miss Courtney's pelvic dimensions . The best part of ' Miss Minerva Courtney in Her Impersonation of Charlie Chaplin ' is the beginning . We see Miss Courtney as herself , in normal female garb and with medium-length fair hair . She steps into a changing room and strips down to her undergarments ( nothing very racy here ) . She puts on a bust suppressor : an interesting touch , as she's not especially well-endowed in that area to be getting on with . This particular bust suppressor looks like one of those chest guards worn by baseball umpires . Next , she puts on a duplicate of Chaplin's ' Little Tramp ' cozzy , not forgetting the moustache . This dressing scene , besides being interesting in itself , is almost certainly meant as insurance against accusations from the audience that " Miss Courtney " was actually a male actor impersonating a woman impersonating a man . Such things were not unknown in 1915 : some of the ' female impersonators ' in vaudeville were actually genuine females who lived as men full-time ( shades of " Victor / Victoria " ! ) except when wearing frocks onstage . Minerva Courtney manages to be convincing enough as a male that this prologue is indeed necessary to convince us of her true sex . After transforming herself into the Little Tramp , alas , our lass Minerva runs out of inspiration . At least she actually goes outdoors in her Chaplin rig , whereas many of the real Chaplin's " Tramp " comedies were filmed entirely indoors . ( Sometimes featuring ' exterior ' sets built on indoor stages . ) But rather than putting the fake Tramp into an entirely new situation , Miss Courtney decides to copy one of the real Chaplin's films , ripping it off as closely as possible . Worse luck , the Chaplin film which she copies is ' The Champion ' , which features the Tramp in a boxing match against a much larger man . Why ever did a woman choose this particular plot line as a vehicle for her ability to pass for a male ? I was hoping that Miss Courtney would actually re-enact the climactic boxing match from ' The Champion ' , so that we could witness her prowess in the manly art of fisticuffs . Very annoyingly , this rip-off of ' The Champion ' simply terminates , at an arbitrary point , without Miss Courtney ever actually climbing into the square circle . I suppose that audiences in 1915 would have been shocked at seeing a woman in a boxing match , especially against a male opponent . This impersonation of Chaplin , filmed on a minuscule budget , is interesting solely as a curiosity . . . and as testament to how extremely lucrative the Tramp comedies were in their day . I'll rate this sex-change .
' The Weaver ' is German agitprop . I get the impression that this film purports to depict actual events , but my limited knowledge of German history prevents me from verifying this . The film appears to take place in roughly the same period as the Luddite uprising in England , or possibly the Tolpuddle Martyrs . The weavers have always made their cloth by hand , but now the steam-driven looms threaten to automate the process . Of course , we get the usual rubbish ( in the intertitles ) asserting that machine-made cloth is inferior to the hand-made stuff . Wilhelm Dieterle gives a good performance as the nominal hero : a former weaver who has become a captain in one of the Emperor's best regiments , but who is now emboldened to rejoin the weavers and to lead their families in a revolt against the machines . Dieterle's later ( well-deserved ) success as director William Dieterle has unfairly eclipsed his early promise as an actor . The weavers sabotage the looms ; eventually , some of the looms are destroyed . With the nation's textile industry threatened , Emperor Friedrich Wilhelm calls out the troops . The weavers stand up to them , in a climax that might have been exciting if it hadn't reminded me of a bad imitation of the climax of Eisenstein's ' Battleship Potemkin ' . When several of the weavers are shot dead , their wives step into the breach . The women triumph where their husbands failed , simply because the soldiers daren't shoot women . Paul Wegener is cast as Dreissiger , the wealthy skinflint owner of the cotton mill who exploits his starving weavers . In this role , Wegener gives the stiffest and most mannered performance I've ever seen from him . Ironically , his portrayal of the Golem was less stiff and more human than the performance he offers here . I'm passionately interested in German films of this period , so I'll rate this stiff , stolid , sententious , slow and boring movie . . . which is probably one more point than it deserves .
' The Taxi Mystery ' starts very promisingly , but rapidly goes pear-shaped . In its general tone , this film is very similar to ' The Second Floor Mystery ' ( 1930 ) : both films feature a young hero who finds himself in adventures that get very weird very quickly . But ' The Second Floor Mystery ' remains enjoyable because we rapidly twig that the hero's implausible adventures are fictional yarns which he spins to impress the heroine . In ' The Taxi Mystery ' , all the implausible events are ostensibly genuine . . . and the viewer's credulity snaps from the strain . Right , let's get started . Handsome young Harry Canby ( Robert Agnew ) is a jaded yachtsman , who has just sailed round the world in search of adventure but failed to find any . ( He can't have been looking very hard . ) Mooring his yacht at a Manhattan quay - - and still wearing his yachtsman's cap - - he tries to hail a taxi parked nearby , but discovers it has no driver . Just then a mysterious young woman rushes up . They ' meet cute ' as she mistakes Harry for the driver , and she demands to be taken away in a hurry by Harry . He starts to protest , until he realises that she's being pursued by men with guns . Without even bothering to start the taxi meter , he hoists her into the cab for an exciting chase sequence . ( The real cabbie conveniently left the key in the ignition . ) This is where Credibility gets out and walks . The thugs overtake the cab , forcing Harry to pull over near a high brick wall with no doors nor windows . As Harry manfully fights off the thugs , one of them notices that the woman has scarpered . How did she vanish from an open area with no place to hide ? Hell if I know . . . but she conveniently dropped a McGuffin : a photo of herself . SPOILERS COMING . The real cab driver conveniently tracks down Harry in his posh Manhattan residence . Apparently the cabbie knows the mystery woman's identity . Just as he's about to reveal this information to Harry , a hand appears from behind the drapes , clutching a pistol . . . and the cabbie is shot dead . The gunman has a chance to kill Harry too , but instead he exits stage right . See what I mean ? We never find out how this gunman got into Harry's rooms . We never find out why he bothered to conceal himself and wait until the most dramatic instant , instead of shooting the cabbie straight off . ( And he could have killed Harry too , but then there'd be no story . ) The gunman isn't there to steal anything ; he serves absolutely no purpose except to fulfil a dramatic set-piece that ultimately leads nowhere . And the whole movie is like this ! As played by Robert Agnew , Harry Canby looks to be in his mid-20s , but we learn that he's the ward of Willoughby Thompson , so Harry must be a minor . ( Sailing round the world by himself , mind you . ) Now get this : the mystery woman is Nancy Cornell , an actress starring in a Broadway show . Her understudy Vera Norris is the wife of the show's producer . That's right : the producer's wife is the star's understudy . By an amazing coincidence , Nancy Cornell and Vera Norris are exact lookalikes , give or take a beauty mark . ( Both played by actress Edith Roberts . ) No explanation for this contrivance is ever offered : they're not twins , nor even cousins . I could see that a movie actress would hire a stand-in who is her exact double , but there's no particular reason why a stage actress would need a lookalike for her understudy : the understudy merely has to fit the same costume . Wait , it gets worse . Years ago , Willoughby Thompson's infant daughter disappeared , and he's been mildly curious as to her whereabouts ever since . Nobody has any idea what the wee child would look like now , but apparently Nancy and Vera could both pass for her . ( I was expecting either Nancy or Vera - - or maybe both of them - - to turn out to be the missing girl . Some hope ! ) Vera Norris's husband the Broadway producer is also a crook ( I can believe that part ! ) and he has a fiendish plan to pass off his wife as the missing girl . But that sound you hear in the distance is Credibility's death rattle , because ( wait for it ) , in order for Norris to achieve his scheme , he has to bump off Nancy . Eh ? Wha - ? Huh ? Hello ? Nowhere in the plot of this movie does Nancy Cornell stand in the way of the Norrises ' scheme , so there's no reason for the Norrises to kill her . Except that the scriptwriter needs to keep putting Nancy and Harry in harm's way . If ' The Taxi Mystery ' tipped the wink to its audience - - like ' The Second Floor Mystery ' does - - and indicated that it didn't take itself seriously , this weird story might work . There are bits of comedy relief along the edges , such as a backstage sequence with Robert Agnew disguising himself in a ludicrous wig , but there isn't enough intentional humour here for this story to qualify as a comedy . Even the parts of it that could have worked are handled badly : Nancy Cornell's abrupt vanishment would have been more plausible if the sequence had been shot in front of a wall with doors and windows , to indicate how she managed to disappear so suddenly . Since this movie isn't funny and it isn't remotely plausible , I'm generously rating it only .
Nearly everything I was prepared to say about the early Stan Laurel comedy ' Just Rambling Along ' turns out already to have been said in the perceptive comments by IMDb reviewer " wmorrow59 " . Morrow is indeed correct that Laurel's business with the salt and pepper shakers is cribbed from a Chaplin gag in ' The Immigrant ' . Morrow is also correct that the cop in this movie is played by Noah Young . On my own , I'll note that ' Just Rambling Along ' was produced by Rolin Films , the production company in which Hal Roach was half-partner ( the ' Ro ' in ' Rolin ' was short for ' Roach ' ) . When Roach went into solo production , Noah Young came with him and remained a stalwart support for Harold Lloyd , Snub Pollard and other Roach comedians . However , with respect to reviewer Morrow , Laurel's stint as Chaplin's understudy in the Fred Karno troupe was hardly the low point of his career . After leaving Karno , Stan Laurel paid his dues in some pretty awful music-hall acts : " The Rum ' Uns from Rome " with fellow Karno alumnus Arthur Dandoe , followed by the even worse act " Fun on the Tyrol " featuring Laurel with two non-entities named Ted Leo and Bob Reed . During Chaplin's early film stardom at Keystone , Laurel toured American vaudeville with married couple Edgar & Ethel ' Wren ' Hurley ( both of them also from the Karno troupe ) in a turn billed as ' The Keystone Trio ' , with Laurel impersonating Chaplin's tramp , Wren Hurley as Mabel Normand and her husband imitating Chester Conklin as a Keystone Cop . The act split up when Edgar Hurley wanted to swap roles with Laurel . As reviewer Morrow correctly notes , when Laurel looks directly into the camera in close-up , the effect is genuinely eerie . Morrow does not give the reason for this : the pupils of Laurel's eyes were pale blue , and they happened to be precisely the colour that was insensitive to the early orthochromatic film stock . ( Actress Lee Remick's eyes were the same shade , but during her career a panchromatic film stock was used . ) When Laurel looks into the camera , his eyes look ghostly . . . and the effect is so weird , it negates any comedy . In a television interview decades later , shortly before his death , Laurel recalled being told that he would never make it as a film actor because his eyes were the wrong colour . However , from Laurel's behaviour during this interview , he clearly seemed to be unaware of the genuine technical problems incurred by his eyes , and he seemed to think that the complaint about the colour of his eyes was merely a pretext ( by people who thought he lacked talent ) to let Laurel down easily without pricking his vanity . Briefly glimpsed in ' Just Rambling Along ' is Marie Mosquini , a brunette beauty who - - unlike so many other 1920s actresses - - remains astonishingly beautiful by modern ( early 21st-century ) standards of feminine beauty . After playing against Snub Pollard in some of his best films , Mosquini married radio engineer Lee DeForest . . . who helped develop the talking-film process . ' Just Rambling Along ' contains some plot business that ( with my British cultural references ) I didn't understand , but which an American friend explained to me . I had often heard the phrase ' meal ticket ' as a slang term , but was unaware of its literal meaning . In ' Just Rambling Along ' , Laurel cadges a meal in a working-class restaurant that used the now-obsolete device known as meal tickets : each time he selects a dish , another charge is totted onto his meal ticket , with payment expected afterward . Chaos ensues ( but not much comedy , alas ) when Laurel's meal ticket is swapped for another with a higher total on it . I laughed precisely once during ' Just Rambling Along ' , when a cupful of water is thrown into Laurel's face and he pantomimes swimming away . Chaplin did that gag too . I'll rate this movie just 2 points in 10 , mostly for its historical significance .
Somebody once described George Plimpton as " the professional amateur " , and it certainly fits . Plimpton was a journalist who tried his hand at several high-profile occupations for which ( as he readily admitted ) he was eminently unqualified - - quarterback , trapeze artist , race-car driver - - not expecting to succeed , but always producing a highly entertaining article or movie or TV deal from his account of his efforts . Plimpton was a weedy man of no discernible physique - - if he were shorter and wore glasses , he would fit the stereotype of what an author is " supposed to " look like - - so he made a point of attempting to succeed in highly physical and athletic jobs . One of Plimpton's passions was fireworks : living in New York City , where fireworks are illegal ( except under special licence ) , Plimpton had a political sinecure for the last couple of decades of his life as the professional inspector of all New York City events involving authorised fireworks . " Did You Hear the One About ? " finds amateur Plimpton in a less physical job than usual . He has decided to try his hand at being a stand-up comedian , performing a lounge act in a Las Vegas nightclub . We're shown nothing at all about how Plimpton gets booked as a comic with no previous credits ; presumably he worked out some sort of publicity deal with the nightclub . This documentary shows Plimpton attempting to acquire material , honing his delivery and his timing , getting advice from successful comedians , and eventually making his debut . Some very big names in American comedy make appearances in this documentary . . . but don't get your hopes up that you're going to see them perform . In a series of low-key conversations , Plimpton meets each comedian in turn , trotting out his pathetic little supply of jokes and then eliciting that comedian's advice on how to improve the material or his delivery , or both . Since none of these comedians are shown performing , I thought it was interesting that this documentary captured them as they actually appear offstage in real life . But this is no Candid Camera episode : each of the comedians is aware that he or she is being filmed , and so all of them to varying degrees remain " on " while Plimpton seeks their advice . Buddy Hackett , who played a coarse vulgar moron in his nightclub act , comes off as a coarse semi-vulgar moron in this documentary : if it's a performance , it's a very convincing one . Jonathan Winters is not one of my favourite performers , but he makes by far the most interesting contribution to this documentary . He comments to Plimpton that all successful comedians had tragic childhoods . Winters seems to be speaking candidly here , so I was expecting him to offer some evidence from his own childhood . . . but he doesn't follow up on his original comment . Winters does make a very bizarre suggestion for how Plimpton should open his nightclub act . Imitating a very young child , Winters leans round an imaginary proscenium , waggles his fingers , and tells the imaginary audience : " Hi ! Hi ! My name's George Plimpton ! We're gonna have fun ! " This documentary climaxes - - if that's the word - - with Plimpton performing his nightclub turn . I was expecting him to be either a huge hit or ( more likely ) a huge flop ; instead , he's simply a respectable success . One of George Plimpton's least endearing traits ( for me , at least ) was his extremely peculiar voice , which sounded a very bad attempt to imitate an upper-class English accent . When Plimpton did his amateur stints as a quarterback and a trapeze aerialist , his voice didn't much matter . Here , as a nightclub comic , his diction and his speech patterns are crucial . As a nightclub comic , Plimpton's a first-rate journalist . I'll rate this special . The brief appearances by the various comedians are only faintly interesting , since they aren't shown performing , and they offer very little useful advice about the art of comedy .
This movie's alternate title ' Krasnaya Derevnya ' translates literally as ' Red Village ' but it also means ' Beautiful Village ' . . . because , in Russian , the word for the colour ' red ' ( the most fleshly and sexual colour ) also connotes physical beauty . It's no coincidence that the Soviet communists ( the Red Russians ) co-opted this colour for their political movement , making themselves the most ' beautiful ' faction in Russia . In this movie , the Red Village is definitely ' red ' in the communist sense . The print which I viewed had a title which translates as ' Golden Lights ' . The movie's opening sequence takes place in 1921 , towards the end of Russia's civil war , as the Red Army are vanquishing the last Menshevik forces of the White Guard along the western frontier . This movie clearly depicts communists as virtuous , selfless and heroic . . . whilst portraying White Russians as misguided fools at best or counter-revolutionary traitors at worst . Cut to the present ( 1935 ) , and now we're in a Byelorussian village where the Soviets have erected a huge dynamo . The man in charge of this powerhouse is something of a dynamo himself : a handsome dedicated young communist engineer named Kovalyov . Little does he know that his assistant machinist Ivanovich is a traitor . Ivanovich was a prosperous landowner before the revolution , in which his property was seized : now he remains secretly loyal to the Menshevik cause while pretending to be a collectivist labourer . Handsome young engineer Kovalyov is in love with another handsome engineer : a dedicated young woman named Marina . Ivanovich sabotages the dynamo in a manner that looks like an accident , knowing that Kovalyov will be blamed for inefficiency . Kovalyov is demoted and Marina is given his job . Intriguingly , Kovalyov's love affair with Marina suffers when she is placed in a position of authority over him . Meanwhile , Ivanovich is planning to sabotage the dynamo once for all , which will set back the collective's Five-Year Plan . . . ' Golden Lights ' is blatant Soviet propaganda , but the characters actually retain some interest as human beings even though each character in this story is a vehicle for agitprop . The filmmakers clearly realised the necessity of putting some genuine entertainment content into this piece of propaganda . There are several enjoyable sequences , depicting the villagers engaged in singing and dancing . Rather less successful are the comedy-relief sequences featuring Marina's father Aleksandr , who is an eccentric inventor . This movie was made in Russia in 1935 , so it's hardly a spoiler to tell you that the communist forces emerge triumphant , and this is depicted as a ' happy ' ending . As much as I despise communism , I'll rate this movie for its small but genuine entertainment value .
' Jane ' was a very popular comic strip in wartime Britain . Drawn by Norman Pett , it began its long run in the Daily Mirror in 1932 as the misadventures of an innocently sexy young blonde . In 1938 , with Don Freeman writing the continuities , ' Jane ' gradually became more suggestive and then finally quite lewd . Many of Freeman's gags featured Jane caught in a state of undress . . . or caught in some mishap which tore off her clothing . Sometimes the situation would get downright sadistic : I recall one comic strip in which Jane fell through the roof of a caravan but got stuck at waist level , with her skirts outside the caravan . . . so that the men inside the vehicle had a fine view of Jane's underpants . The ' joke ' in the strip was always secondary to one more excuse for showing Jane stripped to her undergarments or altogether nude . The comic strips in British newspapers were always more explicit than American ones : often , poor Jane would end up entirely naked , or wearing only her knickers . . . the angles of Pett's artwork would always show us Jane's nudity whilst strategically concealing the most ' naughty ' bits . In the same way that Little Orphan Annie confided her thoughts to her mongrel Sandy , Jane's intimate confidant was her pet dachschund Fritz ( an odd choice of breed and name , considering the anti-German sentiments of wartime ) . During the war years , Jane's popularity reached an all-time high among British servicemen . The nearest American equivalent of ' Jane ' would be Milton Caniff's character Miss Lace in ' Male Call ' . . . but , unlike Jane , Miss Lace usually kept her clothes on , and ' Male Call ' was available only for servicemen , whereas Jane's nudity was on display in the Daily Mirror for any schoolboy who had the price of a paper . ' Jane ' was actually very similar to the Playboy feature ' Little Annie Fanny ' , in that both comic strips were basically an excuse to depict a sexy woman with her clothes missing . In 1982 , when I interviewed Harvey Kurtzman and Will Elder at Elder's house in Englewood , New Jersey , I pointed out the similarities between their creation ' Little Annie Fanny ' and the earlier ' Jane ' . Kurtzman admitted that he was familiar with ' Jane ' . . . until he saw where the conversation was leading , and then he changed the subject . Inevitably , many British males wanted to know if Pett's voluptuous creation was based on a real woman . Supposedly , he had used his own wife as his original model . When a theatrical producer decided to mount a stage vehicle based on ' Jane ' , the role went to Christabel Leighton-Porter , a shapely blond with no real acting experience and no singing ability . The act opened with Miss Leighton-Porter's delightful physique shown in silhouette , then the scrim rose to reveal her attributes while she chanted ( not sang ) : " I'm Jane , Jane : the model , that's plain . I can't sing , I can't even croon . And the dog that I fondle is also a model that you've seen in a famous cartoon . " For the stage act , Fritz was played by a stuffed toy ( like the cat in a Puss in Boots panto . ) ' The Adventures of Jane ' is the film version of the stage show based on the comic strip . It suffers from certain problems : Jane's peak years were during the World War , so she's already begun her decline . Also , the story lines in the comic strip were always mere excuses for Jane to lose her clothing in compromising positions and get caught totally naked ( or nearly so ) in the presence of appreciative men . In 1949 Britain , the film censors were much stricter than the newspaper censors . Consequently , we never see the lovely Miss Leighton-Porter stripped down to nearly the degree of nudity that was a daily event for the newsprint version of Jane . This film is directed by Alf Goulding , an Australian who had some impressive credits : he had previously worked with Laurel & Hardy and with Roscoe ' Fatty ' Arbuckle . Sebastian Cabot , an English actor who had his best successes on American television , plays a small role here . But ' The Adventures of Jane ' is lacklustre . I'll rate this movie , and one point is in appreciation for Jane inspiring all those brave English servicemen to ( dare I say it ? ) keep their peckers up .
' Horoscope ' is one of the short movies made by underground filmmaker Richard Kern . All of Kern's movies are unusual : intentionally transgressive , and often violent . But ' Horoscope ' is unusual by Kern's standards because it's LESS unusual than usual , for him . There's very little transgression , and the mood is ( by Kern's standards ) sweet-natured . Typically , Kern's eroticises the female body : on the rare occasions when his films feature erotic male images ( as in ' Submit to Me ' ) , those images are usually briefer and less intense than female-centred images in the same film . ' Horoscope ' , unusually ( perhaps uniquely ) for Kern , features more male than female nudity . Holly Adams plays an attractive but rather repressed young woman who shambles homeward from her dull office job , checks her horoscope ( not very promising ) and promptly falls asleep in front of the tv . Two naked young men appear in her living room and begin dancing naked for her pleasure . I assumed that this was a sexual fantasy the woman was having in her dream state , but the film's structure is so illogical that there's no way to be certain of this : perhaps these naked men have actually teleported into her flat , just for the hell of it . The men dance for the woman for a while , and then eventually she joins them and they all have fun together . As this is a Kern film , I was expecting gunshots or bloodshed or both , but these things don't happen . A surprisingly pleasant film from this unusual director . It's rare for a male underground filmmaker to make a movie in which male characters cater for a female protagonist's sexual fantasies , instead of just the other way round . I'll rate ' Horoscope ' . Kern was a unique and talented filmmaker who could have become a major director if his talents had been channelled more carefully .
Some animation fans have a very high regard for the output of the short-lived Van Beuren studio . Van Beuren toons tend to be brightly coloured and upbeat , yet I dislike them : they're poorly animated and their stories have very little real conflict . I much prefer the cynicism and violence of the Warner Brothers cartoons , or even the leering vulgarity of the Fleischer studio's output . I agree with IMDb reviewer " CC the Movie Man " that there's very little Greek content in this toon , although " CC " is incorrect when he refers to one of the characters as ' Hercules ' . That character is in fact Mercury ( identified as such in the dialogue ) , who has a hot date tonight with Venus . But Mercury and Venus were the ROMAN versions of those deities ; why didn't this toon identify them by their Greek names , as Hermes and Aphrodite ? The main character in " It's a Greek Life " is a centaur : a figure from Greek mythology , right enough , but this centaur speaks in a Chico Marx accent and he works as a cobbler , a job which ( in ethnic stereotypes ) is associated with Italians . Along comes Mercury , who looks like a character out of Italian comic opera , and speaks accordingly . ( ' Mama mia ! ' ) This version of " Mercury " looks and sounds amazingly like Piccolo , the Italian chauffeur in Klaus Nordling's comic strip ' Lady Luck ' . . . but that strip wasn't published until World War Two . Mercury wants the centaur to repair his winged sandals so they'll be in good nick for his date tonight with Venus . The centaur , who has always wondered what it's like to fly , slips the sandals onto his own forehooves . Chaos ensues . Like all the Van Beuren output , this toon is too slight to merit deep analysis . Young children can enjoy it with no foreknowledge of classical mythology . The animation is better than usual for Van Beuren's standard , but that's not saying much . The Italian stereotypes , annoying in themselves , are even more annoying because these characters are allegedly meant to be Greek . I'll rate this toon barely .
Charles Ruggles was an extremely annoying comedian , rather like Clifton Webb without the bitchiness . Yet he was hugely popular in the 1930s . Ruggles tended to play henpecked little fusspots . One reason I find him annoying is that there are several movies - - ' Roadhouse Nights ' and ' Murder in the Zoo ' are good examples - - that could have been excellent if Ruggles wasn't in them : as they are , their scripts and direction have been radically twisted out of shape in order to make room for Ruggles's annoying comedy business . In ' If I Had a Million ' , I deeply resent that Ruggles and Mary Boland are given more screen time than WC Fields , Charles Laughton , Gary Cooper and other much more interesting performers . I find Mary Boland annoying too . She tended to play marcelled harridans , more like a drag queen than an actual woman . But I admire Boland's professionalism as an actress , whereas Ruggles is merely annoying . The two of them were often teamed on screen as a married couple , with Boland invariably bullying Ruggles . The team of Ruggles and Boland are even more annoying than either of them solo . ' People Will Talk ' at least varies the formula slightly , but only just . Ruggles and Boland are a well-to-do couple whose adult daughter Peggy ( vivacious Leila Hyams ) is about to celebrate the first anniversary of her marriage to Bill Trask ( Dean Jagger , doing an imitation of a block of wood ) . But Peggy quarrels with her husband because he was mildly attentive to a married woman . Boland decides to show her daughter how petty quarrelling is , so she urges meek husband Ruggles to stage a quarrel with her . He's reluctant until she bullies him into it . . . and then Ruggles quarrels with her so successfully that they have a genuine falling-out and their marriage is on the rocks . Liberated at last , the long-henpecked Ruggles gets into a drunken flirtation with married neighbour Doris . Then he ends up at a wrestling match , populated by knuckleheads with great movie names like Strangler , Spider and Prettyboy . This movie starts out slightly above average for the Ruggles-Boland teamings , largely because they have an adult child for once , and so the situations are different this time . Also , the worm ( Ruggles ) turns much earlier than usual for this formula . Unfortunately , this movie gets less funny with each successive reel . I'll rate ' People Will Talk ' only .
I saw ' Broadway Bad ' in May of this year , at the Cinevent festival in Columbus , Ohio . If I hadn't been attending the festival anyway , I would never have bothered to see this movie , as it stars an actress whom I loathe : Joan Blondell . Always cheap , vulgar , squawk-voiced and unattractive , Blondell is in her usual mode here . She manages to look a bit different this time round , but only because this movie was made at Fox ( Blondell's usual studio was Warners ) . . . so the lighting , costumes , hairstyles and general ambiance are a change of pace for her . The storyline - concerned with morals , reputations and sexual hypocrisy - is something more typical of Warners than of Fox . Blondell plays a chorus girl named Tony . ( Is that short for Anthony ? ) In the 1930s , chorus girls were generally perceived to be of low virtue ( and some of them certainly did fit that description ) , but we're given to understand that Tony is a good girl for all her brassy behaviour . She gets a proposition from playboy Craig , who is wealthy in his own right , but she turns him down to marry Bob , who's even wealthier but only because he's the scion of a prominent family . Apparently , Tony is genuinely in love with Bob ( rather than gold-digging his folks ' money ) , yet she remains friendly with Craig . When Bob catches Tony with Craig once too often , he divorces her . In order to obtain the divorce , Bob's father's lawyers ruin Tony's reputation . As she's now been branded as a bad girl , Tony decides to cash in on it . She straight away becomes a Broadway star by trading in on the public perception that she's a slut . ( Oh , so that's how it works ! ) I forgot to tell you about the baby . . . I mean , the scriptwriters forgot to tell you about the baby . All through this argle-bargle , Tony has secretly had a baby . Apparently she was with some other man before Craig and Bob . We never do find out who this man was , nor the precise nature of Tony's relationship with him - were they married ? is he dead ? - nor anything that would enable us to decide how much of our sympathy Tony deserves . Bob's rich parents find out about the baby , and they assume that Bob is the father . They sue Tony to acquire custody of the child . The courtroom scenes degenerate into soap opera . Expect some big revelations that you really won't care about . Ginger Rogers is quite good as Tony's friend , a chorus girl named Flip Daily . ( She must be an acrobat . ) I would rather have seen this movie with Ginger Rogers in the lead , as she was vastly more talented than Blondell and certainly easier on the eyes and the eardrums than Blondell ever was . I'll rate ' Broadway Bad ' , mostly for its proficient photography and efficient direction by the underrated Sidney Lanfield . There are some good supporting performances . Rogers is excellent , as is Ricardo Cortez as the semi-caddish Craig . ( Over the course of his career , Cortez made an interesting and graceful transition from shiekish leading man to cynical hero to amoral cad to outright villain : at this point , he was in his early cad phase . ) Joan Blondell , as usual , stinks . The lighting on the Fox sound stages doesn't conceal Blondell's facial moles as well as the lighting at Warners did .
Warner Brothers ( consistently the studio with the best animation ) produced some very funny cartoons featuring caricatures of real people . . . for instance , a couple of Loony Toons starring a worm who looks and sounds like Jerry Colonna , which I laughed at when I watched them . ' Pleased to Eat You ' is a one-off cartoon by Paramount - - consistently the studio with the WORST animation - - and in this cartoon the two main characters are both caricatures of real people : Jerry Colonna and Bert Lahr . Yet , watching this cartoon , rather than laughing , I felt outraged by the brazen rip-offs of these actors ' personalities . Why the double standard of my reaction ? Probably because the Warners toons were funny , while this one isn't . Here we have a cartoon lion who sounds amazingly like Bert Lahr's famous portrayal of the Cowardly Lion in ' The Wizard of Oz ' . . . only this lion's gimmick is that he's ravenous rather than craven . He's named the Hungry Lion , which made me wonder if anyone involved in this cartoon had actually read any of the Oz books . After ' The Wizard of Oz ' , the next Oz novel which features the Cowardly Lion teams him with another huge feline named the Hungry Tiger : this cartoon's ' Hungry Lion ' feels suspiciously like a conflation of the two . Oddly , having decided to make this cartoon's main character a rip-off of Lahr's very famous portrayal , the animators ( and the voice actor ) don't go to the same histrionic extremes that Lahr did ; perhaps they had a failure of nerve . The Hungry Lion hears a radio commercial by a zoo keeper who looks and sounds like a bad imitation of Jerry Colonna ( voiced by someone vastly inferior to the faux Colonna at Warners ) , seeking animals for the Who's Who Zoo . ( That name is as funny as most of the gags in this cartoon ; not much . ) The lion moves into the zoo , hoping to cadge free meals . Mildly amusing chaos ensues . The one thing that most impressed me about this semi-ambitious cartoon is that some of the dialogue is in rhymed couplets . This device could have been very effective if it had been used through the entire cartoon ; unfortunately , it comes and goes arbitrarily . This toon has glimmerings of being head-and-shoulders above the typical Paramount cartoon ( which isn't saying much ) , yet ultimately isn't very funny nor innovative . My rating : .
I was pleasantly surprised to spot my friend Joe Rock in a supporting role in this Larry Semon movie . Joe Rock kindly permitted me to interview him in his home a few years before his death . Rock was a real utility man in the early days of American films . With time out for combat service in the Great War , he put his extremely comical features to use as an actor in comedy shorts , and had even more success as a writer , producer and director . He deserves some sort of prize as the Academy Award winner who had to wait the longest to receive his Oscar . Joe Rock won a Short Subject Oscar for his documentary film ' Krakatoa ' , but was in Europe when the award was announced . When he returned Stateside , poor record-keeping left him unable to prove that he was the film's producer , so the Academy refused to release the Oscar trophy . More than thirty years later , while moving an old filing cabinet , Rock discovered some business documents which enabled him to prove that ' Krakatoa ' was his film . . . and to claim his Oscar several decades late . Unfortunately , this movie ' Golf ' isn't nearly as interesting as Joe Rock's career . Off the screen , comedian Larry Semon was an excellent amateur golfer , even introducing Oliver Hardy ( his second banana in this film ) to the sport . It would have been nice if Semon had taken advantage of this movie's theme to show off his prowess on the links . Instead , we get a dumb racist sequence featuring a black man frightened of a ground squirrel in a bag . There's also a very Semonesque sequence featuring an enormous vase teetering on a too-small stand . Larry Semon's universe is full of items stacked precariously high , teetering dangerously . . . but ( predictably enough ) always falling and smashing eventually . Semon often gave himself a love interest in his films , but here the leading lady is cast as his sister . She's Lucille Carlisle , a pert flirt . Carlisle does a neat bit of physical comedy involving a door . Later , Oliver Hardy has one nice piece of volte-face acting when he barges into a room , all bombast and bluster , then he instantaneously morphs into a courtly gent ( resembling the ' Ollie ' of Hal Roach films yet to come ) when he sees there's a lady in the room . Normally , I'm very glad to see Vernon Dent , a prolific and talented but sadly under-rated supporting comedian who came to a tragic end . ( Dent , a victim of diabetic retinopathy , spent his last years in poverty and total blindness . ) Unfortunately , at this point in their respective careers , Dent and Oliver Hardy are almost exactly the same size and shape . . . and they're cast in similar roles in ' Golf ' , so this movie has one big blusterer too many . The film ends with Hardy getting kicked in the face by a mule . . . an image which left me wincing rather than laughing . ' Golf ' had a lot of potential , but it ultimately takes a mulligan . My rating : just .
' I Get Out and You Stay Here ' is a German screwball comedy ( or is that an oxymoron ? ) from 1931 . The year is significant . At this point , Germany has recovered ( somewhat ) from the crippling economic problems of the 1920s that gave German film goers nothing to laugh at , but Hitler is still not yet in charge . . . and not yet politically dominant enough to inflect the proceedings of this film . Based on what we see here , Berlin in 1931 was a pretty nice place to live , and ( for all I know ) perhaps it was . . . at least for people with a few deutschemarks . The very attractive ( and very Aryan ) actress Camilla Horn plays the floor model in a very swank boutique in Unter den Linden , Mittel Berlin . Her job enables her to wear beautiful gowns and expensive furs , but she isn't paid much . She's engaged to a handsome young driving instructor ( Hans Brausewetter ) , and it's understood that they'll marry as soon as they get a bit of money . But no pfennigs are on the horizon . Camilla's employer ( Margo Lion ) locates a rich sucker , I mean a customer : a wealthy baron , very well played by Theodor Loos . Camilla's job requires her to be squired about at posh nightclubs and restaurants by the baron and other rich men , while wearing her employer's expensive outfits , in the hope of making some sales . Naturally , this leaves poor Hans at home all alone with his engine idling , adjusting his stick shift . Of course Hans jumps to conclusions about Camilla's stage-door Johanns . But German sex farces ( such as they were in the 1930s ) were actually somewhat prudish , so there's never any doubt that Camilla is remaining chaste . Even with her boyfriend , she follows a Hans-off policy . It's no surprise that there's a happy ending for these lovebirds in 1931 Berlin , but modern viewers are grimly aware that things won't be so nice for them in a few years . On the positive side , I did enjoy the exterior shots of Berlin . But the scenes in nightclubs and restaurants appear to be staged , featuring dress extras on a movie set , so anybody hoping to see any Christopher Isherwood-style footage of Berlin nightlife will be disappointed here . I'll rate this movie , mostly for the actors ' ability to rise above the poor script .
I was able to screen an incomplete print of this early talkie , which features some impressive use of music and ambient sound . The star of the film is Lenore Ulric , who was a popular actress on Broadway ( often co-starring with her husband Sidney Blackmer ) , yet who never caught on in movies . . . probably because , although she possessed some glamour , she was not conventionally beautiful . The villain in this film is well-played by Ullrich Haupt , making this the only film in history to feature an actress named Ulric and an actor named Ullrich . The action takes place in Alaska in 1898 during the Klondike Gold Rush . Lenore Ulric plays Talu ( short for Tallulah ? ) , the offspring of an Eskimo woman and a white man . Despite being half-caste , somehow she's managed to harpoon a husband : Lanak , a full-blooded Eskimo . Matters are not helped by the fact that Lenore Ulric wears neatly-tailored furs in this film while her fellow Eskimos clump about in crude skins . Also , she attempts an accent in some scenes but not in others . Along comes a trading vessel , captained by Jones with Duke as his first mate . ( Some weak comic relief from Louis Wolheim . ) Talu , who hopes to get an igloo with a white picket fence , stows away on Jones's ship and then becomes his mistress . Little does she know that Lanak is in cold pursuit , following her by kayak . There's a reel missing , but when the snow settles we're in Nome and Talu is now a dance-hall girl . I was hoping she would perform under the stage name Eskimo Nell . The other dance-hall gals shun her because of her mixed blood . The climactic showdown gave me frostbite . Warren Hymer is one of my all-time favourite character actors : I was pleased to see him here in one of his earliest roles , but disappointed that he had so little to do . Based on what I saw , I'll rate this movie 4 in 10 . Lenore Ulric's acting technique was better suited for the stage .
' Der Unsterbliche Lump ' ( ' The Undying Scalawag ' ) is a semi-musical starring Gustav Fröhlich , who is best-known for playing the lead role in the greatest film of all time : ' Metropolis ' . Here , he depicts a fairly similar personality in a very different story . Hans Ritter ( Fröhlich ) is a young schoolmaster in the Tyrolean village of Burghausen . Dissatisfied with this life , he aspires to be a composer of operettas . But success as a big-time operetta operator will never come unless he ups sticks and moves to Vienna . Hans is unofficially engaged to local fraulein Anna , who has no desire to leave her beloved village . So she reluctantly adopts a Hans-off policy , and they separate so that Hans can go to Vienna . Miraculously , Hans gets more success than he expected . But when he returns to Burghausen in triumph , Hans discovers that Anna has married a well-to-do local farmer named Franz . ( She probably figured it this way : Hans , Franz , what's the difference ? ) Suddenly , Hans realises that the love of Anna was more precious to him than the weltschmerz of Vienna . He goes insane , and flees into the distant sauerbraten . SPOILERS COMING . For five long years ( and it certainly seems like it ) , Hans roams the world as a hobo . Eventually , he returns to Burghausen . By an astonishingly convenient coincidence , he has come home on the very day that the local yokels are erecting a monument to their famous native son : the great composer Hans Ritter , who is now presumed dead . This scene reminded me of the climax of ' The Way of All Flesh ' , in which the protagonist goes home anonymously to confront his own grave . ' Metropolis ' is my all-time favourite film , but very little of my love for it is due to Fröhlich's performance . Nonetheless , his callow portrayal was appropriate to his role in that film . Here , Fröhlich still seems to be giving a silent-film performance : a bit too much gesticulation , a bit too much eyebrow histrionics . I had difficulty following the dialogue , which seems to be in some regional dialect rather than straightforward German or Plattdeutsch . The film features several plot twists which manage to be extremely implausible and highly predictable at the same go . Still , the music and the photography are pleasant . I'll rate this movie .
There's a decent print of this movie in the Library of Congress . There is no cartoon cat in this film . Four months before this movie's premiere , an animated cartoon was released with the same title , starring George Herriman's character Krazy Kat . The sisters Rosetta and Vivian Duncan toured in vaudeville for years with a " tab " production of " Uncle Tom's Cabin " in which they depicted Topsy and Eva . When the Duncan Sisters ( as they were usually billed ) became popular , they increasingly revised their act so that it moved farther away from the source novel . . . enlarging Topsy's and Eva's roles , and reducing Uncle Tom to a genial patriarch . In burnt-cork body paint and a nappy wig , Rosetta Duncan sang , danced and literally climbed the scenery as Topsy . In crinolines , ringlets and a deathly pallor , Vivian Duncan emoted as Little Eva St Clare and staged an elaborate death scene . Not only does this film version of " Topsy and Eva " radically depart from the original " Uncle Tom's Cabin " , it even deviates from the text of the Duncan Sisters ' stage productions . We realise early on that this will not be Harriet Beecher Stowe's novel unfolding , as we see the births of Little Eva and Topsy , depicted as follows : a white stork delivering a white baby to the luxurious St Clare mansion . . . and then a black stork dropping a black baby into a dustbin ( ! ) outside a slave shanty . In this prologue , we also see brief shots of Heaven ? depicted here as racially segregated . Topsy is the main character in this movie . When the black girl who " jes ' growed " is auctioned as a slave but nobody will bid on her , Little Eva purchases Topsy for a nickel . There's a gooey romantic subplot between Mariette ( the niece of Simon Legree ) and George Shelby , son of a prominent slaveholder . As Topsy , Rosetta Duncan never stops moving . She wears an unfortunate blackface make-up , leaving her eyelids apparently their natural colour , as well as her lips . ( It's difficult to be certain in this monochrome film . ) Rosetta Duncan performs some ridiculous set-pieces , as when she dresses up as Santa Claus and comes down the chimney to give the St Clare family " Christmas presents " . . . namely , their own possessions which Topsy previously stole from them . Uncle Tom is portrayed in this film by Noble Johnson , an African-American actor of light complexion who was often cast in white roles . ( For his most famous role as the Skull Island chieftain in ' King Kong ' , Johnson wore dark body make-up . ) Johnson was a talented actor who typically gave dignified and restrained performances . In this movie , Noble Johnson portrays Uncle Tom as an illiterate patriarch who goes along to get along , and who doesn't seem to resent being another man's property . The youthful Johnson's hair is dusted with powder here , to make him seem the elderly patriarch . Vivan Duncan was 30 when she played Little Eva in this movie : although under 5 feet tall , she's clearly an adult woman playing a pre-teen girl . Duncan tricks herself out in golden ringlets , crinolines and petticoats : the result is quite pretty but unconvincing . SPOILERS COMING . In the sisters ' stage performances , Eva's death scene was always an elaborate set-piece : here , Eva has a long languid deathbed scene but she ultimately recovers . The dialogue implies that she was saved by the prayers of Uncle Tom and Topsy . I was pleasantly surprised by the effective performance of Henry Victor as Eva's father in this silent film ; talking pictures would soon reveal Victor's bizarre accent ( he spent his childhood shuttling between England and Germany ) , and would also reveal that he wasn't usually a very good actor . Gibson Gowland is also excellent here as slimy Simon Legree . The Duncan Sisters were hugely popular stage performers in their day , so this movie is useful as a visual record of their act . Since much of the act's appeal lay in the minstrel-show jokes and songs performed by Rosetta , it's a shame that this silent film does not record the sisters ' voices . I'm trying to appraise " Topsy and Eva " on its own merits rather than as a ( very loose ) adaptation of " Uncle Tom's Cabin " , but the sad truth is that " Topsy and Eva " just isn't a very good movie . Despite its historical importance , I'll rate this minstrel show just .
Almost all of the children's books by Ted Geisel ( " Dr Seuss " ) were written in rhymed couplets . One of the very few exceptions was ' The 500 Hats of Bartholomew Cubbins ' , which Dr Seuss wrote in straight prose . Freed from the constraints of rhyme and metre , Geisel was able to write a deeper and more complex story here : one of his very best books . ( Even better is the sequel , ' Bartholomew and the Oobleck ' , which is also written in prose . ) The 1943 movie version is an animated short , produced by George Pal in his virtuoso stop-motion animation technique which he called ' Puppetoons ' . . . in which a flexible armature body is moved one frame at a time , whilst a series of individual heads ( with slightly different facial expressions ) are placed on the body's neck . This technique was remarkable and distinctive at the time , but has since become overfamiliar from its use in other venues , such as in the Pillsbury Doughboy adverts . Most of Pal's Puppetoons are quite funny ( occasionally marred by some racial stereotyping ) and can be enjoyed by children and adults even today . ' The 500 Hats of Bartholomew Cubbins ' manages to be clever rather than funny . When this movie was made in 1943 , audiences were likely impressed more than amused . . . and nowadays they're not likely even to be impressed , as animation techniques have improved so much . There are some distinct changes from Seuss's story . In Seuss's original book , Bartholomew Cubbins is a boy who wears a small red hat . When the King rides by in a carriage , Bartholomew loyally removes his hat . . . but an absolutely identical little red hat instantly appears in its place on his head . When he removes this second hat , an identical third hat replaces it . . . and so on , well into the 400's of hats . From this point , the hats gradually become more complicated : one hat sprouts a feather , the next has two feathers , until the 500th and last hat becomes very elaborate indeed . In Pal's animated version , EVERY hat after the first one is extremely elaborate , and each hat is different . . . so that we get no sense of them becoming increasingly complicated . Since the Puppetoon mannequins and their props are three-dimensional physical objects ( not animated drawings ) , it's amusing for us to see these huge bespangled chapeaux popping out of nowhere underneath Bartholomew's tiny original hat , but Seuss's original dramatic progression is lost . When the King's servants stuff Bartholomew into the carriage and drive away with him , he leaves a long trail of hats behind , each hat looking utterly different . This is about as funny as the movie gets . I'm a fan of George Pal and a fan of Dr Seuss , but they both did much better work elsewhere . I'll rate this animated short . Most modern kids are too jaded to like this sort of thing .
I saw ' The Typhoon ' in October 2006 at the Cinema Muto film festival in Sacile , Italy . The festival screened a print from Eastman House , restored via funding from the ( U . S . ) National Endowment for the Arts . The film's title is mostly symbolic , referring either to tempestuous emotions or to the implacable torrent of destiny . As he did so many times during his Hollywood career , Japanese actor Sessue Hayakawa portrays here a Japanese character intended for Occidental audiences : a yellow man whose penchant for white women combines with a bizarre code of honour unlike our western ethos . SPOILERS THROUGHOUT . This time round , Hayakawa portrays Tokorama ( is that an authentic Japanese name ? ) , a diplomatic staff officer at the Japanese embassy in Paris . Tokorama is having an affair with an American woman . . . white , of course . Other Japanese staffers at the embassy deem this relationship improper and they try to intercede , but they succeed only in setting up an Othello-like ( Othelloid ? ) situation , provoking Tokorama into murdering the woman . Allegedly , Tokorama's diplomatic work is so essential to relations between Japan and France , the Japanese government cannot afford to have him prosecuted . A younger Japanese man , named Hironari , is persuaded to take the blame for Tokorama's crime . . . for the honour of Japan , of course . Hironari is tried and executed , but then Tokorama conveniently dies anyway . Rather than revealing the truth after Tokorama's death , his colleagues decide that - - for the honour of Japan - - the truth must never be revealed . All of Tokorama's diaries and papers are deliberately destroyed . Ah , so ! Ah , so much of this movie seems so very pointless . After contriving a plot line in which the innocent Hironari is executed for Tokorama's act - - really a crime of passion more than a murder - - the film-makers make sure that Tokorama dies anyway , probably to satisfy American and European audiences ' sense of justice . In some of his other Hollywood films , Hayakawa managed to portray dignified and heroic figures with a true sense of honour . Here , all the evasions which are set up for his benefit - - allegedly a matter of ' honour ' - - only manage to help Hayakawa's character escape responsibility for his own actions . If this were the only Sessue Hayakawa movie I'd ever seen , I wouldn't have a high opinion of him as an actor . ' The Typhoon ' does have a few merits , but it's not a good introduction to Hayakawa's film career . I was intrigued to see Frank Borzage in this film , in a supporting role : Borzage became one of the most important Hollywood directors of the late silent era and the 1930s . His acting performance in this film proves that he was wise to become a director . I'll rate ' The Typhoon ' just .
In California in the early 1980s , I interviewed Clyde Cook ( from " Brizzo " , Down Under ) near the end of his long life . He had a fascinating career , performing in American vaudeville as the Kangaroo Boy , and arriving in New York City just in time for the 1919 Actors ' Equity strike . In his prime , Clyde Cook's acrobatic abilities were equal to those of the great Buster Keaton , Al St John and Lupino Lane . Unfortunately , most of Cook's starring vehicles - - low-budget shorts - - failed to make full use of his dazzling acrobatic talents . Even in the feature film ' He Who Gets Slapped ' , Cook has extensive screen time as a circus clown but he confines his acrobatics to a single hurdle / back-handspring / run-off that left me wanting to see more . Cook's on-screen appearance was rather off-putting . He was a scrawny " gowk " , resembling the later English comedian Nat Jackley ( or a frailer version of the American comedian Gil Lamb ) . In his starring vehicles - - including ' Should Sailors Marry ? ' - - Cook typically wore a huge brush moustache that I consider unpleasant to look at because of its calculated asymmetry . When Cook isn't doing his acrobatics , it's difficult to see what he has to offer as a performer . In ' Should Sailors Marry ? ' , Cook plays off against burly Noah Young , a talented character actor who's better known for his second-banana work opposite Harold Lloyd and Snub Pollard . Young and Cook have one excellent scene here ; in which Young's character - - a wrestler - - starts to sleepwalk , and thinks he's having a wrestling match . Amazingly , he manages to wrestle Cook without ever actually waking up . Cook's physical comedy here is excellent , but I kept waiting for him to cut loose with some truly first-rate acrobatics that never arrived . Oliver Hardy ( pre-Laurel ) has one brief scene as an insurance medico , giving a fine performance in a role very different from his later " Ollie " character . Cook does a bit of dancing here , performing an eccentric step that has also been captured on film by Buster Keaton and Groucho Marx . I have very fond memories of Clyde Cook - - one of the very few male actors from the silent-film era whom I ever met - - so it pains me that I can't rate this short comedy any funnier than .
Englishman Reginald Denny had a hugely successful career in American silent films ( in which his public-school English accent went unheard ) , playing brash young Americans who were firmly in the Harold Lloyd mould . In the sound era Denny's career tapered off into character roles , and he is now utterly forgotten . During the Los Angeles riots of 1992 , an entirely different man named Reginald Denny was prominently mentioned in the news . At the time , I was intrigued that absolutely none of the news media called attention to the coincidence of these men's mutual name . . . solid evidence of how completely the silent comedian Reginald Denny has now been forgotten . The 1925 silent comedy ' Where Was I ? ' calls attention to its own antiquity more so than usual for a silent film , as the plot repeatedly cites a specific date - - the 9th of January , 1923 - - in the context of being a fairly recent date relative to the present ( 1925 ) , yet far enough in the past that the hero could plausibly have forgotten where he was and what he did on that day . Reginald Denny plays Thomas Bedford , a successful young businessman who is about to marry Alicia Stone despite the protests of her father . ( Good performance by Tyrone Power , namesake father of the 1930s matinée idol . ) Suddenly , Bedford's plans are scuppered by an exotic stranger , Claire , who blithely tells Bedford that he can't marry Alicia because he's already married to Claire : the wedding took place ( she says ) on 9 January 1923 . Bedford is dismayed to realise he can't recall where he was or what he did on that date . Claire , significantly , has no marriage licence and doesn't say where she's been for the past two years . So far , the movie's plot is highly unlikely but unusual enough to be intriguing . Now it just gets stupid . While trying to retrace his whereabouts on the fateful date , Bedford mistakes another man's briefcase for his own and walks away with it . This briefcase contains $12 , 000 . In a sensible movie , any honest man who made this error would return the briefcase , or give it to the police . But Bedford has to panic and go on the run , thus becoming a fugitive accused of theft . At the film's implausible climax , Bedford has to meet Alicia and Claire both at the same go , without either woman being aware of the other's presence . So , we get that stupid slamming-doors routine . . . where two people keep just missing each other . This is just barely plausible in a silent film , since the audience mightn't start wondering why neither woman hears the door slamming when the other woman exits . An impressively physical comedian in other movies , Denny is so frenetic here that I found him wearying . ' Where Was I ? ' manages to be slightly funny in spite of itself , due to the unusual premise and despite the implausible plot twists . Arthur Lake , who worked in support of Denny in a few films , is good here as Bedford's office boy . I'll rate this movie .
I've never understood the ' camp ' phenomenon , with its devotees ( camp followers ? ) who actually prefer to see their cult favourites - - usually larger-than-life actresses - - in bad films , rather than good ones . But Joan Crawford's ' camp ' credentials are unquestioned , and ' Untamed ' is a campfest . Those who like to see Joan Crawford in queen-bee mode ( you know who you are ) will enjoy this film immensely . Me , I liked Joan better in ' Daisy Kenyon ' . Here , she's cast as Bingo Dowling - - yes , Bingo ! - - an oil heiress who's been living in the remote jungle with two older men named Murchison and Presley , whom she calls her ' uncles ' . She takes a shine to handsome young Andy McAllister , and the two of them warble some bad songs . This movie was made in 1929 , when silent films were fading fast and the Hollywood studios were scrambling to prove that their stars could not only talk but even sing . Actually , Joan was a pretty good singer and dancer in ' Hollywood Revue of 1929 ' , but her singing in ' Untamed ' is quite dire . And the sound recording is bad : well below the usual high standard of Douglas Shearer and MGM . Speaking of which : MGM were consistently the studio with the best production values , the most opulent sets and the most stylish costumes . You'd hardly know it here . Several exterior sequences - - notably in the jungle - - have clearly been filmed indoors on a set-dressed soundstage . Several other sets are too swank for their own good . A simple little shop is kitted out like a posh emporium . As Bingo , Crawford flashes too many bangles , and her jewellery tends to rattle loudly in the bad sound mix . SPOILERS NOW . Eventually , Bingo shoots Andy ( good idea ! ) but they fall in love anyway ( bad idea ! ) . I consider myself a Joan Crawford fan ( for several reasons ) but ' Untamed ' is not her finest hour . I'll give some slack to all concerned , as this talkie was made during Hollywood's awkward transition period . For that reason , and out of sentiment for Joan Crawford , I'll rate this movie . . . but I'm being generous .
I'm fascinated by the history of the Yiddish theatre world that was active in Second Avenue of New York City during the early twentieth century . Some great actors - - notably Paul Muni - - got their early training in these theatres ' overwrought melodramas and slapstick farces , performed in Yiddish for Jewish audiences that often spoke little or no English . Inevitably , very few of the Yiddish theatre's actors made it into the mainstream of American entertainment , as they tended to be East Europeans with thick accents and ( often ) defective English . I was eager to see ' Souls in Exile ' , because it stars and was directed by Maurice Schwartz , who was a major figure in New York's Yiddish theatre . This being a silent film , I assumed that any problems Schwartz might have with English would be irrelevant . Perhaps I was wrong . This movie was filmed in New York , and features some interesting lower East Side locations , yet it has the feeling and appearance of a European film . In some other context , that would be a compliment ; here , I mean it disparagingly . ' Souls in Exile ' feels like one of those dead-slow existentialist Russian dramas in which everyone is doomed from birth . I can't help but wonder if perhaps Maurice Schwartz had difficulty with American idioms and American rhythms when he made this borscht-filled movie . The story begins more than 20 years before the present . . . in Czarist Russia , where Benjamin ( Schwartz ) - - an earnest young Jew - - is having problems with the local police . Straight away , I was annoyed . This story's prologue could just as easily have been set nearer the present : in post-revolutionary Russia , with Benjamin suffering at the hands of the communists . . . who hated the Jews and oppressed them just as much as the Czar's soldiers did . For some reason , somebody connected with this movie ( possibly Schwartz himself ) didn't want to depict the communists unfavourably . Benjamin is married , but the film quickly establishes that this is a loveless ( though binding ! ) marriage which will blight Benjamin forever , or at least as long as he stays in Czarist Russia . After Benjamin's wife is reported dead in ambiguous circumstances , he manages a fresh start in New York City . Benjamin meets Ruth Esterin , the beautiful young daughter of the local cantor , and soon Cupid comes kissing the mezuzah . Benjamin is young , handsome and Jewish , so I naturally assumed that Ruth's parents would approve of their romance . Surprise ! Ruth's parents want her to marry an American Jew who is assimilated and established in the new world . They deem Benjamin a peasant , right off the boat from Murmansk , and they don't want him to have anything to do with her . But love gets the last word : Benjamin and Ruth elope , and set up housekeeping . Everything is raisins and almonds ( with very little money ) . . . until Benjamin suddenly receives word that his Russian wife might still be alive after all . Oy vey ist mir ! What to do ? I found this movie turgid and badly paced . Worse luck , I didn't care about the characters . Director Maurice Schwartz favours camera set-ups which favour actor Maurice Schwartz , to the detriment of his very beautiful leading lady Lila Lee . In fact , Lee's wholesome American ingenue looks are arguably a drawback in this role . She frankly doesn't look ethnic enough to be playing a Jewish girl , and her performance here fails to convince me that she has been raised in a sheltered , restrictive kosher household . The fact that the rest of this movie feels European , rather than American , only calls more attention to Lila Lee's " WASP " personality , inappropriate to this role . I'll rate this movie just . I suppose it may have some historical interest for the descendants of Jewish-American immigrants . As entertainment , though , it's far too dreary .
During Hollywood's golden era , several of the major studios tried to offer a splashy musical comedy that went through annual editions . MGM had ' Broadway Melody of ( insert year ) ' . Paramount had ' The Big Broadcast of ( insert year ) ' . Warners had ' Gold Diggers of ( insert year ) ' . Typically , the date in the title was the year AFTER the film was released , so that the movie could remain in distribution for an entire year and still seem up-to-date . ' Merry-Go-Round of 1938 ' looks and sounds suspiciously like Universal Studios ' attempt to get in on this franchise . . . except that there was no sequel for 1939 nor any subsequent year . The most notable thing about this movie is its two top-billed actors . Bert Lahr plays a rare starring role here , as a vaudevillain clearly based on himself . Second-billed is Jimmy Savo , a wistful little comedian ( subclass Norman Wisdom ) who was briefly a star on Broadway but made very few films . This is probably Savo's best screen performance , yet the director seems to be deliberately cheating him . Savo had a pleasant singing voice : here , when he warbles a lullaby to an orphaned baby , his face is turned away from the camera to create the ( false ) impression that Savo's singing voice is dubbed . In a later sequence , Savo does a spirited eccentric dance . . . but the camera is so far away from him that the effect is diluted . Get this plot , now . Lahr , Savo , Mischa Auer and Billy House are the Grand Street Comedy Four , a vaude act who ( in 1918 ) play the same bill as aerialist Dainty Doris . Conveniently , Doris has just fallen off her trapeze : she survives just long enough to make the four comedians promise to raise her baby daughter Sally . A few years later , the Comedy Four have got themselves booked in the Palace . . . but , before they can play the date , their big break is lost when little Sally gives them all the mumps . Fade to 1938 , and some half-hearted attempts to make the four lead actors look older with makeup . 20-year-old Sally is now a vivacious young vocalist , who has got herself engaged to handsome society scion Tony Townsend . This is one of those annoying films in which there aren't any real problems , so the scriptwriter has got to throw phony obstacles in the characters ' paths . Tony and Sally want to get married , but she hasn't the heart to leave her four ' fathers ' , who are skint and will presumably starve without her . Fair enough , except that wealthy Tony offers to take care of them . Fair enough , except that the Comedy Four have their ' pride ' and won't accept ' charity ' . Why not consider it as compensation for taking care of an orphan who wasn't their responsibility ? Then we need an obstacle to the romance , so Sally visits Tony unexpectedly and finds some over-sized and unfashionable female clothes that look like they belong to Margaret Dumont . . . so , without giving him a chance to explain , she assumes that Tony's seeing another woman and she storms out . Oh , and Tony's aunt Hortense won't approve of the marriage if she finds out that Sally is a ( gasp ! ) entertainer . So what ? Those female clothes are part of the drag act of Billy House , a man of huge girth and microscopic acting talent . For implausible reasons , he masquerades as an aristocratic Englishwoman to call on Aunt Hortense . Their scenes together are excruciating : actress Alice Brady ( as Hortense ) borrows Billie Burke's twee mannerisms , and she actually comes off here as an even phonier female impersonator than House does . American actor Billy House's phony British accent is half-acceptable , which makes me wonder why he didn't attempt an English accent in the movie ' Bedlam ' , in which he played a genuine Englishman . After House finishes impersonating an Englishwoman , he utters some of that de-rigueur dialogue about how it ' sure feels good ' to get back into male clothing ( so we won't get any - - ahem ! - - ideas about him ) . House is the least talented of the four lead actors in this movie , yet he plays the leader of their vaude act . Mischa Auer is his usual sourpuss self here , but bereft of his moustache and looking handsomer than usual . He spends the final third of the film in Gunga Din drag and body paint as a fake fakir , with Savo as his ' swami-ette ' . Oddly , Auer's character has the genuine ability to levitate Lahr : a bizarre intrusion of the paranormal into a script which is otherwise all too earthbound . The high point of this film is when Lahr performs ' The Song of the Woodman ' . Lahr had enacted this skit in a Broadway revue ; it was one of his most popular set pieces , and this movie happily preserves Lahr's big comedy song on celluloid . Unfortunately , very little else in this movie is worth watching . I never fault a film for having a low production budget , but I'm always annoyed when film makers who know they're lumbered with a low budget obstinately go ahead with a plot about life among the millionaires . . . knowing full well they haven't the dosh to depict it properly . Aunt Hortense and her phony-baloney cronies are meant to be the upper crust , but the depictions of her mansion and other ' wealthy ' locales in this movie are laughable . There are some oddities in the credits . IMDb says that Fay Helm is uncredited for her brief role as the doomed aerialist : in fact , she IS billed . But the credits also list actor Charles Williams as Hollywood producer Dave Clark : that character is mentioned in the dialogue but never seen . Nor does Hattie McDaniel ( listed here as a maid ) show up , either . I suspect that scenes were written for these characters , but ' Merry-Go-Round of 1938 ' ran out of money before they were filmed . Maybe it's a good thing there was no ' Merry-Go-Round of 1939 ' .
I saw this Danish silent film in October 2006 at the Cinema Muto festival in Sacile , Italy . Its title doesn't readily translate into English ; I would render it as ' Expediency ' . Edgar Geheimraaden is a wealthy young man who meets a beautiful shopgirl named Ebba , and they straight away fall in love . They begin to date , and three months later Ebba is pregnant . Up until this point , Edgar has shown no interest in marrying Ebba , but now he starts planning their wedding with surprising alacrity . ( Will they go on an Ebba-Debba honeymoon ? ) When his parents learn of Edgar's plans , his father persuades him not to go ahead . . . because of the class differences between Edgar and Ebba , of course . Hoping that Edgar will forget about Ebba , his father sends the young swain to live with his ( the father's ) rural friends the Laege family . Indeed , the Laeges also have an attractive young daughter , Lily . SPOILERS AHEAD . When Edgar confides in Lily , she persuades him to write to Ebba through the intermediary of Ebba's employer , the shopkeeper . . . although at this point Ebba's pregnancy is too far advanced for her to keep her job . Edgar's father contrives to intercept the letters . Believing that Edgar does not care about her , Ebba gives birth to her child . . . then dies in hospital . When Edgar and Lily learn this , they plan to marry and adopt the child . Zanny Petersen , the brunette actress who portrays Lily , is quite attractive but her complexion is surprisingly dark : more surprisingly since she's a Scandinavian . I kept thinking perhaps she was wearing too much make-up . ' Ekspeditricen ' is a turgid slice of soap opera which reveals the morals of its time , yet also hypocritically manages to have its Danish pastry and eat it too . Edgar impregnates a working-class woman and goes merrily on his way . . . yet he also manages to take responsibility for the child without marrying beneath his station . ( Lily is of a higher social class than Ebba . ) The film's attitude towards Ebba seems to be that the dirty slut had sex without getting married , so she deserves to die in poverty . I was intrigued by this film's ( too few ) exterior shots for the glimpses they gave me of Danish scenery in 1911 , but I found this movie's story ( and the actors ' histrionics ) quite depressing . This is ( so far ) the earliest film I've seen which uses the cinematic device of an insert shot of a newspaper article . Mostly for its historic value , I'll rate this one . The movie's director , August Blom , made better and more significant films during this same period .
Elisabeth Bergner is probably best remembered ( in Britain , at least ) for playing Rosalind in ' As You Like It ' , a role for which she spent most of her screen time cross-dressed as Ganymede , the counterfeit boy . She wasn't convincing as a boy in that film , but the theatrical artifice of Shakespeare's verse made her imposture seem acceptable . Here , in her earlier film ' The Fiddler of Florence ' , Bergner also spends most of her screen time in boy-garb , interacting with characters who genuinely believe her to be a boy . This is a silent film , so Bergner isn't required to speak in a male voice . Even so , her impersonation of a male is frankly unbelievable . . . and , because this film's milieu is otherwise much more realistic than Shakespeare's Forest of Arden , Bergner's failure to pass as a boy ultimately causes the entire movie to fail . She's also slightly too OLD to pass as a boy , I'll ungallantly add . Renée ( Bergner ) is a strong-willed German fraulein . When her beloved mother dies , her cold father ( Conrad Veidt ) remarries . Veidt and his new bride are only interested in each other : accordingly , Veidt packs Renée off to a strict boarding-school in Switzerland . ( I wonder if this is the girls ' school in Switzerland where Stallone had a job once . ) At this point in the movie , I was hoping for some ' Madchen in Uniform ' theatrics , but - - with a title like ' The Fiddler of Florence ' - - other things are clearly impending . Renée runs away from her Swiss school and heads for the border , presumably passing Julie Andrews and the Von Trapp children going in the opposite direction . At the Italian frontier , she coaxes a peasant boy into giving her his clothes . ( Leaving him to wear hers , I guess . Yodel-lay-he-hoo ! ) Bergner's ' disguise ' as a boy is deeply unconvincing , not least because she keeps her beautiful long blonde tresses . Renée is now reborn ( get the French pun ? ) as Rene . As Renée makes her boyish way across Italy , she falls in with two wandering bohemians : a romantic young painter-violinist and his sister . The painter is played by future character actor Walter Rilla , and he gives a far better performance here than this movie deserves . Neither Rilla nor his sister twig that this ' boy ' is actually a girl , but Rilla gradually finds himself attracted to the beautiful lad . Ach du lieber ! ' The Fiddler of Florence ' was written and directed by Paul Czinner , who would later be Bergner's husband , and who at this point was already firmly established as the guiding presence of Bergner's career . Bergner spends most of this film in male disguise , yet the attempts to transform her into a ' boy ' are so perfunctory as to be downright laughable . I suspect that Czinner was unwilling to compromise Bergner's substantial female charms , and reluctant to present her to audiences as anything less than 100 % feminine . But then why choose this particular story for her ? On the basis of ' The Fiddler of Florence ' and ' As You Like It ' - - another Czinner effort - - I wonder if perhaps Czinner was one of those men who has a predilection for women disguised as boys . Or perhaps it was Bergner herself who favoured vehicles that would require her to wear male disguise . Whoever had the idea , Bergner is simply more attractive ( and more believable ) as a fraulein than as a boy . A warning to all Conrad Veidt fans : although that splendid actor is prominently listed in the cast of this film , he actually has only a small role with very little screen time . Impressively , he gives a fine performance anyway . As the father , interacting with his new bride and his daughter in the same scene , Veidt skilfully conveys affection and lust for the former while remaining cold towards the latter . Veidt's brief performance belongs in a better movie . I'll rate ' The Fiddler of Florence ' 4 points , largely for some beautiful exterior photography . Give the movie an extra point if you like to watch women pretending to be boys .
Ray ( short for Rachael ) Dooley was an extremely talented Scots-born comedienne who was a Broadway star of the 1920s . Like Christine Baranski , Ray Dooley was ( by contemporary accounts ) that rare female combination of funny and sexy in the same woman . With her angular features and acrobatic agility , Dooley performed on stage alongside W . C . Fields , Bob Hope and other major comedians of her day . Regrettably , ' Honeymoon Lane ' was her only-ever film role . She retired from showbiz several years into her lifelong marriage to Eddie Dowling , an all-purpose Broadway talent who had some respectable success as an actor , scriptwriter , director and producer but who was not especially notable in any of those roles . After Dowling's death left her wealthy , Ray Dooley became increasingly inactive in her home in Long Island , New York . My American wife's family lived nearby and knew her well . When I was introduced to Ray Dooley in the early 1980s , I was intrigued to learn that she had a print of ' Honeymoon Lane ' , in which she and her husband had co-starred ( although not as a couple ) . ' Honeymoon Lane ' is allegedly based on Dowling's Broadway hit of the same title . I've read the script of that show ( also thanks to Ray Dooley ) , and the only thing they have in common is that both starred Dowling as a brash Irish-American named Tim . Even his surname was different in the two shows : in the Broadway production , he was cried Tim Murphy . That surname shows up in this movie too , but here Dowling's character is named Tim Dugan . The Murphy clan here are Gerty ( Dooley ) and her mother . Mrs Murphy is the proprietress of a seaside hotel . Her latest guest is none other than the King of Belgravia , who apparently doesn't realise that his kingdom is actually a neighbourhood in south London . It seems that the king has come to this American spa for the healthful waters , and for Mrs Murphy's cherry pies . French actor Armand Kaliz plays the King of Belgravia with one of the more impenetrable accents I've ever had to listen to . Ray Dooley told me she couldn't recall whether it was his real accent or not ; I suspect it wasn't . Into the same hostelry come a bunch of bootleggers with accents that are definitely phony , led by Arnold Bookstein ( clearly based on real-life hoodlum Arnold Rothstein ) . One of the gangsters is played by the spectacularly ugly George Kotsonaros , who looks like a refugee from a horror movie . Oh , yeah : the star of the movie is Eddie Dowling as Tim Dugan , who loves Mary Baggott but is afraid to marry her because her layabout father Tom will move in with them . This movie could have been a lot funnier with the same cast and budget , if it had used a diifferent script ( and a more talented director ) . Since Eddie Dowling wrote the material as well as starring , I suspect that there was an ego problem here : he probably refused to have his script scrapped . I didn't ask Ray Dooley to confirm this . Most annoying of all , the supporting cast of characters actually features a snooty rich dame named Mrs Gotrocks . Where did this stupid name come from ? I've encountered at least ten alleged comedies ( most of them cartoons ) featuring a rich character named Gotrocks . Was that name ever funny ? I doubt it . When I met Ray Dooley , she was well into her eighties . . . yet her humour , warmth , vivacity and considerable presence were unimpaired . Several of her former co-stars - - including W . C . Fields and Bob Hope - - had praised her publicly , speaking very highly of her comedic talents . She showed me her photo album , full of photographs of herself in various stage routines which appeared to be very funny indeed . Her performance in ' Honeymoon Lane ' - - energetic , with a hint of slapstick - - is the movie's high point , and yet she isn't very funny with this weak material . Perhaps if Ray Dooley had been determined to sustain her showbiz career , she could have been another Joan Davis , or a combination of Imogene Coca and Carol Burnett . As things stand , I'll rate this weak comedy . . . more out of sentiment for several of the players , rather than for its actual hilarity .
' Broadway to Hollywood ' has a grandiose title and can't live up to it . Nevertheless , this early MGM semi-musical does have some good moments in amongst the soap opera . The most interesting thing about this movie is that Jackie Cooper plays Mickey Rooney's father ! ( They were both child actors at the time , and Cooper is two years younger than Rooney . ) The catch is that this movie is the saga of three generations of a vaudeville family , with the second-generation son ( played by Cooper as a boy ) growing up to be played as an adult by Russell Hardie ( who he ? ) , who then becomes the father of the third-generation grandson ( played by Rooney as a boy ) who then grows up to achieve stardom as Eddie Quillan . With a title like ' Broadway to Hollywood ' , I assumed this movie would be a documentary overview of American show business . I was wrong . It's the story of a fictitious show-biz family . Frank Morgan and Alice Brady are Ted and Lulu Hackett : an old-time vaudeville team , going back to the days when even a mediocre act was assured of 50 weeks ' work every year on the five-a-day grind circuits . ( In those days , actors were paid badly or not at all , but they very seldom starved . ) As the Hacketts reach middle age , their young son Ted Jnr shows some talent as a dancer , and eventually he makes his way to Broadway . But then his son Ted the Third shows even more talent . We see grandson Ted ( played by Mickey Rooney , age 13 at the time ) doing a spirited buck-and-wing dance . ( This delightful sequence was shown in the first ' That's Entertainment ' movie , with no narration to explain where it came from : now you know . ) As he reaches adulthood , Hollywood offers Ted Hackett 3rd a contract as a musical star , and it looks like his grandparents ( now elderly ) can retire at last , knowing that the Hackett name will be up in lights . SPOILER COMING NOW . The ending is quite touching , and sad . Ted and Lulu sit proudly on the sound stage , just out of camera range , while their grandson ( Eddie Quillan ) does a dance routine . It's been a long road to stardom . Lulu notices that her husband has nodded off , and she touches him . Then she realises he isn't sleeping : he's dead . Lulu lets out a whimper , and a sound man quickly shushes her : the camera is grinding , and we mustn't blow this take . Understanding that this is what matters , Lulu sits quietly and proudly through the rest of the dance number . Ted the Third keeps dancing , unaware that his grandfather has just carked it . One generation of show business has died , but another one must go on with the show . . . There are some enjoyable moments here . The movie feels like a musical , but the song-and-dance numbers are too few , too far apart , and not very good . Some of the drama is too soap opera-ish and maudlin . I'm well and truly annoyed that some VERY big show-biz names from the first two decades of the twentieth century have been assembled for this movie , yet they've been given almost nothing to do : among the people you'll see here are Marie Dressler , DeWolf Hopper ( the man who immortalised ' Casey at the Bat ' ) , comic actor William Collier , and the very great comedy team of Weber and Fields ( who were major stars of the stage , yet whose film work was negligible ) . Yes , you'll see them all in this movie ( unless you blink ) , but you won't see them doing anything important . There's a nice supporting cast , though . And Frank Morgan gives an excellent performance . I'm annoyed that this fine actor is remembered only for his hokey overdone performance in ' The Wizard of Oz ' rather than his superb understated performances in several other films , including this one . For all those Friends of Dorothy who insist on refracting every other movie through ' The Wizard of Oz ' ( you know who you are ) , I'll point out that ' Broadway to Hollywood ' was co-written by Edgar Allan Woolf , who also co-scripted that overrated Munchkin mishmash . ' Broadway to Hollywood ' is full of missed opportunities . The best thing in here is Mickey Rooney's dance number , and you can see that footage in a much better movie : ' That's Entertainment ! ' . I'll reluctantly rate ' Broadway to Hollywood ' .
Silent-film star Wallace Reid is ( like Roscoe Arbuckle ) unfairly remembered for a scandal which didn't accurately reflect his true life or career . Because Reid usually played clean-cut go-getters on screen , his fans were shocked when his early death revealed the effects of long-term morphine abuse . This was actually the fault of front-office executives at Reid's home studio : when Reid was severely injured in a railway accident en route to a filming location , his producers forced him to keep working under heavy medication so that the production schedule would not be affected . After getting Reid addicted to morphia , his bosses did nothing to wean him from the addiction . When the cause of Reid's early death became public knowledge , his studio protected its own image by circulating rumours that Reid had led a double life as a secret drug addict . To this day , when Reid is remembered at all , it's usually in the ( inaccurate ) context of a drug fiend with a double life . His box-office success , and his very enjoyable action comedies , are almost entirely forgotten . The opening credits for ' Believe Me , Xantippe ' state that this film is based on a play . I would have guessed as much , because this silent film is largely talk , talk , talk . . . conveyed by many , many intertitles with LOTS of dialogue . The dialogue is meant to be funny , but too much of it is in that peppy Jazz Age slang which dates very badly . ( ' Hot-cha ! ' ) In a departure from his usual role , Wallace Reid plays a criminal here : specifically , George MacFarland , alias MacGinnis . Whatever his name is , he's a forger from New York City who has fled to the wide open spaces of the wild West , one jump ahead of a detective named Thorne ( in his side ? ) . MacFarland wants to lie low for a while , and maybe print some counterfeit bonds . In Colorado , MacFarland runs afoul of sheriff Buck Kamman , who always gets his man . MacFarland also meets the local sheriff's pretty daughter , who's no slouch in the manhunter department : she soon lassoes MacFarland , in a figurative sense . Then along comes the sheriff's sister Violette , who lassoes MacFarland in the literal sense and leaves him hog-tied . ( I can't believe that a man named Buck would have a sister named Violette . ) The plot of this movie is implausible , which would be fine if it were funny . . . but it's only fitfully amusing . I laughed during the sequence in the county gaol , when the camera cut to a close-up shot of a sampler reading ' God Bless Our Home ' . James Cruze , better known as a director , gives a deft performance here as the dim-witted deputy in charge of the gaol where MacFarland is temporarily locked up . This film is directed by Donald Crisp , much better known as a character actor . Crisp showed real talent as an actor ( and , offscreen , as a financial manager ) but his direction is not especially crisp : not here , nor elsewhere . Crisp's most famous directing job is ' The Navigator ' ( in which he did a very imaginative Hitchcock-like cameo ) , but I suspect that the success of that film is largely down to Crisp's co-director Buster Keaton . Oh , that awful ( and irrelevant ) title . Xantippe was the wife of the Greek philosopher Socrates ; according to contemporary reports , she was quite a shrew . Whenever George MacFarland gets any backchat from a woman ( or a female horse ) , he tries to placate her by saying ' Believe me , Xantippe . ' ( Do you feel better now ? ) It's an unfunny phrase , made worse by being the title of this movie . I'll rate ' Believe Me , Xantippe ' 5 points ouf of 10 ; it probably deserves only a 4 , but I give Wallace Reid an extra sympathy point , because of his undeserved fate : Hollywood literally killed him .
John Barrymore and Ethel Barrymore never entirely abandoned the stage , even after beginning their film careers . However , when their older brother Lionel moved to Hollywood , he gave quits to the theatre forever . . . devoting the rest of his career to movies and radio . During Lionel Barrymore's theatrical career , his single most successful stage role was the lead in ' The Copperhead ' , a play by Augustus Thomas based on a novel by Frederick Landis . The 1920 film version of ' The Copperhead ' is a poorly-made adaptation of what was not a very good play to begin with . It's hardly one of Lionel Barrymore's best film performances . . . but it still has some historical value as a record of his most important stage role . Rather awkwardly , the action is divided between the ( American ) Civil War and the early twentieth century , circa 1902 . This means that major characters in Act One are long dead in Act Three , and major characters in Act Three weren't even born yet during Act One . Barrymore , in the lead role , plays the only character who is alive throughout the action . Unfortunately , Barrymore ( in his early forties when he made this film ) is clearly too old to play the dashing young man in the Civil War scenes . In the later scenes , during the Theodore Roosevelt administration , Barrymore's character is aged very slightly with some unconvincing make-up . . . but he now looks too young to be playing a character who should be about 70 years old . During the Civil War , Northerners who sympathised with the Confederate cause were contemptuously known as ' copperheads ' ( like the snake ) . Organised gangs of Ku Klux Klan-like vigilantes , known as ' the Copperheads ' , committed acts of sabotage and terrorism throughout the Northern states . Like the Weather Underground and other Vietnam-era militants , the Copperheads used violent means in an attempt to persuade the U . S . government to end its military aggression ( against the South ) and to terminate military conscription . The Civil War is in full cry , and Milt Shanks ( Barrymore ) is a Northerner who makes no secret of his Southern sympathies . His family and his neighbours despise him and reject him , calling him a copperhead . Milt's son Joseph , a loyal Yankee , joins the Union army . When Joseph is wounded in the battle at Vicksburg , he dies cursing his traitorous father . Eventually it is discovered that Milt Shanks is an upper-case Copperhead : he has joined the terrorist gang and aided their night raids against Union army bases . Fade to the twentieth century : nearly forty years on from Appomattox , Milt Shanks is still reviled by everyone in his community . ( Why hasn't he ever moved elsewhere ? ) But now his grandchild is in trouble , and the neighbours have no sympathy because the Shanks family's honour has been tainted ever since the Civil War . At last , to save his grandchild , Milt Shanks reveals the secret he has kept for all these years . Flashback to 1862 . Milt Shanks was a loyal Unionist all along . President Abraham Lincoln personally recruited Shanks for a dangerous mission : Shanks was to play the role of a Confederate sympathiser in order to infiltrate the Copperheads and then betray them to the Union army . As an undercover agent ( not exactly a spy , since he was working in the North rather than in enemy territory ) , Shanks has materially aided the Union cause at great personal risk . During the war , President Lincoln forbade Shanks to reveal his secret mission to anyone . . . even his own family . At the war's end , it was expected that the President would release Shanks from his vow of secrecy . . . but the assassination of Lincoln prevented this , and Shanks has loyally kept his secret ever since , until now . ' The Copperhead ' isn't a very good play , and it's made even worse by the awkward flashback structure in this film . It's implausible that Shanks would keep his secret for nearly 40 years after the war's end . . . at great cost to himself , but at no further benefit to the U . S . government or to President Lincoln . The ' actor ' who plays Lincoln in this film has no acting ability at all , and he has obviously been cast solely for his physical resemblance to Abraham Lincoln . . . which frankly isn't very convincing . I kept expecting the mole on his cheek to fall off . Anne Cornwall , later effective as Keaton's leading lady in ' College ' , is attractive and effective in a small role here . Lionel Barrymore delivers a thick serving of ham , yet I found his performance perversely enjoyable . It's refreshing to see a Civil War film in which the anti-slavery North are clearly depicted as the force of virtue . ' The Birth of a Nation ' , ' Gone with the Wind ' and ' The General ' ( to name only three examples ) are much better movies than ' The Copperhead ' , yet they commit the morally bankrupt tactic of sympathising with the Confederacy . . . and , of course , minimising the slavery issue . I'll rate ' The Copperhead ' , but at least one point is in honour of Lionel Barrymore's entire career rather than his performance in this movie .
' The Past of Mary Holmes ' was inspired by a notorious murder case that was never solved . In 1922 , a man and woman were found shot dead in a field in New Jersey . The man was quickly identified as the Reverend Edward Hall , an Episcopal minister married to an heiress . The woman was Eleanor Mills , who sang in Reverend Hall's choir . . . and who had been the wife of Hall's sexton . Alongside the corpses ( apparently placed there by the killer ) was solid evidence that Hall and Mrs Mills had been conducting a long sexual affair . The case provoked nationwide headlines , and became more bizarre with the arrival of Jane Gibson , whom reporters swiftly dubbed ' the Pig Woman ' because she raised hogs . Mrs Gibson claimed to have witnessed the murder , but she gave several conflicting testimonies . . . at one point she was bodily carried into the courtroom in a hospital bed when she claimed to be too ill to testify . It became clear that the Pig Woman was lying to get attention , and the Hall-Mills case remains unsolved . Up until the Lindbergh kidnapping in 1933 , the Halls-Mills murder case was considered ( all together now ) the Crime of the Century . The murder case inspired best-selling author Rex Beach to write a story called ' The Goose Woman ' . Despite a few changes , this story resembles the Hall-Mills case so clearly that audiences in 1933 could be counted upon to recognise the original source when this film version of Beach's story was released . Mary Holmes was once a famous opera singer , under the stage name Marie de Nardi . Just over 20 years ago , she gave birth to her son Geoffrey . The delivery injured her severely , damaging Mary Holmes's voice . ( Erm , don't the child and the music come out at different ends ? ) Because the childbirth destroyed her career , Mary has resented her son ever since . Now an adult , Geoffrey is estranged from his mother . She spends her days in a remote farmhouse , raising geese and brooding over past triumphs while she plays a phonograph record of her own voice from her glory days . Despite this , Geoffrey loves his mother and wants her blessing for his engagement to Joan Hoyt . SPOILERS COMING . When a murder occurs near her farmhouse , Mary Holmes sees a chance to get back into the limelight . She claims to have witnessed the crime , and gives a concocted story . But the circumstances of her story point to a very obvious suspect : her own son Geoffrey . He is swiftly arrested and brought to trial . From this intriguing set-up , things get ridiculous . We're supposed to believe there's a big conflict here . Will Mary stick to her story to protect her reputation ( thereby sending her despised son to the electric chair ) , or will she humiliate herself by confessing the truth to save her son's life ? It's very obvious which choice she'll make . Part of the problem here is that the D . A . has no reason to believe Mary's reversal . The fact that she decides to clear her own son is no proof of his innocence ; many a mother would lie to save her son from the hot squat . I was hoping there would be a twist ending here : the innocent son , arrested on false testimony , turns out to be the murderer after all . No such luck . ' Skeets ' Gallagher is painful to watch as a wisecracking reporter . Ivan Simpson , J Carrol Naish and Roscoe Ates give good supporting performances . I'll rate this movie .
' King of the Zombies ' is a low-budget horror movie with some intentional humour and rather too much UN-intentional humour . The leading players are best known for their performances as comic-strip characters : Joan Woodbury , extremely beautiful here , whose career peaked with the title role in the 1945 serial ' Brenda Starr , Reporter ' , and Dick Purcell , who did his own stunts as the title character in the 1944 serial ' Captain America ' and dropped dead of a coronary attack soon afterwards . They're joined here by Mantan Moreland , a black comedian whom I've always found hilarious , yet who is now unfairly linked with Stepin Fetchit and Willie Best as merely one more purveyor of Negro stereotypes . The main villain is played by Henry Victor , an Anglo-German actor who could have had a very successful Hollywood career if only he'd possessed better control over his accent . In some sequences of this movie , Victor sounds quite British , whilst in other scenes he sounds extremely German . With the exception of Lubitsch's ' To Be or Not to Be ' , in which Victor had a very small role as a Nazi soldier , I've noticed this problem in every film in which I've seen him . . . including ' Freaks ' , in which Henry Victor's astonishingly good performance as Hercules the strongman was marred by that wandering accent . In ' King of the Zombies ' ( playing the title role ) , Henry Victor gives one of his less impressive performances . His character here is named Sangre , which of course means ' Blood ' . I suppose any movie to do with zombies will have some racial stereotyping . This movie implies that blacks make better zombies than whites , and that blacks can be zombified more easily than whites . Madame Sul-Te-Wan , the underrated black actress , is effective in a small role here and manages to convey some racial dignity . The director of this film , Jean Yarbrough , has some extremely impressive credits : he worked with a lot of people whose work I admire and enjoy . But Yarbrough was consistently a very poor director : his work is always badly paced and unimaginative . In addition to the terrible movie ' Brute Man ' ( Rondo Hatton's star vehicle ) , Jean Yarbrough also directed several episodes of Abbott & Costello's TV show . . . but Yarbrough's episodes are consistently the worst and dullest episodes of Bud & Lou's series . Yarbrough's best film was probably ' Master Minds ' , a Bowery Boys movie . Amazingly , ' King of the Zombies ' was nominated for an Academy Award . The moody and unusual musical score by Edward J . Kay got a nomination : it's not an especially good score , though . Kay was a former dentist ; when I hear the music from this film , I wonder if Kay composed his melodies on a dentist's air hose , like the musical dentist in ' Bells Are Ringing ' . This being a 1941 film , there's a vague attempt to make the movie ' relevant ' to current events with a wartime subplot : Dr Sangre is trying to use his zombies in a mind-swap experiment which will help him spy on the Allied powers . Just the idea of using Mantan Moreland in a mind-swap experiment is hilarious . ' King of the Zombies ' has some camp value , and I enjoy Mantan Moreland's performance . I'll rate this movie .
' Nightwalking ' is a very short film ; it's really more of an anecdote than a full-fledged story . We see an attractive young woman walking down a dark street while we hear her worried thoughts in voice-over . Then we see a slightly scruffy young man walking behind her . His voice-overed thoughts indicate his concern that she might think he's stalking her , so he decides to ring his mother on his mobile while he's walking , in the hope that the young woman will realise that stalkers don't ring their mums in mid-stalk . Something suddenly happens to the man ; we witness this first from the woman's viewpoint , and then from a viewpoint slightly removed from the man himself . Unfortunately , what happens to him isn't immediately clear : I had to screen this short movie three times before I twigged . Director Dan Cormack ( who shows signs of great talent ) stages the action on a dark street , so some confusion is due to the darkness . Still , he should have staged the climactic event much more clearly and unambiguously . . . which might have required the services of a professional stuntman . Once I finally understood what had happened to the young man , I couldn't be certain as to whether I was meant to laugh at his fate or sympathise with him . I was intrigued by the screenwriter's decision to show the same action from two different viewpoints . Still , that final confusion seriously impaired my enjoyment of this film , and for that reason I'll rate it only .
I saw this film at the 1998 Cinema Muto festival in Pordenone ; they screened a print from the Museum of Modern Art with the original intertitles missing . Fortunately , the action in this short comedy is simple enough to follow . Mrs Jones receives a telegram announcing that her mother is coming to visit . Mr Jones expects the worst ; sure enough , his mother-in-law forbids him to smoke and drink in his own home . In what seems to be reverse psychology - - those titles are missing - - he takes the harridan out on the town , buys her dinner and expensive gifts , and ultimately gets her drunk . The mother-in-law kisses Jones in front of his wife , prompting Mrs Jones to eject her own mother ! This is very crude domestic comedy , but it doesn't pretend to be anything higher . The fact that this sort of thing can still raise laughs is proof that the deadlock of wedlock hasn't changed very much in the century since this movie was made . Yes , dear . My rating for this : .
Not even cartoons are immune to remakes . Five years after making ' A Coy Decoy ' , Robert Clampett would remake this cartoon as the better ( and better-known ) ' Book Revue ' . Both toons have the same premise : a wolf chases Daffy Duck through a bookshop , with the titles of the books supplying gags . We get here one of Clampett's typical racist jokes : Daffy falls into a copy of ' Black Beauty ' and emerges riding a kerchief-headed ' mammy ' stereotype . One thing that bothers me about both this 1941 cartoon and its remake ' Book Revue ' is that most of the so-called ' book ' titles in both toons - - such as ' The Wolf of Wall Street ' , seen here - - are actually movie titles . In cases where a title could apply to both a book and a film ( such as ' The Bridge of San Luis Rey ' here , or " Dante's Inferno " in ' Book Revue ' ) , it's obvious that the audience were expected to think of the movie rather than the book . Either the Warners scriptwriters didn't know many book titles , or else they wouldn't give their audience credit for being literate . In ' A Coy Decoy ' , I was pleasantly surprised to see references to ' The Yearling ' and ' For Whom the Bell Tolls ' , best-selling books which ( as of 1941 ) hadn't yet been filmed . ' A Coy Decoy ' gets its title from a plot development here which wasn't used in the remake : the wolf uses a clockwork female duck to entice Daffy . This is a running theme in many Clampett cartoons , continuing right into his ' Beany and Cecil ' era : a male protagonist is lured by an artificial female ; either a male in disguise , or else a mechanical surrogate ( a fembot ? ) . Clampett seemed reluctant to put genuine female characters into his toons . There's a nice tinkling music-box motif for the she-duck ( Warners cartoons almost always had excellent music tracks ) , and there's a cheeky final gag , one of Clampett's less obvious sexual entendres . That final gag is the only place where this cartoon surpasses its remake ' Book Revue ' , which is superior all down the line until it ends in a weak ' cissy ' joke ( another of Clampett's predilections ) . I'll rate ' A Coy Decoy ' five points out of 10 . Take out that unnecessary racist joke , and I might bump it up to six .
The cross-talk comedy team of Jewel & Warriss were Britain's version of Abbott & Costello . Both teams featured a well-dressed straight-man who easily exploited and baffled an ill-dressed bumbler . Whereas Bud Abbott was dapper , his counterpart Ben Warriss onstage typically dressed as if he was on his way to a Coronation , in high silk hat , spats , walking stick and formal attire . Coarse-featured Jimmy Jewel was neither as short nor as fat as Lou Costello , but strongly resembled him in an ill-fitting suit , porkpie hat and a broad ' kipper ' tie . Although the career of Jewel & Warriss peaked at almost exactly the same time as Bud & Lou reached their zenith , Jewel & Warriss are now almost utterly forgotten because their greatest popularity was on stage in the variety halls . Their film and television appearances were few , usually limited to cameo appearances in someone else's show . They also starred in ' Up the Pole ' - a bizarre radio sitcom , taking place at the North Pole - but this radio series inevitably lacks the visual appeal of their material . The real-life behaviour of Jewel & Warriss differed sharply from their onstage personalities . Jimmy Jewel , gullible and gormless onstage , was actually a shrewd man who invested his money wisely . Ben Warriss , the glib sharpie onstage , was actually a clothes-horse who spent his money as fast as he earned it . " I'll have a new suit made for that , " was his first response to every cross-talk routine they added to their act . Interestingly , Jewel and Warriss were actually cousins , born in the same bed ( a few months apart ) and raised together in one household . ' At Home with Jimmy and Ben ' enhances the similarity of Jewel & Warriss to Abbott & Costello by employing the same gimmick previously used by Bud & Lou in their TV series . The lads are using their own names here , playing fictionalised versions of themselves , and ostensibly living together in an odd-couple arrangement . ' At Home with Jimmy and Ben ' is a one-off post-holiday special for the lads , transmitted 24 January 1962 . On Britain's TV screens , Christmas and Boxing Day are traditionally excuses for elaborate holiday specials . Apparently , Jewel & Warriss couldn't ( or didn't want to ) get this 15-minute skit scheduled during the holiday season , so they waited three weeks and shaped their material accordingly . This special depicts Jimmy and Ben living together , spending a lazy evening at home whilst recovering from the overindulgence of the recent holiday season . Naturally , Ben takes advantage of gullible Jimmy , and soon Jimmy is fetching and carrying whilst Ben nurses a hangover . The comedy seems forced . Allegedly , we're watching these two performers on their night off , when they're simply lolling about at home and being themselves . . . yet we're aware that this is really a set in a television studio , and that these two performers are speaking rehearsed dialogue . Jewel & Warriss lounge about the set in house clothes , thereby losing a major part of their distinctive image - Warriss's formal attire , Jewel's incongruous suit - and diluting the contrast between their appearances . Most comedy duos featured a little and a large , or a fat and a thin . Jewel & Warriss were of normal size and shape ; when dressed normally , the most significant contrast between them was facial : Ben is handsome , Jimmy has a face like a sack of potatoes . I'm not quite old enough to have seen Jewel & Warriss live onstage in the variety halls , when they ( and their act ) were in their prime . A few old-timers who did see them onstage have told me that Jewel & Warriss's television work ( including this special ) is simply not an accurate reflection of the act's appeal . At their peak , Jewel & Warriss were a fast-paced turn , with rapid-fire cross-talk and gags , performing in a style far more typical of American vaudeville comics rather than British music-hall comedians . Very little of that zip is on offer here . What does come through , pleasingly , is the very real affection and chemistry between these cousins who have literally been together from the cradle . ( Reportedly , in their last years together , spendthrift Ben came to resent Jimmy's comfortable financial situation . ) For that one glimpse of their past greatness , and the tremendous historical significance of their cross-talk act - Jewel & Warriss were top of the bill , during the war years - I'll rate this creaky special .
If you want to see a movie about a boy who runs away to join the circus and becomes a girl , here it is . James Otis Kaler was an extremely prolific author of boys ' novels , all of which have vanished into obscurity except one : ' Toby Tyler ' , the tale of an abused boy who runs away and joins the circus . ' Circus Days ' , intended as a star vehicle for child actor Jackie Coogan , is based on that novel . . . yet radically alters the material . ( Which may explain why the film studio did not use the title of the original novel - - still hugely popular in 1923 - - for this movie . ) In 1960 , ' Toby Tyler ' was remade by Walt Disney . . . and again , the film radically deviated from the novel . But these two film versions deviate from the novel in very different directions . SLIGHT SPOILERS . Young Toby ( Coogan ) is constantly beaten , whipped and overworked by Eben Holt , his mother's sister's husband . When Toby accidentally breaks Holt's chinaware , he is terrified that he'll receive another flogging . He runs away , and lands up with a convenient circus in which he gets a job as a concessionaire , selling lemonade and other snacks . The original novel got a whole chapter out of Toby's ordeal when one of his customers slips him a bad nickel . In the Disney movie , that incident is reduced to one line of dialogue . ' Circus Days ' substitutes a very implausible sequence in which Toby accidentally fills lemonade glasses with petrol , and sells this to customers . . . who don't notice the switch until they drink it . Surely the colour and the fumes would tip them off ? A kindly circus clown ( Cesare Gravina : a good performance in a badly-written role ) uses his own savings to help Toby get out of trouble . Yes , circus performers always have lots of money saved up . The movie gets even less plausible ( and more offensive ) when Toby gets locked in the lion's cage . The beast lumbers towards him on all fours . . . and turns out to be an African-American man wearing a lion's skin and head ( with ' yassuh ' dialogue in the intertitles ) . Turns out that the lion died , so they offered the job to Old Black Joe . The bareback rider in the circus is pretty Jeannette , a girl about Toby's age ( played by an actress rather older ) . Toby's carelessness causes an accident in which Jeannette sprains her ankle , and she can't perform . No problem : the circus crew dress up Toby as a girl , and they train him to do Jeannette's riding act . ( With some very obvious stunt doubling . ) There's a very sick-making moment here when Luigi the clown kisses Toby . It's bad enough that a man is kissing a boy , but the boy is dressed as a girl and the man is costumed as a clown . I couldn't help thinking of a certain gay serial killer who wore a clown costume . Ugh ! In the original novel , Toby Tyler did indeed become a bareback rider . . . a male equestrian , under the name Monsieur Ajax . The Disney film applied that name to a character not present in the novel : a boy equestrian who was Toby's rival . The female impersonation angle was devised for this Jackie Coogan movie , and is blessedly absent from the novel and Disney's remake . Was someone trying to groom Jackie Coogan for a career as a drag performer ? Shortly after ' Circus Days ' , he starred in ' A Boy of Flanders ' , which also has a long sequence featuring Jackie passing as a girl in public . ' Circus Days ' is well directed by Edward Cline , and has some good performances and photography . But Disney's version ( for all its changes ) is far more faithful to the original novel . I'll rate ' Circus Days ' .
UPDATE : This IMDb webpage is for a 1932 one-reel Betty Boop cartoon called ' Betty Boop for President ' . Several reviewers have mistakenly posted comments here for a completely different movie : a 1980s compilation feature , also titled ' Betty Boop for President ' . They're in the wrong place . Now read on . The Fleischer animation studio was technically innovative , developing the rotoscope process ( which enabled the animators to transfer filmed human movement into remarkably realistic cel sequences ) and some interesting 3D backgrounds for a few of the Popeye cartoons . But I seldom enjoy the Fleischer cartoons , which tend to be extremely vulgar . In a Fleischer cartoon , a cartoon character can't just swallow a drink : we have to see the adam's apple bobbing up and down , the tongue licking the lips while drool trickles from the character's mouth , the drink dribbling from the character's face , and so on . Ugh ! More so than the rest of Fleischer's output , the Betty Boop cartoons are ( usually ) very annoying to me because they tend to carry all of Fleischer's flaws to a greater intensity . During a Boop toon , we're constantly nudged in the ribs with reminders that Betty is meant to be " sexy " . I don't find her sexy at all . Suppose you saw an actual flesh-and-blood woman who looked like Betty Boop , with that huge head on a tiny body , and the huge face containing enormous eyes and a tiny little mouth . You wouldn't be sexually aroused ; you would shudder in disgust ! Also , the voice and appearance of Betty Boop were a direct steal from the singer Helen Kane , whose career nosedived because audiences thought she was imitating Betty Boop . . . when in fact the imitation was the other way round . " Betty Boop for President " is one of the more interesting Boop toons because of its historical content . Released during the 1932 Presidential campaign , it depicts Betty campaigning for the Presidency . Her opponent is a top-hatted stick-figure named Mr Nobody , who sings a clever song that must have been morbidly funny for audiences in that Depression year : " Who will feed you when you're hungry ? Mister Nobody ! " There are a lot of political jokes here which modern audiences ( especially children ) won't get . The delegates at Betty's convention are elephants and donkeys . ( OK , that joke hasn't dated . ) At one point , Betty's voice and face morph her into a caricature of Herbert Hoover ( the Republican incumbent that year ) . This effect is so startling , it's more likely to frighten children rather than amuse them . Later in the same cartoon , Betty's voice and face morph into a caricature of Alfred E . Smith , the Democratic candidate from the 1928 campaign . . . at least I THINK it's meant to be Smith : the animation is so bad , maybe this is supposed to be FDR . ( But Betty is wearing Al Smith's distinctive bowler hat . ) Again , the morphing is disturbing rather than funny . SPOILER AND WARNING . One gag in this cartoon is NOT fit for children at all . As part of Betty's campaign to get tough on crime , we see a prison inmate ( a huge snarling macho brute ) led to an electric chair and strapped in . The current surges , and the huge brute is transformed into a limp-wristed swishing " pansy " stereotype ! He pauses to apply his lipstick before sashaying out of the prison ! I was doing child-minding duty for my neighbours when I screened this cartoon on my video , chancing that it was safe for children to watch . One of the neighbours ' children saw this " pansy " character in the cartoon and she asked me : " Is that a boy or a girl ? " Well , folks , Betty Boop cartoons should NOT be your child's first introduction to the subject of alternative sexuality ! Interestingly , " Betty Boop for President " ends with an image which is clearly meant to raise a cheer from the audience rather than a laugh . The cartoon ends with a dissolve to a large image of a stein of beer . In the year 1932 , this was explicitly a call for repeal of Prohibition . It also stacks up as a clear endorsement of FDR ( who favoured repeal ) over Hoover ( who didn't ) . How many animated cartoons can you name which are endorsements for a political candidate ? ( " Hell-Bent fer Election " is the only other one I can name offhand . ) I'll rate " Betty Boop for President " . . . as an historical artefact , not for its very minimal laugh value .
' The Secret of Wilhelm Storitz ' is a television drama based on a story of the same name by Jules Verne . . . or maybe not , according to some Verne purists . The story was first published in 1910 , five years after Verne's death , in an anthology titled ( in French ) ' Yesterday and Tomorrow ' , edited by Verne's son Michel . Allegedly , all the stories in this book were written by Jules Verne , so why were they never published in his lifetime ? It's known that Verne fils did some editing to his father's manuscripts , and there is evidence that he also did substantial completion of stories left unfinished at Verne père's death . So , ' Wilhelm Storitz ' is impure Verne at best . Fortunately , it's an interesting story ( in some ways quite typical of Jules Verne ) and this tele-version is an entertaining adaptation of the original . . . oddly changing a few characters ' names and making a few other arbitrary deviations from the source . I've read Verne's ( or his son's ) story in French , having been unable to locate an English translation . This synopsis reflects the 1967 TV adaptation , rather than the 1910 story . Wilhelm Storitz is a Prussian chemist living in southern Hungary . His father ( now deceased ) was a chemist as well . Storitz is rather an obsessive individual , and an outsider . He and his laboratory assistant Denis have the traditional mad-scientist and toady-assistant relationship , except that Denis isn't a hunchback . Storitz is strongly attracted to the beautiful young Magyar woman Martha Roederich . He claims to be in love with her , but from what we see here it seems to be sexual attraction . As the setting for this story is 19th-century Europe , Storitz naturally approaches Martha's parents for her hand in marriage . Martha's father is a colonel in the Hungarian army , so he firmly refuses to permit his daughter to marry a Prussian , due to the bad history between the two nations . As it happens , Martha has another beau , a young Frenchman named Marc-Antoine . Her parents approve of this relationship , and soon Martha and Marc-Antoine are betrothed . Storitz vows revenge . ( This is one reason why I accept this story as authentic Jules Verne ; revenge was an ongoing theme throughout his works . ) Among his father's lab notes , Storitz discovers the formula for a potion that confers invisibility . He mixes a draught of this and slips it to Martha . The next morning , when she awakens , she is invisible ! SPOILERS COMING . Storitz hints broadly that he ( and he alone ) can reverse the invisibility , and that the price for this will be Martha's hand in marriage . ( But her hand is invisible ! ) Martha refuses to submit to blackmail . Marc-Antoine vows that he loves her despite her invisibility , and the two marry . Much is made of Marc-Antoine's ' sacrifice ' in marrying a woman who is doomed to lifelong invisibility , but surely there are advantages to having an invisible wife . The chief of police , hoping to force the secret of re-visibility out of Storitz's assistant , tries to arrest Denis . ( And charge him with what , precisely ? Invisibility without consent ? ) Denis dies in an accident fleeing the police . Then the gendarmes arrest Storitz , who is killed resisting arrest . The secret of the invisibility formula dies with him . Despite her invisibility , Martha is happy in her marriage to Marc-Antoine . There is a happy ending : Martha gives birth to a baby boy , and the biological changes caused by the pregnancy restore her visibility . Regrettably , this low-budget production never delves into the consequences of invisibility . When the invisible Martha became pregnant by her husband , was the foetus visible in midair ? If her child had been a girl instead of a boy , would this still have reversed the invisibility ? When invisible Martha eats , does the food remain visible within her body ? None of this is addressed . The invisibility effect is achieved with a low-budget bluescreen process , and this results in the usual defects in the on screen image ( haloing , iridescence ) when that process is used badly , as it so often is . I'll rate this slow-paced production .
The 1920 film ' Milestones ' is a remake of a film ( with the same title ) made only four years earlier . This implies that the 1916 version ( which I've not seen ) was so awful that it vanished from the public memory in less than four years ' time . This 1920 production and ( apparently ) the 1916 version are both based on material by Arnold Bennett . I've read most of his novels , but the source material for ' Milestones ' is unfamiliar to me , so I can't say how faithfully this film adapts his work . The rest of this comment applies solely to the 1920 film , and may in some details contradict the 1916 production . ' Milestones ' has a triptych structure , being set in three separate periods : 1860 , 1885 and 1910 . That last is depicted in this 1920 movie as ' the present ' , even though many Americans and Britons in 1920 ( having just emerged from the World War ) were proud of their Jazz Age modernity and would object to being conflated with people from that musty era of ten years earlier . When a film takes place in several eras , the most effective narrative technique is to cross-cut between the historic periods , leaving each story unfinished while going on to the next . This technique was used in DW Griffith's ' Intolerance ' and in Buster Keaton's ' The Three Ages ' , both excellent films . A far less effective method is to tell each period's story in full before moving on to the next . ( This was done in ' Forever and a Day ' , but that film at least kept each sequence short . ) Regrettably , the latter technique is used in ' Milestones ' , and it contributes to this movie's plodding pace . In 1860 we meet a pair of young lovers who hope to marry , but whose union provokes the disapproval of their respective parents . The lovers heed their parents ' wishes , and separate to live unhappily ever after ( apart from each other ) . In 1885 , we see basically the mixture as before : another pair of lovers , more parental disapproval ; once again the lovers heed their parents instead of following their own hearts . Unhappy endings all round . Dissolve to the ' modern ' year 1910 . Muriel Pym ( played by one Correan Kirkham ; who she ? ) is the daughter of Lord Monkhurst , and so she is styled the Honorable Muriel Pym . ( That's incorrect : she would actually be styled Lady Muriel , unless she held a title in her own right . I've difficulty believing that Arnold Bennett would make this error . ) Lady Muriel ( as I shall cry her ) falls in love with Richard Sibley ( Jack Donovan ) , a handsome and industrious civil engineer who has a promising future but no money and no blue blood in his veins . Naturally , her father protests the marriage . Sibley's father Richard Senior ( Lionel Belmore ) isn't too chuffed about it either . But this being ' modern ' 1910 , the lovers decide to make their own way in the world , with Muriel renouncing her courtesy title . This is a stuffy film , due to the poor pacing and the sensation of history inevitably repeating itself . However , it has some merits . Obscure actor Carroll Fleming ( who ? ) is excellent as the Monkhurst family's butler . Harvey Clark and Lionel Belmore give their usual understated performances . Belmore had an astounding career , appearing in movies in both Hollywood and his native Britain , and playing a wide range of roles in some major films . I was pleased that in ' Milestones ' he has a conventional haircut , rather than the distracting and bizarre quiff he wore in his starring performance in Erich von Stroheim's ' Greed ' . Character actor Lewis Stone is splendid as hard-hearted industrialist John Rhead , and I was deeply unnerved by a climactic scene in ' Milestones ' when Rhead's house is stoned by radicals . This sequence is well-staged and well-directed , but I also found it unnerving because it eerily prefigures a scene in the 1936 film ' Men Must Fight ' - - in which , again , Lewis Stone plays a prominent figure whose house is stoned by protesters - - and because it even more eerily predicts Lewis Stone's real-life death : in 1953 , some boys threw stones at Lewis Stone's house ; he chased them for several streets , then dropped dead in the gutter of a heart attack . While watching this sequence in ' Milestones ' , I felt as if Lewis Stone's screen character was genuinely in danger . Despite some good performances here , my rating for this film is only .
' The Unknown Guest ' is a German comedy film . I'm tempted to make a cheap joke that the phrase ' German comedy ' is an oxymoron . . . and , indeed , much of the knockabout slapstick in this film is merely embarrassing . But in fact there is some genuine humour here in this by-the-numbers farce , supplied by the comedy skills of one beloved character actor and an unjustly obscure character actress . Harry Hardt and Anni Markart play a wealthy couple , whose urban household employs many servants . As is typical in such houses ( and not merely in Germany ) , there is a rigid status system among the servants : the lowliest among them is the chambermaid ( Lucie Englisch ) who is married to the household's chauffeur ( Hans Brausewetter ) . The chambermaid came to the city from a Bavarian village ; her husband has never met her relatives . At the top of the food chain in the servants ' quarters is the brawny battle-axe housekeeper ( Senta Söneland ) . During her employment , the maid has frequently sent letters home to her widowed father ( from this address ) but has never told him that she is employed as a maidservant . The master and mistress of the house go away on holiday , but they inform the servants that the master's rich father ( also a widower ) will be coming to visit in their absence . Naturally , he is to be given every possible hospitality and consideration . Shortly after the mistress and her husband depart , along comes a stout respectable-looking man . But he isn't the master's rich father : he's actually the father of the chambermaid . This very posh house is his daughter's address , so he assumes that she's the mistress here . And all the other servants assume that the maid's father is the expected wealthy visitor . The maidservant sees no reason to disabuse anyone of their errors : she contrives to masquerade as the mistress of the household ( to impress her father ) whilst convincing her husband and her fellow servants that her provincial father is actually the wealthy father-in-law of the household's true mistress . Naturally , there are no end of farcical complications . The heavy-set unattractive housekeeper tries to vamp the ' wealthy ' houseguest , not realising who he really is . . . and that he has no money . Senta Söneland gives a deft performance as the housekeeper , who pursues her romantic objective with the same brisk efficiency she applies to her household duties . Despite her evident talent as an actress , Söneland was a very unattractive woman who had serious health problems ; she committed suicide a few years after this movie was made . Her performance in this film reminds me of the American character actresses Minerva Urecal and Marjorie Main ( neither of whom I ever liked ) ; Söneland is similar to both of them yet more talented than either . By far , the standout performance in this film is given by the actor who plays the chambermaid's father : none other than Szöke Szakall , the Hungarian Jewish character actor who later fled Europe ( one step ahead of the Nazis ) and had a fondly-remembered career in Hollywood under the name S . Z . Sakall in films such as ' Yankee Doodle Dandy ' and ' Casablanca ' . In ' The Unknown Guest ' , Sakall demonstrates many of the little physical crotchets that would stand him in such excellent stead during his Hollywood years . He shakes his jowls , clutches his face , wipes his brow while muttering desperately . What a delightful piece of Hungarian ham ! ( Although , in deference to Sakall's religion , perhaps ' ham ' is not the best word for him . ) I wish that someone could explain something for me . Many reference books refer to S . Z . Sakall as ' Cuddles ' Sakall , claiming that he was billed by this nickname in some of his Hollywood films . I've seen several of Sakall's American films , yet I've never seen one in which this fine actor is billed as ' Cuddles ' . Can someone please either verify this rumour or end it once for all ? I'll rate ' The Unknown Guest ' , for the fine performance of Szöke Szakall and for the splendid support by Senta Söneland .
I saw this early U . S . ( Paramount ) sound short in 1990 , at a meeting of a film society in s'Gravenhage : most of the film society's members were from Holland or the Low Countries . One Benelux gentleman had a print of this film with the original American soundtrack , but with extremely obtrusive subtitles ( in French ) dominating the lower half of the screen and blotting out much of the image . The subtitles were actually so distracting that , after a minute or so , I put a business card in front of my face to block out the lower part of the screen ! Fortunately , most of the humour in ' If Men Played Cards As Women Do ' comes from the dialogue and its delivery , rather than anything actually happening on the screen , so I still got a fair notion of the actors ' performances . Unfortunately , this same print also had the front and end credits ( and their original leaders ) cut off ; the end credits ( if there ever were any ) had been replaced with a newer piece of leader stock . More annoyingly , the opening credits were entirely gone and replaced with a leader strip which simply gave this film's title translated into French . No cast list , no production credits , nowt . Was there ever a cast list in the first place ? ( IMDb don't list one . ) Watching this 1929 film , I had a deja-viewish feeling that I ought to recognise a couple of the American actors , but so far no pennies have dropped . The four men in this film address each other by forenames , but these are clearly the names of their roles . The sound recording was bad ( no surprise for 1929 Paramount ) , and the print I viewed ( an acetate dupe ) was dark , so the actors ' voices and faces were unrecognisable to me . For what it's worth , I suspect that this short movie was filmed at Paramount's east-coast studio in Astoria , NY , rather than in Hollywood . The 1942 flag-waving musical ' Star Spangled Rhythm ' ( also from Paramount ) contains a sketch with the same title as this short movie : in that version , Ray Milland , Fred MacMurray , Franchot Tone and ( male ) character actor Lynne Overman play themselves performing this material as a skit . Apart from the casting , the two versions have two major differences : the actors in this 1929 short have much better timing and delivery than those old pros in the ' 42 version , and the 1929 version has a radically different ending . For both of these reasons , the 1929 version is funnier . ( I enjoyed ' Star-Spangled Rhythm ' for several reasons , but not for this particular sketch . . . the most protracted and least funny longueur in the entire film . ) From here onward , my review refers to the ' 29 version . A tired businessman ( that's how he's dressed , at least ) invites three of his mates over for a game of cards . But instead of a straightforward card game , they indulge in all the various diversions and distractions that are more typical of women's cardplaying . The joke - - and it's a VERY funny joke , when performed properly ( as it is in the ' 29 version , unlike the ' 42 version ) - - is that the men look , act and speak like regular blokes : they are not in any way effeminate . The title is accurate : this is not what life would be like if men acted like women , but rather if men played CARDS like women . During their cardplay , one man admires another man's hat - - a perfectly normal trilby - - so the man wearing it offers to let the admirer try it on ; the latter eagerly accepts . One man can't remember the difference between spades and clubs , so he shows his hand to the man next to him ( an opponent ) , who plays fair by showing HIS hand to point out which suit is which . All four men chatter away about trivialities completely unrelated to the game , and also unrelated to any of the important subjects men actually talk about during card games ( in descending order of importance ) : Politics , Business , Sex and Sport . SPOILER NOW . The 1942 version of this skit ended with a mouse entering the room , prompting all four men to jump onto the table and lift their trouser turn-ups . I found that gag stupid and contrived . . . especially since I've seen plenty of real-life WOMEN reacting to mice and other vermin , and not one of them ever did the " eek-a-mouse " routine that Fred MacMurray did in ' Star-Spangled Rhythm ' . This 1929 short , conversely , ends with one of the cardplayers gossiping that another ( male ) friend absent from the game is ' expecting ' a baby . . . presumably with the aid of his wife . When the cardplayers realise that the expectant friend has only recently got married , they all gleefully throw down their cards and start counting the months . . . calculating whether the friend will have been married for a full nine months before the baby arrives . Hoo boy . I found this ending more plausible than the one in ' Star-Spangled Rhythm ' , not to say funnier , but it's very much an anticlimax compared to the very effective underplaying of the actors in the rest of this skit . The film's direction ( by Joseph Santley , according to IMDb ) is brisk and efficient : I certainly wish I could verify Santley's participation from this film's opening credits , but the French print didn't have any . ' If Men Played Cards As Women Do ' ranks as one of those notions for which the basic idea is funnier than the execution . This material wants a really good punchline , and neither of these two film versions supplies it . Maybe I'm being ungenerous because I only saw the upper half of this movie , trying to block out those annoying subtitles in the lower half . My rating for this 1929 short : .
The extremely beautiful ( and sexy ) Alice Faye has long been underrated as an actress and a singer . One of the best moments of film acting I've ever seen was Faye's big scene in " Alexander's Ragtime Band " , as the former girlfriend of bandleader Tyrone Power who has come to attend a performance of his Army show in the hopes of going backstage afterwards to tell him she loves him after all and she's decided to take him back . The show ends with a stirring finale , as Power and his cast ( all in uniform ) march up the theatre's gangway singing " We're on our way to France " . The show has ended every performance with this number . Faye's great scene comes at the moment when she realises that this time it isn't an act : Power and the other soldiers are marching directly from here to a troopship , and if she can't get through the theatre crowd in time to say goodbye to him , he'll never know how she really feels . . . Faye's emotional response is riveting , and absolutely believable . Sadly , for most filmgoers , Alice Faye is either altogether forgotten or a camp icon . In the original screenplay for ' The Last of Sheila ' , Stephen Sondheim and Anthony Perkins made a cheap joke about Alice Faye's name being pig-Latin for ' phallus ' . She deserves better . ' She Learned about Sailors ' , regrettably , is typical of the fare that 20th Century-Fox usually lumbered Faye with . She plays a nightclub chantoozey in Shanghai , although ' Shanghai ' looks just like one of Fox's low-budget Chinatown sets . The later action shifts to Stateside . . . which also looks like one of Fox's sets , but not quite so low-budget . The great delight of this film is the knockabout comedy team of Mitchell and Durant , as two sailors who play a ' joke ' on Faye and their shipmate Lew Ayres . Short stocky Frank Mitchell and tall urbane Jack Durant were a vaudeville act whose turn consisted of bizarre acrobatics and violent knockabout , with Durant picking up Mitchell and flinging him all over the stage . They first made their impression on film in ' Stand Up and Cheer ' . Like a lot of other vaudeville acts , they soon discovered that the act they'd honed for years on the vaude circuit would get stale very fast on the movie screen . In ' She Learned about Sailors ' , blessedly , Mitchell and Durant get to perform two knockabout routines , and these are classic examples of vaudeville pratfall humour . This film and ' Stand Up and Cheer ' used up all their material . Afterwards , Mitchell drifted out of showbiz . Durant , a handsome man who strongly resembled Clark Gable ( and who could have worked as Gable's stand-in if he'd signed with MGM ) , drifted through several more films , playing bit roles with no lines , such as his brief appearance as a lighthouse engineer in ' Captain January ' . When Mae West left Paramount for Fox , Durant briefly dated her . . . but it was a publicity stunt to hype her fading career and give him some name value . Alice Faye sings pleasantly ( and briefly ) in ' She Learned about Sailors ' , but none of her material here is memorable . Harry Green does his usual annoying little Jewish guy routine , this time hiding behind a Spanish name . I'll rate this movie , mostly for those two comedy turns .
I saw ( but didn't hear ) this very early English musical film ( with its credits missing ) in October 2006 at the Cinema Muto festival in Sacile , Italy . Aye , a production company in England was making MUSICAL films in 1909 ! The Warwick Trading Company released silent films with musical phonograph discs , which the projectionist was meant to play in synch with the images on screen . Since the characters on screen were moving in time to the music , it did no harm if the phonograph started a bar behind or after the movie . . . so long as the phonograph and the projector both kept their proper running speeds . ( Or , in the case of this particular movie , its taxi metre . Boom , boom ! ) This is a ' trick ' film , similar to the better-known French efforts of Georges Melies . A London cabbie falls asleep in his taxi . He is knocked up by an elaborately-dressed man , whose baggage labels proclaim that he is A . Presto , Conjuror . ( An obvious pun on ' Hey Presto ! ' . ) The cabbie takes the magician to his destination . But , when Presto disembarks , a vast contingent of other characters get out with him . . . courtesy of his magic bag . It then turns out that the cabbie was merely dreaming . It's a shame that , as late as 1909 , these English film-makers felt a need to ' explain ' the magical events in their movie by having them turn out to be a dream . Melies was pulling off more elaborate events in his movies ten years earlier , and felt no need to explain them : they were clearly magic for the sake of magic ! And , indeed , Melies's trick films of circa 1903 are more impressive than this well-meaning but half-hearted English effort from 1909 . My rating : just . Taxi !
' The Trumpet Blows ' deserves some credit for sheer nerve , just for casting Adolphe Menjou , George Raft , Sidney Toler and Edward Ellis as Mexicans . Credulity is strained even more by casting Menjou and Raft as brothers . Menjou is Pancho Montez , a former bandito ( clearly based on Pancho Villa ) now living in the town of Corrales under the alias Pancho Gomez . He hopes to marry the beautiful dancer Chulita ( wot , no last name ? ) , played by the beauteous and classy Frances Drake . Pancho's brother Manuel has been living in the USA ( which explains Raft's accent ) , but now he comes to live with Pancho . Big brother Pancho has a wife all picked out for Manuel , but the latter prefers Chulita . I was expecting the brothers to fight over Chulita . Instead , when Manuel learns the truth , his respect for his brother compels him to leave town to give Pancho a clear field . Manuel goes off to Mexico City and , with laughable ease , he becomes a big-league matador . Meanwhile , the police have finally caught up with Pancho . When Manuel learns of this , he rushes back to aid his brother . This movie is seriously compromised by the fact that most of the actors are not remotely believable as Mexicans . I especially loathed Nydia Westman , whose twittering voice and smirking face are invariably annoying but who is here more annoying than usual because she's so implausible as a Latina . Al Bridge , whom I usually like , is unbelievable here as a gravel-voiced Mexican constable . Katherine DeMille ( Cecil B DeMille's adopted daughter , who may genuinely have had some mestiza blood ) is plausible , and Frances Drake is superb . Sidney Toler's facial bone structure is really weird : he never quite looks plausible as a caucasian ( even though he was one ) , and never quite looked right in Chinese makeup as Charlie Chan . Here , as a mestizo , he looks flat-out ridiculous . I haven't seen so many fake Mexicans since John Garfield , Spencer Tracy , Sheldon Leonard and Frank Morgan donned sombreros and serapes for ' Tortilla Flat ' . The script and direction in ' The Trumpet Blows ' aren't bad , but would have been vastly more effective if this film had been cast with genuine Latino actors . That's not political correctness : I'm just being pragmatic . No movie with Nydia Westman in it will ever get a perfect 10 rating from me , but the other actors work hard in this one . As for George Raft in matador drag . . . did somebody mention ' bull ' ? I'll charitably give this one .
Here's Richard Dix ( did his friends call him Dick Dix ? ) in an action movie that seems like it might be more appropriate as a vehicle for Tom Mix . But Dix or Mix , this movie isn't very good . Dix plays a U . S . Army lieutenant on duty at the Mexican border , where he's assigned to catch drugs smugglers . ( Little did the makers of this 1923 movie suspect that , more than 80 years later , the border STILL isn't safe from this problem ! ) Helene Chadwick is well-cast as a government agent . She must be working undercover , because her character doesn't even have a name . Dix's leading ladies tended to be fainting damsels , but here Chadwick plays a heroine who can hold her own in a fight . Dix's sergeant is a black man , which makes sense : most of the U . S . Army troops who patrolled the Mexican border in the 1920s and earlier ( while the Army was still segregated ) were African-American servicemen . Unfortunately , the actor who plays Sergeant Johnson ( Tom Wilson ) is clearly a white man in dark make-up . Couldn't this movie company find a black actor ? Worse luck , Sergeant Johnson is meant to be a comedy-relief role , embodying nearly every minstrel-show stereotype except cowardice . The main baddie here is Alan Hale , ably abetted by some of the nastiest villains of the silent screen . . . including Jean Hersholt , Walter Long and Lionel Belmore . ( I also spotted Richard Arlen as one of Dix's enlisted men . ) All the baddies like to hang about at the local cantina . Eventually , the villains kidnap Helene and the regiment's colonel . Now get this , please : Dix has an entire regiment of armed and trained cavalrymen at his beck and call . So what does he do ? Natch , he goes off to rescue the hostages single-handed . SPOILERS COMING . There's a spirited and very well-choreographed climactic fight , as two - fisted Dix takes on about a dozen ornery varmints , with Chadwick covering his back . However , even Richard Dix can't triumph against these odds , so eventually the villains close in on him and Helene . It looks like the end is near . . . so Dix draws his service revolver ( why didn't he do this before ? ) and places the business end against the fair Helene's throat , apparently intending to save her from a fate worse than death by killing her . Suddenly , these silent-film actors react to a sound that we can't hear . A bugle call ! The cavalry are coming to the rescue ! What a movie ! There are several lapses in logic in ' Quicksands ' , but no more so than in plenty of other action movies . That title is irrelevant : if there are any quicksands in ' Quicksands ' , I must have blinked and missed them . I'll rate this he-man brawlfest a solid . I might have rated it higher if the sergeant hadn't been a racist caricature .
I'm not nearly as fluent in Russian as I'd like to be . One way I gain familiarity with the language is by watching Russian movies ( preferably recent ones , with contemporary dialects ) and trying to follow the dialogue . A friend of mine from Kiev recommended this early Russian sound film to me : although it's officially a talkie , most or all of the footage was clearly shot silent and then post-dubbed . Very little of the story is dependent on dialogue , and so it was easy for me to follow the action . This movie is also interesting due to its location scenes in a part of the world that didn't get filmed very often in the 1930s . " Earth Is Thirsty " takes place in Turkmenistan , specifically in a barren desert region where the peasant farmers are barely subsisting . In Stalin's economic system , these people are " bednyakyi " ( peons ) . Enter stage left a " kulak " ( the Russian equivalent of a hidalgo ) , portrayed by Leonid Vikhrev from the Moscow branch office of the Snidely Whiplash Dramatic Academy . He manages to divert the region's only water supply for the sole benefit of his own land . Nyah-ha-ha ! The starving peasants start starving even faster . But help is on the way , comrade ! Along come the courageous Soviet civil engineers , selflessly dedicated to serving the impoverished proletariat . Using modern irrigation techniques , they re-reroute the water supply back to the peasants ' land . The film has an upbeat finish , with the peasants dancing , singing and celebrating . I have no idea how accurate this movie is . I'm generally quite sceptical of Soviet propaganda films . This one seemed to have a greater ring of accuracy than most others I've seen , but the difference may be down to the fact that this movie's story is more concerned with helping the peasants survive rather than uplifting their political sensibilities . In some ways , this film reminded me of King Vidor's ' Our Daily Bread ' , which similarly flirted with communism and collectivism . And the shenanigans with the water supply inevitably reminded me of ' Chinatown ' . None of the actors here give subtle performances . The peasants are depicted as the honest salt of the earth . . . but OF COURSE they're honest , since there's nothing hereabouts worth stealing . The role of the kulak is scripted as a double-dyed villain , and played by Vikhrev accordingly , so I was intrigued that he doesn't face any sort of come-uppance , nor even a reformation in the style of Ebenezer Scrooge . The film ends with Vikhrev sulking in his dacha while the peasants celebrate . My rating for this one : .
Douglas Corrigan was an early example of the ' 15 minutes of fame ' phenomenon . A working-class Texan from a family with strong Irish-American roots , Corrigan bought a junked aeroplane and fixed it to his own satisfaction - some parts literally held on with baling wire - and in 1938 he flew cross-country from California to New York , intending to do a Lindy and fly solo across the Atlantic to Ireland . In New York , flight officials refused to certify Corrigan's airborne jalopy as airworthy for the transatlantic flight , and he was ordered to turn round and fly back home . ( The certification standards were laxer for an overland flight , for reasons which I assume are obvious . ) Corrigan agreed to fly west from New York , and was cleared for take-off . Straight away he was in the air , Corrigan volte-faced as his ' plane did an about-turn and flew east . Several thousand miles later , when he landed , he affected to be greatly surprised that he was in Ireland rather than California . . . claiming that he had flown above cloud cover for the entire trip , and hadn't realised he was flying over ocean instead of land ! He also claimed that his instruments were defective ( I believe that part ) , so he'd thought he was flying west instead of east ! Corrigan was promptly nicknamed ' Wrong Way ' Corrigan by an affectionate public who knew damned well he was lying , but who admired his brass-bottle gumption . To this day , one continues to encounter the nickname ' Wrong Way Corrigan ' hung on anyone who proceeds in the wrong direction . ' The Flying Irishman ' is a quickie film , cashing in on Corrigan's exploit and starring himself in the lead role . A sizeable number of the supporting roles in this film are played by veteran character actors , which in this case is a disadvantage : we're supposed to see this film as a factual enactment of real events , but the presence of familiar faces Robert Armstrong , Paul Kelly , Donald MacBride , Charles Lane , Frank Faylen , & c , constantly remind us that we're watching a movie . Corrigan is no actor , so his interaction with these old pros is jarring . He does nicely enough in a brief scene with blonde Joyce Compton as a blowsy waitress . The film attempts to tell Corrigan's entire life story up to his wrong-way flight , depicting his early days and his relationship with his brother Henry . None of this material is very interesting , especially as it appears to be the usual Hollywood bio-pic confabulation . We're really here to see Corrigan's flight and what happened afterwards . Since I already knew Corrigan's story before I saw this film , there were no surprises for me here . When this movie was made , in 1939 , practically everyone in America knew Corrigan's story . . . so , my criticism on that point is valid . Still , modern viewers - who have heard of Corrigan but don't know anything about him - might enjoy watching this movie . Also , I admire Corrigan for his real-life nerve ( risking his life to prove he was right and the aviation officials were wrong ) . I admire him for breaking the rules in a context that jeopardised no-one but himself , and I admire him for getting away with it afterward . I wish that screenwriter Dalton Trumbo had spent more time writing movies like this , and less time in some of his other activities . ( Guess which ones , comrade . ) I'll rate this movie . Cleared for take-off !
SPOILERS THROUGHOUT . ' I Will Repay ' is adapted from O . Henry's short story ' A Municipal Report ' , but this film version makes some changes in the story which I consider largely improvements . In O . Henry's original , the ( unnamed ) narrator is mostly a passive observer : here , named Roger Kendall , he plays an active role in the proceedings and ends up in a romantic relationship with Virginia Rodney : the beauteous Corinne Griffith , playing a character who didn't even exist in the original story . Kendall , on the staff of a New York City magazine , has been sent to Nashville by his editor to offer a contract to one Azalea Adair , an unknown authoress . She turns out to be Southern gentility , living in genteel poverty and secretly supported by Caesar , a Negro coachman ( played by a white actor in blackface ) who was previously her family's property . But Miss Adair is also victimised by Steve , her late husband's son by a previous marriage , who bullies her into giving him any money that comes her way . The story ends happily , with Kendall signing Miss Adair to a contract at eight cents per word : an absolutely huge sum for an author in 1917 , as O . Henry could have testified had he not died in poverty seven years earlier . I will give the film-makers some credit for depicting the Negro character Caesar rather more sympathetically here than O . Henry treated him . My rating for this barely plausible but enjoyable yarn : .
Benvenuto Cellini was a goldsmith in 16th-century Florence , and apparently he was also something of a hell-raiser and a swordsman ( in the sexual sense as well as the literal one ) . However , it's my understanding that we have only Cellini's own memoirs ( never published in his lifetime ) as testimony of his sexual prowess . Fortunately , some of his artistic creations have survived , and they leave no doubt as to his skill as an artisan . This movie is based on a play by Edwin Justus Mayer , which also inspired ' The Firebrand of Florence ' , a musical ( with songs by Kurt Weill and Ira Gershwin ) that flopped on Broadway in 1945 . I wish I could have seen that musical instead of this movie . What's wrong with it ? Well , there's lots of sumptuous Hollywood spectacle on view here , which is part of the problem . This is supposed to be 16th-century Italy , but everything is spotlessly clean and everybody has good teeth . Late in the film , we get a glimpse of brawny Dewey Robinson in a Prince Valiant wig , galumphing about as a poncy steward . I was more impressed by Vince Barnett as Cellini's dogsbody assistant , wearing a wig that conceals Barnett's lug-ears . Some people enjoy Frank Morgan's performance . I don't , largely because he nearly always played a whinnying idiot . Here he's cast as the duke of Florence , who was apparently a whinnying idiot because that's how Morgan plays him . More impressive is Fay Wray , an actress of keen intelligence , who here very convincingly portrays a stupid peasant girl . The jumble of American accents are very annoying in this movie , constantly reminding us that this is 16th-century Florence by way of 20th Century-Fox . Constance Bennett gets top billing , but the real draw here is definitely Fredric March , who plays Cellini in full swashbuckler mode . March's stunt double makes an impressive entrance through the ceiling . The sets and costumes throughout this film are elaborate and impressive , as is the camera work . Still , this is one of those annoying movies in which the hero is the only ' real ' man , who invariably comes up trumps in every encounter . I'll rate this movie . It probably would have been a better movie if the duke had been played by Ralph Morgan , a much better ( and more versatile ) actor than his brother Frank
' So , You Don't Know Korff Yet ? ' is a low-budget comedy , made in Germany during the Third Reich but largely free of Nazi agitprop . It's an amusing film , with an interesting depiction of Hollywood-style gangsters as imagined by Germans . Vermeylen is a wealthy Dutch art collector , who lives in Amsterdam with his pretty daughter Dortje . Three crooks conspire to steal one of his paintings . The crooks are played by German actors but are apparently meant to be American gangsters ( Morton and Kelly ) with a French toff ( DuFour ) as their leader . Kelly is played by the great German actor Fritz Rasp , who must have felt he was slumming in this movie . These ' gangsters ' are utterly unrealistic , but no more so than some of the gangster characters in Hollywood films of this era . Into this umlaut-fest arrives Niels Korff , one of those implausible fictional characters who could never exist in real life . Korff is a hugely successful author of detective novels who amuses himself as a flautist , but who acquires material for his novels by working ( in real life ) as an amateur detective ! That blurry object whizzing past you is this movie's plausibility , vanishing into the distance . Korff takes it upon himself to save the Vermeylens and their painting . He is aided in this endeavour by two bumbling private detectives : van Gaalen and Schimmelpennick ( the latter's name is funnier than her performance ) . I have a low opinion of German attempts at humour , so I was pleasantly surprised that this movie is actually fairly successful in blending intentional comedy with some genuine suspense during the heist sequences . The interplay of eyeballs between Korff and Dortje makes it obvious how this movie will end . . . but we have some fun getting there . I found this plot line utterly unbelievable , yet that didn't stop me from enjoying it . I'm vaguely astonished that such a light-hearted trifle could have been confected during the Third Reich , yet this movie is very much in the spirit of the screwball comedies that Hollywood was making at this time . . . not as good as those films , mind you , but in that same spirit all the same . The music in a nightclub sequence is good , too . I'll rate this movie . I wish the Third Reich had devoted more resources to turning out pleasant froth like this , instead of their more regrettable enterprises .
The reign of France's king Louis Philippe ( 1830-1848 ) was a turbulent era . Louis initiated all sorts of social reforms which were allegedly ' progressive ' , but which achieved little actual progress . For example , France's Child Labour Act of 1841 mandated that children aged 8 to 12 could not be used in manual labour for more than 8 hours a day , whilst children up to age 16 could not be forced to work for more than 12 hours a day . In theory this was a reform ; in fact , it achieved precisely nothing because Louis Philippe's labour inspectors were all corrupt . Interestingly , Louis Philippe did relax France's previous laws against Jews . . . but this appears to be his only reform that actually accomplished something . ' Auberge de Adrets ' was a French stage play depicting the exploits of two French rogues during the July Monarchy of Louis Philippe . Robert Macaire ( his name rhymes in French ) and Bertrand begin the play as galley slaves ; they meet in prison and , after escaping together , decide to pool their criminal talents . Their relationship is remarkably similar to that of Blackadder and Baldrick ( from the British sitcom ) , with Macaire as the master and Bertrand as his incompetent assistant and henchman . ' Auberge de Adrets ' was originally a satire on French society in the time of Louis Philippe . In the late 19th century , this play was revived and revised by the French actor Frederick Lemaitre , who cast himself as Macaire in a new version which satirised the political excesses of ' modern ' France . Georges Melies's film ' Robert Macaire et Bernard ' is a screen version of Lemaitre's play . This is a very crude film , with no dialogue intertitles . Melies stages the action as a series of vignettes , each one mounted in front of a different painted backdrop in a single camera set-up . We see Macaire and Bertrand meeting aboard a prison-galley : a ' ship ' that is clearly a stage setting in an indoor theatre . We witness their escape ( overboard ) and their decision to join forces as confidence tricksters . The subsequent tableaux depict Macaire ( assisted by Bertrand ) turning his hand to a series of trades . In each case , Macaire chooses a respected profession as a front for his criminal endeavours : for instance , at one point he sets himself up as a consulting physician . . . but he sells only potions which are medically worthless . These scenes are like a series of linked sausages ; one follows the next , but they don't build to a climax . SPOILERS COMING . After the two crooks have been exposed as frauds in every honest profession of France , they hightail it for the border and arrive in Belgium . In Lemaitre's play , the dialogue describes Belgium as a worthless wilderness unfit for anyone except fools and lunatics . . . a place , in other words , where two crooks can get a fresh start towards prosperity . Unfortunately , Melies's crude film assumes that the audience have some prior knowledge of Lemaitre's play , and can therefore follow the actions of Melies's players without requiring dialogue or captions . Modern audiences , who lack that knowledge , will find this movie quite baffling . . . and will find the final scene most baffling of all , when Macaire and Bertrand tramp across an open field ( one more crude backdrop , obviously filmed indoors ) and find themselves in Belgium . I'll rate this movie , more for its historic value than for any entertainment or narrative qualities . Georges Melies did his best work in his famous ' stunt ' films that relied on trick photography . Here , attempting to tell a straightforward story , he's much less effective .
In adapting his own stage play ' Berkeley Square ' for the screen , playwright John L Balderston made numerous changes . One change is significant in hindsight : during Act One of the stage play , the dialogue makes several references to a war hero named Bill Clinton ! ( A hero on the side fighting AGAINST the United States . ) In the film , this British officer is merely identified as Major Clinton , and there are no mentions of his heroics . Leslie Howard , everyone's definitive Englishman , was actually English only by a fluke : his parents were Hungarian Jews who moved to London shortly before his birth . In the film version of ' Berkeley Square ' , Howard portrays two Americans - - one from the 18th century , one from the present - - but his accent and demeanour in both roles are quintessentially English . Howard had previously starred on Broadway in this story , but in the stage play he portrayed only the modern-day Peter Standish who journeys into the past ; his namesake ancestor ( swapping places with him in the present ) remained offstage . Here we have the fantasy about a modern American who contrives to switch places in time with his 18th-century ancestor : both men are named Peter Standish , and are physically identical . ( This is unlikely : the medical , dental and nutritional standards in 1784 would have kept that century's Standish looking very different from his descendant . ) Apart from failing to convince me he's American , Howard gives an excellent performance in both roles . Soon enough , Peter Standish acquires a touch of Peter Ibbetson as he falls in love with a woman who will die in 1787 , more than a century before his own birth . The ever-reliable Samuel S . Hinds ( wearing a bizarre moustache here ) plays straight man to Howard in one fascinating scene , in which Standish explains the difference between linear time and non-linear time : in the latter , all the events in the universe are occurring simultaneously . Also quite excellent is Betty Lawford in an unsympathetic role . She wears some very chic gloves but also sports a bizarre fur collar that seems to be intended for a female impersonator . A transvestite linebacker could hide his shoulders inside there ! As the doomed young lady of 18th-century England , Heather Angel has one memorable scene opposite the 18th-century Standish's body possessed by his modern descendant . Staring into Standish's eyes , she glimpses an amazing stock-footage montage of the chaos and mayhem of modern times . Her reaction is memorable . A story like this will have intentional anachronisms , but I looked for unintentional errors . Here's one : a string ensemble in 1784 perform Gossec's ' Gavotte ' two years before he wrote it . Have another : in the opening scene , set in September 1784 , Lionel Belmore reports that a French aeronaut has just flown from Dover to Calais ( Belmore mispronounces this name ) in a balloon . Actually , that didn't happen until January 1785 : the flight was in the opposite direction , and there were two men ( one of them Anglo-American ) in the balloon . In a later scene , some English gentlemen give the word ' bathed ' the wrong pronunciation ( yes , I'm quite certain ) . The art direction is generally excellent , except for a dodgy thunderstorm . And it's weird to encounter the term ' crux ansata ' applied to what modern viewers know better as the Egyptian ankh . The single worst thing about ' Berkeley Square ' is the overscored soundtrack : practically every scene assaults the ears with loud background music , when so much of this gentle fantasy would have worked better with no music at all . I was delighted that the character actress Beryl Mercer is much less annoying than usual here , probably because ( for once ) she's been given no maudlin material . My rating for this gentle , stately fantasy is . For a much more romantic treatment of this premise with a different set of time-travel paradoxes , I recommend a better movie : ' Somewhere in Time ' .
' The Enchanted Cottage ' is a delicate little drama that flirts at the edges of fantasy . Cleverly , this film evokes the aura of the supernatural without ever making clear whether it's actually here or not . The film actor Richard Barthelmess engages me intellectually but not emotionally . I've never yet seen a Barthelmess performance that convinced me he actually was the character he was playing . Yet he always impresses me with the effort he clearly takes in his characterisations . This is especially clear in his best-known role , as the meek Chinese emigrant in ' Broken Blossoms ' . Not for one instant did I accept Barthelmess as a Chinese , yet he works hard and impresses me favourably . In ' The Enchanted Cottage ' , alas , Bathelmess seems to be doing a bad imitation of Lon Chaney . Barthelmess plays Oliver Bashforth ( ! ) , a shell-shocked veteran of the Great War . He was wounded in combat , but the inter-titles are very imprecise about the nature of his injury . As Bashforth , Bathelmess stoops over and wears raccoonish eye makeup . Very distressingly , he keeps making V-signs with both his hands , like some demented Winston Churchill . This is meant to indicate some sort of physical handicap , though I'm not aware of any injury that causes its victim to make V-signs . Harvey Smith syndrome , perhaps ? In one scene , Barthelmess crouches in front of a full-length mirror and bitterly confronts his own deformed reflection : he seems to be imitating the scene in ' A Blind Bargain ' when Chaney as the Ape-man discovers his own reflection . The leading lady in this movie is May McAvoy . May McAvoy was one of the most beautiful actresses in silent films . Here , she portrays a plain-faced spinster named Laura Pennington . The makeup artist has given McAvoy an extremely convincing overbite and a putty job to make her face less attractive . I usually dislike it when a beautiful actress is uglified so that she can play a role that could have gone to a less attractive actress . Here , for once , the device is valid . Bashforth , allegedly deformed by his injuries and wallowing in self-pity , flees to a secluded cottage so he'll have no visitors . His sister Ethel persists in visiting so she can tend him . Bashforth enters into a sham marriage with unattractive Laura , solely as a ploy so that his sister will go away . Bashforth and Laura discover that the cottage has a long history as a honeymoon cottage ; lovers have trysted there for more than two centuries . Gradually , Bashforth and Laura fall in love . As this happens , they subjectively become more attractive . He loses his deformities , whilst Laura becomes more beautiful and starts looking like May McAvoy . The film subtly persuades us that this is a subjective transformation rather than an actual change . Bashforth's and Laura's only neighbour is a retired major ( very well played by Holmes Herbert ) who's blind , so he ' sees ' the couple in terms of their personalities , not their physical appearance . SPOILERS COMING . All is well until sister Ethel returns with her fiancé Rupert and Rupert's mother . By now , Bashforth and Laura are so good-looking , they could be a couple of matinée idols . When they come down the stairs into the parlour , there is a beautiful dissolve shot as their physical appearance melts back into what it was at the beginning of the film . He is again deformed , she is again plain and buck-toothed . This is a beautiful and subtle film , made more so because we never quite know how much of this is genuine fantasy , and how much of it merely the fancies of the on-screen characters . But the effect is sadly undercut by some extremely maudlin inter-titles . This was an ongoing hazard of silent films , as the titles were often written by someone completely unrelated to the production of the film in which the titles appeared , and often the tone of the latter contrasted with the former . I'll rate ' The Enchanted Cottage ' .
When I play movie trivia with other movie fans , I often stump them with this question : What famous movie personality served in the German army during World War One , but became one of Hollywood's biggest stars in the 1920s ? The answer is Rin Tin Tin . This Alsatian dog ( his original name unknown ) was found in an abandoned German army trench , where he apparently had served as a guard dog . He was brought to the States by an officer in the American Expeditionary Force , and soon proved to be extraordinarily intelligent . ' Find Your Man ' is not the only film with a title in the second person , but it's probably the only one for which the ' You ' in the title is a dog . Rinty stars as Buddy , a dog in a remote timber camp . The backbone of the organisation ( the lumber vertebrae ? ) is Dains , the evil foreman . Four-legged Buddy is the only witness when Dains kills a man and then frames Paul Andrews for the deed . The sheriff hustles Andrews off to prison . When Dains notices that Buddy won't stop staring at him ( hounding him ? ) , he orders a lumberjack named Mills ( lumber Mills ? ) to kill the dog . One good bullet would end this movie right here , but instead of killing Buddy , Mills proceeds to tie him up and muzzle him , planning to sell him . Anybody who's into canine bondage scenes will rewind this sequence several times . Of course Buddy escapes , and of course there's a climactic race against time as Buddy rushes to the courthouse to clear Andrews . If you have to ask if justice triumphs , you've got no business reading this site . I'm genuinely impressed by Rin Tin Tin's acting ; he quite convinced me that he was listening to the actors ' dialogue in this silent film . Less impressive is June Marlowe , who seems to be in this movie merely for the sake of a pretty female lead . The blonde Marlowe is indeed pretty , but far too pallid and frail-looking to be hanging about a timber camp . As the ( human ) male lead , Eric St Clair is dull : fortunately , his role is more a plot device than an actual character . The photography throughout this film is excellent , especially in the exterior sequences , and the editing is brisk despite Mal St Clair's lacklustre pacing . I'll rate ' Find Your Man ' .
Why is this movie titled ' The Love Mart ' ? Would ' The Love MARKET ' have been too shocking ? The opening credits say this movie is based on a novel , but the novel ( which I've not read ) had a different title , so the peculiar title on this movie can't be blamed on the original author . All of the following refers solely to the film version . The story takes place in 19th-century New Orleans before the Civil War . Gilbert Roland is Victor , a wandering swashbuckler who is accustomed to settling all his arguments according to the code duello : he really seems to belong in an 18th-century story rather than the 19th . After getting into a minor argument he is challenged to a duel , which of course he wins handily . ( Victor by name and victor by nature . ) Having won the duel , it turns out that he has also won the challenger's property : a barbershop ! I've never heard of property changing hands as the result of a duel , but I suppose it has happened . The wandering Victor decides to settle down as a barber , at least till a better chance comes along . Now he meets Antoinette , a southern belle played by delicately beautiful Billie Dove . Victor develops a case of the toot-sweets for Antoinette , but she thinks he's a mere barber . ( Maybe she just doesn't fancy a man with a striped pole . ) She turns up her nose and sashays away before you can play ' Shave and a haircut . ' Along comes Captain Remy , played by snarling Noah Beery . Remy offers himself to Antoinette , but she ain't having any . So the captain forges evidence to indicate that blue-blood Antoinette is secretly a quadroon . . . meaning that she's one part Negro . ( Which part ? ) By the laws of the time , Antoinette is legally black . . . and so she can be sold at slave auction to the highest bidder . Next thing she knows , Antoinette is chained , docketed as merchandise , and paraded before the lewdly-grinning slave-buyers , a slavering bunch of slavers . Yesterday she was a proud aristocrat ; now she's a piece of flesh for sale . SPOILERS COMING . It's no surprise at all that Victor rescues Antoinette , nor is it any surprise that he forces Remy to reveal the forgery . . . thus safely restoring Antoinette to the privileged status of full ( white ) citizenship . What deeply offended me about this movie was its selective indignation towards slavery . As Billie Dove languishes in chains before the auction block , the mise-en-scene of the climactic sequences strongly emphasises the injustice of Antoinette's plight . . . but it's only depicted as injustice because she's a white woman who has been framed as a quadroon . Nobody involved in this movie ( on either side of the camera ) seems especially upset about the institution of slavery . . . providing it's only those pesky BLACK people who get bought and sold . Beery is note-perfect in a crudely-written role , and there are good performances by Armand Kaliz , a surprisingly handsome Boris Karloff ( as a dandified villain in a beaver hat ) and a rotund George Bunny . The production design of this costume drama is excellent , and George Fitzmaurice's direction is brisk and efficient . I really wanted to enjoy ' The Love Mart ' , but its selectively outraged attitude towards slavery is deeply upsetting from a modern viewpoint . I'll rate this movie .
The title of this German film translates as ' The Emperor of California ' , so - - when I first heard of this movie - - I thought it would be a dramatisation of the bizarre true story of Joshua Norton , an eccentric beggar in 19th-century San Francisco who declared himself Emperor of the United States . This movie turns out to be inspired by the life of a 19th-century historic figure , right enough , but it isn't Joshua Norton : it's John Sutter ( or Johann Suter ) , the immigrant on whose land was discovered ( in 1848 ) the gold ore that led to the California Gold Rush . I'm extremely impressed with this film . It was clearly made on a large budget , and several exterior sequences were actually filmed in California . Most of the cast give excellent , well-directed performances . I'm slightly familiar with the life story of the real John Sutter . This German movie varies somewhat from the facts ( as does Hollywood , constantly ) , but much of the rewriting here actually serves to make Sutter's life story more plausible , rather than less . It's not widely known that the real John Sutter's emigration to California was by an extremely circuitous path that took him through Hawaii and Alaska ! But that trivium is ultimately irrelevant to the part of his story that really matters ( the gold strike , and its aftermath ) , so Sutter's peregrinations are wisely left out here . ' The Kaiser of California ' won Italy's Mussolini Cup as best foreign ( non-Italian ) film of the year . This means both good news and bad news . In order to win the Mussolini Cup , a film had to be genuinely well-made , featuring excellent photography , intelligent scripting , superlative performances . This movie has those assets in abundance . The bad news is that - - as you might guess from its patron's name - - the Mussolini Cup was ideologically motivated . To be worthy of that award , a film had to advance Fascist agenda . Which this movie , indeed , does . At every point where I spotted a deviation from historical truth in this movie , the deviation was always to the benefit of totalitarian ( and anti-American ) politics . To begin with , the real John Sutter ( or Johann Suter ) was Swiss . When he founded a homestead in Spanish California , he cried it Nueva Helvetia : New Switzerland . In this movie , Johann Suter ( not John Sutter ) retains his German birthname throughout his life , and he identifies himself as German ( not Swiss ) to his dying day . In the time of the Anschluss , I can understand why Nazi filmmakers would want to blur the distinctions between Germans , Austrians and Swiss . The basic nugget of historic truth is retained : when gold is discovered on Suter's land , his homestead is ruined by prospectors . Others make fortunes in the goldfields while Suter ends his days in poverty . The last reel of this film shows Suter shrieking on the steps of a U . S . courthouse , cursing the American politicians who have cheated him . The truth is more complicated . In real life , the U . S . Congress voted to compensate John Sutter very generously for the loss of his land . . . but he died before the compensation could commence . Also , John Sutter's real-life son August amassed a fortune in the boom economy triggered by the Gold Rush . ( The son selfishly refused to share the wealth with his father . ) In this film , Johann Suter has a fictional son Rudolph who bears almost no resemblance to the real August Sutter . For that matter , the name of Suter's wife has been arbitrarily changed from Nanette ( a Swiss name ) to the more German-sounding Anna . The injustices heaped upon Suter throughout this movie are presented as semi-official actions of the United States government , rather than what they actually were : depredations caused by greedy individuals . This movie stands as solid evidence that , as far back as 1936 , the German film ministry were trying to stir up German-language audiences against the United States . ' The Kaiser of California ' is anti-U . S . pro-Nazi propaganda , but it manages to be fairly subtle in its intentions : there is , of course , no explicit mention of Nazism nor Hitler . Since this movie achieves its intentions very proficiently , I'll rate it , with a footnote warning viewers to proceed with caution . P . S . : In real life , but not in this movie , some of the prospectors in the California Gold Rush were from Australia . One of them noticed that the land near Sutter's Mill bore a strong resemblance to the land near his own homestead in Kalgoorlie , Australia : after panning out his claim in California , this man went back home to Kalgoorlie and struck gold . Few Americans know that there was a gold rush in Australia immediately after the one in California . I hope that somebody will eventually make a film about the Kalgoorlie Gold Rush ; it's a fascinating story .
Jack Oakie was a very funny comedian within his narrow range . He usually played a blowhard of slightly below-average intelligence , with a high opinion of his own prowess but who lacked the ability to deliver the goods . ( It's a shame that Oakie never got a crack at the role he was born to play : Aubrey Piper in George Kelly's ' The Show-Off ' . ) For some reason , Oakie was cast several times as a songwriter : in ' June Moon ' , ' Tin Pan Alley ' and here in ' Sitting Pretty ' , a semi-musical . Jack Oakie ( music ) and Jack Haley ( lyrics ) play a would-be songwriting team ; Haley has no illusions about his own talent , but he thinks Oakie's a genius . . . and Oakie agrees . Why is it that movies about songwriters always make a bigger deal of the composer than the lyricist ? Anyway , the magnum opus of this pair of Jacks is a pity of a ditty called ' I Wanna Meander with Miranda ' , which gives you some idea of their career aspirations . These guys live in New York City , which in 1933 was probably the best place for songwriters to live . They stupidly decide they'd have a better chance of selling their songs if they moved to Hollywood . Lacking the dough to buy tickets on the Super Chief , they decide to hitch-hike all the way to La-La Land . Alleged hilarity ensues . Along the way , they pick up vivacious young Ginger Rogers , who can sing and dance a treat . See where this is heading ? SPOILERS COMING . Part of the problem with ' Sitting Pretty ' is that the songs written by the two Jacks - meaning , of course , the songs written by Paramount's music department , and attributed to these fictional characters - are intentionally bad , but never quite reach the level of camp humour . Then , when the two Jacks write a genuinely impressive song - ' Did You Ever See a Dream Walking ? ' - we have difficulty believing that these no-hopers could ever achieve such a masterpiece . Ginger Rogers is a knockout in a sequined outfit , while Arthur Jarrett ( who ? ) warbles in falsetto . Jack Haley is in the best singing voice of his career here , although he has some trouble with lyrics . . . made worse because he's playing the man who allegedly wrote them . He sings one song quite well but can't seem to remember whether it's about Lazy Lowdown Liza or Lowdown Lazy Liza . Oakie does a very convincing job of faking his piano-playing . There's some humour along the way to the ( obvious ) payoff , but most of it is predictable or contrived or both . Lew Cody is very good as a drunken Hollywood director , and Thelma Todd is briefly impressive as a conniving actress . The final gag ( in which Ginger explains why she can't marry Haley ) is weak . I'll rate this movie just .
' The Secret Game ' is an espionage drama , and it's rather a good one despite a few ludicrous touches . Although the Japanese-born actor Sessue Hayakawa sometimes played other nationalities , here he's very much a Son of the Emperor . During the Great War ( in which this film takes place ) , Japan were on the same side as the United States , opposing Germany . Hayakawa's character undertakes a mission to help the American forces , with the very honour of Japan at stake . Refreshingly , Hayakawa ( who didn't write his own scripts ) plays a realistic Japanese here , rather than a caricature . Oddly , though , his character is lumbered with the ridiculous name Nara-Nara , which isn't Japanese . Couldn't Hayakawa have supplied a dinkum Japanese name for the scriptwriter to use ? Nara-Nara's assistant , also Japanese , speaks his dialogue ( via the title cards ) in Charlie Chan syntax , with references to the Japanese having slanted eyes . There's a brief scene between Hayakawa and a servile Negro porter . Elsewhere , we briefly see a black woman looking distinctly uncomfortable in a maid's uniform while she attends several white ladies . ( But at least the children's gang who play at soldiers outside Jack Holt's window are racially integrated . ) The intertitles make it very clear where the spies are . The leader is Smith , really named Schmidt . Charles Ogle is excellent in this role : Ogle was physically better suited to playing villains rather than sympathetic characters . Smith's henchman is played by Raymond Hatton , whose character is identified as ' Mrs Harris ' because he likes to disguise himself as Smith's female housekeeper . In a dodgy wig , with no cheekbones and no breasts in his female disguise , Raymond Hatton looks about as feminine as Rondo Hatton . Couldn't the Germans find a genuine female spy ? Hatton spends much of his screen time in this film wearing male garb , yet his character ( presumably a German ) seems to have no name other than ' Mrs Harris ' . When talking pictures feature a male character in female disguise , the cross-dresser almost invariably has a line of dialogue ( while uncrossing his dressing ) about how it ' sure feels good ' to get back into male clothes . . . so we won't get the wrong idea about him . In this silent film , we get a visual equivalent : as ' Mrs Harris ' , Raymond Hatton pulls off his wig and women's shoes , and hitches up his skirts to reveal trousers underneath . He puts on his much larger male shoes , and THEN he conspicuously sighs in contentment . But Hatton isn't going anywhere : if those female shoes are so uncomfortable , then surely it makes more sense for Hatton to relax with NO shoes on , rather than donning male shoes . Apparently the Germans have got a female spy after all : Florence Vidor , looking prettier as usual , as a German spy with the cover name Kitty Litter , I mean Kitty Little . A title card tells us that she's a German ' with a deeply concealed hyphen in her name ' . She easily infiltrates the staff of U . S . Army officer Northfield ( Jack Holt ) , who oddly leases office space in a civilian building . This film's strong points occur in the procedural sequences of the Germans spying on Northfield , and Hayakawa counterspying on the Germans . At its best moments , ' The Secret Game ' reminded me of Fritz Lang's vastly superior film ' Spies ' . Sadly , those best moments are far between . Holt's character is supposedly a regular golfer . . . but when Jack Holt hoists an iron in one shot , his swing is so inept I could tell he was a stranger to the links . SPOILERS COMING . Although Florence Vidor's costume in one sequence is lumbered with an enormous belt buckle , I was surprised by how pretty she looked in this movie . So it was no surprise for me when she changed sides and joined the American cause . She and Holt fall in love . Hatton ( in male clothes ) kills Hayakawa , but not before the latter accomplishes his mission and saves the American convoy . A bit earlier , at the film's climax , Hayakawa manhandles Vidor with a startling amount of viciousness . Even though he's meant to be a goodie and she's meant to be a baddie ( she hasn't reformed yet ) , this sequence astonished me . Perhaps audiences in 1917 accepted it because Nara-Nara ( Hayakawa's role ) was an Oriental and therefore supposedly less civilised than a white man ; I wonder if these film-makers would have depicted a white protagonist manhandling a woman so thoroughly . Since this isn't a supernatural story , I was intrigued by the presence of two ' ghost ' shots . As Holt addresses his ball on the golf course , a double-exposure of Vidor materialises beside him . . . informing the audience that he's falling in love with her . After Nara-Nara is killed , a transparent version of Hayakawa appears as his spirit . Throughout the film , Hayakawa has worn western clothes ( with Japanese and American flag pins in his lapel ) , but now his spirit wears Japanese ceremonial garb and clutches a samurai sword . Hayakawa's final sequence ( as a spirit ) is touching , and very much sympathetic to Japanese culture . I was annoyed that this poignant sequence was spoilt by an anticlimactic romantic fade-out for Holt and Vidor . Cecil B DeMille ( capital D , one-word surname ) and William C de Mille ( lower-case D , two-word surname ) were brothers who didn't get along , so they seldom collaborated . ' The Secret Game ' is a rare instance of both brothers appearing in the credits of the same film ( although in different title cards ) , allowing audiences to see that they punctuated their names differently . Despite its many oddities and flaws , there are several excellent scenes in ' The Secret Game ' , and I'll rate this one .
D . H . Lawrence is of course best known for his novels , but he also wrote several plays , of which ' The Widowing of Mrs Holroyd ' is probably the best constructed . I dislike Lawrence's novels while recognising his skill in writing them , and I felt somewhat similar about this play : I disliked it , yet recognised it as a mature work by a talented author . The play is set in a dreary mining town , and the action is centred on the deteriorating marriage between a loutish miner ( Rex Robbins ) and his more refined wife ( Joyce Ebert ) . Holroyd is a drunkard who abuses his wife physically and emotionally , even bringing home younger women to flaunt his infidelities in front of his long-suffering spouse . In spite of everything , Mrs Holroyd still loves her husband . Among Holroyd's workmates is Blackmore , a more sensitive man . In love with Mrs Holroyd himself , he offers to take her and her two young children away with him to Spain . Frank Converse is fitfully excellent in this role . His performance reaches an emotional peak during Blackmore's frustrated liaison with Mrs Holroyd , telling her : " Why should he have you and I've never had anything ? " The best performance here is given by Rex Robbins . He has consistently impressed me in other roles . but this was the first time I've seen him portray an unsympathetic character . As played by Robbins , Holroyd is singularly repellent . Robbins reminds me of Arthur Kennedy : both were dynamic actors with wide ranges , yet both somehow lacked that certain spark that is necessary for stardom . The drama's title is a built-in spoiler : we suspect ( correctly ) that Holroyd will be dead before the final fade-out . During the climactic fight between the two men , Blackmore knocks the drunken Holroyd unconscious and then - - ever the gentleman - - wipes the blood off Holroyd's face . One of the most moving scenes occurs when Mrs Holroyd and her mother-in - law wash Holroyd's corpse . I found this drama repellent yet powerful , and this production is skilfully done . My rating : .
' Hitch Hikers ' is an above-average Heckle and Jeckle cartoon . The two magpies are thumbing a ride ( magpies have thumbs ? ) without success . Eventually , they force their way into a passing car . However , the car's canine occupants are a couple of bank robbers , heading for their hideout . Magpie mayhem ensues . Fortunately , most of it is quite funny . The opening sequence of this cartoon is visually rather odd . Heckle and Jeckle were usually drawn as lookalikes but they typically moved separately . In the first scene of ' Hitch Hikers ' , oddly , they stand side by side in the same position , and they perform the same movements identically and simultaneously . . . as if they were Thompson and Thomson out of ' Tintin ' . If this cartoon had been made a few years later , I would have assumed that the cel images in this animation sequence had been photocopied . Since this cartoon was made in 1947 , the animators must have used some other technique . At all events , it was a strange decision to make . . . the simultaneous movements of the magpies are off-putting rather than funny , and I doubt that the animators saved any money or labour with this process . My rating for this one : just .
I viewed a Library of Congress print of this film ; it was very well-preserved . Quite a few silent-film comedies made fun of social trends of the early twentieth century , such as the women's suffrage movement , the temperance movement and Prohibition . ' Trial Marriages ' is notable because it takes its inspiration from an extremely specific source . On 19 November 1906 , the New York ' World ' ( a William Randolph Hearst paper , given to sensationalism ) published an article about a book privately published by Elsie Clews Parsons which sought to redefine marriage . Among the suggestions in the book by Mrs Parsons was the concept of trial marriage . ( She herself was married : to a Congressman , no less . ) Hearst chose to play up this one very minor aspect of Mrs Parsons's book for its sensationalist value , not least because Mrs Parsons herself was photogenic . In ' Trial Marriages ' we see the male protagonist reading that very newspaper article : there's even a quick close-up of the article , as he comments that a trial marriage would suit him very nicely . In a series of amusing vignettes , he then proceeds to fantasise himself married ( in series ) to various types of wives , each portrayed by a different actress . SPOILERS COMING . Each marriage ends in disaster , for a different reason . First he marries a sentimental woman , who won't stop crying . He marries a jealous type , who falsely accuses him of flirting with the maid . ( This wife looks a bit like Harry Houdini in drag , but the maid looks only slightly prettier . ) He marries a languid girl who is downright comatose , leaving him to do all of the housework . Lastly , he marries a widow who comes with a half-dozen children already . I was intrigued that this wife - - older than the others , and presumably with the least money to spare , due to raising her children - - was by far the prettiest and most stylish of the lot . Her children are stylishly dressed , too . But the brats easily overpower their stepfather , and their mother joins in too . The film ends with the multi-husband in hospital , recovering from his injuries and vowing never to get married at all . When ' Trial Marriages ' was made ( 1907 ) , many films featured crudely obvious sets and costumes . For most of ' Trial Marriages ' , I was deeply intrigued by the intense realism of the production design . When the jealous wife throws the breakfast at her husband , we can see that she's throwing real food ( or at least coffee grounds ) , and it splatters realistically against a genuine plaster-lath wall instead of striking a canvas-scrim stage set . However , during the sequence with the languid wife , when the husband goes down to the cellar to attend to the furnace , we are clearly on a painted stage set with a blind staircase : this ' basement ' ( amazingly clean and well-lighted ) varies rather garishly from the realistic scenes before and after it . When the husband pulls out an extremely realistic ashcan - - filled with genuine ashes - - and proceeds to spill it across the blatantly phony set , the contrast is distressing rather than funny . Some modern viewers might wonder why any man would fantasise ( as the husband does here ) about marrying a woman who is so lazy that she's downright comatose . In Victorian and Edwardian times , there was a tendency to romanticise the Ophelia or Annabel Lee type of female : a child-woman so ethereal and weak that she seemed to be halfway in heaven already . Times have certainly changed . Interestingly , although the husband in this movie experiments with various ' types ' of wives , none of the women shown here appears to be a feminist or suffragist : a type very much in evidence during the years when American women were still agitating for the right to vote . This 1907 movie seems to echo a famous joke that ' Punch ' magazine made way back in the 1830s : " Advice to those about to marry : Don't ! " . Proving , I suppose , that some humour is timeless . I'll rate this clever comedy .
' The Gangsters ' is a very early Keystone comedy , but already the Keystone Cops are in their full uniforms ( which wasn't the case in ' The Bangville Police ' ) , and there's some hilarious slapstick action which refreshingly deviates from Keystone's usual ' chase ' structure . Nick Cogley is the leader of a gang of ruffians . It's a shame that Cogley isn't better known ; he was a Keystone stalwart who played well to the strengths of better-known comedians . Here , Cogley has one side-splitting close-up as he stalks menacingly into the camera , rolling his eyeballs in ever-increasing circles . Roscoe Arbuckle is the constable assigned to round up Cogley's gang . Just the appearance of Roscoe ' Fatty ' Arbuckle in a policeman's tunic is hilarious , without Roscoe even doing anything . Of course , his character is an incompetent moron and cowardly with it . The crooks easily beat up Roscoe and steal his trousers , sending him back to the cop-shop without his police pants . A more athletic cop ( unbilled actor Al St John , Arbuckle's real-life nephew ) goes after the crooks next , and he too is sent back to the police station minus his trousers . Is Cogley planning to open a pants shop ? Unbilled actor George Jeske , in heavy makeup as another cop , gets a couple of amusing facial reactions . There's an uproariously funny climax aboard a barge , and on the way there we see Cogley , Hank Mann and several other plug-uglies daintily tippy-toeing across a plank so as not to fall into the river . Hilarious ! I'll rate this crude but effective slapstick classic . ' The Gangsters ' is directed by Henry Lehrman , an important figure in film comedy who also deserves some sort of award for his slimy opportunism . Lehrman was nicknamed ' Pathé ' by DW Griffith because he claimed to have worked for that film company in Europe : Griffith knew he was lying , and the name stuck . Lehrman was the first person to direct Chaplin on film , and was also one of Arbuckle's early directors . Sadly , in 1921 , when Virginia Rappe died after crashing Arbuckle's party , Lehrman milked the tragedy for his personal benefit , displaying a wedding ring which he had allegedly intended to give to Rappe as his intended bride , and making false statements against Arbuckle's personal character . I cringed when I saw Lehrman's name in the credits of this film , because I knew about the harm he would inflict on Arbuckle later . Still , on its own merits , ' The Gangsters ' is classic Keystone , and very funny indeed .
In some of Larry Semon's comedies , he seemed to be positioning himself as a somewhat Chaplinesque little man , to the extent of making his character the subordinate of a large bully resembling Eric Campbell , the burly and memorable foil in Chaplin's short comedies for Mutual . In these Eric Campbell roles , Larry Semon cast Oliver Hardy with a bushy pair of eyebrows and a moustache resembling the ones Campbell wore in ' The Adventurer ' . Hardy sprouts that face-fungus here , as he does in a few other Semon films , including ' The Bakery ' . Does everybody here know what a McGuffin is ? In the movies , a McGuffin ( term popularised but not invented by Alfred Hitchcock ) is some prop or device which we don't give a damn about , but which is so important to the characters that they're willing to spend the whole movie trying to obtain it from one another . The concept existed in films long before Hitchcock put a name to it : in fact , silent-serial queen Pearl White used the term ' the weenie ' to describe whatever physical object or piece of information triggered the cloak-and-dagger work in her own serials . Well , here in ' The Bell Hop ' , we have an early appearance of the McGuffin in all but name . A foreign dignitary has checked into the hotel where Semon is bell-hop and Oliver Hardy is desk clerk . The dignitary has some extremely important papers - - the McGuffin - - which are duly locked in the hotel's safe . But enemy spies bribe Hardy to give them access to the papers . Some very jaded intertitles make blasé comments about ' the usual spies ' and ' the usual papers ' , thus establishing that McGuffins were already well-established ( although not by name ) as early as 1921 . For me , the most pleasant aspect of ' The Bell Hop ' was a sprightly performance by Norma Nichols as a hotel maid , extremely sexy in a maid's uniform which should have had a shorter skirt . She very quickly reveals herself to Semon and the audience ( no spoilers here ) as an undercover detective , and she offers to split with Semon the reward for capturing the spies . But surely a professional law-enforcement officer ( as Nichols is playing here ) can't claim a reward . PARTIAL SPOILERS . An unbilled child actor gives an interesting performance as a golden-haired little girl , although I think that the child performer is actually a boy in a girl's role ( and clothes ) . There's an unfunny gag with a pram and a tram . Semon and Nichols put the girl into her pram , and wheel her outside where the pram's wheels get caught on the rails for the tram line . And here comes the tram ! So far , so potentially effective . . . except that we can see the tram line's angled tracks at the bottom of the frame . . . so we know that the tram will make a sharp turn at the last possible moment and veer hard a-port . Sure enough . Semon's character is introduced with an unfunny and disgusting gag in which a live newt runs across his face while Semon has his mouth open . Ugh ! Semon - - a comedian who almost never did female impersonation - - is much more impressive here in a later sequence in which he disguises himself as a charlady to get into the spies ' room . Shall I do you now , sir ? The production design of this film is extremely impressive , featuring a luxury hotel with a lobby so large and populous that a traffic cop has to direct the flow of people . I was also very impressed with another sequence featuring an unusual cinematic effect . When Semon spills water on a sleeping man , we see the inset image of a thought balloon over the man's head , showing him having a dream in which he's bathing in the ocean , while the actor playing the sleeping man makes swimming movements . Very effective AND funny ! I'll rate ' The Bell Hop ' , which is surely as high as any Larry Semon comedy can aspire to rise .
I viewed a print of this film which had the original intertitles cut out and German-language titles spliced in . The opening credits were missing altogether : a definite loss , as they might have revealed the name of the astonishingly tall and gaunt actor who plays Jim Slim . His neighbour Jack Fat is played by the rotund John Bunny , here quite early in his very popular Vitagraph career . Jack ( nearly spherical ) and Jim ( beanpole-thin and tall with it ) are next-door neighbours in the same block of flats . One day both men are sitting on their adjacent fire escapes , reading the papers , when Jack suggests to Jim that they sneak out without their wives and visit Luna Park . They climb down the fire escapes , furtively glancing back to make certain their wives aren't following . After a stock shot of an above-ground subway train transporting our heroes , we now see some fascinating footage of Luna Park , the celebrated amusement park in Brooklyn's Coney Island . ( We also see one shot of the Brighton Beach pier ; interestingly , three years earlier , the 1907 Vitagraph film ' Liquid Electricity ' also included a scene at almost this exact same spot . ) Jim Slim goes for a ride aboard a live dromedary ; it's truly bizarre to see this immensely tall thin man lurching along atop the camel's hump . Most of the attractions at Luna Park involved flinging the patrons across whirling discs or revolving walls ; in our modern litigious era , such attractions are unimaginable . One comparatively modest attraction which we see here is the Cake Walk : basically a moving staircase , with two halves moving independently . We see an attractive young girl negotiating this easily . I couldn't help noticing that all the patrons of Luna Park seen in this movie are white : sad to say , the owners of the property did not admit black customers . SPOILERS COMING . Of course , the two men's wives track them down and comic retribution ensues . This movie isn't very funny , but it's fascinating for its views of a fun fair that no longer exists . I'll rate this Vitagraph short . I sure wish I knew who ' Jim Slim ' was .
I saw ' Maharadjahens yndlingshustru ' ( no capital ' I ' at the end ) in October 2006 at the Cinema Muto festival in Sacile , Italy ; they screened an archive print from the Danish Film Institute . The film's title translates as ' The Maharaja's Favourite Wife ' . According to the on-screen credits of the DFI print , Robert Dinesen was this film's sole director , whilst Sven Gade was scenarist . The excellent photography is by Sophus Wangøe . The credited actors and their roles are as follows , and spelt accordingly : Gunnar Tolnæs ( Maharajah ) ; Lilly Jacobsson ( Elly von Langen ) ; Carlo Wieth ( Lieutenant Kuno Falkenberg ) ; Thorleif Lund ( Colonel von Langen ) ; Jonna Akner Kreutz ( Mrs von Langen ) ; Edith Barré ( Senta von Langen ) . I've no idea who Kai Heimann is meant to be . IMDb have got this film listed with a roman numeral ' I ' at the end , because this movie was followed ( two years later ) by the release of ' Maharadjahens yndlingshustru II ' . In fact , that 1919 film is not a sequel to this one , since it features a different set of characters ( some of them played by actors who appeared in the first film ) . I would classify that second movie as a companion piece to this prior one , in the sense that Fritz Lang's ' Scarlet Street ' is a companion piece to his ' The Woman in the Window ' ( with the same cast ) rather than a true sequel . Kuno Falkenberg , a handsome young naval lieutenant , is in love with his cousin Elly , who also happens to be the daughter of the colonel . ( Apparently the fact that they're cousins is no obstacle to a marriage in Denmark . . . and Denmark must be the only nation with colonels in the navy . ) However , Elly has met a swarthy and wealthy maharajah , who proposes marriage to her in a rowboat . She eagerly accepts ( despite the size of his dinghy ) . When Kuno finds the empty rowboat , he assumes that Elly has drowned . . . little suspecting that she has eloped to the Orient , or wherever wealthy maharajahs live . After scarpering to the rajah's realm and marrying him , Elly is gobsmacked to discover that she is now merely one of the rajah's many wives in his harem . She tries to leave , apparently planning to walk home to Denmark , but she is told that the marriage is legal . . . and sent back to her oda , to stand in the corner . An imbroglio in the seraglio . Kuno has conveniently been transferred to India ; I'd no idea that the Danish navy had a fleet there . Elly conveniently discovers that Kuno is in the neighbourhood - - this is the man whom she'd spurned before , remember - - and she manages to get a message to him . SPOILERS COMING . From this point onward , the movie actually manages to defy expectations . . . or at least it defied mine . The most obvious ( not the most sensible ) gambit is for Kuno to sneak into the harem and rescue Elly , with the rajah's minions in hot pursuit . Instead of this , Kuno ponces right in through the front door , as bold as brass , and he explains to the rajah that European women cannot accept only a fraction of a husband's love . The rajah smiles wisely , then whips out his scimitar and slices Kuno's head off . No , not really . But I wish . . . The rajah , rather surprisingly , tells Elly that she is free to leave or to stay , as she chooses . But she and Kuno don't know that the rajah gives his minions ( those minions I'd mentioned ) another order : although Elly is indeed free to leave , the minions are commanded to kill anyone who leaves with her . Soon enough , Elly walks out of the harem . . . and a robed male figure follows her . Could it be Kuno ? The guards pounce , and disrobe him . Surprise ! He's none other than the maharajah himself . Upon learning that Elly was dissatisfied , he decided that he wanted to die . . . so he contrived to follow her in disguise , in hopes that his loyal guards would kill him ! But wait , there's more ! Now that he's been unmasked , the maharajah is still determined to die . He grabs a knife , intending to top himself . . . but Elly stops him . When Kuno protests , Elly tells Kuno that she sincerely loves the rajah after all . ( Have I mentioned that the rajah is wealthy , and Kuno is a naval lieutenant ? Naval lieutenants are not noted for vast salaries . ) The film ends with Elly willingly returning to the seraglio with her maharajah . Hmmm . I give this movie credit for several genuine surprises : it sets up a very obviously formulaic plot , and then contradicts the formula several times . Quite a few movies from this period ( both European and American ) depicted exotic foreigners as swarthy villains , keen on defiling white women . I was intrigued that the maharajah in this movie seems to be all set to fit neatly into that stereotype , but then turns out to be a virtuous character ( by his own culture's rules ) who's meant to receive the audience's sympathy . The photography and art direction are superb , and the editing is impressive . My rating for this movie : .
Following the huge success of Keith Waterhouse's ' Billy Liar ' as a novel , stage play and film , it was inevitable that this ' oop North ' Walter Mitty character would star in a television series . I saw ' Billy Liar ' when it was originally transmitted . While never quite attaining ' Fawlty Towers ' heights of hilarity , this programme was consistently funny , with at least two or three solid belly-laughs per episode . To the best of my knowledge , ' Billy Liar ' has never been repeated in Britain , nor shown in America . If the original tapes still exist , I can't imagine why they're being suppressed . . . unless perhaps Keith Waterhouse has some legal reason for suppressing them . However , as he was head writer for this sitcom , I can't guess what his objections might be . Newcomer Jeff Rawle was perfectly cast as callow Billy Fisher , whose imagination far outstrips his achievements . Much of the substantial humour in this sitcom sprung from the interaction between Billy and his sarcastic father Geoffrey , or between Billy and his long-suffering employer , Mr Shadrack the undertaker . Perhaps what's discouraged programmers from repeating this sitcom is the extreme 1970s look of the series . Waterhouse created Billy Liar in the 1950s and saw him through the swinging Sixties , yet Jeff Rawle's interpretation of Billy Liar is firmly trapped in the 1970s , and that naff decade's definition of manliness . Rawle is emaciated , clean-shaven , wistful , with flares and longish hair . . . looking almost like a girl , in other words . Not effeminate , yet somehow almost feminine . By way of contrast , Billy's father Geoffrey is played by George Cooper with absolutely no hair at all . It may well be that slap-headed Geoffrey Fisher's resentment of his son is down to his own baldness versus his son's excess of hair . On the vocal front , Rawle's accent was just a shade too Brum for this North Country character , but Cooper's broad Northern vowels were spot-on . I never identified with Billy Liar , me - - my own lies were of a different sort , told for a different reason - - but this series aired during a troublesome time in my own life . . . and I'd be delighted to see these episodes again , partly on their own merit but largely because of the memories they would summon regarding my own troubles at this time . I'll rate ' Billy Liar ' .
I saw ' The Carmen of Saint Pauli ' in October 2007 at Le Giornate del Cinema Muto in Pordenone , Italy . The festival screened a print from the archive of the Cinémathèque Royale in Brussels with the original German intertitles . This silent film , made in late 1928 , had the bad luck to be released when it was clear that talkies were taking over : the film attracted little attention at its release , and languished in obscurity for decades . It's hardly a lost classic , but the movie has sufficient merit that it likely would have succeeded if it had been made and released as little as two years earlier . Saint Pauli is the waterfront district of Hamburg , and was ( at this time ) also its red-light district : remember this the next time you get a thirst for a St Pauli Girl ! The film's title is more misleading than it needs to be : Jenny Hummel is the ' Carmen ' in this movie , but her character only vaguely parallels the heroine of Bizet's opera . She comes nearer to Carmen Jones in the Oscar Hammerstein version . Klaus Brandt is an honest shipmaster , in command of the Alexandria . He is seduced by Jenny , the leader of a gang of thieves and smugglers . The crooks have picturesque nicknames such as ' The Doctor ' and ' Tne Nipper ' . Jenny has a nominally honest job in a local beer-hall as a front for her criminal activities . She entices Klaus to visit her at the beer-hall one night , causing him ( rather stupidly , I thought ) to leave his ship unguarded . ( Is there no supercargo ? ) While Klaus is with Jenny , her men loot the ship . As a result of this , Klaus's employer Rasmussen sacks him , and Klaus is now considered unemployable by any of the Hamburg shipping firms . He decides to ship out as a crewman on an Australian vessel , but he is so besotted with Jenny that he gets a job at her beer-hall instead . From this point , the film moves into Emil Jannings territory - - specifically , ' The Blue Angel ' - - with the virtuous Klaus gradually sinking into the much less virtuous milieu of St Pauli in general and Jenny's bar in particular . Eventually a murder is committed , and Klaus is framed for it . SPOILERS COMING . Just when Jenny has started to rub off on Klaus , the rubbing goes the other way : Klaus's deep moral virtue ( how did he ever become a shipmaster ? ) rubs off on Jenny . She finds the real murderer , clears Klaus and decides to reform herself so they can start a new life together . Oh , yes . The terrible economy in Germany at this time ( 1928 ) led a lot of Germans into criminal activity just to stay alive , so I found Jenny's reformation rather contrived and simplistic . Although the interior scenes in this movie were shot in Berlin ( at the Neubabelsberg studio ) , the exterior sequences were filmed on Hamburg's waterfront and in the real Saint Pauli : that stark gritty realism greatly enhances the early scenes of this movie , but this same realism makes Jenny's ultimate reformation seem that much more contrived and unlikely . Fritz Rasp is excellent as one of Jenny's henchmen . My rating for this movie is .
This very weird yet very enjoyable ( and family-appropriate ) musical special is essentially an infomercial for the Disney empire in general and EPCOT Centre in particular . It pretends to be a retrospective of Walt Disney's life and achievements , yet there are constant references to the Disney corporation's latest biggest newest enterprises ( especially EPCOT ) , and the whole thing has the air of a sales pitch rather than pure entertainment . Fortunately , Walt Disney's very real sense of showmanship has been retained by his corporate successors , and this infomercial is still quite enjoyable on several different levels , so that kids and adults will have a good time watching it . Various celebrities ( some of whom worked with Disney , most of whom didn't ) take it in turns to narrate different phases of Disney's life , punctuated by some very pleasant original songs . Although Walt Disney was born in Chicago , he and his family spent his formative years in the small town of Marceline , Missouri . This musical special asserts that everything Walt Disney ever became had its seeds in his small-town boyhood . This is the cue for Michael Landon to ride a bicycle through a very unconvincing set , representing a small town , while he sings a very enjoyable song : " Marceline . . . all roads lead back to Marceline . . . " . I always enjoy watching Dick Van Dyke , especially when he's performing a song-and-dance turn . Here , he leads a bunch of dancers through a very energetic number called " We Can Do It " that isn't especially good , but he gives it some solid professionalism . We also see a couple of half-hearted dramatisations of incidents from Disney's childhood . Unfortunately , Carl Reiner has been lumbered with some incredibly bad material here . While the narrators are ticking off Disney's various productions , the camera keeps cutting back to a POV shot of Reiner sitting behind a desk , brandishing a cigar . Reiner is apparently portraying some sort of Hollywood banker-cum - " expert " , who keeps talking directly to the camera ( as if it were the unseen Walt Disney ) and gleefully predicting that Walt's latest endeavour can't possibly succeed . Walt wants to make a movie about MICE ? Reiner gleefully says it can't possibly make money . ( But it does ; cut back to Reiner looking dumbfounded . ) Next round : Walt wants to make a movie about DWARFS ? Reiner gleefully predicts it can't possibly make money . ( But it does ; cut back to Reiner looking dumbfounded . ) Eventually , they vary this formula slightly . When Walt Disney wants to make his experimental movie ' Fantasia ' , Reiner once again predicts that it will lose money . . . and this time he's right ; as this special freely admits , ' Fantasia ' was a box-office flop on its original release . Cue a close-up of Reiner smugly saying " Told ya ! " . But then Dick Van Dyke informs us that , upon re-release , " Fantasia " has made back its original costs many times over . ( He neglects to mention that this was after " Fantasia " became a cult-movie hit for pot-smoking hippies back in the 1960s . ) It would have been nice if this special had squarely addressed - - and denied - - some of the bizarre rumours about Walt Disney and his empire , such as the ( untrue ) urban legend that Disney's corpse is frozen someplace , to be thawed out eventually . This special also serves the useful purpose of proving that Michael Landon and Mac Davis aren't really the same person . My rating : , but this special is unlikely to teach you anything about Walt Disney that you didn't already know .
' Millionaires in Prison ' is an excellent example of something that doesn't exist anymore , but which was commonplace in the days of the big Hollywood studios : the second feature . In the 1930s and ' 40s , Americans went to the movies expecting to receive a full evening's worth of entertainment : a double feature plus short subjects and a newsreel . The second feature ( which was actually first , as it was screened before the main feature ) typically had a shorter running time , lower budget and more obscure actors and director than the more prestigious main feature . . . but , at their best , the second features were always well-made and solidly entertaining in their own right . ' Millionaires in Prison ' is one of the very best examples of that tradition . The movie opens with a brisk but heavy-handed expository scene , featuring a newspaper editor named R . J . Reynolds . ( Could this be a plug for the tobacco company ? ) Reynolds is giving his reporters an assignment to do a story on four millionaire financiers who have recently been sent to prison for financial shenanigans . Interestingly , the editor tells his reporters in advance precisely how they're supposed to slant their reportage . ( This sort of thing happens all the time in the real world , but I've never seen it depicted in any other movie : in Movieland , reporters are always objective truth-seekers . ) Two of the millionaires , well-played by veteran actors Raymond Walburn and Thurston Hall , are befuddled fall guys who somehow took the rap for someone else's embezzlement . Reynolds tells his reporters ( and us ) that these lads are innocent , and he adds : ' Go easy on them , boys . ' On the other hand , the other two millionaires are outright crooks who are guilty as hell , and Reynolds gleefully tells his newshounds to pull all the stops out on them . Walburn and Hall give enjoyable performances , but the characters they're playing aren't very credible . It's difficult to believe that these two dimwits could ever have been successful financiers . They're in a fairly conventional prison ( not a Club Fed ) , doing hard time , yet they seem to think they're in some sort of country club . There's a nice complement of veteran film faces here , with Lee Tracy and Morgan Conway at their cynical best , and a welcome turn by Shemp Howard . Even the annoying Chester Clute , one of my most un-favourite actors , manages to be less annoying than usual here . I kept hoping there'd be a cellblock riot and Clute would get taken hostage . ( Or maybe a scene in the prison showers where Clute drops the soap . . . ) ' Millionaires in Prison ' is very ably directed by Ray McCarey , who was much less talented than his brother Leo McCarey but who was nonetheless a reliable director in his own right . Ray McCarey's work is long overdue for reappraisal , and ' Millionaires in Prison ' is a good place to start . I'll rate this film .
Besides being very funny , the silent film ' Duck Soup ' is a vitally important link in the evolution of Laurel and Hardy as a comedy team . This movie was based on a music-hall sketch written by Stan Laurel's father , Arthur Jefferson , a successful theatre manager in northern England who resented his son's attempts to become a stage comedian . Laurel and Hardy made ' Duck Soup ' at a point when they were already established as a team but were still developing the ' Stan ' and ' Oliie ' characters that would soon become so popular and beloved . By this time , Oliver Hardy had already got his fastidious little moustache , but in ' Duck Soup ' he also has a considerable amount of beard stubble which makes him look quite jowly . ' Duck Soup ' was remade only three years later as ' Another Fine Mess ' . ' Duck Soup ' was a lost film for more than 50 years : in the early 1980s , a print turned up in Belgium . The original silent-film intertitles had been cut out and replaced with French titles . Also , one insert shot of a newspaper article had been cut out and a French translation spliced in . The prints which are currently available feature English-language titles which are blatantly translations of the French titles , and this brings a jarring touch : Laurel keeps addressing Hardy as ' sir ' , which doesn't really fit the relationship between their characters . The missing shot of the newspaper article has been replaced ( in 1982 ) with a modern mock-up , and this provides an unintentional laugh . While Hardy reads the newspaper article in 1927 , we can see the article directly underneath it . . . which is all about John DeLorean getting arrested for financial misdeeds in 1982 ! Oo-er ! In ' Duck Soup ' , Laurel and Hardy are tramps who discover that a local forest fire has made things hot for them : forest rangers are conscripting all the local indigent men for firefighting duty . Fleeing from the rangers , the two pals end up sharing a bicycle at the top of a steep hill , with disastrously funny results . Still hiding from the rangers , they end up inside the swank house of Colonel Blood , who is currently away . . . but Lord and Lady Plumtree have arrived to rent the house in the colonel's absence . Hardy disguises himself as the colonel , pressing Laurel into service to masquerade as the maid ! Stan Laurel was a gifted female impersonator : one of the very few male performers who could convincingly portray a woman and be funny at the same time . His drag turn as the maid here is astonishing and funny . The ending of this movie is quite different from the ending of the remake ' Another Fine Mess ' . Laurel and Hardy would occasionally end a film with an impossible gag , and they use one here . Is Laurel and Hardy's " Duck Soup " any relation to the Marx Brothers ' movie " Duck Soup : " ? Yes , indeed ! Leo McCarey was an assistant director on this movie . Six years later , when he directed the Marxes in what would become their greatest and funniest film , McCarey decided to recycle the title from this earlier film . The talkie revolution had changed Hollywood so utterly that silent movies made only a few years earlier were regarded as obsolete and unfit for re-release . . . so McCarey figured he had a free hand to re-use the title , and this silent movie vanished into oblivion for more than half a century . Fortunately , ' Duck Soup ' is now available again , and it's very funny . I'll rate this movie .
I saw the Library of Congress print of ' The Haunted Hotel ' . Here's an American movie that's clearly inspired by the French ' trick ' films of Georges Melies . But whereas Melies relied on slapstick comedy and pretty girls from the Folies Bergere , this movie is more sombre . After some early camera tricks , it seems meant actually to frighten us ! IMDb's synopsis is accurate . The furniture and the traveller's clothes seem to be bewitched : the tricks are accomplished with jump cuts and some early stop-motion animation . The hapless traveller is played by Paul Panzer , who would later portray the villain in ' The Perils of Pauline ' . Panzer was somewhat sharp-nosed in real life ; here , as the traveller in ' The Haunted Hotel ' , he wears a putty nose so long and sharp that its effect is alienating ; it looks more like a heron's bill than a human nose . Perhaps the alienation was intentional ; maybe the makers of this film didn't want us to empathise with the victim of these hauntings . I was intrigued that Panzer is shown in close shot , whilst Melies's very similar movies were nearly always filmed in long shot . SPOILERS COMING . Although this movie might seem quite innocent , I don't recommend it for very young children . At the very end of the movie , as the traveller attempts to go to sleep , the frame is suddenly invaded by a rather hideous and malicious-looking demon in extreme close-up : the effect is frightening rather than funny . Also , the demon's presence seems to imply that there's no escape from the haunted hotel . The natural ugliness of actor William Ranous , as the demon , only adds to the shock of that final coup de cinema . I'll rate this clever movie . . . but don't let very young children watch that ending !
' Cohen Saves the Flag ' is a very early Keystone comedy , one of several starring Ford Sterling as a scruffy coward named Izzy Cohen . All of the instalments in the ' Cohen ' series feature some humour based on Jewish stereotypes , which has dated badly ; fortunately , these films also have clever storylines and non-ethnic slapstick gags , so ( with the possible exception of ' Cohen Collects a Debt ' ) these films are still funny in spite of some ( arguably ) anti-Semitic content . All of the other ' Cohen ' shorts are set in the contemporary present ; ' Cohen Saves the Flag ' backdates Izzy Cohen to 1861 in order to put him in a Civil War setting . The Keystone comedies were filmed on the cheap , but Keystone's directors often employed the clever device of filming their actors in front of some elaborate public event , thus enhancing a quickie movie's production values . The best-known examples of this are the soapbox derby gate-crashed by Chaplin's tramp in ' Kid Auto Races at Venice ' and the parade in ' A Busy Day ' . For ' Cohen Saves the Flag ' , ingeniously , producer / director Mack Sennett was able to piggyback on the filming of ' Battle of Gettysburg ' , an elaborate Civil War drama produced by Thomas Ince . ( Ince's big-budget dramas and Mack Sennett's low-budget comedies were both bankrolled by the same financiers , so Keystone actually had permission to shoot ' Cohen Saves the Flag ' on the sidelines of Ince's war film ! ) In the opening scene ( which unconvincingly depicts 1861 ) , Cohen ( Ford Sterling ) and his rival Goldberg ( Henry Lehrman ) are competing for the affections of dainty Mabel Normand . The men resolve their differences intelligently by poking each other's eyes and biting each other's ears . I suspect that there was meant to be some ethnic subtext here : ie , supposedly , Jews fight ' dirty ' . . . but in fairness , there are many Keystone comedies that feature dirty fighting among non-ethnic characters . Anyway , I laughed heartily while these two ' Jewish ' characters noshed and gnashed each other . Suddenly the Civil War breaks out . Mostly to impress Mabel , cowardly Cohen enlists in the Union army and somehow receives a sergeant's stripes . Goldberg enlists too . . . and becomes a lieutenant , with Cohen under his command . Gleefully , Lieutenant Goldberg sends Cohen into battle , confident that he'll get killed . The battlefield sequences in this cheapjack comedy are genuinely impressive ; Mack Sennett ( underrated as a director ) manages to frame the action so that Ince's costume extras in the background actually seem to be in the same movie as the Keystone clowns in the foreground . More by accident than anything else , Cohen rescues a Union flag during his terrified efforts to escape the cannon fire . Goldberg finds Cohen guilty of desertion , and convenes a firing-squad to shoot him . The climax of this comedy - with some good work by Normand - is unexpectedly exciting as well as funny . Ford Sterling is now almost completely forgotten , which is a great shame . He was an extremely talented and versatile comedian . Funny , too . Even people who are familiar with Ford Sterling's work seldom realise how extremely influential he was on the work of later comedians . Harvey Korman built an entire career out of imitating Ford Sterling . You may have noticed that , whenever modern actors imitate silent-film comedians , they always do a little hop straight up into the air . This cliche has been around at least as far back as 1928's ' Show People ' , a silent-film comedy about silent-film comedians . But in fact , Ford Sterling was the silent-film comedian who invented this bit . . . and the only one who consistently used it . Sterling had a vast repertory of gestures and facial expressions , which he used for expressing an astonishingly subtle range of emotions . And Sterling proved his ability as a dramatic actor in ' He Who Gets Slapped ' , in which he had the great honour of applying makeup ( on-camera ) to Lon Chaney . Sterling successfully made the transition to talking-picture roles ( notably as the White King in ' Alice in Wonderland ' ) , but an accident caused him to lose a leg , forcing his retirement and hastening his death . I usually give low ratings to comedies that rely on ethnic or racial stereotypes , but there's actually less of this in ' Cohen Saves the Flag ' than you might expect , and the movie is very funny . I'll rate ' Cohen Saves the Flag ' .
Here we have a riddle . . . and a perfect example of the difficulties awaiting anyone who would explore the history of silent film . This short comedy - - clearly American , and clearly made before American women got the vote in 1920 - - was screened in October 2006 at the Cinema Muto festival in Sacile , Italy , where I saw it ( and laughed heartily ) . The original opening credits are missing from this print . . . an all-too-common occurrence in films from that period ; it implies that a dishonest exhibitor intended to screen this print under a false title ( with new opening credits spliced in ) , so as to avoid paying royalties . However , the dialogue intertitles all contain the film's original title in their ornamental border : this too was a common trait of silent films , as an attempt to defeat precisely that sort of piracy . So , where's the riddle ? According to the border of this movie's intertitles , the film's name is ' A Lively Affair ' . U . S . copyright records show only one silent film with that title : a 1912 Vitagraph domestic comedy starring Clara Kimball Young and Leo Delaney ( both of whom I would recognise on sight ; neither of them is on offer in THIS film ) . The movie screened at Sacile is also titled ' A Lively Affair ' , and does indeed seem to date to 1912 or nearabouts , yet it's clearly not the Clara Kimball Young movie . Nor are any of this film's actors - - some of them in heavy make-up - - identifiable , at least not to me . And this film doesn't resemble any Vitagraph production I've seen . It doesn't help that the title ' A Lively Affair ' is so generic , it could refer to ruddy well anything . Many American films of the 1910s were never copyrighted , which explains why the Library of Congress would have no record of THIS film . Some alleged authority has classified the Young / Delaney film ' A Lively Affair ' as ' lost ' . I don't know who makes those decisions , nor what they base them on ; I do know that so-called ' lost forever ' films have frequently resurfaced . I refuse to consider any movie irretrievably ' lost ' unless it's been deliberately destroyed : otherwise , it has merely been mislaid . When I looked up ' A Lively Affair ' on IMDb , I discovered that only the Young / Delaney ( Vitagraph ) film of that name is listed . . . yet ( as of March 2007 ) six votes have been cast for it , meaning that at least six IMDb users claim to have seen this movie . ( A supposedly ' lost ' film , remember . ) But were any or all of those IMDb users actually referring to the OTHER ' Lively Affair ' , the one screened at Sacile ? I've no idea . Right , then : the rest of this IMDb review refers strictly to the film screened at Sacile in 2006 . It's a sex-reversal comedy , of the type that was quite common during the suffragist movement of the 1910s in America and Britain . Like most of the others in that dismal subgenre , this movie assumes that if women ever get the vote , they will commence behaving precisely like men , eventually taking over men's roles in society . . . and forcing men into women's roles . SPOILERS COMING . And here's the hilarious ( not much ) plot : a woman in bloomer trousers ( signifying her suffragist status ) leaves the baby with her husband while she goes to what the intertitles identify as a ' suffragette meeting ' . ( The actual suffragists found the word ' suffragette ' demeaning and condescending . ) The suffragette meeting turns out to be an all-women poker party . . . but their hen night swiftly degenerates into an argument , which turns into a fight . Since this comedy depends on sexual clichés , an all-female brawl naturally consists of the women pulling each other's hair . The police raid the joint . Down at the cop-shop , the husband we saw earlier and some other husbands arrive . They taunt the women by marching in lockstep , implying that the women are going to prison . One of the husbands has a grotesque forelock that makes him look like cult author Harry Stephen Keeler . I did say that I laughed heartily at this movie , but in this case that's a dubious tribute . I laughed at how utterly unrealistic this movie is in its depiction of sexual relationships , either in 1912 or any other year . I laughed at the grotesque behaviour of both the male and female characters in this movie , which is quite implausible yet still extremely funny . ( In the same way that Keystone comedies from this same period are implausible yet funny . ) Intentionally or not , this film reveals a great deal about the sexual prejudices of Americans in the early twentieth century . I'll rate this ' Lively Affair ' , and I hope that the mystery of this film's production history will eventually be cleared up .
' The Hard Word ' is an excellent , well-paced Australian movie , straddling the genres of the American noir caper film and the British thick-ear crime drama . Some of the sequences in this movie remind me of scenes in ' The Asphalt Jungle ' , ' The Killing ' , ' La Jetee ' , the Peter Sellers comedy ' Two-Way Stretch ' and even ' Eating Raoul ' . . . but ' The Hard Word ' is definitely a one-off original , and it's very good . The early scenes in this film take place in the Australian prison system . I've done some prison time Down Under ( in my original name , before I changed it ) , and I found these scenes extremely realistic . Seppos and Poms ( Yanks and Brits ) will have difficulty understanding the Strine slang in this movie ; for instance , when an inmate shouts ' Half yer ( expletive ) luck ! ' , it's not instantly clear to non-Australians that this means ' I wish I was half as lucky as you . ' Also , American audiences will be confused by this movie's references to racetrack ' bookies ' . In Australia ( as in Britain , but unlike in the States ) , bookies are lawful businessmen ( ' turf accountants ' ) who privately take bets at sporting events , as independent contractors . And most confusing of all for audiences outside Australia : some of the dialogue in ' The Hard Word ' is spoken in ' butcher talk ' . This is never explained in the movie , so I'll reveal that butcher talk ( or ' rehctub klat ' ) is the dialect used by ( real-life ) Australian criminals for covert conversations in public . . . in which every word is spoken BACKWARDS , very rapidly . Even if you know the secret , you won't understand a conversation in ' butcher ' unless you've practised a lot . ( In Britain , criminals have a gimmick called ' backslang ' which is a simpler version of the same thing . ) Several times in ' The Hard Word ' , the dialogue is brilliantly ambiguous , carrying two meanings at the same go . Three felons are released on the same day : violent Dale , easy-going Malcolm and Pepsi-swilling mother-obsessed Shane . ( The dialogue identifies them as brothers ; they don't look remotely alike , but that line explains why they stick together no matter what . ) As soon as they get out , our lads participate in an armoured-car robbery that's been set up by their crooked lawyer Frank . . . but Frank might be setting them up for a fall . And while the lads were ' inside ' , Frank has been having a go with Dale's sexy wife Carol . Rachel Griffiths , who plays Dale's wife , is not conventionally beautiful . . . but in this film she gives one of the sexiest performances I've ever seen on screen . SLIGHT SPOILERS COMING . There are some eye-catching frame compositions in this film ; all credit to director / scripter Scott Roberts . But several pieces of business seem to be set up only to create odd images on screen . A rival gangster lures Dale into a trap by disguising himself as Dale's wife and then hiding in their bed with a gun ; I found this wildly unlikely . Frank kills another gangster by cramming a lava lamp into his mouth : no blood , no broken teeth ; just an interesting visual composition . One long sequence is played out inside a restaurant shaped like a giant cow . An actor named Robert Taylor ( doesn't he know that this name's been used before ? ) is very good as Frank , the brothers ' crooked lawyer . Frank dies a horrible death . How to get rid of the corpse ? We know that Malcolm is handy with a sausage-grinder , and in the next scene we see him grilling some FRANK-furters on the barbie . That pun is no coincidence . ( Damien Richardson is a revelation as Malcolm . ) On several occasions , the crooks jeopardise their own well-planned caper by brawling or arguing ; I found this a very accurate depiction of criminal behaviour . Yet there's one very implausible plot twist during the robbery at the Melbourne Cup , when Shane is supposed to open a locked door by typing a 4-figure number into a numeric keypad . . . but a henchman named Tarzan insists on doing it himself , even though he's dyslexic . Doesn't Tarzan realise that his dyslexia disqualifies him from this job ? Sure enough , he mucks it up . During the caper sequences , I kept expecting to see the cliché shot from every caper film . . . when a swag-bag rips open , and banknotes go flying in all directions . Blessedly , that hackneyed image never came . For most of its length , ' The Hard Word ' commendably avoids clichés . I thought Rhondda Findleton quite sexy as an anger-management counsellor with a semi-Louise Brooks hairbob , but I was annoyed when her character became that prison-movie cliché : the sexy female prison staffer who goes home every night and can get any man she wants on the outside , yet who becomes sexually involved with one of the inmates a few minutes after she meets him ! I couldn't believe that this woman would be having sex with Shane . . . it would have been much more plausible if she had merely led him on , arousing herself with his sexual frustration while offering him no release . At the very end of this flick , the three brothers and Carol are striding purposefully towards the camera . ' Please ' , I thought , ' please do NOT commit that horrible cliché of freeze-framing the final shot . ' Instead of a freeze-frame , the final image went into a slo-mo . . . which is also a cliché , but not quite so hackneyed yet . Despite a few complaints , I'm vastly impressed with this highly entertaining movie . I'll rate ' The Hard Word ' . Nice one , cobber !
By almost any criterion , ' Boots ! Boots ! ' is an incredibly crude and primitive film . It was made in two weeks , on a shoestring budget , in a room above a garage off Regent Street . Although the action takes place in several different rooms of an hotel , the entire film was shot in one room , with the furniture and set dressing changed very slightly for the different settings . However , ' Boots ! Boots ! ' is a vitally important film for two reasons . It's the first starring vehicle for George Formby , and it's also the only film appearance of his wife Beryl . Although Beryl Formby began as a tap-dancer in the variety halls , she wasn't cut out for stardom . She found greater success managing her husband's career , and controlling every single aspect of his life , including his pocket money . Beryl Formby controlled her husband so utterly that he was forbidden to kiss any of his leading ladies in any of his films , and Beryl the Peril was always present on the movie set to make sure this rule was followed . ( On one occasion , when Beryl Formby was too ill to be present on the set , the entire cast and crew applauded . ) The title of ' Boots ! Boots ! ' refers not to the Kipling poem , but to Formby's character . He plays the gormless ' boots ' ( bootblack ) in what's meant to be a posh hotel , although you wouldn't know it from the production values seen here . Much as in Jerry Lewis's very similar film ' The Bellboy ' , there isn't really any plot here : the film is just an excuse to show George getting into various muddles with the hotel's manager , the chef , some guests and the scullery maid . The latter is played by Beryl Formby , who looks fairly attractive in a maid's uniform ( long skirt , long sleeves ; not much kink quotient ) but who proves she's no actress . Eventually , George gets to skin out of his servant rig and get into white tie and tails , performing in the hotel's nightclub . As usual for a George Formby film , the whole affair is an excuse for his cheeky songs , which here have titles such as ' Sitting on the Ice in the Ice Rink ' and ' I Could Make a Good Living at That ' . In the dialogue of his later films , George referred to his musical instrument as his ' uke ' or his ' ukulele ' , but in fact his usual instrument was a ' banjolele ' - - a short-necked banjo - - rather than an actual ukulele . In ' Boots ! Boots ! ' , George actually does play a standard ukulele . The sound is less distinctive than in his later banjolele efforts , but that might be down to the poor recording here . Beryl Formby does a spirited tap-dance to the ' Chinese Laundry Blues ' , showing that her dancing ability is superior to her acting ability , but not by much . The direction and camera-work in this cheapie effort are quite bad , and much of the pacing is bad too . Still , for fans of George Formby , this is a vitally important film . . . and it's an interesting example of no-budget film-making . I'll rate ' Boots ! Boots ! ' .
' Alias Mary Dow ' has a fascinating premise which seems to unfold by the usual formula , but then surprises us . Sally Eilers gives a standout performance in the lead , effectively playing a dual role . Eilers is Sally Gates , a waitress and dance-hall tootsie who is clearly not above a bit of prostitution , although the script indicates that she hasn't had any breaks in her life . A wealthy and respectable man , Henry Dow , comes to her with a strange offer , hoping it will benefit his dying wife Evelyn . Eighteen years ago , the Dows ' young daughter Mary was kidnapped and held to ransom , but never found alive or dead . Now , on her deathbed , Evelyn Dow is calling for her daughter . Her husband bribes Sally to pose as the long-lost Mary , now grown to adulthood , so that Evelyn will die happy . At this point , the formula kicks in . When Mrs Dow meets her ' daughter ' ( Sally ) , she of course rallies . Now , Sally is stuck with the imposture . What makes this drama intriguing is the transformation in Sally . She originally accepted the charade for some quick compensation . Now , living as Mary Dow , she develops genuine affection for her faux parents . It's fascinating to watch actress Sally Eilers switching between two different personalities - - hard-bitten cynical Sally and sweet innocent Mary - - and it's even more fascinating as Sally genuinely becomes more like the false Mary . ( One question which is never properly addressed : Since Mary Dow was at the mercy of her kidnappers , why would she grow up sweet and innocent ? ) The script attempts to render Henry Dow sympathetic by having him undergo a change of heart and attempt to reveal the imposture to his wife . . . but she stops him . The script and the expert direction by Kurt Neumann imply that Evelyn Dow has sensed the truth but doesn't want to acknowledge it . Because there are some clichés in this movie , I was expecting a Dickensian coincidence at the end : namely , that Sally would turn out to be the real Mary Dow . The script sets up a fairly implausible ambiguity about Sally's childhood years . However , we learn at the end that Sally is definitely not the real Mary . In 1977 , Disney released a children's movie , ' Candleshoe ' , which has very nearly the same premise as ' Alias Mary Dow ' , but which ends ambiguously . . . implying that the female impostor might actually be the long-lost child she's pretending to be . ' Alias Mary Dow ' avoids that ambiguity , and is vastly better for it . One aspect of this movie makes it much more gripping , yet ultimately harms the film . If the real Mary Dow had been merely an off-screen plot device , all would have been well . But , in flashbacks , we see the real Mary Dow , played by a pretty child actress . These scenes are quite gripping , but they also force us to speculate about the fate of this little girl , who was never found again . When I wanted to be caught up in the drama of Sally Gates , I kept thinking about that frightened little girl who never found her way home . Still , this is a powerful film , which I'll rate .
Here's an interesting American ' trick ' film which is much cruder than the trick films which Melies was doing in France at this time . Yet in some ways - - due to its fast action and use of exteriors - - this movie is more interesting than a typical Melies offering . I wonder if the makers of ' Liquid Electricity ' had read H . G . Wells's story ' The New Accelerator ' . We see a scientist with a Tintin cowlick , experimenting with a bizarre flywheel apparatus . He manages to distil some liquefied electricity , which he pours into a syringe . When he squirts some of this on himself , he runs around in accelerated motion . He then goes out to try it on other people . One sequence of this movie , with Brighton Beach Pier in the background , was filmed at almost the exact same spot as a scene in Vitagraph's later offering ' Jack Fat and Jim Slim at Coney Island ' ( 1910 ) . The scientist spots some boaters trying to rescue a drowning bather : he squirts some liquid electricity into the proceedings , and everyone moves at accelerated speed . The trick is done , of course , by undercranking : slowing the camera to lengthen the interval between frames . . . so that , when the film is projected at normal speed , the action is accelerated . It's unfortunate that the makers of ' Liquid Electricity ' undercrank a shot of the ocean : one of the lessons in Movie-making 101 is never to undercrank a shot of water , fire or smoke : the results will always look unnatural . Unfortunate for a different reason is a scene here in which the scientist encounters a Negro couple , played by a white man and woman in dark make-up . The husband lackadaisically whitewashes a wall : the scientist gives him a squirt of liquid electricity , and the black man works at superhuman speed while his black wife watches approvingly . Several scenes in this film are quite funny , but unfortunately the movie just ENDS , with no real punchline . I thought that perhaps a scene was missing from the end of the print , but apparently in 1907 the people at Vitagraph Studios were still learning how to tell a story with a punchline . I must correct the ( normally very perceptive ) IMDb reviewer Bob Lipton , who theorises that a rear-projection process is used in one sequence of this 1907 film , when the scientist moves at normal speed while one of his test subjects moves super-fast . In order to shoot a rear-projection sequence for this movie , the Vitagraph technicians would have been required to synchronise the gate mechanisms in the camera and the projector . . . very difficult to do in 1907 ! In fact , the trick here is something simpler ( yet more impressive ) than rear projection . If you watch the scientist closely in this sequence , you'll see that his movements in this scene - - and ONLY in this scene - - are very precise and deliberate , almost choreographed . It's obvious that the actor playing the scientist is actually moving very slowly , while the actor playing his test subject is moving at normal speed . Both actors are in the same set-up , with only one camera exposure . When the undercranked film is projected at normal speed , the test subject's movements are accelerated , while the scientist is moving normally ! This is very well done , and I regret that the film's credits don't identify the actor who plays the scientist . I'll rate this delightful movie .
This movie takes place in Italy but the scenery looks as if it was filmed in France . The heroine is identified ( in the intertitles ) as French , but there's no particular reason for her to be French apart from the fact that the actress who plays her is French . In a sound film , this sort of backstory is necessary to cover casting problems such as a French actress who can't do a convincing Italian accent . Since this is a silent film , with the actors ' voices unheard , there's really no need for such pretexts . Anyhow : the very sensuous actress Regina Badet portrays a French dancer cried Manuella , which sounds like a Spanish name to me . She is touring Italy with her two musicians , Marco ( Marc Gerard ) and Lionel ( Andree Lionel ) . The latter is also her lover , and they're quite open about it . When Count Rezzi ( Gabriel Signoret ) sees the buskers performing , he is aroused with lust for Manuella . He is dismayed to discover that Manuella and Lionel are quite happy with things as they are . ( I was hoping that the very attractive Ma'mselle Badet would add a long flowing train to her costume , so that the faithful Lionel would be her train-bearer . Lionel train , geddit ? ) Meanwhile , Marco is aroused by the count's wealth . He tries to steal some of the count's jewels . The count catches Marco red-handed . Instead of demanding the return of his property , Count Rezzi blackmails Marco into planting the jewels on Lionel . Then the count arranges for the jewels to be discovered on the person of the guiltless Lionel , who didn't even know he was holding them . Now get this , folks . By means of some surprisingly subtle acting by the cast , with a minimum of explanatory titles , Lionel comes to the mistaken conclusion that Manuella nicked the dazzlers and planted them on his person . . . so Lionel pleads guilty to the theft in order to protect Manuella ! Delighted by this turn of events , the count has Lionel hustled off the hoosegow . ( Armand Tallier portrays the carabiniere . ) SPOILERS COMING . Manuella has been established as a poor wandering entertainer , but somehow she's managed to come into possession of a loaded revolver . Concealing this in her skirts , she pays a call upon the count and begs him to withdraw the charge against Lionel . Twirling his moustache in all directions , Count Rezzi declares that he will happily withdraw the charge . . . if Manuella will first become his " light of love " ( that's how the intertitles put it ; it feels a bit less ludicrous in French ) . Manuella whips out her piece ( the revolver , I mean ) and tries to shoot Count Rizzi . They struggle for the weapon , and the count accidentally shoots himself . Realising that he's done for , he clears Lionel . The lovers are happily reunited . Mama mia ! I didn't like the climax of this movie . Manuella is prepared to commit murder for the sake of her lover , but Count Rezzi conveniently shoots himself instead . . . thus achieving what Manuella set out to accomplish while leaving her technically innocent of murder . Even more conveniently , the count manages to live long enough to clear the accused man . On the positive side , there are some spectacularly beautiful exterior shots in this French film . The costumes and production design are excellent , and the actors ' performances are far more naturalistic than I expected for this operatic sort of story . My rating for this one :
I'm a fan of Arnold Stang , but I dislike the Uncle Herman cartoons for which he provided the main character's voice . All the cartoons putting Uncle Herman at odds with Katnip the Cat have exactly the same boring plot . ' The Henpecked Rooster ' , at least , is a Herman cartoon which places the character in a different situation , and which offers some interesting character dynamics . Henry the rooster is bullied by his unnamed wife ( Henrietta ? ) , who summons him by shouting ' Hen-REEEE ! ' in an imitation of Henry Aldrich's mother . I agree with previous IMDb reviewer Robert Reynolds that the uncredited actor who voices Henry was probably Jack Mercer ; however , the actor is definitely imitating radio performer Bill Thompson : specifically , Thompson's portrayal of Wally Wimple , the henpecked husband from the ' Fibber McGee and Molly ' radio programme . Henry does all the housework while his wife reads a book titled ' How to Lay an Egg , by Bob Hope ' . ( That's the best gag in this cartoon . ) At this point , the score ( by Winston Sharples ) offers a snatch of ' Thanks for the Memory ' . When a mouse ( Herman ) shows up , the hen orders her husband to get rid of him . But Herman offers to help Henry reverse the balance of power in his chicken coop ( a coop d'etat ? ) . Soon enough , Henry is bullying his wife , and cheerfully enjoying the reversal . Paramount's cartoons from this period have never impressed me , yet I actually found myself intrigued by ' The Henpecked Rooster ' because my sympathies changed as the characters ' relationships changed . I felt sorry for henpecked Henry , but then lost all sympathy for him when he bullied his wife . There's also a surprisingly clever ending , when the toon appears to end with a typical iris-in , but one more unexpected gag completely changes the fates of all the characters . And there's some really superb scoring here by Sharples ; at one point , when Herman whispers a scheme to Henry ( so we can't hear it ) , Sharples's staccato music substitutes for Herman's voice . Sharples scores the whole cartoon very imaginatively and effectively . ' The Henpecked Rooster ' is quite misogynist ( certainly not the only cartoon to be guilty of that trait ) but it's much better than I expected , and I'll rate it .
I viewed a print of ' Suspense ' in the National Film Archives , in London . Phillips Smalley is credited as director , but the film was probably co-directed by Lois Weber . Women film directors have always been a rarity , although Alice Guy Blache was also directing films in early silent days . Lois Weber's career is especially interesting because ( unlike Mme Guy Blache , who directed from behind the camera ) , Weber played the lead roles in her own films , directing herself . ' Suspense ' reminds me of a couple of early DW Griffith films in which a young woman ( or a pair of young women ) , alone in an isolated location , is in jeopardy . We have a similar situation here . Lois Weber plays a young wife in an isolated house . She and her infant are unexpectedly left alone by her husband when the maid has abruptly given notice , leaving her latchkey under the doormat . A passing tramp discovers the situation and tries to break in . When the woman rings her husband ( are there no police ? ) , the distress call is terminated when the tramp cuts the ' phone line . The husband , rushing home to rescue his wife and child ( are there no police ? ) , steals a motorcar . NOW there are police , as a cop nabs the husband for grand theft auto . Rather than explaining that his wife is in danger , he gives the cop the slip . SPOILERS NOW . The tramp , meantime , has found the maid's latchkey and he lets himself into the house . Just when things look grimmest for Wifey and her child , the cops arrive . . . not to nick the tramp , but because they've been pursuing the husband all the way here . Only when the tramp is safely nabbed does the husband finally explain himself . I was eager to view ' Suspense ' partly because I'm very interested in Lois Weber's career - - she proves herself a decent actress ( by silent standards ) and a fine director ( ditto ) - - but my primary interest in this film is because I was told that the tramp in this film was played by an actor who might be Lon Chaney . After viewing ' Suspense ' , I determined that the villainous tramp in this brief film is definitely NOT the Man of a Thousand Faces . However , there is a brief appearance by another tramp during the chase sequence : this actor wears realistic beard growth and an application of grime , and does indeed appear to be Chaney . ' Suspense ' is well-acted , quite well-directed and brilliantly edited , with some impressive cross-cutting and even a triptych split-screen effect . It's a shame that the plot line is so contrived , but despite some plausibility issues ' Suspense ' is most definitely suspenseful . I'll rate this movie 8 in 10 , and I wish that Lois Weber were better known .
' Captured on Film : The True Story of Marion Davies ' is one of several documentaries directed by Hugh Munro Neely and produced by Hugh Hefner , each one spotlighting a legendary actress of silent films . Full disclosure : I've had some minor interaction with Mr Neely and I consider him a friend , so I may be slightly prejudiced in favour of this movie . But I genuinely enjoyed it . Any appraisal of Marion Davies's life and career must necessarily examine her relationship with William Randolph Hearst . ' Captured on Film ' goes to great lengths - - protesting too much , methinks - - in its insistence that Hearst and Davies were not the inspiration for the fictional relationship between Charles Foster Kane and Susan Alexander in ' Citizen Kane ' . Unfortunately , this documentary offers a series of talking heads making that disavowal , but provides no real evidence . I wish that ' Captured on Film ' had mentioned , even briefly , the two real-life couples whose relationships probably inspired Orson Welles's depiction of Kane and Susan Alexander . Jules Brulatour was an early film producer who tried to build up an acting career for his untalented mistress Hope Hampton ( whom he wed secretly ) ; their relationship strongly resembles the Kane / Alexander liaison . An even stronger inspiration was undoubtedly the life and career of newspaper publisher Colonel Robert McCormick , who built the Chicago Opera House so that he could groom his beautiful but tone-deaf mistress for a career as an opera diva . Anyone familiar with McCormick's career will realise that his life , and his relationship with his mistress , resemble Citizen Kane and Susan Alexander far more closely than Hearst and Davies ever did . It's a shame that Hugh Neely never mentioned any of this while making his argument . I predict that future generations will continue to ' know for a fact ' that Citizen Kane is Hearst and Susan Alexander is Davies , and will be uninterested in learning otherwise . This documentary features some delightful excerpts from Davies's more obscure films , but does not always identify them . We see a brief ( and funny ) clip of Davies walking down a street with a procession of men following her , but we're not told that this is from ' Tillie the Toiler ' . We also see a brief clip of Davies with a chorus line of Coldstream Guards from ' Hollywood Revue of 1929 ' ; I wish that this documentary had included her entire musical number from that film . More favourably , I was pleased when narrator Charlize Theron mentioned that Davies was production manager of her films : unlike Susan Alexander , Marion Davies was not some brainless bimbo living off a sugar daddy ! Also , I was gratified that Neely and his crew got the name right for Davies's film ' The Florodora Girl ' . . . because that show's title is often misspelt as ' FlorAdora ' . We're shown a brief clip of Davies in ' The Red Mill ' , but this documentary never mentions the tremendous irony behind that film : ' The Red Mill ' was directed ( under an alias ) by silent-film comedian Roscoe Arbuckle , after Arbuckle's acting career was ruined by the publicity-hungry Hearst . We get some sound bites from two matronly ladies who knew Davies when they were girls : these ladies are daughters of King Vidor , the man who directed Davies in some of her best films ( including her best and sexiest performance , ' The Patsy ' ) . I wish that this documentary had done more to establish the working relationship between Davies and the underrated Vidor , since he did so much to mould her career . Hearst liked to showcase Davies in elaborate costume dramas that would position her as a ' serious ' actress , but Vidor recognised that Davies's true talent was for light social comedies . I was pleased that this documentary entirely avoided a device that has been overused in several other showbiz documentaries : re-enactments of key incidents in the subject's life , performed by modern actors with their faces out of frame . Hugh Neely's documentaries often feature elaborate and imaginative visual sequences that must have been complicated to set up . We get one of those here , as pieces of a jigsaw puzzle conjoin themselves to form a head shot of Davies , which then dissolves into a publicity photo of Davies . It's clear that Neely and his crew must have done this sequence backwards : duplicating the vintage photo , then cutting up the duplicate into a jigsaw puzzle , then disassemblng the pieces . The effort involved is impressive . I'll rate ' Captured on Film ' . I would have rated this enjoyable documentary a perfect 10 if only it had included a brief mention of Colonel McCormick and his mistress . . . the real inspirations for the Citizen Kane story .
SPOILERS AHEAD . I must disagree with my IMDb colleague Bob Lipton , who says that Dickie Moore gets his legs chopped off in this movie . There's a very convincing special-effects sequence in which little Dickie's go-cart gets run over by a stolen car , and there's some dialogue in hospital about Dickie being crippled , but in the last scene he's walking quite nicely . ( Child actor Moore gives a very impressive performance here , unlike several cinema brats I could mention . ) ' The Devil Is Driving ' is a neat B-picture crime drama , in which the spiral ramp of a service garage figures several times in the plot . I was impressed with Henry Sharp's travelling shot of a speeding car up this ramp . Edmund Lowe starts the movie by cheeking a midget bridegroom ( step forward , Tod Browning ) , so I figured Lowe was playing an unsympathetic character , but he turns out to be the hero . James Gleason plays slightly more crooked than usual , as a character improbably named ' Beef ' even though there's clearly not much beef on Gleason's frame . Gleason's character gets murdered halfway through the movie , but Gleason remains on camera ( in close-up ) for some process shots as an automotive corpse , ' driving ' a car down that ramp and into traffic . Speaking of undersized actors , little Charles Williams has a larger role than usual here , as a brash newsreel cameraman . Among the great pleasures of 1930s Hollywood films are unexpected performances by obscure bit-part actors who are just occasionally given a chance to shine . The real discovery of ' The Devil Is Driving ' is George Rosener ( who ? ) , as a sinister deaf-mute henchman of spiv villain Alan Dinehart . If this movie had been made ten years later , Rosener's role would have been tailor-made for the great character actor Milton Parsons . As it is , Rosener - - who strongly resembles Parsons - - gives an astonishingly virtuoso performance in a role with no dialogue at all . Why isn't this programmer better known ? And why didn't Rosener get better roles ? I'll rate ' The Devil Is Driving ' .
I have mixed feelings about screen adaptations of classic novels and plays . On the one hand , they serve as a ' crib sheet ' for students ( and George Costanza types ) who are too lazy to read the original books . Also , they cheat viewers out of the experience of the prose by the original author , in this case Dickens . On the other hand , at least these film and TV adaptations make great literary works accessible to couch-spuds who otherwise would never experience them at all . SPOILERS THROUGHOUT . This BBC Schools production of Dickens's ' Hard Times ' necessarily abridges the text , even though this was by far the shortest of Dickens's novels . As usual for Auntie Beeb , the period detail here is ( mostly ) perfect , although it would have been more realistically Victorian if some of the actors had bad teeth . and if the factory hands were not so well-fed . Mister Sleary's circus is only briefly seen , yet the shots of the circus fixtures look more like a 20th-century American circus than anything of Dickens's place and time . Considering the theme of this novel , it would have been nice to see a few shots of mills and smokestacks . I was intrigued by the changes made here . In Dickens's novel , two of the major characters had unfortunate speech patterns that made their dialogue distressing to read on the page : the circus owner Mr Sleary had an erratic lisp , and the falsely-accused millhand Stephen Blackpool spoke with an ' eeh , bah gum ' accent reminiscent of George Formby . Fortunately , in this adaptation , the lisp is lost , and Blackpool's ' oop North ' dialect is greatly toned down . In Dickens's original novel , after young Tom Gradgrind embezzles £150 from Bounderby's bank , he hides in Sleary's circus . . . where the circus folk conceal him by disguising him in blackface . I found this detail upsetting , partly because of its racism but also because blackface make-up ( even without the racial implications ) is physically disgusting to look at . For this television adaptation of Dickens's novel , it would have made sense to disguise Tom in the white Auguste make-up that most clowns in Victorian England wore . Instead , he is kitted out with a big red nose and a Weary Willie make-up which are decidedly anachronistic - - he looks like Emmett Kelly - - but definitely preferable to blackface . Another nitpick : in an earlier sequence , the actor who plays Tom Gradgrind is seen writing left-handed . . . but surely Tom's Victorian father would have ' cured ' him of that tendency ! One other change in this adaptation annoyed me very much , the more so because it was gratuitous . Although Tom's father , the schoolmaster Thomas Gradgrind , is often regarded as the villain of ' Hard Times ' , that perception is incorrect : Josiah Bounderby ( well-played here by Alan Bates ) is the principal villain ; Gradgrind is more like Ebenezer Scrooge in that he sees the error of his ways , repents and reforms . In Dickens's novel , Gradgrind stands for Parliament and is elected , but Dickens pointedly never identifies Gradgrind's political affiliation . In this BBC production , Gradgrind is explicitly identified as a Tory . Further , in the climactic scene , when Gradgrind tries to save his son from gaol by appealing to Bitzer's compassion , Bitzer taunts Gradgrind for his ' conservative philosophy ' . That adjective ' conservative ' was not there when Dickens wrote this scene ! It's clear that some liberal at the BBC has decided to score a few points against the Conservative party with some cheap shots that really don't belong in this otherwise splendid production . As a rates-payer , I deeply resent that my licence fee goes to support propaganda which do not reflect my own political beliefs . . . nor those of Dickens , I might add . It's because of that gratuitous politicking that I'll rate this production one point short of a perfect score : .
Franke Darro came from a circus background ( his parents were aerialists ) , and he just occasionally had a chance to show off his circus skills in his film roles . . . such as in ' Wild Boys of the Road ' , when he gives a dazzling display of acrobatics in the last scene of the movie . Darro's short stature enabled him to play teen roles well into adulthood , but eventually his lack of height became a handicap . Darro ended up as the man inside the Robby the Robot suit in ' Forbidden Planet ' : an uncredited role which Darro earned solely because he was small enough to fit inside the bulky robot costume . In ' The Circus Kid ' , Darro gives an excellent performance as Buddy , an orphan who runs away from a a harsh orphanage ( is there any other kind ? ) to join Cadwallader's Circus . The depictions of circus routine and circus people are not very accurate here ( mostly the usual clichés ) , but the film is highly entertaining , and a few gaps in logic do not disturb the story's flow . Darro ( aged eleven when he made this movie ) showed real acting promise in this and several other early films ; it's a shame that his career ended in obscurity . SLIGHT SPOILERS . Charles Gemora , inside an ape suit , supplies a surprisingly subtle performance as Zozo , the circus's ferocious gorilla . When Buddy accidentally gets locked in the gorilla cage , he panics as the gorilla lumbers menacingly towards him . But Zozo turns out to be lonely , and the two are soon friends . Joe E . Brown is impressive here as Kruger , the circus's lion tamer . Years ago , Kruger was fearless . . . but he eventually lost his nerve and has developed a drinking problem . ( Rather ironic , this : in real life , a few years after this movie was made , Joe E . Brown developed alcohol problems . ) The circus's lion , Moloch , is a real man-eater . Fix-it boy Buddy manages to ' accidentally ' lock himself in Moloch's cage so that Kruger will have to recover his nerve and rescue Buddy . Helene Costello is pretty and gives a good performance , as does Lionel Belmore ( who is not so pretty ) . There are many delights in this movie , but the most delightful of all is an appearance by the great circus clown Poodles Hanneford . Born into an English circus family , Hanneford did a clown act on horseback that was not only hilarious but also a dazzling display of equestrian skill . ( Poodles Hanneford is mentioned in the dialogue of ' All About Eve ' , of all places . ) There were no poodles in Hanneford's act : his sobriquet was originally a family nickname . He's marvellous here as the circus's chief clown . I'll rate ' The Circus Kid ' .
The excellent scriptwriter Wolf Mankowitz has surpassed himself in ' Dickens of London ' , a miniseries recounting the life of Charles Dickens from early boyhood till his death . One of the clichés of biographical drama is the tendency to tell the story in flashback , with the central figure looking back on his or her life from the vantage of old age . . . or even narrating from beyond the grave . There is a sound practical reason for this particular device : the actor or actress cast in the central role is usually too old to portray the biographical subject in early youth . So , we start out with a scene depicting the character in middle age or older , to get the audience accepting that James Cagney is really George M . Cohan , or Julie Andrews is really Gertrude Lawrence . Once that linkage is made , the flashback can begin . Each episode of ' Dickens of London ' is a separate flashback , with the same framing device every time . We see Roy Dotrice , pale and drawn , as Dickens lying in his deathbed . In real life , Dickens's death was precipitated by his exertions during a stage tour , in which he strenuously acted out the murder of Nancy Sikes in ' Oliver Twist ' . As Dickens languishes in bed , he speaks to Mr . Dolby , the manager of his final tour , prompting memories of earlier phases in Dickens's life . ( Cue the flashback . ) There are occasional interruptions , as when Dickens is visited by a masked intruder , claiming to be the original of Dickens's creation Mr Pickwick , and demanding compensation . Wolf Mankowitz's research is impeccable , and this series is extremely accurate , but inevitably there is some invention and fictionalising . Charles Dickens stated that the character of Wilkins Micawber in ' David Copperfield ' was inspired by his own father John Dickens , a failed civil servant who went to debtors ' prison during Charles's childhood . Here , we see John Dickens speaking epigrams that will eventually become dialogue spoken by Micawber in Charles Dickens's novel . I seriously doubt that such material was actually handed to Dickens in a manner like this , but it's very entertaining . Regrettably , but perhaps out of necessity , the central role of Charles Dickens is played by three different actors : a boy in the first episode , when young Charles is forced to work in a blacking factory so that his pampered sister can have dancing lessons . Gene Foad is a dullish Charles in the next two episodes , when Dickens as a stagestruck young man endeavours to become a playwright and actor . Roy Dotrice plays Charles Dickens ( very well ) for most of the series , ageing as the episodes progress . Dotrice also plays Dickens's impecunious father John , and there are some unintentionally bizarre moments in the fourth episode when Roy Dotrice plays long sequences opposite himself , portraying father and son in long dialogue scenes ! Possibly for budgetary reasons , this production does not plump for double-exposure , so the camera must dizzyingly cut back and forth between two separate Roy Dotrices , never getting them both in the same shot . Diana Coupland is excellent as Charles Dickens's mother , but I'm so used to seeing her as Jean Abbott that I kept expecting her to shout ' Sid ! ' . The supporting cast are excellent as well , including Ben Kingsley pre-Oscar . ' Dickens of London ' is probably the best ? most entertaining and most accurate ? dramatisation of Charles Dickens's life that will ever be made . Inevitably , some important things have been left out . . . such as Dickens's long relationship with his mistress , who once helped him tend to the wounded when they were caught in a railway accident . Despite some flaws , I'll rate ' Dickens of London ' a full .
' Inferno ' was originally filmed in 3D , but this film avoids the stupid gimmicks that plagued so many films in that brief genre . . . such as the paddleballs that utterly ruined ' House of Wax ' for me . In far too many 3D films , the actors are constantly chucking objects at the audience . We get none of that here , except for one medium close-up of Henry Hull flinging a burning paraffin lamp at the camera . ' Inferno ' is shown on television in flat 2D format . Good news : even in 2D , ' Inferno ' is a taut thriller that's well worth your attention . Robert Ryan usually fails to impress me , but he gives a riveting performance here as a millionaire who's had everything given to him his entire life , but who now must learn self-reliance in order to survive . Ryan is cast as millionaire Donald Carson III . . . and the roman numeral is an obvious tip-off that Carson's wealth is inherited . Carson's sluttish wife Geraldine ( a fine performance by the sexy and underrated Rhonda Fleming ) has been openly carrying on an affair with Carson's overseer Duncan . The three of them go on a trip into the desert together , where Carson breaks his leg . It's never established how this happened : did Carson break his leg in a genuine accident , or did Duncan ' accidentally ' break it for him ? Anyway , Geraldine and Duncan have decided to maroon her husband in the desert , dooming him to slow death by exposure while Geraldine inherits his millions . SLIGHT SPOILERS COMING . Carson must learn to fend for himself , in a situation where his money is useless . In a sterling perfomance , Robert Ryan gradually earns our sympathy . There's a suspenseful scene in which Carson , crippled and starving , tries to snare a jackrabbit . When he finally succeeds , we cheer for him . But then a raptor snatches away the rabbit that Carson earned . During another tense sequence , Carson must lower himself down a desert cliffside without damaging his broken leg . Henry Hull is an actor whom I've always found very mannered . Hull was a good actor when he played highly stylised roles ( such as the title role in ' Werewolf of London ' , or ' Miracles for Sale ' in which he played a conjuror ) , but Hull tended to give overripe performances when he was cast as a realistic human being . In ' Inferno ' , he gives a histrionic turn as a Gabby Hayes-type old coot of a hermit who lives in the desert . Hull's performance here is probably similar to his Broadway turn as Jeeter Lester in ' Tobacco Road ' . In September 2003 , I attended a 3D movie festival at the Egyptian Theatre in Los Angeles , where I saw ' Inferno ' in its original format ( with those silly cardboard glasses ) . As good as ' Inferno ' is in flat format , it's even better in 3D . I'll go out on a limb and say that ' Inferno ' is the greatest 3D movie ever . Underrated director Roy Ward Baker resists the urge to throw things at the 3D stereopticon cameras . Instead , he draws us into the frame , shooting the desert vistas in deep-focus tableaux that impress us with the vast width and length and depth of the desert in which Robert Ryan's crippled protagonist is trapped . There are several suspense films that effectively invoke claustrophobia , the fear of being trapped in an enclosed space . ' Inferno ' is one of the very few films - - and the only 3D film - - to successfully instil in us a sense of the opposite fear : agoraphobia , the terror of being trapped in an open space , with no comforting walls or corners . I have never seen any other film that uses the 3D process so effectively - - and with as much originality - - as it's used here . The fact that the 3D is used in the service of an excellent script and some fine performances - - instead of paddleball gimmicks - - makes this movie even more impressive , and more entertaining . I'll rate ' Inferno ' . You'll enjoy it in 2D , but make every effort to see it in 3D .
I saw Michael Frayn's stage play ' Copenhagen ' in London . . . in fact , I was technically IN the play , as Peter Davison's set design seated some of the audience members onstage directly above the actors , like a tribunal sitting in judgment , and I chose to watch the play from one of these onstage seats . ( I also saw the play on Broadway in the same circumstances , so technically I was onstage during both productions . ) This brilliant drama is basically an interplay of ideas between three highly intelligent minds : a concept which works better onstage than in a film or a teleplay . So , when ' Copenhagen ' was adapted for television by the BBC , I was eager to see how they would ' open up ' this story . . . and whether or not the transition would work . It works astonishingly well . During the Second World War , brilliant young physicist Werner Heisenberg was in Germany , working towards the Nazi government's efforts to develop a nuclear bomb . Meanwhile , Heisenberg's older mentor and friend , Niels Bohr , was working quietly in his native Denmark ( a nation under Nazi occupation at the time ) along with his wife Margrethe . Bohr's wife was not a trained physicist , but many people who knew the Bohrs stated that she was an active partner in his work , and that Mrs Bohr deserves to share credit for Bohr's achievements . In 1941 , Heisenberg journeyed to Copenhagen to visit his old friends the Bohrs , although their disparate allegiances during the war had strained the friendship . To this day , historians debate why Heisenberg visited the Bohrs at this time . Also debated is Heisenberg's loyalty to the Nazi cause . Did Heisenberg actively try ( and fail ) to develop an atomic bomb for the Third Reich ? Or was Heisenberg secretly an anti-Nazi who covertly harmed the German war effort by pretending to work on the bomb whilst sabotaging his labmates ' efforts ? As with the assassination of JFK , there are many different theories as to what ' really ' happened here . Heisenberg devised the Uncertainty Principle of quantum physics , so it's ironic that we can never be certain about what really occurred in Copenhagen . The tv version of ' Copenhagen ' is brilliant . The action is opened up by having Heisenberg journey to Copenhagen ( on a vintage 1940s railway train ) while an internal monologue plays on the soundtrack . When he meets the Bohrs , the three of them stroll through various ( extremely beautiful ) buildings and landmarks in Copenhagen , with an occasional Nazi soldier walking past to remind us that Denmark is effectively part of the Third Reich . The period detail is impeccable throughout , and the locations are a delight to look at . The script of this teleplay is actually superior to the stage version . In the stage play , after Bohr is identified as ' the pope of quantum physics ' , his wife replies : ' yes , you were the pope . . . but Einstein was God ' . This is a cheap joke , meant to raise a laugh from audience members who recognise Einstein yet who feel uncomfortable with their lack of knowledge about Bohr's achievements . With all due respect to Einstein , the historical fact is that Niels Bohr achieved far more in the field of quantum physics than any other three scientists combined , including Einstein . . . so I was grateful that the Einstein joke was removed . Another , much better line is retained , when Heisenberg contemplates the concept of ' quantum morality ' . . . in other words , the journey from Good to Evil ( or vice versa ) can only be made in a single quantum leap , with no gradual transition from one state to the other . Intriguing ! I wish that the script of ' Copenhagen ' ( stage or screen version ) had included a crucial irony which was mentioned in the playbill of the London production : namely , that most of the important work in the development of the atomic bomb was achieved by Jewish scientists , precisely because of policies implemented by the Nazi government . In Nazi Germany , applied physics was considered a much more prestigious field of research than theoretical physics , so Jewish scientists were shut out of employment opportunities in the former , and they concentrated their research efforts in the latter . . . which was the field that developed the atomic bomb . The excellent actor Stephen Rea does fine work as Bohr , and his castmates are splendid too . If you're looking for car chases or action sequences , ' Copenhagen ' is not for you . But if you want to experience brilliant acting , sumptuous locales and an exchange of provoking ideas , then I recommend ' Copenhagen ' . . . and I rate this tv movie . This fascinating drama won't Bohr you . ( Sorry , I couldn't resist ! )
The hilarious silent-film comedy ' Jewish Prudence ' is fairly easy to obtain in film libraries , but all known English-language prints of this movie have the original title card ' Jewish Prudence ' removed and a new title card spliced in , so that this film is now renamed ' Prudence ' . If you can't locate this very funny movie under its original title , try looking for it under the less offensive ( and less funny ) name ' Prudence ' . The title ' Jewish Prudence ' is of course a pun on ' jurisprudence ' , but it also refers to the character played by silent-movie comedian Max Davidson in his starring films . Davidson , who was indeed Jewish ( and with strongly Semitic features ) , tended to play a stereotypical Jewish character on-screen . This can be unpleasant for modern viewers , but Davidson usually steered clear of the more vicious aspects of a Jewish caricature . His on-screen character tended to be resourceful rather than cunning , frugal rather than an outright money-grubber . Max Davidson reminds me of the English actor Ron Moody , whom he physically resembles : Moody has proudly used his Jewish heritage as a basis for most of his acting roles , yet his portrayals never become offensive . In ' Jewish Prudence ' , written by Stan Laurel and directed by Leo McCarey , Max is a father saddled with three grown children who will never amount to anything . His daughter ( Martha Sleeper ) is bone-idle . Max's older son ( Jesse De Vorska ) is an incompetent schlemiehl whom Max pressures into taking a job as a lorry driver . The younger son ( Johnny Fox ) is an idiot who wants to be a professional Charleston dancer . ( Fair enough : that's how Lord Grade got started . ) A handsome young lawyer ( Gaston Glass ) , newly admitted to the bar , wants to marry Max's daughter , but Max refuses to consent until lawyer Gaston wins his first court case . When Max and his dancing son witness a road accident , Max sees a chance to make some money by persuading Johnny to fake a leg injury . There's an uproariously funny sequence in which Johnny feigns injuries by displaying a false leg while concealing his real leg inside a hollowed-out cushion . Of course , several things go wrong . ( At one point , Johnny's got three legs showing . ) When Max gets a visit from two men who seem to be insurance claims adjusters , Johnny plays his scam for all it's worth . This scene has a very funny payoff . Johnny Fox , who gave an amazing performance as the supernatural visitor in ' One Glorious Day ' , gives a splendidly physical performance here as Max's son . Eugene Palllette , hefting only a fraction of his later girth , is impressive as one of the visitors . Spec O'Donnell , who played Davidson's son in so many of his films , is absent from these proceedings . SPOILERS COMING . Meanwhile , Max brings suit against the driver who supposedly injured Johnny . The lawyer for the defence is none other than Gaston , who humiliates Max and Johnny in court by exposing them ( hilariously ) as liars and frauds . Gaston wins his case and then smoothly claims the right to marry Max's daughter . Max drives away in disgust , but his car is immediately hit by a truck . Gaston eagerly offers to represent Max in a lawsuit against the truckdriver , but the driver turns out to be ( of course ) Max's other son ! ' Jewish Prudence ' is extremely funny ; even more so because ( unlike many other Hal Roach comedies of this period ) it actually has a believable plot . Director Leo McCarey's comic pacing is brisk and excellent . The climactic trial scene in this film must have been good experience for McCarey when he directed Chico Marx's trial in ' Duck Soup ' . However , I was annoyed by one ' impossible ' gag in ' Jewish Prudence ' during the courtroom sequence , when a solemn portrait of George Washington is seen to burst out laughing at Max's pathetic testimony . This sort of gag is acceptable for a totally unrealistic comedian such as Harpo Marx , but it drastically conflicts with the comedic style of Max Davidson , who tended to play very plausible and realistic characters . It's only due to fears of Political Incorrectness that Max Davidson's ( Jewish ) screen characterisation is so seldom available to modern filmgoers . I'll rate this very funny movie .
' House Busters ' is the all-time funniest of the Heckle and Jeckle cartoons . For once , the two magpies indulge their penchant for violence in a productive ( and hilarious ) fashion . This cartoon short even features a delightful and peppy song . The magpie twins ( with mismatched accents ) have an honest job for once , as house-wreckers . They merrily tootle off to their next gig with a lorry-load of destructive implements , while singing a song with a catchy tune and clever lyrics : ' Give us a house to wreck ! We'll tear it down , by heck ! We'll pull out the pipes and tear out the walls , we'll chop the chimney till it falls . . . ' Meanwhile , a bank-robbing dog is on the lam from the cops . He needs a place to hide , so he holes up in a slanty shanty . . . which of course is the house that our heroes have been sent to wreck . They immediately start demolishing the joint ( with some cleverly surrealistic animation ) . As his hiding place starts vanishing from under him , the dog comes out from hiding and tries to intimidate the magpies into going away . Heckle immediately recognises the dog as ' a desperate character ' , and from here on he's fair game for the magpies ' mayhem . The climactic violence is very funny indeed . . . but NOT the sort of violence that your kids are liable to imitate . I'm delighted to recommend ' House Busters ' for kids and adults , and I rate this very funny cartoon a perfect .
' Broadway : The American Musical ' is a six-part series that's just what it claims to be : a documentary history of the American musical ( although it doesn't start anywhere near the beginning : ' The Black Crook ' in the 1860s ) . The basic structure is chronological , though there are a few odd deviations : ' Bye Bye Birdie ' comes before ' My Fair Lady ' , ' The Pyjama Game ' doesn't show up until the 1980s , and flamboyant showman David Merrick isn't mentioned until the 1990s . Of course , the real fun of a show like this is the chance to see rare clips of performers and obscure shows . Necessarily , documentarian Michael Kantor is limited by the fact that most stage performances were not preserved . We see silent-film footage of Bert Williams while the soundtrack plays one of his gramophone recordings ; the image and soundtrack don't match , because Williams never made a talking movie . Yet , within the available material , Kantor makes some bizarre choices . We see silent footage ( taken with a home-movie camera ) of George M Cohan singing and dancing on Broadway in ' I'd Rather Be Right ' . After a brief tantalising glimpse of this rare footage , Kantor cuts to a long excerpt of James Cagney in the movie ' Yankee Doodle Dandy ' , which we can get at any video shop . We see a brief clip of Bill ' Bojangles ' Robinson doing his famous stair dance . . . but after a few delightful seconds , the documentary cuts to footage of a generic jazz band . We see clips from a couple of MGM movie musicals ( not film versions of stage musicals ) containing songs ABOUT Broadway . I was delighted by one clever sequence : an audio recording of Fred and Adele Astaire singing ' Fascinating Rhythm ' is played over animated cut-outs of the dancing Astaire siblings . Also delightful is new footage of former Ziegfeld chorus girl Doris Eaton , singing and dancing one of her old songs from memory , shortly before her 100th birthday ! We also see rare kinescope footage of some major Broadway musical performances : Gertrude Lawrence from ' The King and I ' , Jill Haworth from the original Broadway cast of ' Cabaret ' , Alfred Drake and Patricia Morison from ' Kiss Me Kate ' . What pleasures ! One non-Broadway clip that I welcomed was a brief sequence of Michael Bennett and Donna McKechnie dancing on a 1964 TV show , long before they collaborated on ' A Chorus Line ' . I was also pleased by home-movie footage of the original staging of ' Porgy and Bess ' , along with new interviews of the performers who played the title roles in that production . Various talking heads weigh in with their opinions . Oddly , this documentary makes no attempt to offer the credentials of these people . John Lahr states that his mother was a Ziegfeld chorus girl , yet never mentions that his father was a major Broadway comedian . George C Wolfe comments on the 1944 production of ' On the Town ' ( which closed long before Wolfe was born ) , yet never mentions that he directed an acclaimed revival of this same show . Betty Comden and Adolph Green were in that original 1944 cast of ' On the Town ' ( in addition to writing the book and lyrics ) , so I was amused here when they sing one of that show's songs . . . and get the words wrong ! Other errors here are less happy . Cole Porter's Broadway musical for Fred Astaire was titled ' The Gay Divorce ' , NOT ' The Gay Divorcée ' ( that was the movie version ) . A narrator mispronounces the name of Cole Porter's home town . Mary Rodgers gets the title wrong for one of her father's songs . ( Maybe because he only wrote the tune , not the words . ) Regrettably , much of this documentary caters for what audiences will find familiar rather than trying to interest them in the unfamilar . We get a clip of the Marx Brothers in the movie version of ' Animal Crackers ' . The Marxes were giants of film comedy , but their importance to Broadway's history is negligible . We are told absolutely nothing about Busby Berkeley's work on Broadway , but we get a clip from one of his Warner Brothers movies about a ' Broadway ' musical that couldn't possibly be staged in a Broadway theatre . And did we need to be told for the 21 , 937th time that Mary Martin was from Weatherford , Texas ? This documentary intelligently reveals how the musical theatre was affected by the arrival of the subway in 1904 , by Prohibition , by World War Two , by the terrorist attacks , and by the arrival of Aids . The most moving sequence here is a tribute to Broadway figures who died of Aids . . . not the obvious big names , but those whom one talking head calls ' the guys in the trenches ' : the talented minor figures who never got their chance at stardom . Less inspiring is a film clip of Gerald Schoenfeld of the Shubert Organisation : his two sound bites about the Times Square district seem to be addressed solely to its viability as real estate . A long tribute to the Disney corporation's efforts on Broadway seems to be intended more as corporate back-scratching than anything else . Fittingly , the series ends with an elaborate tribute to Al Hirschfeld , the caricaturist who documented Broadway's best for more than seven decades ! Despite some nitpicks , I deeply enjoyed this documentary and I learnt quite a bit from it . Anyone who wants to learn about the Great White Way will get a solid grounding in the American theatre's history from these six episodes . And anyone who just wants a good time watching some enjoyable musical numbers will get plenty of that pleasure here . I rate ' Broadway : The American Musical ' a full . Bravo !
