This movie is overwrought , hysterical and little more than tripe . Lloyd Hughs , under the immoral and debilitating influence of a college education , falls for the Bolshevik labor agitators . While this trash may have some interest to those who wish to understand the propaganda of the period , an era of Red Scares and the rise of J . Edgar Hoover , there is no mention made of the outrages that made such agitators important and gave them the power to organize people . Instead , all the ills of the movement are laid at the feet of Claire Dubrey's character , a woman who is " a rebel against every convention and law civilization has found necessary " without being overly specific . Doubtless she needs to be deprived of her shoes and locked in the kitchen .
This is not a panoramic view of Newport . This is actually what happens when you put a camera at the back of a small , black-smoke-belching boat , point the camera at the prow right past the smoke stack , and race the boat parallel to the shore . Newport ? Why not ? You might as well claim it is Newport . For those with a passion for the study of bad movies , it should come as no surprise that the credited producer of this movie was James White , the man who singlehandedly invented bad movies . Lumiere and Pathe were producing beautifully composed pictures based on more than fifty years of camera work . In England , they were doing the experimental movies that evolved in modern film grammar . Mr . White , however , was busy clipping the interesting portion of the frame to no more than ten percent of the picture so that he could show us the back of the hats of people watching things .
A demonstration that talent , expense and hard work can still produce work that is utterly abominable . This cartoon starts off with a non-anthropomorphic cow dancing ballet and descends thence to depths of puerility that would make Barney the Dinosaur vomit . Beautiful technicolor , excellent painting and well-done animation yield a mess that would cause Tex Avery to invent ' Screwy Squirrel . ' A clear example of how awful people can be when they are doing something " fit for children . "
I think there is no point . This looks like a pilot for a one-hour war drama like COMBAT ! that never got beyond this stage . Filled with Cold War angst about the forthcoming Third World War , we watch as Americans with guns alternate with shots of Japanese with guns , eked out with occasional shots of palm trees , until the fighting is past . " Poor slobs " the Yanks announce about the dead Japs , until the Japs , not quite dead , start shooting . This is the earliest instance I have encountered of the Racially Integrated World War Two Combat Unit , which is a nice thing when it comes to acting jobs for Blacks and racial harmony , but is historically nonsense . U . S . military units were segregated by order of that great humanitarian Woodrow Wilson and integration did not begin to take place until an executive order during the Korean War by Harry Truman , alleged KKK member . Director Kowalski later went on to helm some good episodes of COLUMBO , so either this wasn't his métier or he needed a decent script and actors or he learned how to direct as he went along . Whatever .
First , I must tell you that I think Ben Turpin is one of the unfunniest screen comics in the history of the cinema . There are screen comics - - Larry Semon , for example - - who are complete nullities so far as I am concerned , but Ben Turpin's screen performances go beyond not funny into the realm of active terror . In the 1920s , when he had developed his cross-eyed gag , he was invariably cast in some horrific role , armed with a shotgun or performing delicate surgery . Some people must have thought it was funny , but it makes me want to flee the scene of the coming crime . However , even Ben Turpin had to start somewhere , and this is near the beginning of his on-screen career . He plays a young dandy in a world populated by women , all of whom he wants to tap on the shoulder and all of whom retaliate with traditional comic attacks , often involving seltzer bottles . There is little ornamentation of this basic gag and it goes on for the longest two or three minutes I have ever spent in a theater . Today he would be subject to a class action suit for sexual harassment . Too bad an audience has no such recourse .
Warner's Brothers B unit goes for a straight exploitation plot , but manages to stay within the Production Code nonetheless , resulting in a movie that is neither amusingly salacious nor particularly well made - - a look at the plot outline offered by the Internet Movie Database will give you a rough idea of how silly and coincidence-actuated it is . Ronald Reagan seems to have been temporarily typecast as an insurance man at this time . Here he is a lawyer for an insurance company . Sig Rumann appears with black hair , ordering his daughter into the cold night , Sheila Bromley spontaneously develops a nasal tone and the habit of talking out of the side of her mouth and Jane Bryan , in the lead role , tries to present an air of bewildered innocence without once stammering or hesitating . Most of the other actors don't seem to put that much effort into this tripe . Don't you either .
Only the first reel of this two-reeler from 1922 seems to survive , which is a pity . Of course every lost reel of film is a sad loss , but this is a Stan Laurel film , one of the great talents of film comedy , and a loss of one of his films is greater than , say a missing Al Joy comedy . Even so , this is not a particularly good comedy . While some of the gags are sharp and in focus , like his skipping around the rug in his room for no clear reason until the payoff , some are simple random bits , like reaching for a billiard chalk and snatching the wig off a bald woman . You may notice that Stan seems to be wearing a lot of mascara around his eyes . The orthochromatic film stock in use at this time could not pick up his pale blue eyes and this was a means of compensating . Within a couple of years , panchromatic stock would become standard and the eye makeup would disappear . And he would learn how to structure his gags brilliantly .
MGM's Dr . Kildare second feature series continues without Dr . Kildare - - Lew Ayres was in the doghouse because of his antiwar stance since starring in 1930s ALL QUIET ON THE WESTERN FRONT and was serving as a medic . In the meantime , the series carried on with Lionel Barrymore as the crusty Dr . Gillespie , with newcomers Van Johnson and Keye Luke competing for his favor as his interns . Keye Luke gets the silliest lines , as a partisan of Brooklyn . Van Johnson is interested in anatomy : female anatomy . Unhappily , much of the feature is taken up with shtick like that , expertly delivered , but absolutely trivial and of little interest . Of more interest might be spotting other budding MGM talent including series regular Nat Pendleton , Donna Reed as a man-hungry temptress for Van Johnson , and Margeret O'Brien at her most waiflike . There is no subtlety in this movie . Director Goldbeck never got out of the Bs and this movie shows why . Unless you want to see the actors far below their best , you may want to look at this . Most people will want to give this a miss .
Van Beueren was experimenting with lead cartoon characters at this stage . They had a pretty good musical series with their ' Tom & Jerry ' , which had nothing to do with cats and mice , but were two barfly-ish looking individuals who appeared in a number of good black and white cartoons - - check out PENCIL MANIA if you have this chance . This one was intended as a direct response to Fleischer's Betty Boop - - instead of being a dog , she's a cat , but it's still the Helen Kane style of singing . She does ' Some of These Days ' and ' How You Gonna Keep ' Em Down on the Farm ' and for my money , you can leave them there . For completists only .
I look for anything in this early Lonesome Luke comedy for some sign of the brilliance that Harold Lloyd would attain in the next decade , but it's like looking for the Lloyd Hamilton of the mid-twenties in his Ham & Bud comedies . LLoyd and Roach were just starting out at this stage and anxious to produce something , anything that would get the exhibitors to take the comedies - - and that meant comedies like those at Keystone . But they didn't have the editing that Sennet did and they didn't have the budgets , so there's no discernible plot - - everything happens around a flophouse as cops chase bums and bums fight - - but the comedy falls are even more bone-breaking than Sennet used . Lloyd would continue this rougher set of pratfalls into his Glasses character . For fanatics only .
This 1929 mystery-tearjerker suffers from all the stereotypical problems of talkies in this year - - a very few works like Mamoulian's APPLAUSE aside - - immobile camera and actors who seem unable to read a line with any naturalism - - the sound track sounds poor , too , but that might will be an artifact of a worn print . Director Phil Rosen makes a good stab by using short cuts to fake a mobile camera , and it's a pleasure to watch old pros Henry Walthall and Ricardo Cortez exhibit their physical naturalness , but the many poor performances and , by modern standards , pretty pinheaded plot keep this from being worthwhile as more than a curiosity .
If you think silent movies are awful pieces of soundless overacting accompanied by bad piano playing , then this is the movie for you . A compilation of excerpts from three unidentified silent pictures , this piece is embarrassing . All I can say is that silent movies are not like that . Really .
This is a poorly scripted but prettily photographed whodunnit . It starts out with a locked room mystery but bogs down until the murderer turns up , unprefigured , along with method and motive in the last minute . Structurally it is unsound and the occasional interesting image cannot save it . Perret tries , though . He starts off with some of his exquisite formal compositions , but those soon become lost in his need to push the story along . There are some interesting sights along the way , like a tailor's dummy that can be set to the exact body image of anyone the tailor is cutting clothes for provides some interest . But as the story is so poorly plotted , it isn't enough .
Unhappily , the surviving prints of this movie have substituted the title cards ( originally written by future director Tay Garnett ) with clock cuckoos , chiming gongs , rimshots , the occasional slide whistle , as well as a voice-over by an unspecified narrator who insists of punctuating each joke with a comment . " Look , " he tells us . " Stan's hair stands on end ! " he says of one gag . " Get it ? " He asks of another . Yes , we get it . Now , please be quiet . Although Stan's gags in this picture - - he plays a Chinese laundryman - - are better timed than in some of the awful vehicles he was in at the time - - SHORT KILTS , for example , or SCORCHING SANDS - - and he displays some good physical slapstick reminiscent of his days with the Karno troupe in England - - his character remains moronic , without any redeeming features whatsoever . Avoid this .
Lloyd Hamilon and Bud Duncan , at this stage in their careers , formed a comedy team of ' Ham and Bud ' . They played two vicious tramps who wandered into situations , engaged in some not too funny torture and left . Later Lloyd Hamilton became an accomplished and inventive screen comedian who drank himself to death and Bud Duncan continued working for thirty years . This is one of their less chaotic vehicles , which may be due to the fact it is directed by Marshall Neilan or due to the fact that it happens to survive in better shape than most of their films . It begins with them starving , but instead of letting the audience enjoy their deaths , they get a job converting canine dogs to sausage dogs - - the ' Automatic Sausage Machine ' is an old vaudeville routine , one version of which was filmed by Edison in the 1890s - - put a dog in the hopper , turn a crank and a string of sausages comes out . Ham operates the machine , Bud steals dogs . Variations on that are the gags in this movie , except for when Ham sticks a carving knife into Bud . Fun for psychopaths everywhere .
This late Mabel Normand short - - she would make two more in that year , 1927 , then retire , dying in early 1930 - - and it shows that she is pretty near the end of the line . She looks tired and , despite a topnotch supporting cast - - Jimmy Finlayson and Max Davidson included - - and Richard Jones directing , this has no more than occasional chuckles . A sad end for the queen of comedy .
Four young women change a tire and , feeling hot and bothered , leave their car to go take a swim in the ocean . . . . . and their underwear is less revealing than one-piece bathing suits . While they are frolicking in the surf , a young Black girl comes by and steals their pretty clothes . . . . and their car has mysteriously vanished , leaving them the grim prospect of having to walk home . . . . although somehow I would imagine some kind man would be happy to pick them up . For someone used to stag films of the 1970s - - or even mainstream films of the 1960s , this seems a peculiarly innocent stag film for 1929 . What extreme prudery reigned in that time , to make these films naughty !
Jack Carson is teamed up with Robert Hutton in this Warners farce about two would-be songwriters . But while it looks good on paper , the two male leads lack any particular chemistry when together : it's Jack Carson who sings the songs while Hutton plays the piano . This looks a great deal like one of the Carson-Morgan pairings of the era , but the substitution of Hutton for Morgan robs tremendous energy from the proceedings , as Carson plays a top banana with not much of a bunch - - although Janis Paige does a nice minor variation on the Jane Wyman comedy character - - Miss Wyman had turned into a serious actress at this point and was not available to be in entertaining vehicles - - or , alas , not so entertaining . It's movies like this that show how good Carson and Morgan were together .
This is a nice little war scene : some Zoaves spike a petard to a door and blow it up in what is supposed to be , I suppose , Tournavos . A fairly good reenactment for the era , but nothing outstanding . . . . . except for the set design . Have you ever notice how three-dimensional and realistic even the most fantastic of Melies ' sets look ? He drew them himself . There's certainly more variation than in that single field in New Jersey in which Edison's unit shot all their battle scenes . This is one of the many previously lost or infrequently seen Melies pictures that have been made available by Serge Bromberg , David Shepherd and a myriad of other hands in the newly issued DVD set GEORGES MELIES : FIRST WIZARD OF CINEMA . Required viewing for anyone interested in the history of movies . . . . . and a lot of fun .
In this short from 1908 , directed by Wallace McCutcheon , we can begin to see signs of what D . W . Griffith would achieve over the next ten years . With Billy Bitzer behind the camera , we see the standard Biograph composition , and with Griffith in front of the camera - - along with Edward Dillon , who would become a member of his acting company - - the stage is set - - even though the acting is still over the top .
A competent Monogram B Western , this otherwise harmless programmer is a bit painful to watch . Ken Maynard looks fat and old near the tail end of his career , and attempts to have him play straight man to Gibson's usual low-key humor are largely mechanical . Gibson is , as always fine and steals every two shot they are paired in with his low-key mugging - - if you're not familiar with his work , his style may remind you of Charles Grodin , who seems to have picked up a lot of Gibson's tricks . The pair of aging stars still look good on horseback , but . . . Like most Monogram westerns , this story of two marshals sent in to clean up a town is written and shot in a very conservative fashion and , to the modern eye , may seem annoyingly eked out with shots of men riding horses that could be shortened or cut . But in large part , the western was built on these shots and veteran dp Marcel Le Picard's cinematography is well calculated with many beautiful compositions .
I first must note special interest : I do not like ' comedies ' in which animals are mistreated for the audience's amusement : Jules White & Zion Meyers ' DOGVILLE series for MGM fills me with horror . But chimpanzees are human enough and social enough that using them as performers does not disturb me and I have some fond members of the Marquis Chimps on television when I was a child . Given that , we are left with the question of how this stacks up against the others in the series and the answer is : not too badly , as the usual Snooky plot - - Snooky and small children against evil adults - - makes its way in a racetrack venue , where the baddies are trying to fix a race until Snooky rides the winner home . Of course , there are the usual touches that annoy me : Snooky holds perfectly intelligible conversations and rescues toddlers but the titles are a bit wittier than usual for this series and there's a nice sequence of bathing beauties . So if you like Snooky movies , you'll probably like this one .
Paramount had a specialty of sex comedies set in Paris , France from the mid-twenties until the Production Code closed them down in 1935 . At that point , the Screwball Comedy arose . As long as they were doing comedies in Paris , they did a couple of straight programmers set there too . In this one , William Powell plays an American in Paris who , while trying to write , makes a living by an interesting blackmail scam - - I've never heard of it before . This movie , with a script by Herman J . Mankiewicz and a good cast has a chance of being very good . But except for William Powell , as always , charming , and Guy Kibbee's emphatic muddleheadedness , director Richard Wallace seems to be unable to raise a decent performance . Carole Lombard keeps threatening to disappear into the background , Lawrence Grey seems impossibly callow , and Wynne Gibson seems to be reading her speeches phonetically off a blackboard . One wants to like this movie and there are a few moments when it appears on the brink of turning into something very interesting , like the scene over onion soup at 1 AM , but then it turns into another pointless costume change . William Powell's career was stuck at this point : he was trying to make the change from screen villain to leading man , but couldn't quite get the right vehicles . He would leave Paramount for Warner's until he struck gold at Metro in 1934 . But he always remained a character actor , capable of small or broad performances that would delight the audiences . It's a pity he's not strong enough to carry this movie by himself .
Dickens ' OLIVER TWIST is lovingly filmed for the screen by Vitagraph co-head , Blackton . A good deal of money has obviously been spent on costume and sets , but it is evident that Blackton was not concerned with the major changes in the industry that Griffith was wreaking at the Biograph Studios in Manhattan and that , indeed , were going on in New Jersey at the Edison Studios . The sets are clearly stage flats ; the actors emote in a stagy fashion that was already a bit old fashioned ; and the world of Oliver Twist fits snugly into a proscenium arch . Within two years , Blackton would largely retreat to the business office and Vitagraph would begin to produce some innovations of its own , but in an industry undergoing such rapid changes , two years is little short of eternity . One advance worth noting is the crediting of a performer on screen : Elita Proctor Otis as Nancy . Miss Otis had a career on Broadway that spanned about 25 years and apparently Blackton wanted her badly enough to offer her a screen credit . It is the earliest one I have seen , giving her a good claim to being the first screen star .
I have the feeling this movie should be funnier than I find it . All the performers are good - - even if Gene Raymond was always a little too stiff to be interesting , that has lots of possibilities in a screwball comedy . Joe August's cinematography is , as always , great without being intrusive . The stooge reporters , including eternal lunk Gordon Jones , are fine . But this story of how Anne Southern pursues once-and-future fiancé Gene Raymond , after her editor , Richard Lane has a fake murder staged to break up the marriage , never quite gels for me . Maybe it's the way everyone rushes through their lines . Maybe it's the long excursions in a serious plot about murder that no one is expected to care about . Maybe it's the fact that everything is a little too polished and beautiful , including Anne Southern in an expensive fur coat - - I don't care if she is on an expense account , she's a reporter . Mostly I attribute it to the fact there is only one genuinely funny scene , when Anne Southern is beating up the gorillas her editor sent to fetch her back . The whole thing is directed by RKO stalwart Ben Holmes , a jack-of-all-tradesman for anything not involving a horse . Mr . Holmes worked so fast that he is credited with directing four movies that came out in 1944 , even though he died in 1943 !
This late Biograph Griffith starts out pretty well and develops into a very tense situation : Blanche Sweet Sweet plays a dancer and we get a five-minute Isadora-Duncan style production that I couldn't help snickering at - - Ben Model was playing the piano - - who falls in love with and marries Henry Walthall , ' The Idealist ' . They have a daughter , but eventually she grows so bored with her new staid life that she signs over her daughter to Walthall and goes back on the stage . . . . and then one evening her daughter wanders away from home into her path . . . . The problem I have with this movie is that the ending is rushed and unsatisfactory . Having established a good dynamic story tension based on character , Griffith writes it off in half a minute , leaving me dissatisfied . Happily , except for the purpose of the story , Griffith is at the top of his form and his prime troupe is on view , with tiny parts being played by Lionel Barrymore and Harry Carey Sr .
No , the problems of royalty are not worrying about revolution . Instead , in this movie , it is a lack of romance , which apparently does not exist when you get to dress well , eat decent food , sleep in clean , comfortable beds and marry pretty princesses who do not smell like they've been mucking out stables all day . This is directly contrary to the experience of anyone who has ever had to actually worry about how to stretch a dollar to make ends meet , but I suppose in 1916 , it was thought that this mishmash of ' La Boheme ' , ' The Student Prince ' and ' The Prince and the Pauper ' would flatter the hoi polloi that made up the movie audience of the period . Well , it will hardly surprise you to hear me say that it might have worked in 1916 , but it doesn't today . What does work is the acting , which is fluid and natural looking , particularly the acting of H . B . Warner . We are used to seeing him in movies made thirty or forty years later , playing a senile druggist for Frank Capra or an ancient Egyptian prince for Cecil B . Demille . Well , when he made this movie he was 41 , and quite lively in his movements . He plays the prince with an air of bonhomie that is quite effective , and it is easy to see why he remained a favorite of directors into his eighties . I cannot recommend this movie to someone with a casual interest in silent movies , but to those who wish to see how the esteemed character actor acquitted himself in his starring years , this is a fine example of a star carrying a bad picture .
This decent second feature about how Chester Morris goes undercover to break up a counterfeiting ring is a decent effort , but has all the earmarks of something that should have been better . It has a fine cast including Morris , Lloyd Nolan , Claude Gillingwater doing one of his patented grouches and the always believable Marc Lawrence as a hood . But minor irritations , including Margot Grahame doing a poor line reading , a script that seems to overstate the obvious and , most annoying to me , bad soundwork , render this no more than adequate . Usually you don't notice sound in a movie like this , but I have several issues . First , everyone but Chester Morris speaks clearly and at the same sound level at all times . Second , there is not much Foley work : except for a few sequences , there is no world outside the characters . And finally , the music track doesn't exist , except in a few scenes , where its presence calls attention to itself and its lack elsewhere . George McKay has a nice turn as ' Angel ' , an expert in how to act to avoid being identified as someone who passes ' queer ' money . But other than that , , there is little to lift this movie into anything particularly interesting . So it's a decent time waster , and little more .
This amusing but overly frantic second feature comedy stars Ross Alexander as a Hollywood press agent who is fired from his job flacking at a movie studio and becomes a radio reporter on Tinseltown , dishing the dirt . Alexander co-stars with future wife Anne Nagel , but the show is stolen by Charley Foy and by Glenda Farrel as a hard-boiled secretary at the radio station . Ross Alexander is an interesting performer , but his manner in this role is a little too loud when he opens his mouth , half Walter Winchell and half Ted Lewis , although when he lies back on his heels for a reaction shot , he seems made for the movies . Alexander was being cast in Dick Powell's cast-offs at this point and his director here , Clemens , doesn't add much to this one-hour featurette .
This high speed B movie of Rory Calhoun trying to get out from under the thumb of the diamond smuggling syndicate moves at too fast a speed to make the viewer care much about the characters . They are all portrayed as stick figures : Calhoun , his adventure-loving friends who get caught up in high-profit racket in Macao ; the leaders of the syndicate who spend their time around a board room ; and the woman who loves him , who is little more than a plot device : she is a writer who asks occasional questions which fill in the plot holes . The dialog is composed of clichés . The music is so overwrought it dins in your ears , and frequent titles appear to let you know where the action is taking place and what is going on . It all doesn't matter , however , as locations , people and plot all flash past at too fast a pace to make much difference to anyone . You're left with the feeling that there are good actors here without enough time to make any impression . The net result is simultaneously paranoid , breathless and uninvolving .
This early experimental film by Emlen Etting shows a woman dancing in a field of grass and wildflowers , then a train trip into a less natural environment , the city , where movement and beauty are subdued . It would seem to be a prefigurement of Maya Deren's work , but seems much more accessible . It does not use the camera tricks that Deren delights in to make people appear and disappear . It is , largely , a study in motion : the wind in long grass , the wind in trees . Yes , the dancing is sometimes overly modern and to my eye pretentious , but the creators seem to lack the annoying self-involvement that Deren's work conjures up in my mind . It is not about Etting or his subject , it is about the grace of movement . It reminds me of one of the complaints of D . W . Griffith about the studio-bound films : they had lost the wind in the trees . Etting has not lost the wind , and if his technique is not sufficient to hide his technique - - the art that conceals art - - at least he does not leave the audience to try to puzzle out what he intended . Art requires work from its audience , but appreciation of art is not the same as assembling a jigsaw puzzle .
This late silent film by Duvivier is a well enough told story , but nothing remarkable , with none of the brilliance that would regularly infuse his works from 1930 . One looks for poetic realism in Duvivier's work , for evil women - - consider the unspeakable mother in 1926's POILE DE CARROTE - - , but there is none of that here , merely a well-told story of a woman who thinks she prefers a life of glory on stage in Paris to life with her Scottish lord of a husband in his castle . The story is fine , the actors are okay , but it's all been done many other times , and my attention began to wander until I imagined that the cad who tries to seduce her looked like Dick Smothers and the actor on stage with her in the finale was an incredibly young William Bendix dressed as he would be in 1949's CONNECTICUTT YANKEE . Obviously , both are highly unlikely . There is a nice attempt at a new-to-me technique , what looks like a cut by switching the image into a mirror and back again . I'm not sure what this was intended to accomplish , but perhaps they thought it would indicate not just a visual but emotional change of perspective to the audience . , Otherwise , Duvivier plays a lot with the optical printer as he would continue to for the next half-dozen years .
Although in his forty years of regular production of cartoons , Paul Terry never climbed to the top of the heap - - he only garnered two Oscar nominations , one in 1944 and 1945 - - he usually produced a fair , if undistinguished product . This one , featuring Farmer Al Falfa and the usually cast of miscellaneous animals in support , demonstrates a lot of cheating - - mostly repetitive movement , but that movement is far more elaborate than usual for his work notice the interesting and intersecting lines of movement that add a good deal of excitement to the ice hockey game between Falfa and the cats . The subject , no surprise , concerns various winter sports . It is a valuable base line for a decent silent cartoon , although far below the levels of Felix and the gag-filled Fleischer cartoons of the period .
Some parts of this movie have not survived seventy-five years well , and at times the dialogue limps . Robert Young , as the young lover , speaks in a voice that is annoying in the high register . Constance Cummings is a beautiful young woman and a good actor . Boris Karloff handles his rather small role gracefully , with just an air of lurking menace . But it is Leo Carrillo , who begins the movie looking like a buffoon and ends the movie as a terrible monster , who owns this movie . I won't give away any details , but the ending , once you realize its inevitability , is a real shocker . Does Carrillo's performance make the movie worth seeing ? Yes , although just barely , and you may need a bit of patience until the movie is worthwhile , but perhaps the mobile camera-work will keep you interested .
Warner's TIGER SHARK plot - - usually with Edward G . Robinson in the lead and a top director like Howard Hawks or Raoul Walsh directing - - gets the B treatment among lumberjacks . Stanley Field , of course , doesn't have the range of Robinson , but John Payne is fine in an early outing as the juvenile lead , and Gloria Dickson is absolutely terrific . She never got out of the Bs , and was working for Columbia when she died in a fire at her home four years later , alas . This feature is one of the very short , one-hour second features that Warner Brothers produced under Briney Foy in the pre-war period . Overall , it's a good , workmanlike piece .
One of a standard series of cartoons for Termite Terrace over the next decade , in which the gags are set up by puns on the titles in a bookstore or magazine shop ( Clampett's BOOK REVIEW ( 1946 ) for example ) . Here , it's advertising posters for popular commercial products . About two-thirds of them are no longer sold , so it becomes an exercise in popular culture archeology . Nonetheless , I expect the modern audience to be familiar enough with , say , Bon Ami cleanser , its baby chick mascot and motto " Hasn't Scratched Yet " to catch the drift . And the gags , as one can expect in a Friz Frleeng cartoon , are amusing . That being the case , it should be noted that this cartoon saw the introduction of the song " Merrily We Roll Along " to Termite Terrace's files . Along with " The Merry-go-round Broke Down " it was their theme . Enjoy .
Tom Tyler , today probably best remembered for playing the villainous Luke Plummer in John Ford's STAGECOACH starred in a series of B westerns in the mid-thirties , usually called ' Cyclone Tom ' . Good talent behind the camera , including director Webb , screenwriter Oliver Drake and editor Fred Bain make this a pleasant outing , the cast contains the usual expert western players and a couple of fine silent comedians - - including Max Davidson - - and the story , if it mostly consists of Tom trying to sort out misunderstandings as due to lack of communications , is expertly handled , with good humor and some good stuntwork . While this particular effort will probably not make new fans for the genre , if you have a taste for these westerns , you should be pleased . If not , it is still a decent time waster .
Mickey Rooney tries life behind the camera in this potentially interesting but occasionally plodding true confessions story of Helen Walker - - here doing a rather good Claire Trevor imitation - - sprung from prison to take part in a plot to steal a priceless supply of ' oil of myrrh ' from an old lady . The story is interesting , but a good cast - - including Aldo Ray in his screen debut - - fails to do much with the script , Perhaps there is simply too much detail or perhaps Mickey Rooney , who was used to improvisation over many takes , did not have the budget for the extra takes . The result is a fair B movie , but no earth shaker . Mickey went back in front of the camera where , the year I write this , he still is , delighting audiences in a film career than has lasted more than eighty years .
This is a pretty good comedy drama about how Polly Bergen inherited one horse , had all the smart guys in racing take her for a sucker but still managed to triumph - - at least to the extent of snaring Howard Keel . Polly Bergen is a little too one-note in her role , one that seems to have been tailor-made for Jane Wyman - - but that was another studio . Howard Keel is wonderful in his laid back role , which seems to have been written for Clark Gable . There's an excellent supporting cast , including Nina Foch - - who is a wonderful scene stealer here - - and Marjorie Main and John Sturges shows a good command of his cast and crew , moving surefootedly from comedy to drama . The issue with the film is that it's all a little too familiar , both the polite love triangle and the horse story . It all results in a pleasant waste of time .
Edison had a good line of socially conscious features at this point , usually produced by some organization . Here with the Edison Company - - most notably Charles Ogle as the usurer - - we see a ' typical ' case of the victims of usury . Although offered as a ' realistic ' view of the effects of usury , it veers frequently into melodrama . It also , unlike Griffith's work at Biograph , purports to offer a viable alternative . Well , it can , but it requires a lot of effort , intelligence and goodwill , like the modern use of ' micro-loans ' in Third World countries . At this stage , Edison still had its own editing and story-telling techniques . Notice the shortage of title cards and their prolixity when they do appear .
Ralph Bakshi , watch out ! Almost half a century before FRITZ THE CAT , there was a flourishing pornographic movies industry - - Johann Schwartzer in Austria was producing the equivalent of dirty French postcards in Austria , suitable for smokers . This is a pornographic cartoon , with sexual members that detach themselves , crabs , and it ends with a cartoon reenactment of the sort of donkey show that I saw in Tijuana in 1970 , only with a jenny instead of a jackass . The result is a cartoon of more interest to historians of movies than a teenage boy looking at sexually-oriented manga , although doubtless this played in smokers in the 1920s and 1930s .
At first this appears to be no more than another bone-grinding slapstick of the era . Harold plays a beauty parlor worker who wishes to slap Snub , kick his boss , beat up on Bud Jamison , and to flirt with every pretty girl , particularly incompetent manicurist Bebe : just another knockabout slapstick in which the ' jokes ' are sheer physical violence . Yet , even at this stage , there is something more to Lloyd's comedies than that . For one thing , this is better constructed and paced than most comedies of the era . . . . although that might be an artifact of cut-up prints usually projected at incorrect speeds - - silent movies were meant to be shown at varying speeds , but the invention of the photofone sound-on-film technique meant that every frame had to be shown at the same speed . That is one possible explanation of the difference , but it won't explain it all . Look at this one yourself and perhaps you may come up with a better explanation .
This fast-paced Fox programmer - - originally issued at 78 minutes , although the version I saw was cut to just under an hour - - looks a lot like its Warner Brothers counterparts , programmers modeled on Jimmy Cagney vehicles . Brian Donleavy does a good job in the lead role , playing the cocky , brash young hot shot , although he lacks the detail work of Cagney . The piece , however , is a lot more violent than the equivalent Warner's fare , as Donleavy goes seeking trouble , rather than snapping into it when it finds him . top-billed Rochelle Hudson is pretty good as the moll / love interest and the bill is filled out with a fine supporting cast , particularly by Harry Carey , always solid and believable . But the script lacks the sense of exposing the social ills that usually infused the Warners actioneers , and the direction and camera work , although competent , is not top notch . A decent , if unexceptional movie .
Poodles Hannaford came from a family that spent centuries as acrobats in the circus . He developed series of tricks that would have seemed to make him a natural for the screen , but his variety of clowning was often so bizarre that it never seemed to work . In this , his simplest film appearance , he is at his best : he plays a character who goes through basic circus clown routines , but he does it without clown makeup and so seems simply human : a fellow down to his last quarter , looking desperately for a job . What could be more human than that ? Unhappily , the time and place mitigated against him : it was 1928 , silents were on their way out and he was working for the Weiss Brothers , so this very amusing comedy would lead no place . But for those interested in th history of clowning , you get to see Poodles do some of his famous bareback riding clowning . Still , worthwhile if you get a chance to see it .
Let us imagine you are someone from Japan who enjoys a lot of different films . You like American films , and have seen several hundred of them , mostly westerns , but only about twenty made before 1945 . You've seen almost all the pictures that Frank Capra directed from 1928 on , one non-Capra drama from 1926 - - let us say , FLESH AND THE DEVIL - - and enjoyed it , thinking it full of weird and wonderful images , and then you are confronted with a melodrama from 1921 . I submit you may like it or not like it , but you have little context to understand whether it is good or bad , either innately or for the year 1921 . It might be Ingram's FOUR HORSEMAN OF THE APOCALYPSE or it might be an utter piece of hackwork . Well , that's my problem with SOULS ON THE ROAD . I like Japanese films , but more than half of them have been Samurai flicks . I have seen a about ten of Ozu's silent films and one silent drama from 1926 . So what can I tell you about this movie ? I can tell you that , by and large , I thought it interesting , but the style of acting is not something I can comment on . Characters ' motivations are not clear - - the main character has suffered a nervous breakdown , but we're not sure of the pressures that led to it - - and they maintain their positions until something drastic happens . People do things for the sake of the plot , seemingly to illustrate the story's moral , not because of who they are . Perhaps to a Japanese audience of 1921 , motivations and actions would be clearer . Is it a good movie ? Is it a good movie for a 1921 Japanese production ? I don't know . I enjoyed it , but in large part I enjoyed it because it helps fill in a little of my background of Japanese films . I have a somewhat academic appreciation of early film and can spend hours pleasurably looking at Zecca experiments in scene changes or industrial films of Westinghouse factories . You probably can not . . . . but then , you're reading this review , are you not ?
Pathe and Gaumont were the big players in motion pictures by this point and this remake of Melies ' classic VOYAGE A LA LUNE is an attempt to put the stake through his heart - - his productions were on the decline by the next year and would cease within another five years . So , in looking at this movie , we can compare it directly to the earlier version and see its comparative strengths and failures . Its strengths are obvious : greater production values , including a nicely done frame-within-a-frame bit . But its weaknesses are less obvious and more on aesthetic lines : the slapstick is cruder , the motions less balletic , despite using the young ladies of the Pathe corps to dance a little dance before the moon king and , in general , there seems to be less of a sense of fun : even the classic shot of the shell hitting the man in the moon in the eye is replaced by one in which it goes into his mouth . This is neither a key piece in cinema's evolution nor a better film in its own right .
Mary Pickford and her director , Alfred Green - - her brother Jack is also credited as co-director , but it's hard to say how involved he actually was - - did this movie as a comedy with a few serious bits . Miss Pickford is charming in the early scenes in Belgium , in which she gets a particularly stubborn mule to go home , and cleans a floor by strapping brushes to her feet like skates . But World War One intervenes and sends her on the road towards the plot , which is OK , even if no one else is called upon to do much . One of Bobby Harron's brother plays the romantic boy , Adolph Menjou and his mustache get to pose and middle-aged husbands are portrayed as dangerous fools . Not one of Miss Pickford's best , but her charm manages to carry it off well .
Really , how much of these noble suffering roles could Ann Harding take without puking ? It isn't simply a matter of typecasting ; often typecasting , particularly for stars in the studio period was simply a matter of finding a good compromise between their talents and the sort of vehicle the public would accept . And assuredly , Miss Harding could carry this sort of superior suffering with a great deal of class . I suppose the way to handle this is the way director Stephen Roberts did : make sure that the supporting actors are amusing . Edward Ellis , best known for his role as the eponymous murder victim in THE THIN MAN is utterly charming as Harding's father-in-law , and Walter Abel's cohort of tipsy gamblers are also amusing . This was a strength of Mr . Roberts ' directing . It is a pity he died the year this was released as Hollywood lost a talented director in him . In terms of story , this seems like a cross between THEODORA GOES WILD and THE WOMEN . If you're not overloaded on Ann Harding movies you should enjoy it greatly . Even if you are , the supporting talent makes it worthwhile .
One of the problems with the disappearance of the short subject is that everything has to be a feature - - even if it doesn't warrant it . Fortunately , some people still make short films , even if they are usually student works , and occasionally one shows up that is worthwhile . This one , based on a short story , is one that needs to be made as a short story or not at all . Doubtless we will see the two-hour feature version of this with high-tech special effects and lots of fake blood scattered about in a few years . In the meantime , let us enjoy this decent short .
This well-mounted and visually interesting silent version of the Dickens novel is a good effort , but , of course , it pales before the 1935 version starring Ronald Colman . As a silent film it suffers from too many title cards - - an artifact , no doubt , of the fondness for the book . One searches for nice things to say about this movie , but they all have to be qualified as " For 1917 . " Good set design for 1917 . Good composition for 1917 and so forth . Still , the acting is good , the story is there and if you want to see what was good in 1917 , you can take a look at this . Or you could just stick with the 1935 version and I won't fault you .
At this stage in their careers , Lloyd Hamilton and Bud Duncan were a comedy team for Kalem , Ham and Bud . Playing two vicious tramps , they wandered into depressing situations , created some chaos and left . This was supposed to be funny . Usually it wasn't . According to stories , the two men hated each other and the team broke up in 1917 when Kalem starting breaking up with the ending of the Patents Trust . Hamilton developed into one of the most respected performers of silent comedy in the 1920s and drank himself to death in the 1930s . Duncan inexplicably kept working for another thirty years . Surprisingly this is actually a watchable comedy from this period . Although , like most of their films , it is composed of simple variations on a single theme , watching the pair of them make and toss around sauerkraut , wrecking everything in the process is actually fairly amusing . I see than Hamilton is credited as director on this one , and assume that he was able to impose some humor into the situation that I can enjoy without being able to understand . Maybe they were having fun trying to kill each other . I certainly appreciate the attempt .
What can we say usefully about the works of Germaine Dulac ? This little-remembered member of the French avant-garde in the ' Teens and Twenties has had her work recently revived . A series of movies by her were shown in 2003 at the Museum of Modern Art in New York . Each movie was preceded by an earnest lecture to the effect that Dulac was an important theoretician in film , someone who produced and directed her own films and who , after those days were gone , was an important film critic . Also she was a lesbian and a woman - - somehow the lecturer always put those two in that order - - in Paris in the 1920s . All of these things , we were informed , makes Dulac an important figure in the history of films and probably the woman's movement . Without intending to denigrate any of these things , I must admit I find them all irrelevant to the most important questions : were her films any good ? And , in particular , is this film any good ? Let's consider the latter question . First , the good parts : Mme . Dulac's films - - and , I hasten to add , this film - - shows an excellent sense of cinematic language and composition . Mme . Dulac's compositions and setwork are pleasing and naturalistic and her actors in full command of the techniques of cinema acting of the period , naturalistically restrained when the scene calls for it . Unfortunately , these abilities are overwhelmed by issues of story composition and character definition . This is a full-blown melodrama , about how the artist in question - - this case , a dramatist hoping to have his first play produced - - tromps on the lives and affections of the two women who care for him and support him : his wife , who forgives his laziness and the starring actress , who gets his first play produced and with whom he has a brief affair . This is followed by an endless third act in which he lies , dying , unaware of the premiere . My reaction : let him live or die , but in less time , please . My other overwhelming issue with this movie , and Mme . Dulac's other movies is that her men are not men so much as collections of blemishes whose real purpose in life is to make women's lives miserable by random , barely motivated acts . It may well be that this is how Mme . Dulac saw men : after all , she was a lesbian and a woman . I find her drawing of male characters as aimlessly villainous to be annoying . Yes , this is a melodrama , but even Snidely Whiplash has some consistency of character . Perhaps that is the point of the movie . If not , the movie fails . If it is the point , then I still have the right to mislike it heartily . I do so .
Martin Scorsese , besides being a highly distinguished and successful film director , has spent a lot of his adult life educating people about film , first at New York University and through his filmed lectures - - items like A PERSONAL JOURNEY WITH MARTIN SCORSESE THROUGH American MOVIES AND MY VOYAGE TO ITALY . And , since he understands his subject both instinctually and intellectually , you can do no better towards understanding the impact of this film than by listening to what Professor Scorsese has to say about it . Or you could look at it yourself . Certainly the conceits in it , from the startling images to the idiosyncratic usage of Technicolor should fascinate and amuse the viewer .
In the midst of the large number of awful comedies Sennet produced in this period - - he seems to have been too involved in the production of comedy features , as well as the unraveling of the Triangle Corporation - - there are a few that stand out today as watchable . The films Arbuckle turned out before he left for his own studio are often excellent . The famous TEDDY AT THE THROTTLE is fun because of its script and gags . Here is another one that is interesting , although not for the reasons you might expect . What is different here is Raymond Griffith . He is dressed as weirdly as the others , but most Keystone comedians look as if they made their fashion choices on drugs . Griffith looks like he mugged William S . Hart and stole his clothes . While the other comedians glare and glower like fiends , Griffith keeps a wary , personable smile on his face most of the time , and expresses human emotions at other time . His movements , although broad , are not demented . He is clearly an actor who is comfortable with film . Perhaps I am reading too much into this film . Clearly , after he went behind the camera for a few years , and then re-emerged in the mid-twenties , he produced a recognizable comedic human being , but I think he is showing signs of reality here . It is refreshing and pleasing .
Well-filmed but slow silent version of Molnar's THE SWAN is hampered by far too many title cards . Frances Howard , soon to be Mrs . Sam Goldwyn , makes a lovely Princess , Ricardo Cortez makes an excellent tutor and Adolphe Menjou makes , as always , a funny and aristocratic Prince , but it takes twenty minutes until the situation is set up and then everything is resolved by title card . Stick with the charming 1950s version with Grace Kelly , Louis Jourdain and Alec Guinness .
Standard fare beautifully shot . Joel McCrea and Forest Tucker give good performances in this story about a cavalry troop under move , constantly under attack . The real star is the cinematography , shot in beautiful color and featuring some of the best scenery outside a John Ford western . Be sure to see it in wide screen !
This is one of forty shorts that Harold Lloyd made in 1919 . It's fast , it's furious , and it has a lovely gag sequence in which Harold tries to steal a sausage , loses it to a dog and . . . . well , it's very funny . Too fast and furious to make much sense , but a lot of fun .
Decent if not brilliant , this social comedy for Leatrice Joy is a bit of a disappointment , alas . It does turn the standard ' boy meets girl , boy loses girl , boy gets girl ' plot on its head in an amusing way : Clive Brook is newly divorced and paying more alimony to Lilyan Tashman than he makes when he meets Leatrice Joy in a fine ' meet cute ' scene . So the object of the entire movie is to lose the girl - - in this case , Tashman . Unfortunately , the middle of the picture sags : what should be played at high speed with fast cuts for door-crashing farce is played at a moderate pace for little impact . And Brook is pretty much of a stiff all the way through . Joy is fun . however , and Tashman too , as is Casson Fergusson as a sheik with a receding hairline and no chin . What is notable about this film is its easy acceptance , in the mid-20s , of women's rights - - and duties . Hubby Brook is not bringing in enough money to make ends meet , so Joy goes out and gets a job without batting an eye . Alas , this sort of attitude vanished with the years : a decade and a half later , when Stevens directed WOMAN OF THE YEAR for Metro , the big scene was the one in which Hepburn tried to make breakfast and failed miserably - - thereby demonstrating that she was not a real woman . I think I prefer this movie .
A good Gloria Swanson comedy programmer , this lacks the verve that her work with Alan Dwan showed ( MANHANDLED is a classic ) . The story , about how rich Eugene O'Brien falls in love with poor Gloria , but her aunt insists that she be trained as a lady while Eugene is off for six months in South America - - is decently handled . But there are clear cheats in this as a double does cartwheels for Gloria : if Dwan had been directing , Gloria would have insisted on doing the cartwheels herself . Director Rossen does a fine job on the visuals with the help of cinematographer George Webber , who seems not to have adjusted to the constraints of shooting with sound a few years later . Their pans of faces a couple of times are telling , human and very funny . But the most interesting thing about this film is the way Swanson is made up . I had to blink a couple of times when I realized that she had the same look Joan Crawford would sport during her 1930s ' Shopgirl ' phase .
Pleasant short feature - - it times out a bit under fifty minutes - - about Tom Mix , a government agent intent on stopping unlawful Chinese immigrants coming into the US via the Grand Canyon . This feature was shot in the Grand Canyon and so has some very nice scenery . Tom smiles a lot and the villains are appropriately vicious . While not as good as his best , the surviving prints are in excellent shape .
Good performances , direction and interesting camerawork struggle with an indifferent script that lends little insight to this just-the-fact-ma'am handling of the DC Sniper . Dutton is little short of superb , but he can't do much with the material . The fisheye lenswork and overly crisp definition are , at first interesting , but after a while simply emphasis the emptiness of the story , and the musix is annoying from the start .
Amusing trifle with jaunty Harrison Ford and intrepid Junior Coghlan capturing hissable Ivan Lebedeff for the glories of newspaperdom and a front page headline : this sort of thing used to infest pulp magazines until it was driven into the comic books , but the charm of the stars - - also including the aptly-named Elinor Fair as Harrison Ford's rarely-seen love interest - - keep this chugging along at a good clip , never taking itself the least bit seriously , and wonderful fare for a silent kiddie's matinee when you don't want to look at another horse .
One of the better of the Paul Parrott comedies for Roach - - his poor health caused him to retreat behind the screen where he directed some very funny comedies starring Laurel & Hardy , The Girl Friends series and a few for his brother , Charlie Chase . Here this tale of how Paul tries to elope with Jobyna Ralston starts out with an excellent sequence in which his opera hat gives him a lot of trouble . The story starts in soon after that with the usual issues and one or two excellent gags thrust in . The ending of the print I saw is rather abrupt , but that is a not uncommon issue with a lot of comedy shorts from this period . Perhaps the print was damaged or perhaps they simply ran out of film .
Actually , very good clips , and the narrative makes a very good claim to proving its thesis : that the sexy Pre-Code dramas and comedies actually represented a realistic depiction of the 20th century morality until Joseph Breen clamped down , making the Production Code not just voluntary , but mandatory . There is a good claim in that , but it makes its point by looking at the best of the Pre-Code works and the worst of the movies made under the Code . Nor does it go into the reason that Hollywood made those sexy movies in the first place , and stopped making them later : to sell tickets at the box office . Truth has never been the primary concern of the movie industry ; and while these clips demonstrate that Hollywood was interested in selling tickets to men who wanted to look at naked women . . . well , the underwater swimming sequence from TARZAN AND HIS MATE shows Maureen O'Sullivan's stand-in swimming around in the nude , but Weismuller is wearing a loincloth .
Gale Henry directs and stars in this amusing tale of an incompetent female detective set in " Chinatown " in 1918 ; a member of the local Tong has stolen a formula for glasses that will enable people to see what's in chop suey , and she is charged with recovering the plans . What results is sequence of puns and chases that won't strain anyone's mind , but will keep you smiling throughout .
The comparison was inevitable when I saw this movie the day after I saw Carol Reed's version of KIPPS . However , while KIPPS is a serious movie leavened with humor , this is a comedy leavened with a lot of tension , and eased by the occasional song : Jimmy O'Dea sings a typical comedy piece about ' The Pride of the Coombe ' and Betty Driver sings a swingy number This working class comedy is clearly a quota quickie , but also , clearly , Reed has learned his craft and the result , while no classic , is an engaging bit of fluff . The performances are sterling and the scene between Edmund Gwenn and James Harcourt is beautifully played . The camera-work is , likewise , unimpeachable : classic camera movement to maintain composition . In short , by the time he directed this movie , Reed had the ability to direct anything that came his way . The next decade would show that .
The musical comedy biopic gets the Rashomon treatment in this faked-up biopic of Eva Tanguay , one of the great stars of turn-of-the-century vaudeville . Mitzi Gaynor , as always , gives a great performance and it's a pity that , with the exception of the movie version of SOUTH PACIFIC , she was always Fox's B musical star , doing whatever they gave her . The musical numbers are all overdone , as if choreographer Jack Cole is mocking the form ; the semi-strip-tease to jazzed up Mozart ( I'm not making this up ! It's the most out-of-place dance number outside of Sally Forrest's weird one in EXCUSE MY DUST ) and other numbers that recall LADY IN THE DARK - - all very modern for the era and absolutely bizarre in context . Oscar Levant plays the piano magnificently a few times and David Wayne gives a typically graceful performance in support .
This is one of the movies that made Douglas Fairbanks , along with Mary Pickford , Gloria Swanson and Charlie Chaplin , the leading member of the new American aristocracy , the Movie Star . It is a pure star vehicle , with Fairbanks leaping gracefully over park benches and wire fences , leavened with a little social satire . True , his great production pieces of the 1920s - - THE THREE MUSKETEERS , THE THIEF OF BAGDAD and my personal favorite , THE IRON MASK - - lay ahead of him , but Doug puts out star power at megawattage , even in old , beat-up prints . If you don't know Fairbanks ' work , you've got a treat ahead of you .
Given the effusion over CHELOVEK S KINOAPPARATOM in the commentary section of the IMDb , I expect this will be a tad out of place , but I feel that this is a very good , although not groundbreaking movie . First , what we have here is a portrait of a city - - Moscow , I believe , on the lines of MANHATTA and the more famous BERLIN : DIE SINFONIE DER GROSSTADT . It is an excellent example of the genre , with some beautiful camera-work but in no wise groundbreaking . The distinction , if any , lies in the use of the eponymous Man With a Movie Camera as a character in the film . People stop to gawk at movie cameras in operation at first sight , and Vertov must have been frustrated at some of the excellent footage he would have to throw away . Then it probably occurred to him that if he made the camera itself a character , the gawking could be explained . To Americans this might be strange , but silent European films often had the camera clearly comment on the action of the film - - check out Feuillade's serials , such as LES VAMPIRES for examples . This leaves open , of course , the issue of why , in several of the crowd scenes , in which we see the actor / cameraman from the rear , people are looking at the movie camera actually in use to take the shot . Could it be it is not the man with the movie camera they are looking at , but the operating camera ? This being Soviet cinema , we are also supposed to gawk over the editing technique , which the Soviets invented - - or actually , reported on , as they had been in use for up to thirty years by the time . The Soviet academicians got their stuff into print first - - elsewhere , people learned by experimentation or going to work for someone who knew what he was doing . Finally , although Soviet film in this period is vibrant and interesting and does have a lot of editing techniques that were influential , they were making good films in Russia before the Revolution . I urge anyone who is interested in Russian films to look up the works of Yevgeny Bauer or Starewicz . And take a look at this movie , by all means . It's very good . I apologize if anyone thinks I am complaining , but I worry that other commenters may have oversold it . Why not see it and make up your own mind ?
A year after they had a hit with the social comedy SKINNER'S DRESS SUIT , director Seiter and actor Reginald Denny teamed up again in this sharply-turned farce . reminiscent of the sort that Clarence Badger was doing with Raymond Griffith over at Paramount . There are the usual complications that lead to the situations in this farce : an adventuress - - Gertrude Astor - - with incriminating letters , a young couple in love - - that's Denny and Gertrude Olmstead - - and a crook pretending to be Reginald Denny's character . The timing is brisk , the situations comical , the pratfalls well taken and if dialogue instead of titles might sharpen it a tad , the silent version we have is quite funny without them .
One of the failings of the movie industry is that Paul Scofield has not been hired for enough jobs . This has been a blessing for the British theater , of course , but it would be pleasant to have more of his roles recorded . Fortunately he appeared in this and a few other BBC TV productions and while Noel Coward's comedies of manners have not aged well , Scofield shows up well , starting out as an annoying individual in the first act but coming into clear and amusing focus the second act . One of the weaknesses of this piece is the way he and Toby Robins have been directed . While Scofield puts on a fairly convincing Texan accent , Ms . Robins talks like a middle-class Jew from Brooklyn - - and the two of them are supposed to have known each other all their lives . This is a fairly typical and old-fashioned bit of British snobbery among uncareful directors : look at the way Americans behave in Agatha Christie pieces from the 1930 .
Warner Brothers continued its campaign to get Kay Francis to break her contract not just by lowering the quality of her vehicles , not just by loading her dialogue with ' r's or putting her in horse operas , but now by lending her out to other studios . She was the highest-priced actress on the Warner's lot and they didn't want her any more . But she was not going to give up that contract . In this lend-out to RKO , Miss Francis , as usual , gives a wonderful performance . In fact , given the cast of minor players - - including a few long-time favorites of mine like Nigel Bruce and Kane Richmond - - and they give fine performances too , even if we are expected to believe Mr . Bruce hails from Chicago , in this minor comedy . It's about a professional adventuress who is getting a lot too old to play wealthy men for suckers . It's a little slow-starting , but by the half-way mark , it is moving along at a good clip . Definitely worth your while .
I must admit I am a sucker for Charley Chase's short silent comedies . They combine full , three-act stories , fine acting and strong comedy gags that arise out of believable situations . The modern movie goer , used to witty dialogue and color photography - - well , color photography anyway - - may lack the patience to penetrate into the subtleties of silent film acting and a camera that looks at the people instead of indulging in jumpy MTV-style cutting techniques , but Charley Chase cuts right through that . How can you not enjoy a comedy in which a man sets fire to his hat and falls in love in a rainstorm ? Charley is willing to do anything to his character to get a laugh and the girl , but he remains believable and sympathetic throughout . This comedy , although not from his best period , is still crammed full of amusing gags . This is probably not the movie to use to introduce people to Mr . Chase - - he is better served in silent efforts like LOOKING FOR SALLY and MIGHTY LIKE A MOOSE and sound efforts like THE PIP FROM PITTSBURGH . But once you've got the habit , you'll enjoy this one too .
A rather tired plot of people looking for sunken treasure decently directed and performed by a German crew - - except for the female performer who parades around in brassiere and briefs as if she spends the rest of her time wearing leather and an SS uniform . The usual betrayals occur and for the most part it is forgettable , except for the Japanese titles that parade across the bottom of the DVD . And the photography . The cinematography by veteran DP Franz X . Lederle borders on brilliant and makes this otherwise bad movie more than worthwhile . I'm not sure where the location shooting took place , but it has an immediacy and tropical brilliance I have rarely seen in the movies ; the moving shots are well calculated and the underwater photography is superb .
Ruth Etting was a Broadway star who made occasional passes at the movies , but they never took . An interesting biopic , LOVE ME OR LEAVE ME , starring Doris Day as Miss Etting and stolen by Jimmy Cagney was made in the mid-fifties at MGM ( not Warners ) . How much truth is involved is a matter of conjecture . In this one there is a plot as she and her agent try to get her to see an impresario who can give her a break . She sing three songs . There is also one interlude in which the Canova family appears . It is Judy Canova's first screen appearance . The director of this short film is Joseph Henabery , who basically operated out of the old Vitaphone studio in Brooklyn until it went into war work . One of D . W . Griffith's disciples , he tells a bit of his story in Kevin Brownlow's THE PARADE'S GONE BY .
Exciting late-silent 10-episode serial , with all the hallmarks of the genre , including daring cavalry rescues , gold robbers and , of course , the beautiful white girl being burned at the stake by savage redskins . They don't make ' em like this anymore , and the reason they don't is that the serial died out : there isn't enough material out there to lure the kids into a Saturday matinee at the same theater every week . If you enjoy the sort of suspense that a tv show like " 24 " gives you , then you would have enjoyed the serials in general , and this one in particular .
This sprightly programmer , starring Marie Dressler , transforms the story to modern politics ca . 1931 . Dressler and the women are anxious to close the speakeasies - - this was made during Prohibition . There is a strong cast of women , including Polly Moran , Joan Marsh and Karen Morley . The men are played by supporting comics , including Roscoe Ates , on whose voice Porky Pig was modeled . Dressler was an interesting character . A big legitimate stage star , she was one of the leaders of the strike that formed Actor's Equity . By the late 1920s , she was washed up , until screenwriter Frances Marion wrote a role for her , and by 1931 , she was MGM's biggest star . Her character was a fat , good-intentioned , foul-mouthed harridan , and she could tread the line between comedy and drama as surefootedly as anyone in the industry . Charles Reisner directs without much visual flair in this movie . He relies mostly on cuts to move the story along , moving the camera only slightly to maintain composition . POLITICS is pretty well dated , but it remains a fascinating film , if only for the performance of Miss Dressler .
Maurice Elvey's last film is a brittle comedy with a serious theme as an old-line British advertising firm finally decides to not automatically fire women after they get married . . . . and the newly married leads find out that progress has its costs . Elvey had a long career in British films , forty-four years behind the camera and almost two hundred films , sometimes head of production at his studio , but he seems to have been the forgotten man of the British cinema . With a few exceptions , his works are not well remembered and even his best-known successes , such as HINDLE WAKES have their flair attributed to others . Part of this is that he has no easily recognized style : his choices always serve the picture , rather than changing the picture to suit his style . Critics , film students and reviewers always like it when you can tell who directed a film without actually having to read the credits . Elvey was too canny for that . Let's look at a couple of tricks he pulls out of his pocket that you might not notice if you weren't looking for them . In this movie , Elvey's camera is largely still ; the few sequences in which it moves - in particular , a scene in which the wife is about to leave on a business trip - - the camera moves only to maintain composition . This being a working class comedy , even if the people are upper class workers , Elvey has an air of depression and cheapness in the details , from the annoying radio jingles to the way doors sound when they close , to the way that water heaters refuse to work properly . This is a very accomplished rendition of what could have been another meaningless programmer , like so much of Elvey's work . The film industry was collapsing , not only in Britain , but over the world . Someone had to retire , and who better than a seventy-year-old back number like Elvey ? People never knew what they missed .
I've enjoyed some pretty strange musical novelty acts over the years , from the South Minneapolis Bassoon Quartet to Peter Schickele's annual presentation of P . D . Q . Bach , but this short about an all-harmonica orchestra , is a pip ! Dozens of harmonicas from tiny ones that a baby could swallow through triplex monsters a foot in length provide a lot of variation and a surprisingly full sound . Visually , director Negulesco shows his usual flair , filling the numbers with blackout productions and a snappy dance to " Begin the Beguine " - - no Artie Shaw , but quite good . and a lot of his signature silhouette shots . Also , notice the way he takes care to shoot the harmonicas to emphasize hand movements .
Snub stars in a better-than-usual effort - - which I credit largely to some funny titles and the direction of Charley Chase - - as a spy sent out to rescue Marie Mosquini - - looking even more fetching than usual in a mantilla - - in a South American country where earthquakes happen every few minutes : the cameraman jiggles the camera , and all the actors and bricks on screen fall down . The gags are mostly based on these two premises and they form a fairly unified plot for a Snub Pollard movies - - plus Snub gets to show some facial reactions instead of the usual deadpan way he was usually directed by lesser directions , through the 1930s , when he played this same blank-faced character as comic relief ina few western , believe it or not .
Carl Schenstrøm and Harald Madsen were the leading pair of ' Fat and Skinny ' comedians in the movie world until Laurel and Hardy came along . While their characters never shed their movie-comic trappings - - ill fitting costumes , weird mustaches and bad hats - - they remained enormously popular and continued making films until 1940 - - two years after their first and best director , Lau Lauritzen Sr . died and two years before Schenstrom , the skinny one died . Kinowelt , which has had success with its Laurel & Hardy DVD set has produced a seven-DVD set of the comedies , under the name " Pat und Patachon " , the names they were known under in Germany . I have issues . The versions are cut down ( this one is 48 minutes instead of the original run time of 179 minutes ) and a voice over tells you what is going on - - in German , which , alas , I do not speak ) . These are apparently TV versions made in the late 1960s or early 1970s and it is difficult to judge what is missing - - although a lot of the continuity is definitely lost . It is particularly lost here , when about 70 % % of the movie is cut out . Nonetheless , this is a pretty good silent version of Cervantes ' novel . Carl Schenstrøm is well cast as Don Quixote and Harald Madsen makes a fine Sancho Panza . Their makeup is different . Schenstrøm has an old man's hawk nose and Madsen actually has hair and a substantial beard . The special effects , which show you what Don Quixote sees , are particularly good . When the windmills turn into twisted giants , they look terrifying . One interesting point is that the point of view shifts towards the end , from Don Quixote to Sancho Panza . It produces a greater sense of sympathy in the viewer . Of course , it is well nigh impossible to state how the original movie played . Cutting out more than two thirds of a story reduces it to a few highlights . Nonetheless , the two actors acquit themselves well . As someone once noted , if you can play comedy , you can simply slow it down for a fine dramatic turn . This movie is a good example of that .
Veteran director Reginald Barker - - whose career included several superior William S . Hart Westerns and Thomas Ince's landmark CIVILIZATION - - directed this near the end of his career and he tells the story with a fluid camera and many visual grace notes . Unhappily , the dialogue is not up to the camerawork , but this first sound version of Wilkie Collins ' classic mystery is well produced and well worth your time .
A Chaplinesque Officer Pooch is ordered to rescue a kitten caught atop a telephone pole . He is not awfully successful . This was the last non-Tom & Jerry movie that Hanna and Barbera made for 15 years and it shows the same love of silent film comedy that their other MGM cartoons do . Officer Pooch is Chaplin down to his baggy pants and pigeon-toed walk . It is ironic that these two men , who did so much to maintain visual comedy in their work later went on to do some of the most god-awful tv animation imaginable . Still , enjoy this cartoon for what it is : a fine silent comedy in a style that would continue , ever more feebly , until the end of the ' Pink Panther ' series at Depatie-Freleng in 1981 .
A sketch artist dressed as a clown does a ' lightning sketch ' stage act in which he draws a woman's bust . . . . and then takes the bust and places into on a table . He then draws arms and adds them , until an entire woman is revealed . It's a Melies film , is it not ? Fans of early films have seen various Melies pieces like this . . . . . but did Melies invent this sort of novelty film , or was it created across the Channel , in Robert Paul's studio by ex-stage magician Walter Booth ? Who did what first and who stole it from whom ? Was it even theft , when there was no such thing as copyright for films for more than decade afterward ? It's hard to tell who invented what in this period , but enquiring minds want to know - - and may never find out . Never mind . It's fascinating to watch .
. . . . But a surprisingly good off-kilter Wester as the hero bails out a show of jazz chorines and helps them put on a show . There are some fairly good musical interludes , including the surprisingly sweet " Underneath Montana Skies " and Slim Summerville is in his usual reliable form as comedy relief .
A strong script and excellent voice work by Sheldon Leonard make this a cartoon worth seeing . Part of the short-lived " Dodsworth " series - - I've only seen two of them - - about a fat , lazy cat that keeps suckering a mewing kitten into doing his work for him , Dodsworth somehow turns into a dead ringer for Rodney Dangerfield twenty years before anyone had heard about him !
Although D . W . Griffith is usually honored as the inventor of modern film grammar , most of the groundwork was laid down a decade earlier by George Smith of England . This is one of his early films . But even this particular Athena did not spring fully born from the mind of Zeus , and we can see that Smith is using a lot of magic lantern grammar - - the children dream of Santa and he appears in a small circular image in the upper right corner , straight out of the preceding technology's grammar . This particular technique would not vanish for another decade and a half - - and arguably is still in occasional use in such peculiarities as SHERLOCK JUNIOR and its successor THE PURPLE ROSE OF CAIRO as well as Jeunet's UN LONG DIMANCHE DE FIANCAILLES . Another point of interest is the title of this movie . Although Clement Clarke Moore's poem , ' A Visit from Saint Nick ' was well known and popular , it's a Dutch and New York and hence American phenomenon . What was an Englishman , with their Father Christmas , doing playing with the idea ? It seems to me that Smith may have been a far more important figure in popular culture than even I thought .
One of the best of Van Beuren's " Tom & Jerry " series in which they pull out a pencil and proceed to draw figures in the air which join the action : an early prefigurement , if you like , of Chuck Jones ' classic DUCK AMUCK . Van Beuren was one of the cartoon factories that flourished from about 1925-1936 . It released through RKO and went under shortly after RKO dropped its contract in favor of one with Disney . Although never the best of studios , its staff worked hard . Probably its best black and white series was " Tom & Jerry " a Mutt and Jeff combo that , like Fleischer's Betty Boop , started as cartoon dogs and evolved into a music-backed series . Disguised in rerelease from Official Films as ' Dick and Larry ' to avoid confusion with MGM's cat-and-mouse duo , a lot of their shorts have survived . A lot of their jokes are out of favor , but some are very amusing and if you wish to give them a try , this and PIANO TOONERS are good places to start .
Ah , the bygone glories of the French Foreign Legion story . Almost everyone knows BEAU GESTE , from the 1939 version starring Gary Cooper . This was a lesser brother . Great actors , great direction , great cinematography and a script full of - - nowadays - - laughable bits . Claudette Colbert plays Cigarette , the Daughter of the Legion . Ronald Colman , plays the legionnaire who is trying to forget , and a young Rosalind Russell - - what a looker ! - - play Lady Venezia Cunningham with a posh accent . What can you expect from a movie in which Ronald Colman is torn between Cigarette , daughter of the Legion and Lady Venezia Cunningham with the Production Code in full force ? Well , this one . An amusing way to spend a couple of hours , if you are prepared not to take things too seriously . Or you could look at the Laurel & Hardy BEAU HUNKS .
In bygone days people used to read cheap magazines printed on cheap pulp paper . These were full of stories which , if not particularly literary , were full of action , color and plot . Later these moved to the movie serials and B movies , whence they were lifted , in the 1970s and 1980s , as the inspiration for movies like RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK , ROMANCING THE STONE and STAR WARS . This TV movie , third in the series , is in that vein . CURSE OF THE OF JUDAS CHALICE is no ground-breaking movie , but it is enormous fun , with a script full of hip , self-aware humor - - Noah Wyle explains the key plot points as he goes along , and is twitted for always speaking in complete paragraphs - - action and a sexy vampiress . There is nothing in this that is original - - I could do a little digging and produce a list of where the key plot points and shots were lifted from - - but it is done with such good humor , that the viewer will have few , if any complaints about the result . My sole complaint is that Bob Newhart is not on screen long enough with his deadpan delivery . You can't do much better for a dull afternoon's time-waster .
Max Linder , the most consistently funny and successful film comic before Chaplin came on the scene , did not play a freakish , slapstick comedy . Instead , in film after film , he played a man about town whose stories were punctuated by nice comic bits . His career went into a tailspin after he returned from service in the First World War . In this three-reeler , the young lady with whom he is in love , is sent to a convent to get her away from Max . Max goes after her . While we are not forced to watch the mustachioed Linder in drag , there are some nice gags here as Max manages to get his chauffeur blamed for everything , including an abduction of the girl . A typically very funny movie from a comic with whom every lover of silent comedy should be familiar .
This is , I believe , the best Woody Woodpecker of the 1950s , and I lay the responsibility for this squarely at the feet of the writers , Michael Maltese , taking a break from working a Termite terrace and on his way , eventually , to Hanna Barberra where he would end his career , and Homer Brightman , who spent most of his career working for Walter Lantz . Maltese brings to the script the perfect cartoon logic and timing of gag structure that was developed and raised to its highest pitch at Warner ' - - this is not to denigrate the Lantz cartoons , which were often excellent , but their cartoon universe was a different one than Termite Terrace's - - and Brightman brings his own knowledge of Woody's psychology . As for director Paul Smith , he does a competent job , as always , but he never seemed to show much flair of his own . His talents were up to this task , and thats all any one can ask .
Ellington and his orchestra give you a hint of his ' Jungle Period ' music , and then move into " Stormy Weather " sung by Ivy Anderson . Although no one can beat Lena Horne singing this song , it's wonderful to hear a clean recording of Ellington's orchestra at this time , with its lush orchestrations .
Muriel Evans has decided to defy family convention and take part in a beauty contest in Oceanside and her parents have hired " Fearless " who turns out to be timid Charley Chase to find her and stop her . This is one of Charley's better sound shorts in which Thelma Todd does not appear . It's strengthened by some nice location shooting in Oceanside , California , some nice supporting physical comedy by Heinie Conklin and most of all , by leading lady , Muriel Evans , who looks to be having a lot of fun - - her reaction shots to Charley's gag with the asparagus are priceless . The entire thing is directed by Charley's brother , James Parrott and it looks to have been a very enjoyable shoot for everyone .
This fast-moving , late-silent serial is a model of the form as former Secret Serviceman " Lightning " Hutch " and his pals attempt baffle a gang of bad guys who are after the super-scientific poison gas - - and Clifford Price , who is after his girl . The cinematography by Leon Shamroy is modeled after the classic serials of Feuillade , particularly LES VAMPIRE and is a thing of beauty . Although stylized , the serial form in LIGHTNING HUTCH is not decadent and it still shows its vigor as a competitor against the feature movie for the longer form of cinema .
A priest is officiating at a convent , when suddenly he is transformed into the devil , who frightens away the nuns and turns the place into a outlet of Pandemonium . Another of Melies ' wonderful combinations of stage and film magic , this tells a fine little story of the triumph of faith . But how did he get into the convent in the first place ? This is one of the many previously lost or infrequently seen Melies pictures that have been made available by Serge Bromberg , David Shepherd and a myriad of other hands in the newly issued DVD set GEORGES MELIES : FIRST WIZARD OF CINEMA . Required viewing for anyone interested in the history of movies . . . . . and a lot of fun .
Yes , this movie has tremendous problems with the script . It would have taken very little to have put in a couple of prefigurements of plot points , such as Harvey's arrhythmia . The subplot with Maggie Walker and the Pole could have actually gone some place , and the issue of who got to give the bride away could have been set up better . Yes , this whole thing has been done a hundred times , and with much better writing , too , as , for example , with BRIEF ENCOUNTER . Yet , in the middle of all these problems , we have at the heart of this movie , two wonderful performances . Emma Thompson is , as always , wonderful , and as for Dustin Hoffman , it has been a long time since he has had a leading role in a movie . . . . . . and the simplicity and realism of his line readings as a man looking at the end of his life as he knows it and suddenly confronted with a choice he will be happy to make is utterly engaging . Yes , it would be better to have a better written movie , but I am happy to have this much in the way of opportunity for two wonderful performances .
An early and wonderful example of what tv can do when it sets itself to do something good . Stuff like this is now all over the History Channel , but you can't do better than Richard Rodger's music for this . Worth it for the score alone .
It's Hal Roach alumni day in this excellent entry in Edgar Kennedy's long-running ' Average Man ' series for RKO - - it ran from about 1933 until his death with a fine supporting cast of regulars including Florence Lake as his wife , Dot Farley as his horror of a mother-in-law and Jack Rice - - missing in this outing - - as his layabout brother-in-law . In this one , ex-Roach director and cameraman George Stevens - - yes , that George Stevens - - directs and co-writes , along with fellow Roach alumnus Fred Guiol , and Bud Jamison and Fred Kelsey show up on the screen . Kelsey was so well known for playing comic cops that he showed up in a Tex Avery cartoon in the 1940s . The net result is a short that shows the fine comic construction and execution of a Roach short of the period . If it comes your way , don't miss it .
Hilarious , chaotic burlesque musical short features Billy Gilbert as a German doctor in search of a missing watch . Such touches as cheering sections at operations and musical numbers at " Olivia from Bolivia " . Impeccable timing makes this a not-to-be-missed short .
