" Deadly Weapons " , along with its sequel / cash-in " Double Agent 73 " , is pretty much the absolute lowest type of cinema , yet there isn't a single exploitation or cult freak out there that can afford him or herself to miss it . Go figure ! This is an awful , awful movie that makes the repertoire of such questionable directors like Edward D . Wood , Bill Rebane or Andy Milligan look like genuine masterpieces , but it's definitely a curiosity to have in your collection and undeniably entertaining , BECAUSE it's so inept . Even the world's biggest bonehead knows that everything exclusively centers on Chesty Morgan's extremely over-sized ( and terribly UN-sexy ) balcony , yet Doris Wishman somehow attempts to make her film look like an emotional and involving revenge / drama . This makes " Deadly Weapons " even worse and a lot more pathetic than its successor " Double Agent 73 " ! At least that movie openly portrayed Chesty as a cheap sleaze-object and even had her jugs function as spy cameras ! In " Deadly Weapons " , they want us to believe her character Crystal is a tender , good-hearted and moreover intelligent ? at one point it's mentioned she's the successful manager of an advertisement agency ? woman , devastated over the death of her thug-boyfriend and on a mission to avenge him . She overhears the conversation between the two petty criminals that killed her lover Larry ( one of them is Harry Reems ! ) and promptly decides to kill them . Crystal uses her charm ( ? ) to seduce them and her humongous breasts to suffocate them . Just when she thinks justice prevailed , poor little Crystal faces the ultimate disappointment ? This motion picture can only be described as a total and utter travesty , albeit a fun one . Even though it only runs for a good 75 minutes , half of the film is pure padding ( Chesty taking an extended bath , Chesty sleeping naked , some random girl swimming naked ? ) and totally lacks direction and acting talent . This is more than just " bad 70's cinema " ? This is an oddity that needs to be seen to be believed . Don't allow the rating to put you off of seeing it .
Wow , this movie is even gayer than " HellBent " ! What are the odds of that ever happening ? I don't think David DeCoteau ever had the intention of making a horror movie ? He clearly just wanted to surround himself with athletic & handsome twenty-something boys , so he quickly thought up a scenario about a college fraternity of vampires . Instead of action & suspense , we get an whole army of male students parading in their matching tight white boxer shorts and instead of gory massacres we get insecure boys openly talking about their feelings and emotions ? for hours ! Two young losers meet each other on the first day of college . Chris has the body of a regular jock , but he's the sensitive type , so he doesn't want people to judge him based on his appearance . The other one , Dan , never stops nagging about how unpopular he was in his previous school . They befriend a girl with an incredibly beautiful rack ; still all they ever talk about is their mutual friendship . In come the boys of the Domo Tau Omega fraternity ; pretentious little pricks with sunglasses that rule over the university . Their leader ? super gay dude Devon ? wants Chris to join his elite group because he fancies him . Poor Chris doesn't know , however , that they form the gayest coven of vampires horror cinema has ever brought forward . " The Brotherhood " is a terrible film . There's not even an attempt to build up tension or atmosphere and DeCoteau didn't even bother to insert some cheesy horror effects . The vampires suck , all right . But not blood ? They suck at making themselves appear menacing and evil . The dialogs are abysmal and the production values are overall poor , barely disguising the fact that our director is more interested in shooting porn movies . Or maybe put together catalogs for men's underwear . He should do so , and quit misleading fans of horror films . The cast members may be yummy eye-candy ( at least , for certain target groups ) , but none of them has the slightest bit of acting talent . One to avoid at all costs .
I know you're not supposed to have any positive expectations towards an 80's film called " Attack of the Mutant Rednecks " but this is really terrible beyond belief . Even when you're familiar with really bad , no-budget amateur film-making , this piece of junk is STILL unendurable ! I usually have a soft spot for enthusiast genre fanatics that deliver their own self-made film with bad acting and over the top gore effects ( like " The Dead Next Door " for example ! ) but this is simply atrocious and I can't mention one reasonably decent aspect about it . Ozone ! Attack of the Redneck Mutants tells the filthy story of a remote town where the retarded inhabitants turn into decomposing corpses after an accident with chemical sprays . On the DVD-cover is stated that this film carries an environmental message . Um ? showing a bunch of idiots ripping flesh out of each other and then blaming it on ozone-problems isn't exactly helping the environment , guys . The people ( I can't really refer to them as actors ) playing in this trash are the most irritating ever ! I'm not demanding outstanding acting performances in this type of cinema but these hillbillies can't even properly speak . You often feel the desire to pull them through the screen and hit them in the stomach for looking so ridiculous . The gore and blood normally would be the obvious reasons to check out this film but it really isn't worth it . The gore is uninspired , lame and gigantically over the top . And when the gore isn't dripping from the screen , the film is very tedious and boring as hell . I take it you're not interested in seeing a group of elderly redneck having a karaoke-evening ? ? Avoid at all costs ? unless you get a kick out of tormenting yourself . Then you should definitely watch it .
A Surrogate sense of shame ? That is the only kind of sentiment " Murder Party " evoked with me . I am literally feeling embarrassed in writer / director Jeremy Saulnier's place for even daring to release such an utterly retarded and infuriatingly dumb excuse for a horror motion picture . What , does really everyone think they are capable of making horror movies nowadays ? This is exactly the type of rubbish to give the entire genre a bad name . For some reason most reviews for " Murder Party " are enthusiast and praising . I figure these critics were either somehow involved in the production or received illicit commissions of some sort , because there's really nothing positive about this movie . At the time of watching , my mate and I were so much under the influence of alcohol and soft-drugs that we even would have found " Not Without My Daughter " hysterical , yet we didn't laugh once at " Murder Party " . Well , with the notable exception of one gag ( the lead character gathering a whole collection of potential weapons only to then just drop them upon seeing his opponents ) but that hardly justifies the price of a purchase . The gags are overlong and often ridiculously over-the-top , the stereotypical characters are insufferable to even gaze at , the gore is really nothing special and each and every tiny aspect about the production is handled incompetently . The lead guy Chris is a big lonesome nerd who finds a personal invitation to a Halloween party on the streets , and since his life is so miserably pathetic , he decides to go and even bring pumpkin bread as a present . He ends up amongst a gathering of the world's biggest lunatics posing as artists and solely invited a random stranger to kill him / her in the name of art . But hey , since they're all crazy , they actually begin killing off each other and forget about the dork in his homemade robot costume . Even with a running time of barely 80 minutes , " Murder Party " outstays its welcome with approximately 75 minutes and it's honestly about time young and ambitious filmmakers realize horror and slapstick aren't supposed to mix , and especially not by clueless amateurs .
If the survival of horror films depends on titles such as this " FearDotCom " , we are indeed facing the downfall of the genre . This is lame , uninspired and repetitive garbage that irritates you from start to finish . Director William Malone's idea of suspense exists out of underexposed and fuzzy images of murders edited together in boisterous flashes that actually show you NOTHING . Add a poorly written script about a murderous website and completely unconvincing characters to this and you've got yourself one of the biggest cinema-turkeys since the new millennium . If the premise of this film rings a bell , it means that you recognize it from the Japanese cult hit " Ringu " ? . Or the slightly inferior American remake " the Ring " . Only , the videotape has been replaced by an internet website and the poor victims have only 2 days left to live after being exposed instead of 7 . Typical for an unscrupulous rip-off ? Faster , louder and modernized ! The elaboration is a mess : weak dialogue , plot holes all over the place , no style or atmosphere and very bad acting . I can't believe class actors like Udo Kier and Stephen Rea were talked into accepting roles like this ? Surely they can still do better even though they both have seen their best times . Stephen Dorff and the leading lady deliver lousy performances in roles that really don't fit them . Dorff as a tough , experienced copper ? Doubtful ? Perhaps what annoyed me most about the cast ( shallow , I admit ) is seeing how one of my all-time favorite B-actors , Jeffrey Combs , is given such a small and insignificant role ! That's Doctor Herbert West from Re-Animator we're talking about , dammit ! Show a little more respect , Malone ! If you love horror , you should avoid " FearDotCom " at all costs ! It's bad for your nerve system .
Well , there you have it , another disillusion on my account . Two , actually ! First of all , even though I like to think of myself that I know a little something about 70's euro-exploitation and its most prolific contributors , I never heard about Joseph W . Sarno before . Here's a guy who made over seventy rancid and cult-laden exploitation movies and I haven't seen a single one ! How ? Why ? What happened here ? Secondly , and even worse , just when you think to have found a new source for obscure cult movies , that director's most famous and supposed " masterpiece " turns out to be an irredeemably dull and irritating film . Admittedly , lesbian vampire movies form a pretty insignificant sub genre as a whole , but some of them bath in ominous atmosphere and curious sensuality ( like José Larraz ' " Vampyres " or Harry Kümmel's " Daughters of Darkness " ) . Joseph Sarno's film has nothing to offer , except copious amounts of gratuitous nudity and even that becomes boring rather quickly . The events take place in a secluded old castle , hidden deep in the German mountains , where five centuries ago lived a malicious and bloodthirsty ( literally ) baroness . Her loyal disciples still throw naked dance parties in the castle's catacombs , which are lit by penis-shaped candles ? AUCH , and hope to resurrect the baroness any time soon now . Suddenly ( don't even ask how ) the castle is full of young and sexy female guests , so even more erotic rites ensue . Sounds delicious and entertaining enough , but " The Devil's Plaything " contains a massive number of sequences where literally nothing happens and where the cast members ' ignorant facial expressions are simply unendurable ! Sarno isn't capable of creating suspense or building a Gothic atmosphere ( or maybe he just didn't bother to ) and the actresses ' capacities restrict themselves to standing in front the camera topless and pull a really pathetic face . Please do yourself a favor : no matter how desperately you strive to see all lurid lesbian-vampire movies of the 70's , this one isn't worth a penny ! Even the repertoires of Jess Franco and Jean Rollin are pure art compared to this dud .
" Cursed " is another new and horrible excuse for a horror movie from the talentless pen of Kevin Williamson . He proves ( again ) that he's the worst thing that could happen to the horror-industry , while director Wes Craven enlarges his list of embarrassingly bad movies ( that actually started right after his 1977 film " The Hills have Eyes " ) . Craven and Williamson's previous collaboration " Scream " actually is a masterpiece compared with this piece of garbage that messes with the ? once marvelous ? myth of werewolves . Set in Hollywood and revolving on characters you couldn't feel less connected with , this movie feels like another dreadful episode of " Dawson's Creek " , only with a wolf instead of James Vander Beek . All the rest is the same : high school popularity contests , glamour-girls battling over the same stud and we even have the classic case of siblings looking after each other due to their parents ' sudden death ! Sigh . . . I'm a great fan of classic atmospheric werewolf-tales and witnessing how these legendary creatures are abused here to serve for childish purposes makes me furious . Werewolves don't care for eliminating sexual competition ! They don't care about how cute boys look ! ! There's absolutely no tension in " Cursed " , the script is predictable and the attempts to scare the audience are lame . The gore-factor is weak and the werewolf-transformation sequences are downright pitiful . Movies like " An American werewolf in London " and " the Howling " are almost 25 years older but the special effects team of " Cursed " surely could have learned something from them on how making a transformation creepy instead of laughable . Christina Ricci looks yummy in her heroine-role but her boring performance definitely can't make this turkey any more appealing . My humble opinion is that you avoid watching " Cursed " like you would avoid getting Syphillys ! There are good recent movies handling about werewolves , like " Dog Soilders " or the " Ginger Snaps " - trilogy , that you can watch instead . Those are good movies , mainly because nor Wes Craven , nor Kevin Williamson had anything to do with them .
My mate and I chose to watch this obvious piece of junk purely based on its tagline ? After nearly 30 years of lousy and rudimentary teen slashers , I can't believe that only just now some nerdy horror brainiac come up with the brilliantly witty slogan " They Axed for it " ! Other than that , " Miner's Massacre " is just as random , annoying and forgettable as all the rest out there ? . Perhaps even more ! The script contains all the typical clichés and features all the dreadfully stereotypic characters you wish a horrible and painful death to . The gore effects are computer engineered and thus beyond pitiable and the obligatory " big " stars ( Karen Black , John Philip Law and Richard Lynch ) are entirely wasted in spite of their top billing . Cursed mines and abandoned ghost towns form an ideal horror setting ? the creators of " My Bloody Valentine " already figured that out in the early 80's ? but his dull film simply hasn't got any innovative ideas or even remotely surprising elements to offer . Bunch of greedy twenty-something losers , which refer to themselves as friends even though they clearly can't stand each other , desecrate an ancient mine in search of the gold that is allegedly hidden there . Of course they unwarily resurrect the zombie miner this way and he just 150 years of rest in order to prepare for a massive teen massacre . Yay ! The cast is exceptionally irritating in this one . The girls all have impressive racks but refuse to show anything . Instead , they all prefer endless whining and the taking of needless risks . The dim-witted blokes clearly just serve as screen fillers . In her barely five minutes of playtime , Karen Black still manages to make an utter fool out of herself by depicting the most prototypic and hysterical local nut woman ever . The zombie has a stupid and very unconvincing face , but he looks okay and reasonably menacing when shown in the distant shadow of the moonlight whilst swinging around his pick-axe . Since the best thing about " Miner's Massacre " concerns the aforementioned tagline and you can read that on the box in the video store itself , there's very little else to recommend here . Director John Carl Buechler scored a few modest hits during the eighties , like notably the original " Troll " and a fair " Friday the 13th " sequel , but it's obviously time to retire now .
You'll have to agree about one aspect of this movie ? these British scriptwriters sure knew how to think up appealing titles ! Look at this : blood + beast + terror ? Separately , these three words already make every horror lover slaver . Together , they form the title to a seemly indispensable horror film . Sadly , this is a very wrong perception . The Blood Beast Terror is not a vital British horror picture . Especially not compared to so many other titles from that era . Although the plot of this film features a few promising and creative aspects ( the still unknown universe of insects ! ) , it develops itself very slow and tediously . The twists near the end don't really offer any surprises or innovative elements . Certainly not if you're familiar with the more famous Hammer monster movies like ' The Reptile ' . Peter Cushing stars as a cop investigating murders that are seemly committed by a giant death's head moth . Dr . Mallinger ( Robert Flamyng ) and the stunningly beautiful female resident in his mansion are behaving suspiciously , so Cushing goes undercover in rural Britain . His cute daughter and a bug-worshiping nerd accompany him . There's absolutely no tension to detect in this film . Maybe that's partially due to the far-fetched plot , but I rather blame the tame directing-skills of Vernon Sewell and the truly limited depth of this film . The characters in ' Blood Beast Terror ' are weak and uninteresting , while the make-up effects are downright ludicrous . The transformation-sequences that turn wench into moth are really , really cheap ! And yes , I do keep in mind that the film is over 35 years old now . Even then , the special effects look stupid , mind you ! In the same year of 1968 , the production company ( Tigon Productions ) released ' The Witchfinder General ' starring Vincent Price . That film is at least a dozen times better and one of the most atmospheric movies I ever saw . A proof that the Hammer studios weren't the only ones who were able to create timeless , compelling horror . My advice : skip this one and continue your search for the more essential golden Brit-horrorfilms .
Another vile and rapidly edited Italian exploitation effort that just mildly succeeds in cashing in on the enormous ' popularity ' of Wes Craven's horror landmark " Last House on the Left " . Three bank robbers drive up to a remote beach house where they plan to hide from the police after a successful heist . Staying at the house at that moment are an attractive nun and five teenage girls under her supervision . The schoolgirls become the objects of violent torture games , vicious rapes and eventually murder . Bloody vengeance by the remaining girls and the nun is the inevitable consequence . What can be said about this type of cinema that hasn't been said a thousand times before ? It's mean-spirited , sickening and not the type of film to watch if you already feel a bit depressed . Peculiar , however , is that the victims of these rape-flicks continue to get younger and more innocent . I suppose it's some sort of competition among the directors to be the sickest bastard of all ? How else do you get the crazy idea of exploiting sexual aggression towards teenage girls ? The girls in " Last House on the Beach " barely look 15 years old , so mission accomplished for director Franco Prosperi , but the overall tone of the film isn't half as offensive or shocking as Ruggero Deodato's " House on the Edge of the Park " or Meir Zachi's infamous " I spit on your Grave " . Not recommended , unless of course if you're on a sole mission to watch every rape / revenge flick ever made . In that case , you can watch this one on par with " Late Night Trains " and " Terror Express " , which are equally bad .
Nice try ? but that's about the only positive thing you can say about this lackluster attempt to blend psychological thriller with eerie horror monsters . The script desperately tries to be intelligent and innovating but the result is a very poor and tedious movie , even for the already low 90's standards . The story handles about an overly ambitious psychology student who motivates a clique of people to go on a mountain-weekend where he'll finish his thesis about phobias . The point is that all the participants get over their fears by talking about them and , in the meantime , our college boy can process his own childhood trauma . Upon arrival , everyone's fear comes to life in the shape of a life-size wooden dummy . Of course the puppet means trouble ! It's made by Indians ? it's always the Indians with their spiritual evils , I tell you ! ! This movie takes itself way too seriously and the makers actually seem to believe that the subject matter is deep and complex ! It's not ! It's more than obvious that every character hides one of several dark secrets and the viewer figures them all out long before they reveal the " truth " themselves . I've rarely seen a movie so predictable than " The Fear " . The story gets more and more annoying near the end and , the more clever it tries to be , the more ridiculous it all looks . The wooden " evil personified " dummy isn't very impressive and the squeaky stretching-sounds he constantly makes aren't my idea of eerie sound effects . Pinocchio actually was a lot scarier ? at least he could do tricks with his nose . The acting performances are forgettable , even though I'm sure the guy who came up with the idea to offer Wes Craven a small role is very proud of himself . In case you're looking for some really unsettling evil-dummy horror movies , check out " Pin " ( brilliant but disgracefully underrated 80's thriller ) and " Magic " ( staring a young Anthony Hopkins " .
The day the WORLD ended ? Gee , isn't that a little too melodramatic ? Since when do some mildly ominous events in a small town of hillbillies affect the existence of the entire world ? Or maybe this is all just because this film is part of a series of TV-remakes of cheap & nearly forgotten Sci-Fi films , dating back to the 1950's . Roger Corman directed the original version of " The Day the World Ended " and it featured an entirely different storyline . The lame and overly child-friendly plot of this version revolves on a young boy who firmly believes that his real father is an alien . You'd believe him too , if you look at his childhood pictures . The school psychiatrist Dr . Stillman ( portrayed by Nastassja Kinski who's not ageing very well , I must say ) wishes to save him from the social isolation brought on by his father , but then there really does land a slimy alien in town ! This is the first of the HBO's remakes I watched , but I'm already going to pass on the rest of them . It has absolutely nothing to offer , except for an adequate cast that deliver below-average acting performances . The rest is just pathetic . The script " borrows " ideas from several other movies , there's absolutely no suspense and the make-up & creature effects are downright laughable . The alien monster is identical to the one in Corman's original ( as some kind of homage ) but the old creature looked a lot more petrifying . This is simply a sad excuse for a horror film , exclusively intended for younger audiences that refuse to watch black & white cinema .
At one point , still very early in the film , the male lead character can be seen reading a copy of Jules Verne's legendary novel " 20 , 000 Leagues Under The Sea " and even later in the film the book is mentioned several times more . This wasn't a coincidental choice , as the novel ( and even more so the classic 50's film starring Kirk Douglas ) largely introduced and immediately popularized the notorious Kraken-monster . The Kraken , these days primarily known as the thing that swallowed Johnny Depp in " Pirates of the Caribbean " , is a gigantic type of squid that can reach a size of nearly 46 feet and reigns over the darkest depths of the sea . Normally the Kraken only lives in the Northern regions , like the cold seas of Norway and Iceland , but according to the script of this low-keyed and forgettable made-for-TV creature feature , the monster can easily also dwell American ocean stretches and it suddenly even got promoted to being the guardian of ancient Greek artifacts ! For you see , the Kraken's territory in " Deadly Waters " encompasses Desolation Passage because that's where the valuable opal rests in a shipwreck , and the monster attacks everyone who sails in this passage , whether their intentions are bad ( like multiple treasure hunters ) or harmless ( like Ray's parents ) . This may sound like a very interesting concept for a monstrous horror movie , but " Deadly Waters " is dreadfully boring and poorly made . I anticipated the giant squid monster to be entirely computer engineered , but it's even worse that anyone could fear , as it looks like a cute and big-eyed underwater puppy . The Kraken never looks menacing , not even when its tentacles embrace a medium-sized ship . The underwater cinematography is unclear and the monster's attacks are never properly shown , for obvious reasons . At best , we see people getting thrown into the water and pulled down to the depths . With a slight bit of luck , the water even colors a bit red . The acting performances are weak and the characters totally implausible . Nicole and Jenny hardly look like brilliant archaeologists in their tiny bikinis and Jack Scalia is probably the least convincing mafia lord ever . Why did I watch this junk , I do not know . They should make a law against the spreading of TV-movies in video stores , especially when they do not indicate anywhere it's a TV movie ! Director Tibor Takács might consider a late career change , as he hasn't accomplished anything special since the late 80's , when he made " The Gate " and " I , Madman " .
Director John Stockwell clearly loves beautiful young girls in tight and colorful bikinis . There's absolutely nothing wrong with that ( in fact , can you blame him ? ) , but after " Blue Crush " , " Into the Blue " and now " Turistas " , it's becoming rather difficult for him to convince us that he wants to be seen as the director of serious thrillers and shocking horror movies . The main selling trumps of these three films are scantily clad girls parading on the beach and elegantly swimming underwater , while the thriller elements and bloody make-up effects are seemingly just thrown in for secondary reasons . " Turistas " is the tropical equivalent of " Hostel " ; Eli Roth's 2005 box office hit that almost single-handedly generated the incredibly popular and ongoing trend of so-called ' torture-porn ' flicks . They revolve on groups of young people , preferably party-minded backpackers , suddenly falling victim to sinister local crime networks that gratuitously torture and annihilate people for no transparent reason . " Hostel " took place in Eastern Europe , where torture and death merely served to entertain rich businessmen . In " Turistas " , a six-headed crowd of party animals backpacks through the most remote places of Brazil and gets stranded on a tropical beach between two " safe " areas when their tour bus is involved in an accident . They decide to also skip the next bus in order to attend a wild beach party , yet the next morning , they already wish they hadn't . The group is targeted for kidnapping by Doctor Zamora and he commands his accomplices to lure the tourists towards a secluded mansion in the middle of the jungle . Zamora is a dangerously deranged surgeon who's sick and tired of seeing wealthy Americans coming to Brazil to illegally buy organs of defenseless street kids , so he set up a sinister little business doing the opposite . He actually intends to remove the tourists ' kidneys and livers to rescue poor Brazilian children , so I don't know if I should fear him or award him the Nobel Peace Price ! Of course , Zamora primarily is a very naughty individual who treats his employees like slaves and actually enjoys watching his victim suffer . Multiple sources state that " Turistas " is much better and scarier than the aforementioned " Hostel " , yet I sincerely disagree . I wasn't the biggest fan of " Hostel " , but that film ? at least the second part ? felt much more grim , the violence was far more intense and the characters ( albeit brainless adolescents as well ) were more identifiable . " Turistas " has a strong opening , with the bus trip going awry , but then it quickly descends into a long series of painful clichés and unremarkable death sequences . A lot of sequences inexplicably take place inside underwater caverns , where you can't possibly determine what the hell is going on , whilst the surgical horror scenes appear to be necessary formalities edited in against the will of cast and crew . The payback and climax sequences are thoroughly unspectacular , not to mention weak and disappointing , and practically all of the acting performances go unnoticed . Worse than mediocre horror achievement , not too much to recommend here except for the bikinis .
This movie is ? ahem ? a bit weird , maybe , and it's plain easy to see right away why it divides audiences into two extreme categories . " Possession " is a textbook example of the so-called " love-it-or-hate-it film " and there's really nothing in between ! On the 1-10 weirdness scale , this movie easily gets a rating 20 , as it is a non-stop series of bizarre events , demented characters and incomprehensible plot twists . If you add to that a whole lot of gore AND an attempt to stuff the film with symbolism , you get something that becomes incredibly hard to rate and " masterpiece " or " turkey-trash " purely lies in the eye of the beholder . Personally , I'm a big supporter of strange cinema ( films like " Sweet Movie " or " Santa Sangre " are highly listed among my favorites ) , but even I thought that writer / director Adrzej Zulawski exaggerated with the constant adding of new and always odder elements . There's absolutely nothing that makes sense here and , eventually , the story lines and sub plots begin to contradict each other and the ambitious screenplay simply becomes one giant pseudo-artistic MESS ! The entire story revolves on the troubled housewife Anna who abandons her husband Mark ? upon his return from a very long business trip ? as well as her eccentric lover Heinrich with no apparent motive . Both gentlemen don't handle this rejection very well , but they eventually discover that Anna left them for a piece of homemade fungus that has its own apartment in the center of the city ! Yes , fungus ! Not just any type of fungus , but fungus that feeds on private detectives and their gay lovers . Mark replaces his lost wife with her own doppelganger while Anna has a miscarriage in the subway and floods half of Berlin with blood and pus . Are we confused yet ? ? Well , in case you're not , there's a lot more weirdness where this came from , but I can't possibly bring myself to list it all . If you expect at least a minimum of logic when watching films , I strongly suggest you skip " Possession " . It's either that or continuously asking yourself the question : " Why is this happening " ? Like ? Why are people cutting their own necks with an electric knife ? Why does the self-acclaimed world sex-champion still live with his mother ? What's up with the guy in pink socks ? Why does it look like there are only 5 people living in the whole of Berlin ? ? And about 10 . 000 other why-this & why-that situations , but you get the idea ? " Possession " often succeeds in being confusing and tedious at the same time ( which really isn't a good combination ) and the whole thing is very ugly to look at . It got labeled as a " Video Nasty " shortly after its release in Britain , due to some very explicit and sick gore ( notably the aforementioned miscarriage sequence ) , but don't expect another " Cannibal Holocaust " or " Maniac " , as this is pretentious gore . Pfff ? Isabelle Adjani's monologues seem to go on forever and I'm not quite sure whether Sam Neill knew what he was doing half of the time . Don't worry , Sam ? It's not your fault .
I know many people think that the violent and gore movies coming from Japan are the best thing since sliced bread , but frankly . . . I don't share that opinion . At least not when it comes to Ichi The Killer ( popular American release title ) This film is way overrated and can easily be skipped . Not like Battle Royale ( just to give one example ) wich is a whole lot better . It looks like a magna-story and I'm not quite sure if it was meant to be like that . The hero is a funny looking young man with blond hair . At least he's separable from all the other , resembling , characters . This sir is very special to say the least ! There are two long cuts on each side of his mouth . When he smoke a cigarette , the smoke comes out through these cuts ! ! That was pretty funny in a very stupid way . Not cool or anything . He does very weird stuff like cutting off his own tongue . Talking about motivation ! It's meant to be some sort of apology towards a gang-leader whom he almost tortured to death . Anyway , that's what the whole story is about . A gang-leader got kidnapped and his closest and most violent assassin does everything to find him back . He's the only one who's still convinced the leader is alive . . . I agree that Ichi , the Killer contains lots of violence . But I don't think it's artistic or breaking new grounds or anything . I don't even think it's disturbing . . . Disgusting is a more appropriate word . I love a good amount of gore in my movies but there was something wrong with this . It left me ice cold and I don't recommend this movie to anyone . There are a lot better Japanese horror / action-Thrillers to check out , or better yet . . . the nowadays Spanish film beat them all . My humble opinion on Ichi , The Killer . . .
This is one of the worst things you can encounter on the lowest horror-shelves of your local video store ; a pretentious teen-slasher ! " Ripper " basically is just another routine and mediocre stalk ' n slash film , but it stupidly also pretends to be a deeply intellectual and psychological thriller investigating the sickening motives that drive serial killers . In theory this means " Ripper " is a film that constantly features college students bragging about their knowledge concerning the modus operandi and trademarks of notorious killers ? Jack the Ripper in particular ? but when they eventually face one themselves , they make exactly all the same mistakes victims usually make in low-brain horror films . Every member in class perfectly knows Jack the Ripper picked up prostitutes or that Ted Bundy aimed at lonely and insecure girls , yet even then they still have random sex with a total stranger at a party and continue to separate themselves from the group even though several of their friends already turned up dead . Are we really supposed to believe these characters are any smarter than the usual ones in post-Scream slashers just because they read a few books about profiling techniques ? On the bright side , however , " Ripper " certainly isn't a total waste of time . The opening sequences and the finale are pleasingly exciting , there's a relatively fair amount of gore and the cast contains a handful of familiar faces , like Jürgen Prochnow ( " The Keep " ) and Bruce Payne ( " Passenger 57 " ) . The latter stars as a prominent FBI-profiler slash university professor , teaching his class to ' expect the unexpected ' when faced with an actual serial killer . They can soon enough put this theory into practice when an actual Jack the Ripper copycat shows up on campus . He / she seems to follow around the class ' outsider Molly , as she already survived a similar massacre party on an island a couple of years ago . Quite annoyingly , the characters are killed off in order of likableness and beauty . The most ravishing scream-queens , Kelly Brook , Emmanuelle Vaugier and Daniella Evangelista , are the first to die whereas the insufferable ones like the class-clown and the obnoxious French import actress hang around till the very end . Much more than on the revived popularity of slashers , " Ripper " attempts to cash in on the success of Hughes ' brothers " From Hell " . Even part of the title is borrowed .
" Schoolgirls in Chains " , with its grotesquely provocative yet inaccurate title , may perhaps thrive on a series of ultimately controversial , shocking and politically incorrect themes , but the low-budget elaboration and lack of talent involved ( fortunately ? ) prevented the film from becoming the nasty exploitation highlight it clearly hoped to be . If director Donald Jones would have been capable of gloriously depicting all the rancidness he suggests in the script ( including rape , torture , necrophilia and incest ) , then " Schoolgirls in Chains " indeed would have been a genuine exploitation classic , but now it's just a mildly offensive & amusingly inept 70's trash-gem . The most demented aspect about this film ( extra spoiler warning ) is that the story's hero is a teacher who actually has sexual liaisons with under-aged female students . How incredible is that ? Normally he'd be thrown in jail for that , but here he ends up saving the day ! The story introduces two middle-aged brothers still living in their secluded parental mansion and filling their days with , well , nothing really ? except kidnapping random young girls and subjecting them to torturous games . Johnny is mentally disabled and doesn't fully realize his victims don't voluntarily choose to play doctor with him . His older brother Frank is more of a silent type , but equally disturbed and at least ten times more misogynist . His behavior was mostly triggered by an awkward mother / son relationship . The flashback sequence in which the mommy colorfully explains to his one and only girlfriend how she and Frank make love ALL the time is easily the best part of the film . The mother is still watching over her boys , by the way , though she can only seen from behind or heard in the distance . In other words , if you know your classics ? cough Psychocoughcough ? it's easy to guess the final denouement . The atmosphere of " Schoolgirls in Chains " is overall sleazy and brute , but the screenplay lacks suspense and suffers from too many dull moments . There's nudity , of course , but no real vulgar stuff .
Percival Rubens ' " The Demon " is one of them late 70's low-budget horror oddities of which you can't help wondering why the hell it was ever made . What director , in his right state of mind , comes up with a completely illogical story about a malicious killer with unexplained motives and a heroic copper who gets killed even long before he's face-to-face with his nemesis ? And this describes just a small part of everything that is wrong with the film's screenplay . There's a sadistic killer on the loose in a small town . He wears gloves with claws attached to them , yet he exclusively kills his victims by choking them with a plastic bag . He always seems to walk in the shadow , has the size of a giant and never speaks a word . Is he really a demon ? or just a frustrated outcast who never received any motherly love ? He seems to be after the local kindergarten teacher and her gorgeous cousin but why is anyone's guess . On the other side , we have an ex-cop gifted with psychic powers looking for the killer . Cameron Mitchell ( " Blood and Black Lace " , " Nightmare in Wax " ) truly makes a fool out of himself here , pretending to be in contact with higher forces and sniffing a missing girl's pillow for clues . He's smart enough to predict his own death , yet he doesn't take any efforts to prevent it . As you can see , the plot is one giant MESS and there's absolutely nothing that makes the slightest bit of sense . The only positive point I can raise is that " The Demon " benefits from a neat morbid atmosphere and an occasional flash or sheer suspense . It's also quite sleazy ! The two lead girls regularly strip all their clothes off but this doesn't seem to influence the madman in any way . On the contrary , he's more interested in tearing apart the dressing gowns than in naked female bodies . Like I said , it's a bad bad bad BAD film ? but curiously intriguing at the same time .
Welcome to Umberto Lenzi's early 70's giallo / crime thriller " Paranoia " starring the unearthly beautiful Carroll Baker ? Hey , wait a minute , haven't I watched and reviewed this movie a couple of days ago already ? Oh right , that was the OTHER Umberto Lenzi early 70's giallo / crime thriller " Paranoia " starring the unearthly beautiful Carroll Baker , more commonly known as " Orgasmo " . Confusing ? Well , maybe a little , but rest assured these are two entirely different movies of which the stories & characters aren't linked to each other at all . The other " Paranoia " is also far superior to this one . That particular movie had tons of suspense , likable characters and convoluted plot-twists whereas this one is painfully boring . This film features TWO worthwhile scenes , both involving wild car accidents , one at the beginning and one at the end and everything in between is one gigantically uninteresting , predictable and overlong love-triangle between three characters . It all starts with Mrs . Baker stars as a rather free-spirited race car pilot who crash-parks her car on the circuit and ends up slightly wounded in a hospital . During her period of recovery , she accepts to stay at her ex-husband and his new wife's mansion . Two attractive women and one incomprehensibly handsome guy ( really , Jean Sorel is way too good-looking ! ) in one house can only result in extended sequences of sexual intrigue , double-crossing and conspiracies to murder . It's all a lot less exciting than it sounds and only the good acting performances keep it endurable . The filming locations and music are stylish , but that's not enough in this case . Easily the most disappointing Lenzi-film I've seen thus far .
Not a terribly hopeless movie , this Australian " Wolf Creek " , but it sure as hell won't ever be regarded as a horror movie classic . The main problem with this nevertheless ambitious production is that it constantly looks incomplete and ? even more importantly ? takes too easily advantage of the " based on true events " premise . Basically , " Wolf Creek " is just another completely unoriginal slasher movie , like they're making 50 of them each year ( and double that number back in the 1980's ) , only here Greg McLean doesn't even bother to look into the killer's identity , background or motivations , just because it's all based on a true story . Well that's a very cheap excuse , isn't it ? This is the tale of two girl friends traveling through Australia when they're offered an extra sightseeing trip to the famous " Wolf Creek " crater by a local nice guy . Then of course their car breaks down in the middle of nowhere and naturally they're rescued by a seemly helpful redneck who evidently turns out to be a sadistic serial killer . The facts of the actual Australian murder case always remained very vague and McLean cleverly uses this to leave many questions unanswered . So , if you're hoping to see a horror film with quite a few scares and some brutal special effects , " Wolf Creek " will do just fine but , talking in terms of story , this is just as dull and forgettable as every other low-budget slasher movie ever made before . The acting performances are quite good , considering it's not the most experienced cast , and there are several sublime shots of the Australian outback to admire . The often explicit sound effects are genuinely disturbing and ? for the fans of gory horror ? there's a handful of memorable gross moments .
Sigh ? despite my many years of training in horror cinema and countless of previous bad experiences , I still get suckered into watching lousy movies because of their appealing and juicy looking VHS cover artwork ! I knew absolutely nothing about " The Supernaturals " , but purely based on that drawing of a toothless skull wearing a civil army soldier's hat , I simply had to see it ! Way to go , Mr . Horror expert ? Oh well , at least it isn't the worst genre movie of the 80's , that's for sure . " The Supernaturals " is a mediocre horror outing with a relatively original concept and setting and a handful of memorably worthwhile sequences , but ultimately it lacks the necessary suspense and panache in order to rank among the better achievements of the 80's decade . As stated already in numerous other reviews and user comments , the film effectively borrows the settings and characters of Walter Hill's " Southern Comfort " and H . G . Lewis ' " Two Thousand Maniacs " . Unfortunately , however , it features neither the claustrophobic atmosphere of the former and nor the outrageously delicious gore effects of the latter . What remains is a nonetheless interesting movie about a platoon of soldiers out on a training excursion in a Southern forest area and suddenly having to battle against seemingly spontaneously resurrected zombie soldiers from the Civil War . Ironically enough , the supernatural elements in " The Supernaturals " are the only ones that don't work . The promising flashback at the beginning hinted that a kid soldier saved his mother thanks to a sudden outburst of supernatural powers on this exact same location during the year 1865 , and now he ? Jeremy - as well as his mother and the long-dead members of the platoon he was part of still guard over the place . The explanation given to the presence of the zombies is unsatisfying and feels incomplete . This would have been less of a problem if there had been more gory murders and / or straightforward suspense to distract you from the plot . Now , there's little else left to do but wonder about how Jeremy obtained his powers , how exactly does he resurrect the dead and how come he's still alive after more than a century ? The middle section is plain dull and I simply cannot comprehend why Armand Mastroianni decided it would be a good idea to make an 80's zombie movie with only a minimum of gore .
Why anyone would want to remake a gory and filthy exploitation gem from the early 80's is a mystery to me . The original Humanoids was a nice viewing and a good change to observe , but it hasn't really got the potential to be re-told in a 90's sort of atmosphere . Yet , they did and I don't really have a problem with that ? but it really drives me mad that the local shop sold me a copy of this ? straight to video ' version instead of the original ! Damn , the DVD has the same cover and credits-list as the original but the DVD itself is the remake starring Carradine ! Pay attention to this if you'd ever plan to buy it . The less interesting remake could be disguised as the original gore stuff ! That said , I have to admit that even this version is more or less satisfying and certainly worth sitting through . Same story is told , only less explicit and more mainstream ? Meaning that the violence and nudity is severely cut . An aspect that'll most likely lower the interest of fans of the original . Still , there are more than enough bloody and nasty sequences to sicken the inexperienced horror population . A guy's head is blown off , for example , and there's a woman giving birth to an ugly fish creature on a filthy bar-table . The costumes of the fish-people on the other hand are laughable and idiotic looking . They could have paid a little more attention to that , because it sorts of ruins the whole idea of the ' horrible ' mutations that they are supposed to be . The acting is overall decent and some familiar faces are included in the cast . Robert Carradine is a very decent B-actor who still is overlooked often ? . The same could be said about Mark Rolston , by the way . Danielle Weeks just looks adorable while she's on-screen and Clint Howard walks around in this movie for no particular reason ? as he does in most of the films he stars in . In general ? you'll be better off when watching the original this thing is based on , but it's not an entire waste of time . Humanoids is easy to watch and overall entertaining with some good gory stuff and funny sequences . If you've seen the original , you'll also have quite some fun with discovering the references and the spoofs towards it .
" Suspect Zero " is an endurable and occasionally compelling suspense-thriller , but with a far too ambitious and implausible concept , too many unprocessed sub plots and character drawings that easily rank among the least likable ones I ever saw . If this project ever had the intention of becoming the 2000's equivalent of serial killer classics such as " Seven " and " The Silence of the Lambs " ( like multiple reviews claim it had ) , well then it failed miserably . The basic idea of the film would perhaps have worked better in a near-futuristic and politically different climate , for example in the same setting and era as " Minority Report " and " I , Robot " . Without revealing too much , the plot hints at themes that are pure Sci-Fi , like unorthodox methods to brain-train FBI agents into hunting down serial killers , but at the same time the events take place in a nowadays setting . I think the sequences in which both protagonists supernaturally " witness " hallucinating things and note down seemingly unclear clues could be convincing in a not-so-distant future , but not yet in this day and age and certainly not in the New Mexican middle-of-nowhere . Tough copper Thomas Mackelway gets transferred to a small Albuquerque precinct after violating several procedures in order to apprehend a serial killer . There , he instantly receives strange faxes and bizarre visions about murders that are committed all over the country . It seems as if a super intelligent serial killer ? specializing in killing other serial killers ? wants to involve Mackelway into his hunt for the ultimate serial killer , the so-called Suspect Zero who never gets caught because he doesn't have a fixed modus operandi . This pretty much is the plot in a nutshell , but the film unfolds slightly more convoluted like that , believe me . " Suspect Zero " seriously lacks panache in practically all the important departments . The main character Thomas Mackelways is a stone-cold and antipathetic individual , so you honestly don't care too much about his troubles in the past or his devastating hunt for the killer . At some points , the plot seems to try and emotionally link him to two female characters ( his partner Fran and one local Albuquerque assistant ) but that never goes anywhere . Ben Kingsley gives a strong performance as always , but his character O'Ryan is simply too unreal and awkward . Since the actual hunt for the Suspect Zero killer is too implausible , the suspense-highlights of the film include the digging up facts regarding the other three serial killers . Sadly enough , those sequences are too brief . " Suspect Zero " is also listed as a horror film , but there's very little ( on screen ) carnage . Admittedly some of the themes are potentially disturbing , but there's too little excitement shown on screen . Overall , a disappointment , but nonetheless an interesting film to watch once .
Although the premise isn't original or innovating ( " Village of the Damned " , " Children of the Damned " , " Who Can Kill a Child " , " The Children of Ravensbeck " ? ) , I'm always enthusiast about a horror movie revolving on murderous ? and whether or not zombified ? children , but you always have to bear in mind that a concept such as this could be bound to a lot of restrictions as well . Let's face it , the idea of murdering children and / or children getting murdered remains a fairly sensitive topic and especially nowadays filmmakers don't always have the courage to depict everything in great detail . Another big issue is that the scripts are rarely ever strong enough to come up with an explanation that is simultaneously disturbing and plausible . " The Plague " , which is somehow linked to the creative writing mastermind Clive Barker , is fairly adequate and satisfying when it comes to dealing with the first issue ( there are some very graphic child murders here ) , but it miserably fails in the plotting department . I just finished watching the film five minutes ago , but please don't ask me to summarize the plot . The film benefits from a handful of really powerful sequences and an occasionally unsettling apocalyptic atmosphere , but the screenplay is incredibly disorderly , incoherent and it explains absolutely nothing at all . On a seemingly average day , all the children on the earth under the age of 9 fall into a coma . Twice a day , like clockwork , they all start twitching together but the reasons for that are anyone's guesses as well . Then , as spontaneously as they fell into a coma , they all awake ten years later as mad zombies and promptly begin to exterminate all the adults for ? you guessed it ? no apparent reason whatsoever . The film follows a small group of people's quest for survival in a quiet little US town , among them an ex-married couple ( Ivana Milicevic and James " Dawson " Van Der Beek in a totally unconvincing performance ) , a couple of cops and a pair of adolescents who're spiritually linked to the children . The sequences illustrating the zombie children prowling the deserted streets for adults to kill are reasonably effective and creepy , as well as the make-up jobs on their faces , but the film never achieves to be truly terrifying .
Twenty years after " Assault on Precinct 13 " , director John Carpenter re-states that he actually prefers making westerns over horror movies . " Vampires " looks like a giant tribute to Sam Peckinpah's " The Wild Bunch " ( even the illustration on the DVD-cover is taken from it ) and handles about a 600-year-old super vampire that operates from the New Mexican desert . Because you see , vampires don't sleep in coffins or live in old castles ; they dig holes in the sand and emerge from them at the break of dawn . James Woods plays Buffy the Vampire Slayer , working for the Vatican and assisted by Daniel Baldwin and a naive young priest as they're trying to prevent bloodsucker Valdek from finding the Cross of Berziers ; a religious relic that gives vampires the power endure daylight . The set pieces are quite impressive and the screenplay definitely contains exciting sequences ( like the multiple spontaneous combustions ! ) , but Carpenter completely ignores building up tension and opts for brainless macho action . Maybe this was meant to be a tribute to Peckinpah as well but " Vampires " is truly women unfriendly and barbaric . Female star Sheryl Lee , who stars as a prostitute slowly turning into a vampire after being bitten , gets slapped , abused and yelled at repellently while the only other female cast members are some hookers that're used as bullet shields for the men ! The aforementioned sequences in which the vampires crawl out of their sand beds are the only real atmospheric moments in an overall disappointing and forgettable horror flick .
De Boezemvriend won't ring a bell to that many people . It's a long lost and forgotten Dutch comedy , but . . . a very enjoyable one . The chosen few who'll have the change to see it one day won't regret it . But it is hard to find . I taped it off TV once in the early 90's . I still have that tape and re-watched it recently . But it hasn't been on tv since . De Boezemvriend is all about the charismatic face of leading actor André Van Duin . He's a funny-looking reddish man , who uses different tones of voice when he speaks . He's a famous and well respected comedian in the Dutch-speaking countries . He did movies , TV-shows , stand-up comedy acts and a lot of other stuff . He was on the peak of his success when this movie was shot . . . you don't hear much about him nowadays and that's a shame . I was a huge fan of his and I still think he was the best comedian in all Belgium and the Netherlands . De Boezemvriend is set in the time of Napoleon . Van Duin character is some sort of dentist who has to run for Napoleon troops because the want to recruit him as a soldier . During his hike , he gets mistaken for a French baron and a close friend to the emperor . De Boezemvriend contains a few truly hilarious scenes and an overall funny screenplay . The costumes and decors are fairly decent and I consider that to be a huge positive point , since it's only a small Dutch production . Van Duin's facial expressions are a joy to watch and the ( former ) Dutch beauty Vanessa shows a LOT of cleavage . What more do you want ? ?
" Someone's Watching Me " is practically always described as a " Hitchcockian " thriller . This is of course a quite superficial and even remotely hypocrite way to label a film . Whenever an acclaimed director revolves a thriller on themes that were largely introduced by Alfred Hitchcock , the critics are tempted to mildly review the film as a " Hitchcockian " thriller , yet when an unknown director does the same , his / her effort is likely to get categorized as a weak attempt to imitate the legendary filmmaker . John Carpenter had just scored big hits with " Halloween " and " Assault on Precinct 13 " , so consequently his TV-produced variation on " Rear Window " was bound to fall into the first category . By stating this , I certainly don't intend claiming " Someone's Watching Me " is a bad film , mind you , but it's definitely a bit overrated and inarguably routine . The basic plot and structure are just too simplistic and derivative and , since Carpenter still isn't on par with Alfred " the master of suspense " Hitchcock himself , he doesn't manage to turn this into a highly memorable film . The film benefices from a handful of genuinely suspenseful moments as well as a steady pacing , but specifically in order to maintain the pacing , the script makes a couple of implausible ( on the verge of absurd , even ) twists and turns . " Someone's Watching Me " introduces Leigh Michaels , a lady in her late twenties with a peculiar habit of making bad jokes and the even more irritating habit of continuously talking and singing to herself , who just migrated from New York to Los Angeles and moved into a fairly luxurious apartment block with a view all over the city . She accepts a great job , makes a few friends ( Adrienne Barbeau as a lesbian ) and everything goes well until some pervert spots her through a telescope from the building across the street . He must really fancy women with a giant gap between their front teeth , as Leigh unendingly receives strange phone calls , expensive gifts from a fictional company and unsettling remarks about her behavior and the places she visited . The poor girl slowly loses her sanity and , since the police can't interfere until something tragic happens , she and her newfound friends eventually start an investigation of their own . Carpenter's attempt to deliver a suspense-driven TV-thriller is admirable , but the material is too minimal to fill up nearly 100 minutes of running time and some of the invisible villain's methods are just too grotesque . Come on , which deranged stalker would be willing to spend a remarkable sum of money to buy his victim expensive gifts ( from a fake company with its own letterhead ! ) or go through so much effort to falsely accuse another tenant ? The eventual denouement and unmasking of the culprit is far too improbable as well . Also , and rather obvious since it concerns a TV-production , the film severely lacks action and bloodshed . If only Carpenter was able to invite the protagonist from his previous film , Michael Myers , to join the party ! Imagine what would happen ! Surely it would take Michael quite a while to reach the penthouse , but once he's unleashed the stalker would regret the day of his birth !
I've seldom seen a film that impressed and fascinated me so much while watching it , but actually turned out a major disappointment after analyzing it afterwards . Throughout its entire playtime , Monster's Ball FEELS like a brilliant film but it leaves a gigantic empty feeling in your stomach when you come to think that the drama and the characters you felt so connected with are actually depth-less and unsupported . It is in fact praiseworthy that director Marc Foster manages to " fool " us during the whole film with utterly simply tricks , as you simply stare at the story's beauty and intensity with great respect and admiration without realizing it's totally fake sentiment you're witnessing . Monster's Ball basically has one trump that makes it all the more appealing for true film buffs : the entire production feels very anti-Hollywood ! The tone quite unique and some of the subplots and character drawings are highly unlike to feature in a big production like this . Sober , depressing , modest ? and even though the story is highly unrealistic and far-fetched , you experience it as a true event simply because it's brought to you so well . Director Marc Foster patiently takes his time to come to the point what the movie actually is about ( namely : the unusual force of attraction between a Southern white prison guard and an Afro-American mother whose husband was executed on the electric chair ) but that is a sublimely elaborated element , as the viewer really feels that what drives the protagonists together is agony , loneliness and death . A lot of suffering takes place before Hank ( Billy Bob Thornton ) and Leticia ( Hally Berry ) finally find some consolation and hope with each other . Probably even a little too much , as I rarely some much bitterness featuring in one film . Now , what exactly is wrong with this picture ? Because all the things I summed up so far only increase the suspicion that " Monster's Ball " is an excellent film and a must see for every self-respecting fan of cinema . Well , that's only half true . While the audience is developing sympathy and compassion for the characters ' situations , the screenplay fails to enlighten why exactly you do so . I can easily state this with punctual examples but then ? of course ? you'll be reading huge SPOILERS ! We're witnessing how a death row-condemned father ( good performance by Sean Combs ) is saying goodbye to his family and , although it's very sincere , you don't know whether this sequence is justified . What has he done ? Does he even deserve forgiveness ? Same goes for the painful relation between the embittered prison guard and his emotionally unstable son Sonny ( Heath Ledger ) . Their interactions are cold and aggressive but not once you're given feedback on what exactly caused this . The abrupt ending of this subplot fills you up ( whether immediately or afterwards ) with disappointment because you feel the sentiment is exploited and the matter could have been arranged in a different way . There are more examples to state that " Monster's Ball ' lacks depth but I suggest you see for yourself . Still , I too wish to recommend this film to as many people as possible . Only not for the obvious argument that the story is heart-breaking but simply because it's a professionally shot film . Especially Roberto Schaefer's cinematography is outstanding and shows you camera-angles of which you didn't know they existed . The acting also deserves all the praise it can get . Halle Berry does a fine job but at times it feels like she's hankering too anxiously after her Oscar . If there's anyone here who should have won an Oscar for his performance , it's Billy Bob Thornton but the members of the Academy shamelessly make a rule out of overlooking this brilliant actor . Worth mentioning as well is the remarkable role of Peter Boyle as Thornton's ultra-racist dad . This fine veteran actor did his best work back in the seventies , with movies like " Hardcore " , " F . I . S . T " and " Young Frankenstein " on his repertoire .
If you start watching " Once upon a time . . . " with limited expectations , you won't be disappointed . I for one only searched for a little bit of adrenaline filled action and lovely performances of an all-star cast . Frankly , that's all there is to it because the screenplay is a complete mess and Rodriguez lacks the inspiration and creativity he once had so much . The story mixes too many intrigues , flashbacks , illogical twists and unfunny humor to be memorable . El Mariachi is now a broken man since they murdered his wife ( the still exquisite Salma Hayek ) , but vengeance is offered him by the FBI . Johnny Depp is the corrupt agent who hires Banderas to eliminate a military General , who happens to be the same guy who killed his wife . Then , there are about 25 other sub-plots that aren't worth mentioning . The violence is well presented and delightfully over the top ! Remarkable how the enemies keep aiming for El Mariachi carefully and miss . . . while Banderas just swings his weapons around without looking and somehow ALWAYS manages to kill a bad boy ! The brilliant actors is small roles are the real treat in this film ! ! We've got Willem Dafoe as über-bard numero uno and THE Mickey Rourke as his unmanly sidekick . Rodriguez regulars Danny Trejo and Cheech Marin join the party as well and Eva Mendes is too beautiful to be true . And then there's Johnny Depp who easily overshadows Antonio Banderas as the corrupt Agent Sands . . . Only Johnny Depp can say stupid lines like " Are you a Mexi-can or a Mexi-can't " without losing his coolness . Unlike Enrique Iglesias who confirms here what everyone already knew . . . acting isn't really his best profession
Robert De Niro stars in yet another cop-movie , following the disappointing ' 15 minutes ' , ' Showtime ' and ' Meet the Parents ' ( sort of ? ) . The first is a dreadful thriller ; the other two are lame comedies . City by the Sea is more like a drama and outshines all the others , but that isn't saying much . Bobby stars as copper Vincent LaMarca , investigating a murder case that leads him back to his childhood town . The case brings back painful memories , as Vincent's father was the first murderer ever to be put on the electric chair there . When all the tracks lead to Vincent's estranged son Joey as the presumable killer , he yet has to face all the prejudices that made him move to another district again . City by the Sea is based on a true story , but as you might expect it in Hollywood productions , the real facts are softened while the sentiment is immensely increased . I don't really support this kind of emotionality and the morality speeches at the end nearly made me vomit . Still , this film is worth checking out if it were only for the acting performances . Robert De Niro acts like he's fed up with his latest career choices , but somehow this translates itself perfectly into his depressed character Vincent . The true star ( to me , at least ) was James Franco . This film , along with his performances in the Spider-Mans really proves that he's an upcoming young actor with a lot of potential . Same goes for Eliza Dushku and she even has the looks ! Frances McDormand is shamelessly downgraded to the supportive cast , which was another slight letdown in this film . Opposite to this , there are the good supporting roles by William Forsyth ( the guy is cool ! ) and George Dzundza in his repetitive role of the buddy cop who gets it .
I watch a lot of scary and violent stuff but I've never felt uncomfortable with that . THIS is the only movie so far that terrified me ! ! I suffer from a really bad form of " vertigo " and around the time this movie got released in the theaters , I even felt sick when I was looking at the poster . It felt like a combination of my two biggest fears : heights and being frozen to death . Even though some of my favorite actors star in Vertical Limit , it took me quite long before I finally got the courage to watch it . The story of Vertical Limit is typical and there isn't anything original about it all . That's fine with me , I just considered it to be an old-fashioned adventure movie with good acting and stunning photography . Vertical Limit is the typical story of siblings who lost their father in a climbing accident . Ever since , the son ( Chris O'Donnel ) has stopped climbing . His sister ( Robin Tunney ) hasn't she's going to conquer K2 with the rich Texas guy Vaughn ( Bill Paxton ) . Of course , this goes wrong and Chris has to set up a rescue missing to go and save his sister . A whole bunch of typical characters are introduced and everything that can possibly go wrong , does go wrong . The quality level of Vertical Limit is merely held up by the acting performances . . . and more specifically : Scott Glenn and Bill Paxton . Both these overtalented - yet underappreciated - actors are cast perfectly . Glenn is impressive as the mysterious loner Montgomery Wick who dwells around K2 and Paxton is the worst kind of " bad guy " a movie can have . He isn't really the villain but he's the arrogant business guy who quickly turns into a selfish , egocentric and mad person who's willing to sacrifice everything to survive . Terrific performance . All the other aspects you expect are there as well . A developing love story , funny one-liners and the oversentimental morality and happy ending . Mainstream stuff but certainly not bad . Enjoyable and recommended to fans of beautiful landscapes .
I'll admit that " First Man into Space " is a pretty bad film , mainly because the creators made the huge mistake of trying to give a hideous monster a voice and emotions , but still I can't help appreciating this British low budget late 50's Sci-Fi horror effort . The reasons for this are almost exclusively linked to the fabulous make-up effects and the brutality of the killings . Despite the fact that they want you to empathize with the monster , the murders it commits are extremely gruesome ( involving throat-slitting , blood-drinking and that sort of things ? ) . You can imagine it's pretty difficult , and actually even a bit ridiculous , to have sentiments for a one-eyed pile of smut that just tore apart the throat of an innocent trucker and drank the blood of cows . The plot of " First Man into Space " is fairly rudimentary , as are the set pieces and scenery . The footage of the intergalactic journeys and the interiors of the spacecrafts & laboratories look extremely cheesy by today's standards , but they were top-notch equipment during the late 50's , when the popularity of the Sci-Fi genre literally boomed . The plot itself often feels like a low-keyed imitation of one of Hammer Studio's greatest successes , namely " The Quatermass Experiment " . If you , like me , consider that particular film to be one of the greatest landmarks of 50's Sci-Fi , you'll definitely also find some entertainment in the derivative concept of " First Man into Space " . The story revolves on a cocky astronaut who desperately aspires to become the first man into space no matter what . With a stubborn attitude like that , he naturally disobeys important orders from ground control ( his brother ) and puts himself in great danger . His first flight has a happy ending but during a second flight his capsule vanishes from all radars . The astronaut is still alive , however he transformed into a hideous monster that craves blood and slowly heads back to base camp . The first half of the film is overly talkative and every single stereotype and cliché regarding space exploration also features in the script . There's the helpless love-interest , torn between the two brothers , the elderly pipe smoking scientists and ? of course ? the inevitable hammy monologues where one of the characters lifts up his head and stares into space while saying something like : " Perhaps we're still too small to comprehend the secrets and menaces of the great universe " . It's not an exact quote , but you get the big picture . The middle section of the script compensates for most of the flaws , as the film temporarily turns into a good old-fashioned monster-on-the-rampage spectacle with suspense and bloody killings . The silliness reaches an absolute highlight when the monster ( which only has one eyeball and even that hangs out of its socket ) is shown driving a car with the bloodied corpse of a woman in the passenger's seat . The final sequences are pure sentimental baloney and not exactly the type of anti-climax die-hard fans of the genre prefer to see , but what the hell . The least you can say about " First Man into Space " is that it's an admirable effort .
Cultmaster Jess Franco delivers with this " Female Vampire " the jolliest and sleaziest bunch of sleaze you'll ever behold , and that's a guarantee ! This in fact is the closest you can get to renting porn while still able to claim it's essential and rare cult , haha ! ! The star in this film is Franco's favorite toy-girl , the astonishingly beautiful ( at least back then ) and sexy Lina Romay , who definitely makes up in charisma what she lacks in experience and acting skills . Luckily for her , her character is a mute so can use her body language to the fullest ! She plays Irena von Karlstein , the last descendant of a cursed family of vampires who's doomed to travel from one great place to another and survive by making love to random people . . . The poor , poor girl ! ! Irana isn't your ordinary type of vampire as she's perfectly able to stand daylight and it . . . um . . . isn't exclusively blood she sucks ! Countess von Karlstein really is one of the most unique Franco characters ever and you'll unquestionably love her ! Whenever she's not killing people , she walks naked through the woods or makes love to the furniture . In order to add a tiny bit of substance to story , there's a sub plot involving a neurotic scientist ( played by Franco himself ) who wants to destroy the yummy Irena . So , what exactly is the point of this film ? There isn't any . . . and that's the beauty of it ! Like several of Franco's film , this " Female Vampire " is rather meaningless and overall incompetent BUT also very sensual ! The photography is magnificent and the musical guidance is very beautiful . The film is slow-paced , elegant and remarkably stylish for being a ? let's face it ? voyeuristic movie ! If you're into euro-sleaze , cult classics and off-category movies . . . . this is a must ! The same film is also available as a different cut and under a different title ? Erotikill ? but that one is pure pornography !
To my own personal regret , I haven't yet seen the 1928 classic on which this French / Italian version is based . The basic premise is truly intriguing and you can derive from this film that the original has got to be a fantastic film . The pivot character is a young man called Angelo ( Jean Sorel from Lucio Fulci's " Lizard in a Woman's Skin " ) who got kidnapped as a boy by gypsies in order to turn him into an acrobat and sell him to a circus . His face was horribly mutilated on purpose ( he appears to have a constant grin ) to increase his " value " as a circus-freak even more . The story is set in 16th century Spain ( or is it Italy ? ) and Angelo is torn between civil wars and an unanswered love . I hope to see the original soon , because I understand that this setting is different and a lot more confusing . This version is overlong and quickly becomes boring . Moreover , the screenplay makes a ridiculous twist near the end , when we're supposed to believe that surgeons in the 16th century were flawlessly capable of performing complex plastic surgery . The make-up effects are admirable , the body count is enormous and Sorel's acting is well above average . Even though a remake , " The Man Who Laughs " is a movie with great potential and it's a shame the execution is so darn poorly .
I went to see ' Jersey Girl ' because I'm a Kevin Smith fan . Other than that , I had no particular reason to check it out since romantic comedy / drama isn't really my thing . And yet , I enjoyed watching ' Jersey Girl ' ? because it had heart and a lot of subtle self-regulating humor . Pure talking comedy , it's Smith's least good film , since his talent usually lies in the smart pop-art remarks and the endless amount of slick cinema-references in the dialogue . None of these aspects features in Jersey Girl and also the characters are a lot less eccentric than usual . It's an emotional driven picture with a small amount of very funny sequences . Ben Affleck ( who previously did some of his best work with Kevin Smith in film like Chasing Amy ) is a successful PR-man who has everything ? a beautiful wife ( Jennifer Lopez ) , a successful career and a baby on the way . He loses all of this in the blink of an eye when his love-interest dies while giving birth to their daughter . He returns to living with his father in his Jersey hometown and accepts a non-responsible job . Seven years later , he still lives there and stills his sexual hunger by renting porno-films . He makes acquaintance with the cute videostore girl ( Liv Tyler ) and raises his daughter the best he can . But , Ollie ? that's the name of Affleck's character ? desires to go back to the big city and pick up his PR job again . The typical ( read : annoying ) clichés start to pile up at this point ? Will the charm of the little town triumph over the boisterous life in the big city ? Is Ollie going to make it in time to see his little girl's school play ? You all know the answers , I bet . But I'm not complaining ? as mentioned above , some sequences are truly hilarious highlights ( for example : Affleck trying to explain the difference between boys and girls to his daughter ) and remarkable cameos by giant stars ( Will Smith ) or other Kevin Smith regulars ( Jason Lee and Matt Damon ) . All in one , a decent motion picture that you'll forget about soon , but it'll affect you while it lasts .
Michael Crichton's " Looker " certainly isn't a hopelessly bad film , but it is pretty forgettable and way too ambitious for an early 80's thriller that superficially looks like a brainless horror effort . The VHS cover art as well as the super-cheesy title song make " Looker " wrongfully appear like an ordinary , by the numbers stalk - & - slash film . An often encountered and unjustified praising is that Crichton's screenplay is intelligent and far ahead of its time . Well , the basic premise may be clever but the film features a countless amount of obvious flaws and , to me , the whole just looked like putting together leftover ideas from Crichton's previous ( and much better ) scripts for " Westworld " and " Coma " . The story revolves on media tycoon John Reston , whose newly founded company Digital Matrix developed hypnotism-techniques that increase the impact and awareness of ordinary TV-commercials among the viewers . The beautiful models that star in these commercials therefore have to be 100 % perfect and thus surgically altered to the millimeter . When three models die in mysterious circumstances , the police immediately suspects Dr . Larry Roberts who performed the plastic surgery on all of them . I can't really give a listing of all the flaws and illogical aspects without giving away essential spoilers , but I can say that the story never gives an apparent reason why exactly these fashion models have to die or how Digital Matrix plans to endlessly re-use holograms of dead models without raising suspicion . Oh well , maybe I've been analyzing the credibility of the plot too much whereas I should've paid more attention to the entertainment value . " Looker " undeniably contains some professionally mounted suspense sequences and introduces a couple of very ingenious gimmicks , such as the ' denuralizer'-gun ( I don't know how else to call it ) and the perfection-measurement techniques . Michael Crichton also successfully captures the high-society world of Beverly Hills , where plastic surgeons drive around in expensive sport cars and live in fancy beach houses and where young models only care about their looks and dating wealthy doctors . This is not a gory flick but there is at least one disturbing and beautifully shot death-sequence that involves a model falling down from the balcony of her apartment . Albert Finney and James Coburn are both terrific and even the lesser-experienced female beauties give adequate performances . " Looker " may perhaps be a tad bit underrated but it sure isn't a gem that urgently needs to be ( re - ) discovered .
The glory years of the Italian Poliziottesco ( cop / crime thriller ) were actually already over in 1980 , but we gladly make an exception in case director Enzo G . Castellari and actor Franco Nero team up for another cult effort together . The luscious as always Sybil Danning addresses to Franco's character as Humphrey Bogart at one point , and a more accurate description I couldn't possibly give ! At the start of the film , Larry Staziani is a sleazy San Franciscan private eye occupied with stalking unfaithful housewives and locating rich women's lost dogs , but he's called back to his home country of Italy to help arrest a homosexual super-criminal by the name of Kadrinksy ( or something ) . It quickly becomes obvious that Larry also has a personal score to settle with this obscure individual , as his corruptness caused Larry's career downfall and even an imprisonment . Oh well , at least by traveling voluntarily to Italy to settle the vendetta , Larry re-earns his trademark nickname of " The Cobra " . This primarily is a film to please Franco's many avid fans , and undeniably he's cooler than cool as the Cobra . He continuously bounces a little toy ball against the heads of his opponents , deliberately ruins millions worth of cocaine right in front of the dealers ' eyes , sticks him gum on people's foreheads , slaps women in the face and yet still they throw themselves at his feet not even a mere two minutes later ! Nero's vivid performance makes you forget that the plot is actually just mediocre and nothing you haven't seen a dozen times before . There are some occasional flashes of sheer eccentric brilliance , like the Cobra's Kung-Fu battle with a transvestite for example ! The dialogs are fluently written and Nero receives excellent support from Danning , veteran actor William Berger and Ennio Girolami ( the director's brother ) as a sinister killer . There's a fair amount of action , though sadly nothing really sadistic , and the film comes the obligatory catchy theme song entitled " Don't Give a Damn , I am the Cobra " . Hell yeah you are , Franco !
In the year 1981 the horror market was already pretty congested with an overload of dull and uninspired teen-slashers , but this " Happy Birthday To Me " was one of the first movies that at least attempted to bring a little more depth and content . This shouldn't come as a big surprise , since the man in the director's chair was J . Lee Thompson , acclaimed creator of great horror / thrillers such as " Eye of the Devil " , " Cape Fear " and a nearly endless amount of Charles Bronson action vehicles . With J . Lee Thompson in charge , the tension is built up more atmospherically and the inexperienced young cast members are definitely kept on a short leash . Still , " Happy Birthday To Me " doesn't deserve too much praise as it remains an ordinary bloodbath in which teenagers you don't care about are killed off in the most absurd ways by the most unlikely culprit . Pivot character is the cherubic Virginia who just joined the elite clique of the school after recovering from a near-fatal car accident that killed her mother . Someone clearly isn't happy with Virginia's return since the teenagers go missing one by one . Or maybe Virginia herself is still a little sick in the brain ? ? The first hour is pretty good with an eerie title song , witty dialogs and a couple of very nasty killings ( oh yes , the kebab-stabbing ! ) . After that , however , the story becomes tedious and you start hoping that all the characters die a quick and painful death . The famous twist ending is indeed unpredictable , but at the same time very far-fetched and dumb . Considering " Happy Birthday To Me " is a low-budgeted early 80's slasher film , a little bit of naked flesh would have been welcome , too .
When grave robbers break into Larry Talbot's family crypt and demolish his final resting place , the Wolf Man is inexplicably resurrected and once again doomed to go on a violent killing spree whenever the moon is full . Larry realizes the horror he causes and wants to die , but there's no one who can help him . Personally , I would consider shooting myself through the head using a silver bullet , but that doesn't really deliver a worthwhile and long enough film , so the uncanny gypsy woman of the original advises him to travel across Europe and search for the notorious Dr . Frankenstein who holds in his knowledge the secret of life and death . By the time they arrive in Vasaria , the Baron already got lynched by an angry mob of villagers and only his monstrous creation still dwells around in the ruins of Castle Frankenstein . " Frankenstein Meets the Wolf Man " is a classic Universal horror production starring some of my all-time favorite actors and , even though I can't bring myself to speak overly negative about it , it's a truly silly and redundant accomplishment . Those who are expecting to see a ancient predecessor of , say , " Freddy vs . Jason " will be sorely disappointed as the two legendary monsters don't fight each other ? except maybe briefly near the end - , they just MEET like the title implies . Hence what this film is lacking is a truly evil character ! Whenever the werewolf devours a new victim , he spends the next fifteen minutes whining about how sorry he is ( which kind of spoils the fun of it ) and Frankenstein's monster is even more pathetic as he just stumbles across the little town for no apparent reason . Larry Talbot's dedicated doctor seems to reincarnate as Baron Frankenstein for a moment , worshiping his experiments and being reluctant to destroy his creation , but this sub plot doesn't really go anywhere as it's interfered with an incredibly implausible love story . But the saddest and most painful establishment of them all is to witness how aimlessly Bela Lugosi walks around in this film . . . Boris Karloff wisely decided to stop associating his charisma with that of the monster after " Son of Frankenstein " in 1939 and Lugosi inherited a nearly washed up character that didn't petrify anyone anymore . Bela , once a highly respected and acclaimed horror icon , stood at the beginning of his career's downfall here and his further life story is one of the saddest ones in history . And yet , as stated before , I really can't be TOO harsh on this little film ! Lon Chaney Jr tries really hard to provide his wolf man character with depth and emotion , Roy William Neill's direction is professional & fast-paced and several sequences are beautifully filmed . The werewolf's make-up effects have also seemly improved and the transformation scenes are the only times when the film is still a little creepy . I guess the most essential message this production communicates is that cinematic greed and exploitation are of all times ! People are nowadays complaining about the overload of needless sequels , rip-offs and remakes of inventive horror films , but " Frankenstein Meets the Wolf Man " proves that this certainly isn't a new trend .
Don't really know why everybody hates this movie and calls it so poor compared to the almighty 1988 original . Is it because this sequel is more coherent and easier to understand , maybe ? People tend to refer to a movie as a ' masterpiece ' much quicker when they don't understand one iota of it , of course . As far as I'm concerned , " Tetsuo II " is more or less as powerful ( or as weak , if you wish ) as the original , naturally with some aspects that are worse but also some aspects that are better ! The story is pretty much a reworking of the first , only it's more accessible and ? on a personal matter ? it gave me a lot less headaches ( which I liked ! ) . Once again , the story handles about a man who strangely and disturbingly fuses into a piece of metal equipment , yet now you know more about his background so you can sympathize with him at least a little . His painful transformation is mainly caused by rage ( his son was kidnapped ) and ' medical ' experiments performed by a group of skinheads . " Tetsuo II " contains just as much weirdness and psychedelic imagery as the original , but I admit it all doesn't look so nightmarish here . Partly because it's in color and partly because the characters are given depth , this sequel feels less like a genuine cult gem .
" Demonia " is one of the master horror director Lucio Fulci's final achievements and , though not exactly one of his finest ones , it remains a truly interesting film for his many avid fans to track down and enjoy . The first half hour is tame and slow and , generally speaking , the entire film isn't nearly as gory as Fulci's previous highlights ( though there's one jaw-dropping scene that compensates for nearly everything ) , but the script is ambitiously compelling and the atmospheric Sicilian settings are quite wonderful . Fulci even managed to create suspense at some points here and successfully sustains an adequately mysterious ambiance . The depiction of the eerie nun's face on the cover looks appealing , but " Demonia " has really nothing in common with the so-called " Nunsploitation " movies that also primarily came out of Italy . The nuns in this film were barbarically crucified by angry villagers in the catacombs of their Sicilian monastery in the late 15th Century . More than 500 years later , an archaeological expedition intends to investigate the ruins , only the local population brutally objects and act as if they're all commonly sharing a morbid secret . Particularly the young archeology student Liza Harris becomes increasingly obsessed with the mysterious convent's past , as visions and nightmares lure her straight to the exact place where the nuns were executed . The cloister's background is sinister , to say the least , and especially the flashback sequence is unsettling . Death occurs in the film frequently and with pleasingly nasty effects , including implements , beheading and spontaneously attacking meat hooks . And , of course , since it's undeniably Lucio's pet peeve , you may also anticipate the repulsive removal of someone's eyeball . But the very best piece of gore , accomplished with stunningly realistic effects , shows a guy getting split in half ? human wishbone style ? clean down the middle . This scene alone is worthy of a top-recommendation ! Unfortunately several sequences are extremely overlong and tedious , as if our good friend the directors thought it was necessary to endlessly stretch the plot to reach the running time of the film . Shame actually , because in case of a little less padding and pointlessness , " Demonia " could have been a modest classic listed directly underneath his best works " The Beyond " , " City of the Living Dead " , " House by the Cemetery " , " Cat in the Brain " and " Zombi 2 " . Fulci granted himself a modest but entertaining role as the police inspector investing the series of grisly murders . To those who don't know him , he's the elderly man with enormous glasses big enough to cover half of his face .
The basic plot-idea of this modest , made-for-TV horror comedy is fairly ingenious and involves a 4000-year-old vampire who's tired of his immortal life as a bloodsucker and wishes to eternally lay his soul to rest . Pretending to hold auditions for a new horror movie , he entices four young actors to his mansion but then challenges them to destroy him before the break of down . If they fail , he will kill them instead and then they too are doomed to live the boring life of vampires . Writer / director Lamberto Bava is infamous for his gross horror productions ( " Demons " , " A Blade in the Dark " ) but this merely is a harmless and light-headed quickie , meant for those who really want to see every Italian horror film ever made . There's almost no bloodshed or tension in the script and vampires look comical instead of scary . Still , I enjoyed watching " Dinner with a Vampire " because there's not one dull moment and it was great seeing George Hilton in a leading horror role again . Fans of Italian gialli-thrillers will definitely remember his face from classic titles such as " The Case of the Bloody Iris " , " The Strange Vice of Mrs . Wardh " and " My Dear Killer " . The sequences in the mansion's crypt and cellars are mildly atmospheric and the music is quite cheerful . Don't watch this film in case you're allergic to awful dubbing , though ? The English voices often are so dull they give you headaches .
I'm not saying this film is a complete failure but it's terribly average and uninteresting . The Farrelly brothers made their name in the field by writing and directing brainless comedy without any form of moral or message . . . and that's what made them so unique in the 90's , which overall was a decade with very few good comedies ! Dumb and Dumberer , Kingpin , There's something about Mary . . . all these are examples of enjoyable flicks and you don't have to worry about picking up any important life-lessons . Shallow Hal tries to achieve the exact opposite . Instead of attacking the audience with a neverending series of hilarious situations and jokes , the brothers shove the fact that inner-beauty is so much more important down your throat . A morality lesson that is hard to take . . . especially coming from these guys . Jack Black is one of the greatest comedian of his generation but he more or less looks lost in this production . There are a couple of funny sequences in Shallow Hal , but there never is ONE moment your stomach hurts from laughing and besides , all the good jokes are in the trailer like usual . So , I recommend watching the trailer and you get the big picture . It's better to re-watch Kingpin ( my favorite Farrelly picture ) or There's something about Mary and spend money on Shallow Hal .
Only a small year after " Dream Warriors " got released episode 4 pops up . A small difference in time but a major difference to the image of the series . Freddy is at the top of his popularity in this movie and that's well stressed . The audience wanted to see much more of Freddy and that's what they've got . Freddy looks more like a stand-up comedian than as a horrible killer . He still does the killings of course ( otherwise you don't have a movie , right ) but he can't do it anymore without shooting funny one-liners towards the audience . " How's this for a wet dream , Joey ? " This way , his loses much of his scary image but that doesn't mean it's a bad movie , of course . In fact , it's still my third favorite episode in the series . The original and Dream Warriors are n°1 and 2 and I didn't like New Nightmare at all ( shoot me if you want ) The old formula is respected and a few very original twists are added . Joey , Kincaid and Kirsten ( a transformation from Patricia Arquette into Tuesday Weld ) are the only survivors from the original Elm Street parents who burnt Freddy . Freddy finishes them but of course his urge to kill isn't stopped by that . . . what do you expect , he's a maniac isn't he ? So he needs new victims . Alice is the perfect person to provide this for him . She has the strange gift to bring other people into her dream and that's where they are accessible to Freddy . Lucky for him , Alice entered the dream which killed Kirsten so through Alice he can still his never-ending hunger to kill . . . Patricia Arquette ain't a member of the cast anymore but as the leading actress she gets well replaced by Lisa Wilcox . All the other characters aren't very much worth to be mentioned and they all die , so . . . After Craven himself , Jack Sholder and Chuck Russel , Renny Harlin took a seat in the directors ' chair . Harlin is a rather good director who also made " Prison " . A very scary horror film which I recommend as well . After NOES 4 , he made much bigger budget films like Die Hard 2 , Cliffhangerand Deep Blue Sea . The Dream Master ( the title refers to Alice herself ) is the last " good " nightmare on Elm Street . Episode 5 was just plain stupid and looked more like a bad comic book . Freddy's Dead - The final Nightmare has his moments but overall it sucks and don't get me started about New Nightmare . Killings are original with some great make-up effects , the soundtrack is great , the acting and directing are decent , the script is funny and keeps you focused ( the déjà-vu scene is a great example of this ) and Freddy is uglier than ever . Now , let's all start singing : one-two Freddy is coming for you . . . .
Not a very original horror film , of course , but fairly entertaining and with a good tempo , this ' They Nest ' easily belongs to the better efforts in the recent revival of the horror sub-genre of creature features . It is stuffed with clichés and stereotypes but try not to let this ruin the fun too much . All the ingredients that guarantee 90 minutes of unpretentious B-movie amusement are there : The over-stressed surgeon Dr . Cahill goes to a remote Maine island to find some peace and to decorate the old house he bought there . The hillbillies-inhabitants immediately hate him ( except for the local beauty , naturally . . . ) and , on top of all , a lethal cockroach-plague infests the island . These nasty little bugs turn out carnivores and use humans as hosts for their offspring ! The cause and origin of the killer-roaches isn't really explained ( no endless biological speeches or mutant-conspiracies this time ) and the film obviously lacks a solid screenplay . On the other hand it features a fair amount of suspense and eeriness without going over the top with gore effects . I'm sure that people with a phobia for small , crawling insects will have trouble watching several atmospherically shot scenes . . . . And that the best compliment you can get when delivering a horror film ! The writers were even clever enough to insert some humor to put the whole killer-bug situation a bit into perspective . The abrupt ending is so silly it almost becomes brilliant ! Ellory Elkayem once again turns out an above-average genre director . His atmospheric short film " Larger than Life " was very promising and with this film he proves being capable of directing bigger projects . Immediately after this , he moved on to the big-budget work with " Eight Legged Freaks " . Melrose Place pretty-boy Thomas Calabro is rather decent in the lead role but the show is obviously stolen by Dean Stockwell and - especially - John Savage , who stars as local nutball n # 1 . " They Nest " is a horror film worth watching and I'd even say it deserves a rating slightly higher than the one given on this site . If you really think it stinks , you should compare it with similar films made over the last few years . Compared to some of the junk found in video stores , this is quite a decent flick . If you're intrigued by the ugly creepiness of cockroaches , I also recommend checking out the 80's delight " The Nest " .
Richard Attenborough , known for his classy ( but especially long and tedious ) epical films , directs a tense thriller with horror undertones ? ? Sounds like a Disney film brought to you by Quentin Tarantino ! But surprisingly enough , Attenborough knows damn well how to bring the unsettling and eerie tale of a ventriloquist who slowly loses his sense of reality and starts to live through his dummy . Too bad he can't resist stressing the drama and sentiment even more . For every suspenseful sequence in ' Magic ' , there's a dull and pseudo-psychological anti-climax following . The opening sequences of ' Magic ' are terrific ! Through flashback and a conversation with his mentor , we see how Corky ( Anthony Hopkins ) struggles and fights to make it as a magician / stage performer . The transfer to his all-of-a-sudden successful career as a ventriloquist comes rather abrupt and it's hard to believe . Yet , you don't bother about this too much as the dialogues are good and Hopkins ' performance is outstanding . He can't handle the pressure and flees to the countryside where he meets his long-lost high school dreamgirl . Meanwhile , he becomes more and more obsessed by his voice tube-dummy Fats . The idea of evil ventriloquist dummies might not be new ( The Great Gabbo , Dead of Night ) but ' Magic ' is neatly elaborated and very well-acted . Unfortunately , it hurt seeing Ann-Margret so underused ! She has a relatively small part and all Hopkins ever talks to are her bosom ! Nicest line in the whole movie : ' Your breasts belong in the Louvre , which is a museum in France and I'd love to visit it with you ! ' That's great ! I have to keep that in mind and use it as a pick-up line someday !
Okay , here's another strong contender for winning the award of sleaziest and absolute most insane B-movie of the 1970's ! The human race , and particularly the male species , is threatened with extinction because of ? ordinary women turned into life-sized bee monsters ! How it is possible for anyone to think of such a plot , I do not know , but this movie honestly handles about a continuously expanding community of women that completely cover the newest members in honey until the pupils of their eyes turn pitch-black and then , subsequently , they celebrate by caressing their own breasts for five whole minutes ! God bless 70's cinema ? In the small Californian town of Peckham , which is famous for being the hometown of the pharmaceutical Brandt factory , the lifeless bodies of several men are discovered . The cause of death in all cases appears to be sexual exhaustion and , since some of their own eminent scientists were involved , the Brandt Company sends over government inspector Neil Agar over to investigate . The deaths started since the gorgeous Dr . Susan Harris , who's always wearing thick sunglasses and gets invited for lunch by all her male colleagues , launched a bizarre new series of experiments involving radiation . The plot of " Invasion of the Bee Girls " is totally ridiculous and cheesy nonsense , yet the film is very entertaining and spawns an irresistible sense of humor . Multiple sequences are downright hilarious , for example , when during a town's meeting , some doctor suggests a period of total sexual abstention , and the build-up towards each new male victim is a portrayal of pure and gold girl power ! Nearly every guy in this town is a horny weakling , ready to cheat on his wife at all times . The ladies , on the other hand , are elegant and charismatic creatures with a lot more brain capacity than the males ? even though they fondle their own breasts for no reason . Needless to say " Invasion of the Bee Girls " features tons of gratuitous nudity and lurid situations that don't make the slightest bit of sense . There's an overlong attempted-rape scene that really adds nothing to the plot , while the grand finale seems rushed and amateurish . With the exception of Anitra Ford as the queen bee , the women aren't really attractive , but they unscrupulously take all their clothes off in front of the camera . Respect , ladies ! Another interesting trivia-detail : " Invasion of the Bee Girls " was the writing debut of Nicholas Meyer , who went on to script several acclaimed " Star Trek " movies .
" The Kiss " is actually just a rudimentary & simplistic witchcraft story about supernatural powers getting passed through the female members of the same bloodline , but director Densham neatly polishes up the concept with impressively explicit make-up effects ( courtesy of Chris Walas ' company ) , adequate supportive character drawings and atmospheric building up towards the death scenes . The story opens in the early 60's in the Belgian Congo , where two sisters become separated at the train station . The youngest one , Felice , is seriously ill but her aunt miraculously cures her by passing an alien-like creature into her body through a kiss . 25 years later the other sister tragically dies in a car accident , leaving behind a husband and a stunningly beautiful adolescent daughter named Amy . Aunt Felice shows up again ( in the ravishingly matured version of Joanna Pacula ) and quickly works her way into the family by seducing her widowed brother-in-law . Auntie Felice is clearly just interested in Amy's body as the host for the inheritable creature , and she won't hesitate to use violent voodoo tricks against anyone that stands between her and the young girl . " The Kiss " is one modest class above the majority of 80's witchcraft-movies , because it features a little more directorial flair and style . There's a continuously pleasing level of suspense and film is suitably gruesome , including images of people burning alive , losing body parts underneath trucks and getting strangled on escalators . Felice has an OTT grotesque wild cat assisting her to kill people and there's a bizarre ( but macabre ) montage showing Amy menstruating in class whilst her father makes love to the sinister aunt . That was quite an awkward moment , and I'm not entirely sure about the symbolic significance / importance of that sequence . In fact , there's quite a lot of sexual innuendo that appears to be a bit lost in the wholesome of the story . Anyway , the story grows increasingly sillier near the end , resulting in a highly implausible and chuckles-inducing finale . Meredith Salenger was truly adorable girl in the late 80's ( and still a gorgeous woman today ) and I severely regret the fact her career didn't skyrocketed after this film . Recommended to watch at least once , particularly if you appreciate feminine beauty and graphic gore .
I've seen the Exorcist quite a few times by now ( including the director's cut or the so-called " version you've never seen " ) but not once did I feel like I was watching a true masterpiece . It's a solid film with intriguing characters and groundbreaking premise but it depends too much on only a few powerful and mesmerizing sequences instead of a being a coherent wholesome . The truly eerie images of a possessed 12-year-old girl cursing and mutilating herself are very shocking but the all the rest sadly isn't much more than a dramatic family portrait and a Catholic essay on evil . Don't get me wrong ? . I also regard this as an essential movie and one of the few films that co-formed the horror genre but I definitely think it's a slightly overrated . The story develops rather slowly and it lacks involvement . Once the " Devil " makes his entry , Friedkin and the cast take you for a wild ride of shocks , ahead-of-its-time brutality and unseen atmosphere but it finishes as abrupt as it started . Luckily , there's the class-A cast , of which all members bring extra depth to their characters . Jason Miller and Max Von Sydow are impressive but yet my vote for best actor here goes to Lee J . Cob who adds some welcome humor to the devastating substance . The young Linda Blair made herself immortal and she still is everybody's favorite head-tolling girl . The rude voice of Mercedes Cambridge ( who dubbed the " Pazuzu " - lines ) only gives more impact to the image of evil . Anyway , no matter how sublime the soundtrack is ? no matter how strong the reputation is by now ? The Exorcist certainly is not the scariest movie ever . As far as I'm concerned , it isn't even the best tale handling about " religious evil " ( check out " The Omen " for that ) . Let's just say it is fundamental viewing in case the horror genre fascinates you . A few words about the re-edited anniversary release : aside from a very professionally made digital soundtrack , there isn't much to discover extra . There's the notorious sequence in which Regan ( Linda Blair ) rushes down the stairs spider-style but those 5 seconds are hardly worth purchasing the special edition . Other than this sequence , the re-release stresses the Catholic treatise even more ( with lots of pointless talking ) which actually makes the film dull and uninteresting at times . And it's really hurts to use those words while describing a classic title .
Not being much of a fan of the 2003 remake , I wasn't exactly standing in line to see this prequel to " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " , but what's a horror fan to do when he's wandering around in a videostore and there's nothing else to rent ? But actually I can't complain too much , as this new flick easily surpasses the quality level of the 2003 remake and it honestly is the second best effort in the entire TCM saga , obviously miles behind the one and only original but better than Tobe Hooper's own cheesy 80's sequel and the bizarre spin-off " Leatherface " . I'm not even mentioning the ludicrous " Return of the Texas Chainsaw Massacre " . For the very first time , a director actually comes close to capturing the gritty and nihilistic atmosphere of the 70's original ! Jonathan Liebesman aims for a relentless low budget ambiance and literally sends the teenage protagonists to hell and back in their encounters with the deranged Texas Hewitt family . Usually in these nowadays popular horror flicks , you can easily point out which teens will die first and which ones will make it out alive , but the lead players in this film are all equally disposable and you really can't tell who , if anyone , will survive ( and what will be left of them ) . If anyone had asked real horror fans ? and particularly the die-hard admirers of Hooper's original landmark ? in advance whether or not it would be a good idea to revolve a prequel on the background of the monstrous family , they surely all would have replied : " No Way ! " . The mystery and void surrounding Leatherface & C° is perhaps the most menacing aspect about this whole franchise . We just know they're a family of butchers and that we certainly don't want to make their acquaintance , out there on the isolated rural roads of Texas . Yet , this whole film and particularly the opening sequences extendedly illustrate Leatherface's early years as well as his " foster " parents ' descent into madness . It's all a bit redundant and overly grotesque , but I feel they could have done much worse . Only after this odd prologue , the actual plot starts with two young couples leaving on their last road trip together , before the boys are reluctantly ( at least , one of them ) sent to Vietnam to fulfill their tour of duty . Following a banal cow-crash , crazed and self-acclaimed Sheriff Hoyt picks them up for a long afternoon of torture games , mental & physical exhaustion and being practice material for deformed Tommy's chainsawing skills . Not much happens during the film's first half , apart from some really dark and eerie images of the Hewitt family estate , but the second half is extremely brutal and full of nasty graphic gore . The chainsaw works overtime and there's plenty of other perverted violence to enjoy , like bondage and sadistic whippings . Really not a film for people with a weak stomach or faint heart , this grisly horror movie is about on par with " Hostel " , " Saw III " and " House of 1000 Corpses " . Another very pleasant surprise for avid fans of grind house 70's horror is that the script features some unexplained but genuinely macabre sub plots ! For example , there's the obese tea lady ( really creepy ! ) and the mutilation of grampa Monty by his own people . Some overlong parts are a bit tedious , however , and there's far too much conversation and monologue in this film . Especially Sheriff Hoyt loses quite a lot of his frightening charisma because he never shuts up . Luckily enough young Leatherface doesn't speak at all . The acting performances are surprisingly decent , with all four the teenage leads being convincing madman bait . And what about poor R . Lee Ermey ? Twenty years after his legendary role in " Full Metal Jacket " , he in a way STILL has to play the mad-shouting army drill instructor . During an interesting sequence in the middle of the film , evil Ermey forces one of his victims to prove himself as a worthy soldier and do 20 push-ups . Talk about typecasting . " TCM : The Beginning " is a competently made and reasonable impressive new horror film with good settings and atmospheric music . It will probably never become a classic like its 70's inspiration , but it makes fun viewing for horror freaks .
" Sorority House Massacre " is a teen-slasher as eighties as they come ! Academy girls with humongous hairdos and bad dress codes , accompanied by dorky-looking boys trying to get into their panties ! All brought together in a sorority house during a lonely Fourth of July weekend while an escaped lunatic is trying to break in to settle an old score . It nearly is the same storyline than a thousand other horror films but this particular movie is even shameless enough to borrow elements from the two most eminent slashers in cinema . The killer is hunting down his youngest sister who was the sole survivor of his initial rampage . Mute and seemly emotionless he goes straight to her ? Did I hear someone saying Michael Myers ? ? If that isn't enough , our heroine also suffers from terrifying nightmares which makes her somewhat look like a lost cast-member of " Nightmare on Elm Street " . Okay , I can't be too harsh on fun thingies like this and it's generally known that 80's horror rarely is top notch cinema . Still , I'm disappointed that the makers of this didn't pay a little more attention to the actual murders . This kind of films can only distinguish themselves from the rest by showing creative bloodshed and flamboyant butchering , but Sorority House Massacre only features tame and uninspired killings . We need more blood ! Despite the promising sounding title , you shouldn't count too much on gratuitous nudity , neither , as the rancidness is limited to one unnecessary dress up party ( by the way , why are all the popular and sexy coeds named Cindy ? ) Come to think of it ? there actually isn't one good reason why you should see this film . Except maybe that I have to admit it has a good tempo and reasonably good acting by the lead girl . Even though every situation was déjà vu and every plot twist was repetitive , Sorority House Massacre certainly isn't the worst film in its kind .
Quite a strange but intriguing find , this obscure and virtually unknown little 80's hospital thriller / horror movie . The plot doesn't always make perfect sense and the screenplay contains more holes than the average pair of fishnet-stockings , but the film definitely benefices from an oddly menacing atmosphere and a variety of truly ingenious ideas . There even is an even balance between genuine suspense moments and downright engrossing scenes of massacre , which is also quite praiseworthy to say the least . " Terminal Choice " is just a very peculiarly scripted film , and rather frequently you'll find yourself wondering how the hell the writers came up with some of the twists and story elements . The hospital setting is clearly a futuristic one , since all doors open automatically and routine interventions happen through medical devices that are built in the ceiling , but everything else outside the clinic's walls looks very much 80's and incredibly dated by today's standards . It's never mentioned in what year the story allegedly takes place and how modern medicine progressed specifically . We're just supposed to accept that hi-tech and pre-programmed computers now operate on people and all the supervising doctor has left to do is type in the correct dose of medication . This is probably why certain doctors develop alcoholism ? yet continue to treat patients even though the entire hospital staff is aware ? and others even set up a detailed and highly profitable gambling business in the basement , where fellow bored colleagues can put in money on the percentage of chance for full recovery of patients , the dose of drugs they require daily , etc . But there's another highly unethical and grim crime going on in the hospital , since patients with ordinary bladder infections suddenly die from excessive hemorrhages , and someone tries to blame it all on Dr . Frank Holt . See , the automated operations and particularly the undercover hospital gambling business are extremely ingenious and original key aspects in " Terminal Choice " , but they should have been elaborated a little more . The film's emphasis wrongly lies on the love / hate relationship between Dr . Holt , who hates computers , and his ex-fiancée Anna Lang , who actually designed the programs for all the fully-functional computers in the hospital . The first death sequence is effectively unsettling and quite shocking , since you witness a defenseless young girl literally bleed to death . The remaining death scenes ? one involving the sexy and still undiscovered Ellen Barkin ? are mainly intense and disturbing instead of gross . I concur with my fellow reviewers in stating that " Terminal Choice " counts as a slasher ; albeit a slightly atypical one . Some of the trademarks definitely ( red herrings , characters behaving suspicious for no apparent reason , beautiful women stalked in the shower , flamboyant end-twist ) but it's also one league above the majority of slasher outings of the 80's .
The synopsis on the back of the ancient VHS cover box describes the plot of " Bloodrage " as reminiscent to " Taxi Driver " and " Death Wish " and the director's styles and methods for creating tension as " Hitchcockian " . You can unquestionably guess without even seeing the movie for yourself that these generous comparisons are just slightly exaggerated , but it's nevertheless a decent and overlooked psycho-shocker that comes recommended to the selected group of avid fans of this type of obscure and grim exploitation cinema . Director Joseph Zito's predecessor to the much more known and infamous " The Prowler " is clearly inspired by the success of " Taxi Driver " , since it's more or less also a portrait of the sleazy and pauperized streets of New York's red light district , but it definitely benefices most from it's atypical serial killer protagonist . Unlike Travis Bickle , the psychopath here ? Ritchie ? is a seemingly shy and introvert young lad ; barely out of his teenager years and presumably from a decent social background . Ritchie visits prostitutes but ends up barbarically killing them because they aren't like he expects them to be ? whatever that may be . Even when he meets a " normal " girl , she turns out to be an infidel nymphomaniac and Ritchie gradually sinks deeper into misogynist rage and madness . Meanwhile , the secret lover of one of Ritchie's prostitute victims ? a ruthless copper ? follows the trace to New York and hunts him down like an animal . Particularly the opening fifteen minutes ? covering Ritchie's first murder prior to his escape to the big city ? are immensely powerful and shocking . You really don't see this fragile kid capable of murdering but he is and , moreover , remains stoically focused throughout the entire process . Ritchie's odyssey in the rancid streets of New York is far less exciting , mainly because we're on more familiar territory here , but the murder sequences nonetheless remain harsh and ultimately brutal to look at . With is lurid atmosphere , copious amounts of gratuitous nudity , grainy and cheap looking photography and uncompromising violence against women , " Bloodrage " perfectly fits in the late 70's / early 80's trend of misogynist slasher pictures , like " Don't Go in the House " , " Maniac " , " Hitch Hike to Hell " and " Don't Answer the Phone " . And if you really wonder where the connection lies with " Death Wish " , you just wait until the downright fan-tas-tic end scene !
Who else than the terrific people working over at Mondo Macabro DVD could have picked up this deranged flick from oblivion and unleash it upon madness-loving cinema fanatics all over the globe ? " The Queen of Black Magic " is an Indonesian film ( a country of which most people don't even know they produce movies ) that is bad from every possible viewpoint , but simultaneously one of the most hilariously entertaining and excessively demented experiences one could ever have . The plot is thinner than an anorexic top model and completely devoid of coherence , dialogs as well as acting performances and dubbing jobs are atrocious and there isn't the slightest trace of tension building or character development . But all these ' minor defaults ' are more than widely compensated by the gigantic amount of over-the-top splatter effects , demented imagery and simply the sheer craziness of it all ! Particularly late at night , with a group of friends and loads of cold beer in the fridge , watching " The Queen of Black Magic " is guaranteed hilarity ! The film tells the heartbreaking story of Murni , a beautiful young girl who reluctantly offers her virginity to the man she loves , only to get dumped by the guy in favor for the village headman's daughter . If that isn't painful enough yet , poor Murni subsequently gets falsely accused of placing the village under a black magic spell and thrown of a cliff . She survives ( which is practically impossible if you see the fall ) and lands straight in the arms of an actual black magic artist who fanatically encourages her to seek vengeance and offers to be her teacher . Murni completes her revenge with the beheading of her treacherous ex-lover , but her mentor insists to carry on murdering the entire village . Meanwhile , a handsome and allegedly holy man arrived in town and suddenly Murni doesn't feel all that furious anymore . " The Queen of Black Magic " is recommended to laugh at the stupidity in its dialogs ( character endlessly repeating the same thing without even rephrasing their words ) and especially to gasp at the extreme gore . We've got maggot-infested cadavers , veins bursting with blood , exploding heads and ? top of the bill ? a decapitated head flying around town . If these represent the Indonesian gore standards , then I can't wait to get my dirty little hands on that other Mondo Macabro release named " Mystics in Bali " . Somewhat strange , however , is that this film doesn't feature any nudity and only a minimum of sleaze . I know I wouldn't have minded some nude scenes of lead actress Suzzanna , even in spite of her obviously enormous bottom . Speaking of Suzzanna , through this website I found out she passed away recently , which is a damn shame and surely a great loss for Indonesian cinema .
I instantly got hooked on this film when I first saw it . It came on late-night TV and I watched it even though I wasn't really allowed . The combination of seeing a forbidden film and being impressed by everything that is bloody , I really liked it . Now , years and literally tons of movies later , I notice that it is obviously flawed and unoriginal but yet I still think it's an enjoyable thriller that can provide you with a few scares . The film opens with an eerie black and white sequence in which a young boy witnesses the death of his older brother while the song ' lollipop ' is playing on the radio . Apparently due to this trauma , he grew out to become a mad scientist with Frankensteinian ideas and methods , using terminal hospital patients for his research . He takes revenge on the hospital staff that suspended him . The most efficient aspects about this film are unquestionably the ominous set pieces and locations . The horror highlights include a sequence in which a helpless patient gets a huge needle injected in her nose , or when our insane doctor operates on himself . First time actor Sean Haberle is decent as the ' villain ' , by the way . He's a spooky looking dude with vicious eyes and a violent charisma . The two leads ? James Remar and Isabel Glasser ? are okay as well but it's the supportive cast that is REALLY interesting . Peter Boyle ( Young Frankenstein , Hardcore ) , Charles Dance ( Alien³ , Space Truckers ) and especially Malcolm McDowell all make great appearances . Unfortunately , McDowell's icky character dies too soon and the film dies a little with him . Exquisite Tenderness is nowhere near original , the production takes itself way too serious and the last 5 minutes shouldn't have made the final cut . Yet , it's still a delightful film to kill some time with and the body count is enormous .
Completely UNlike expected , I didn't like this creatively titled movie as much as I thought I would . " The Night Evelyn Came out of the Gave " features all the basic ingredients that make Italian horror fanatics ' mouths water , and it is in fact pretty good , yet it doesn't leave you with that fantastic feeling of total amazement like so many other gialli / Gothic films do . What went wrong mainly ? Well , one too many tedious sequences , for starters , but primarily it's the fact that justice apparently must NOT be done ! There's more than one murderer in this story and they honestly don't all get the punishment they deserve . The rest of the film is varying from good to great ! Director Emilio Miraglia offers a largely compelling giallo-plot , but with the atmosphere & set pieces of a typical Gothic horror production ! This means we're following a convoluted and demented crime conspiracy but set in an ancient ominous castle and featuring eerie family vaults , whips and gigantic cobwebs . Two years later , in 1973 , the great Antonio Margheriti also proved with " Seven Deaths in a Cat's Eye " that these two fabulous horror sub genre's can be blend perfectly . And he did it even slightly better , as that particular film didn't suffer from so many holes in the plot . The wealthy Lord Cunningham has the strange habit of luring red-headed beauties to his castle , suffering from a vision of another redhead running naked through a meadow , and subsequently killing the gals barbarically with a whip . This ritual describes his therapy for getting over his wife's death , since she passed away shortly after him ( falsy ? ) accusing her of adultery . When the Lord finally takes everyone's advise and re-marries with a stunning beauty , all kinds of mysterious events occur , indicating that the first wife returned from the dead with a vengeance . Hence the not-so-subtle title ! The story is always interesting but the pacing is a little slow and not one character is likable . However , that makes the murders all the more enjoyable ! They're not particularly gory , but certainly ingenious ! The killing of the wheel-chaired lady is notably brutal ! The music and quantity of nudity & euro-sleaze are also tip top , so there are more than enough elements left to reward this film with a positive rating .
Released and promoted in some countries as " Cannibal Holocaust 2 : The Beginning " , this really isn't a sequel ( or prequel ) to Ruggero Deodato's legendary exploitation-classic , but more like a shameless and unscrupulous imitation with absolutely no new ideas or innovating concepts to add to the original . The screenplay is almost an exact copy of CH , with a group of power-horny TV people supposedly descending into the Amazon jungle to shoot a documentary about the lives of the last remaining genuine cannibal tribes . The crew , led by the reputedly unrelenting anchorwoman Grace Forsythe , very well knows they'll only get high viewer ratings when they serve their audiences copious amounts of action , bloodshed and repulsive images , and realize their show will be canceled and their careers will be finished if the jungle adventure doesn't turn out to be a success . So when the natives behave a little too tame and peaceful , Grace & C° see it as their own normal duty to burn down villages , kill defenseless villagers , poach innocent animals and rape the local virgins themselves , all for for the sake of sensational TV-making . Also , in good old-fashioned Cannibal Holocaust style , there's one remotely human TV-executive among the bunch who condemns the sick footage and even turns straight to the camera to raise the classic debate " I wonder who the real cannibals are ? " . Needless to say the beastly film crew eventually gets what they deserve , when they encounter the feared community of the Invisibles ; a very primitive and downright savage tribe of which the members clearly aren't interested in a TV-career . It's rather difficult to judge Bruno Mattei's " Cannibal World " . It's a thoroughly unoriginal , repetitive film and it nearly doesn't feature the same raw & shocking atmosphere of its Italian ancestors of the early 80's . Being entirely shot with modern video techniques , " Cannibal World " looks too clean and obviously fake whereas the old cannibal films literally dropped you in the middle of the jungle along with the characters . On the other hand , I can't help feeling more or less obliged to appreciate this film , just because it attempts to bring back the relentless heyday of Italian exploitation cinema ! After all , you got to have some respect for writer / director Bruno Mattei ! The man has passed the age of 70 and yet he's the last of the old guard of Italian horror directors who still has the courage to travel towards the Philipinian jungles and shoot a film with inexperienced actors and limited financial means . That alone deserves the respect of every person who ever showed interest in Italian horror cinema . Moreover , " Cannibal World " is literally stuffed with nasty gimmicks , gory massacres and super-sleazy footage . Fans of explicit disembowelment certainly won't be disappointed , as we extendedly get to see the intestines of nearly every character who walks through the screen . The unknown Helena Wagner is rather terrific as the grade-A bitch Grace and the unearthly beautiful Cindy Jelic Matic provides the slower parts of the film with essential nudity . All together , I personally think us vintage exploitation-fans owe Bruno Mattei a big and sincere " Thank You " .
I don't like to comment on giant blockbusters because their humongous fan base usually doesn't appreciate criticism of any kind . Oh well , my rant here contains more ' remarks ' than actual criticism , so I'm going to spill my guts anyway . Although a very good film ( and definitely a vast improvement over those dreadful Joel Schumacher films ? ) there's something essential missing in Christopher Nolan's reprising of the Batman-franchise : comic-book darkness ! Whether intended or not , " Batman Begins " doesn't seem to take place in an imaginary world where good battles evil but in a real-life drama setting where every individual has to fight for survival ? Basically not a bad idea at all , but it's not exactly the ideal setting to have a man flying around , wearing a bat-suit . Bruce Wayne ought to be a superhero but instead he's an emotionally and physically vulnerable man with phobias and no sense of morbid humor . Also , the gimmicks and designs are a lot less exhilarating than they should be . For example : the Bat-mobile here is nothing but a car-tuned Hum-V and Gotham City looks an awful lot like an ( even more ) pauperized version of New York . Yes , the script is very solid and the cast is terrific ? but by no means this " new " Batman can live up to the unequaled and blackly ingenious Tim Burton movies that launched the hype about 15 years ago . The film's opening ( featuring a young Bruce Wayne on a meditation tour in Tibet ) is long and complex but very interesting and a rewarding intro to the new Batman myth . When the story is then transferred to Gotham city , the movie becomes more action-packed and the class-A cast receives the opportunity to show off their talents . I particularly liked Gary Oldman in the ( for him ) awkward role of honest cop , Tom Wilkinson as the mighty underworld gangster and Rutger Hauer as the greedy and corrupt business manager . I personally found Michael Caine to be unfunny and sophomoric in his role of Alfred the butler and it was sad to see the role of Scarecrow played by a bizarre young nerd .
Like most people of my generation , I only know Dirk Benedict as the Faceman in the cool 80's series " The A-Team " , where he used his womanizing skills and good looks ( hence the alias ) to seduce a new gal in every episode . It's quite interesting to see a much younger Benedict star here as an insecure and heavily bullied student who ends up being the involuntary guinea pig of a cuckoo old scientist with an obsession to turn people into snakes . Why ? Because Dr . Stoner ? splendid performance by Strother Martin ? strongly believes that snakes are the only creatures capable of surviving the inevitable upcoming ecological holocaust , so basically he's doing mankind a favor by transforming us all into snakes ! Dr . Stoner lures David to his secluded mansion where he injects gallons of serum into his veins . He tricks David into believing the injections will make him immune to all types of snake bites , but in reality he gradually mutates David into a King Cobra . Problems arise when the crazy doctor's unwary daughter Kristina falls in love with David and when the nearby police force comes to question him about his previous assistant who went missing . " Sssssss " ? in fact you have to watch it if only for the unique title alone ? is definitely a worthwhile and recommended gem for horror fans , although it's far from great . The plot is indescribably moronic , but simultaneously it's also an admirable throwback to the good old " Mad Scientist " horror movies from the 1940's and 1950's . The mad-scientist plot is actually the best part of the film , since you really witness Dr . Stoner transform from a patient and amiable elderly doctor into an obsessive and fanatic maniac who'll stop at nothing ? not even murder ? to complete his mission . Too bad the script also features too many dull moments and elements that are completely inappropriate for this type of story , like biblical references and extended hallucination sequences . The ending is also a bit of a letdown as it feels rushed , abrupt and boosts totally gratuitous footage of animal cruelty . The make-up effects are mostly superb ? that circus snake man is genuinely creepy ? and the cheesy'n'cheap 70's atmosphere is simply irresistible . Sssssssee thissssss film !
With Mario Bava being my favorite filmmaker of ALL time , I couldn't afford myself to miss out on " Caltiki " as this film ? along with the equally impressive " I , Vampire " - marks his debut as a director and then still the poor man didn't receive the proper credit he deserved for it . Riccardo Freda , the official director of the two films , is also a fairly prominent and admirable name in the Italian horror / cult industry , but both films simply have Bava's style and trademarks written all over them . His already gained craftsmanship as a cinematographer and his visionary look on directing built up during the fifties undoubtedly are the main reasons why Bava became one of the greatest of all time ; starting from the early 60's already ( with the tremendously brilliant " Black Sunday " ) and onwards . " Caltiki " clearly is a blatant rip-off of other and hugely successful " unidentified monstrous substance attacking people " Sci-Fi movies from throughout the 50's decade , like " The Quatermass Experiment " and most obviously " The Blob " . But there were " The Blob " is an overall disappointingly dull and politically correct thriller , this Italian dish of deliciousness is a downright outrageous and extremely fast-paced shocker . The main characters are much more vivid and identifiable , the body count lies much higher , the violence is more confronting and the special effects and make-up art are more explicit than those featuring in American and British horror productions of that era . And still , in spite of the familiar concept , the screenplay of " Caltiki " nevertheless attempts ( and often succeeds , I may add ) to bring some variety and inventiveness . The titular monster doesn't come from outer space , for once , and it doesn't necessarily have to consume human flesh in order to grow in size or strength . " Caltiki " has always resided here on earth and relies on radiation instead to become more dangerous . It very much likes to turn victims into skeletons , but doesn't have to ! How cool is that ? A group of scientists and their whiny women embark on an expedition near an ancient Mayan temple in order to finally find out why an entire civilization just disappeared in a nick of time . Shortly after a volcano eruption it becomes clear to them that the lake underneath the temple homes a hideous and unstoppable monster . They have the opportunity to bring back a piece of the monstrous substance when the greediest member of the crew nearly loses his arm trying to reach for a piece of treasure when he clearly shouldn't have . Instead of researching the matter , they quickly find themselves battling the thing again as it grows in size and hunger . " Caltiki " is packed with suspense and an unexpectedly large amount of violence and disturbing imagery .
Paul Bartel's ultra-low budgeted quickie is still one of the best black comedies ever made , even though I found it less funny than when I first saw it , approximately ten years ago now . Then again , it was my very first " politically incorrect " comedy and I've seen many others since ? This is a very charming film and the reasons why it works so well especially are the overly eccentric characters and the straight-faced acting performances of the talented B-cast . Writer / director Bartel and his favorite B-movie muse Mary Woronov star as an uptight and exaggeratedly square couple , the Blands , who're social outcasts in the wild L . A . region . Paul and Mary dream of opening their own little restaurant in the countryside but they have trouble financing it , while so many " swingers " waste their money on parties and bizarre sexual fetishes . After a first ? and accidental ? homicide , Paul and Mary find out that they could make easy money by luring more perverts to their apartment and kill them . The situation gets more complicated when Latino-crook Raoul discovers what the couple is doing . There aren't any special effects or gore and the set pieces aren't at all spectacular ? and yet this little gem is entertaining from start to finish ! Especially the first half ( when you make acquaintance with the bizarre Blands ) is terrific , with brilliant dialogues and offensive ? yet very clever ? black humor . It's obvious that Paul Bartel was an acolyte of the all-mighty Roger Corman , since he manages to deliver a fun movie without a large budget being required . The gags are simple - often not more than the sound of a frying pan hitting a human head ? but it works and the atmosphere is so tongue-in-cheek that you can't but love what you see . I do wish that the film had been a little longer , especially since the ending comes so abrupt ! " Eating Raoul " also contains many interesting trivia aspects , like for example the name of the co-writer , Richard Blackburn . Especially when you're familiar with Blackburn's other ( and only ) film " Lemora : a Child's tale of the Supernatural " , this screenplay is a giant change in style . The supportive cast is marvelous as well , with the dazzling Susan Staiger as " Doris the Dominatrix " and Ed Begley Jr . as a pot-smoking hippie ! Good fun !
I had never heard of this before , I didn't read reviews or thoughts or anything about this movie and I didn't even read the small texts on the cover of the box . . . This could have gone very wrong but instead of that it became 100 minutes of pure fun . So , now I'll do my best to recommend it to as many other people as possible . " El dia de la Bestia " was made in Spain , or the new great home of horror these days . Spanish directors proved themselves a lot lately and I think this guy , Alex De La Iglesia , deserves some extra credit . This guy obviously is a big lover of horror and the whole cult atmosphere around it . In a genius kind of way , he mixes a lot of appropriate elements in his movie like heavy metal music and fortune-telling . Angél is a priest who just translated a disturbing writing . He found out that the Antichrist himself will be born on Christmas day of 1995 . In Madrid , because all the signs of apocalypse looks like it . To avoid this horrible event that would mean the end of the world , he has to face Satan himself . So , he travels to Madrid and commits a lot of sins , which is pretty funny to watch . He meets a heavy-metal freak ( sorry : Death Metal ! ) and a fortune-teller who fooled many people by faking an exorcism . But when all preparations are set , Satan doesn't show up ! Did they make a mistake ? One thing is certain , they have to hurry because Christmas is only one night away . . . It wouldn't do much if I named all the actors of this movie because their names don't ring a bell . But , I can say they're all very good actors and they clearly did their best work in this film . Like I said before , this film contains a lot of humor but it never spoofs the genre . There's always a lot of respect present and I think that's a great achievement . Also , I would have thought there was a lot more gore in this film . To my surprise , the gory scenes are very limited and overall short . Gorehounds be advised because the cover and the title may make you think it's one big blood fest . Good film , nice change , great fun . . . highly recommended if you need a break from all the typical nowadays slasher-films .
It's nice to see that " Creature from Black Lake " has quite a few loyal fans around this website . Nice because , even though it's not exactly a good film , it's undoubtedly a charming and spirited piece of 70's low budget film-making . The creators of this film UNOBTRUSIVELY cash in on the contemporary trend of Bigfoot-horror movies , and that's probably what makes it so likable . It's a sober and atmospheric film , practically shot in documentary-style , and it never wants to be overly spectacular or gross . Okay , maybe there weren't enough financial means to show a more impressive creature or to shoot virulent battle scenes , but then still you got to admire director Joy N . Houck Jr . for effectively using the impenetrably dark Louisiana swamplands and their population's restraint attitude . Two students from the university of Chicago head for a remote village in Louisiana to write their thesis about the legendary creature that supposedly dwells the swamps there . Long before they even come face to face with the monster , Pahoo & Rives have to deal with inhospitable rednecks that deny its existence . Just when they consider giving up , a giant ominous figure approaches their tent ? I have a soft spot for horror stories that take place in quiet outback areas , but too often these films exaggerate in portraying the locals as perverted and totally brainless imbeciles . The people in " Creature from Black Lake " are genuine rednecks ; still they don't come across like retarded stereotypes but more like members of an aloof community that wishes to protect what's theirs . The two leads are very amiable too , since they're common guys with an open spirit towards each other and towards the people they encounter , even when those aren't helpful to them . Equally praiseworthy is the feeling of constant menace lurking from behind the trees . You always expect the creature ( or something else that is scary ) to jump out from somewhere . This creepy effect is made even more intense with sober music and eerie natural sounds . A slightly higher number of casualties would have been welcome , but I sure ain't complaining . Recommended to fans of atmosphere-driven horror
Two young men , isolated up in the mountains , performing bizarre and questionable experiments on each other ? No , it isn't an early sequel to " Brokeback Mountain " but a new & clever independent horror film that I hope will be regarded as a minor cult gem within a couple of years ! The screenplay of " Subject Two " is based on Mary Shelley's almighty " Frankenstein " - tale in which an intelligent but overly obsessed scientist brings back an unwilling victim from the dead . Only , times have severely changed by now and , instead of lightening storms or voodoo rituals , science now uses Nano-technologies , cloning techniques and loads of other hi-tech stuff I totally didn't understand ! Dr . Franklin Vick ( got it ? Victor Frankenstein ? Yeah OK , you get it ? ) lures the anti-social medical student Adam to his remote mountain cabin where he kills him repeatedly ? but successfully brings him back to life every single time . These intense experiments have a severe impact on Adam , of course , and pretty soon he turns into an emotional and physical wreck . This film contains multiple praiseworthy elements that I haven't spotted in other , high-budgeted horror productions in a very long time already . First and foremost , there's the hugely original Aspen , Colorado filming location ! The total lack of civilization and the false hope for rescue is perfectly illustrated by the snowy mountains and unbearably cold winds . The limited number of cast members contributes a lot to the power of " Subject Two " as well , also because the male leads give away great performances . Dean Stapleton ( who tremendously resemblances Jack Nicholson when he was younger ) is genuinely sinister as the doc and Christian Oliver is very convincing as the mentally unstable guinea pig . This isn't exactly a full-blooded horror film , but there's quite a bit of gore and raw violence on display . The dialogs are witty and ? entirely unexpected ? the plot takes an ingenious turn near the end ! Just for that , " Subject Two " receives one well-deserved extra point . If you have the opportunity to see this smart film by Philip Chidel , don't hesitate !
Hello , what do we have here ? Could this be a genuinely CREEPY 80's horror flick that somehow became forgotten over the years due to the genre's offer-overload ? It sure looks like it , since " Scarecrows " is a truly atmospheric and well-made film with the exact right proportions of suspense and bloody make-up effects . Yet you'll never see it listed among anyone's decade-favorites and that's a real shame . " Scarecrows " can be categorized as typically low-budget 80's film-making , but it most certainly outshines the majority of movies in that bunch thanks to the stylish directing by William Wesley ( who ? ) , the original setting and the splendidly written script . An assembly of well-organized robbers manages to escape on a hijacked plane with a loot of over 3 million dollar and two hostages . One of them ? Bert ? plans to double-cross the others and dives off the plane with the money and lands in an open field near a deserted farmhouse . The cornfield is dotted with mysterious and uncanny-looking scarecrows that come to live and start terrorizing Bert ? as well as his companions that come after him ? in the night . It may sound unbelievable but these scarecrows look genuinely creepy and sinister ! Unlike I feared , they're NOT grotesque or absurd looking monsters , but menacing entities that briefly appear in flashes or off-screen . The screenplay also never gives a definite explanation of what they really are , which only increases the morbidity . Apparently the whole cornfield is a cursed dimension and every trespasser is doomed to turn into a scarecrow , yet this theory is never confirmed . Another great story-aspect is the development of the characters . Once in the cornfield , robbers and hostages are somewhat forced to work together in order to survive . The switch from hostility to dependence is powerfully & plausibly illustrated in the script and stressed by the surefooted director William Wesley . The film also benefices from very adequate acting performances , an eerie soundtrack and professional camera-work . Actually , the only slight demerit of this cool movie is the running time ! Too short ? A bit overlong , actually , although barely 80 minutes . . . This story would have been even MORE effective if it were part of a typical horror-anthology movie ( like " Creepshow " or " From a Whisper to a Scream " ) with a playtime of approximately half an hour . The chases through the corn are occasionally overwrought . Nevertheless , " Scarecrows " is a very good movie and recommended highly to any horror fan who's tired of re-watching the same old mainstream classics .
" The Haunted and the Hunted " is an appropriate and much more meaningful a . k . a for Coppola's sublime debut , focusing on a cursed and tormented Irish family . The plot is grim and creative and seemly starts out as a psychological portrait about a family reuniting in the parental castle to have a memorial ceremony in honor of the deceased daughter . The girl drowned in the estate's pond 7 years before and the mother still can't deal with the loss . But then the story pretty quickly turns into a guessing game of " who is the mad axe-murderer who dwells around the mansion ? " Coppola himself delivered a well-constructed screenplay but the power of this film merely lies in the solid Gothic atmosphere instead of ingenious plotting . It's not that hard to guess the homicidal maniac's identity but the butchering he / she commits is disturbingly filmed and rather frightening . The scene in which this killer drags one of his victims through the meadow is efficiently eerie ! Francis Ford Coppola's maybe owes his success to Roger Corman but it's definitely the producer's style and trademarks that triumph here . The depressing Irish castle and other dark set pieces make the wholesome look extra chilling and uncanny . The acting is overall decent but the best performance is unquestionably given by the brilliant British genre-actor Patrick Magee ( Asylum , Tales from the crypt and A Clockwork Orange ) .
It's pretty much unquestionable that " Neighborhood Watch " is a terrible and absolutely worthless movie but , just in case Graeme Whifler's only intention was to go beyond all the known boundaries of gore and sickness , it might be called a huge success after all . This is one messed up production and most of the film's footage simply cannot be categorized in terms of sickness as no horror movie has ever gone there before ! This is different than the Italian cannibal-flicks or the Asian Manga-madness , as " Neighborhood Watch " features a realistic tone and revolves on existing issues like misanthropy , self-mutilation and pure psychological terror . The first half of the film is actually just as intense and unsettling as it is nauseating and this combination led me to believe that we'd come across THE most disturbing movie ever made . Whilfer totally loses his grip on the suspense near the end , however , with sub plots that go nowhere and the atmosphere that vanishes entirely . The premise of " Neighborhood Watch " is utterly simple but it works because I'm sure that everybody recognizes some of the basic story aspects like domestic disturbance , mobbing and social nonacceptance . Young newlyweds Wendi and Bob move into a ramshackle house owned by Bob's new employer and face problems with their neighbors right away . The elderly couple next door behaves very strangely but the real threat is formed by opposite neighbor Adrian Trumbell , who distributes poisoned candy as welcoming gifts . . . Trumbell definitely ranks among the vilest psychopaths in horror cinema history ! While listening to tapes describing torture and unnecessary surgery in gross detail , he masturbates by sticking hypodermic needles in his scrotum and poking holes in his stomach with his finger ! That's right ! Pretty soon , Wendi and Bob become the target of Trumbell's unnameable lunacy and there's no one who can ( or wants to ) help them . This isn't anything like " Pacific Heights " or any other B-thriller in which some nut kills his / her neighbor's cat , but mean-spirited exploitation for people with a strong stomach only . Despite the often lack of horror experience or budget , the make-up effects and scenery are convincing and genuinely nauseating . According to Graeme Whifler , there are absolutely no taboos and even embarrassing stuff like diarrhea or close-up vomiting gets illustrated like it's the most common thing in the world . Nick Searcy , who briefly appeared in more classy projects like " Tigerland " and " One Hour Photo " , is marvelous as the sick pervert but the rest of the cast is better left unmentioned . The total absence of continuity and decent choreography makes it hard to rate this movie any higher than ; but I'm doing it anyway since I've never been more disgusted by a movie in my entire life ! That has got to be worth something , right ? In case your most recent medical check-up contained no heart or nerves problems worth mentioning , you can consider seeing " Neighborhood Watch " .
What's the first thing on any man's mind when he's freshly released from prison ? Sex , of course ! But what about the second , and third , and fourth ? Most people would say a decent meal or a proper job , but in the case of ultimately perverted freak Rocky De Sade it's exclusively sex ; the sicker the better . Alex de Renzy's " Femmes de Sade " is somewhat of a masterpiece in its own secluded and often neglected category . It's a rough and brutal 70's porn / horror movie with an adequate storyline , decent character drawings and sadistic hardcore material . Rocky ( his last name is of course a fabulous homage to the legendary infamous marquis ) walks out of the prison gates , promptly invites himself to the house of a fellow inmate and barbarically rapes his girlfriend . He then immediately dives into the big city's nightlife , looking for more prostitutes to satisfy his sexual hunger and oppressed appetite for violence . The impressively postured and sick-spirited ex-con physically and mentally abuses a whole series of girls , until they combine forces and plot a vile & humiliating payback during a private orgy party . The film's powerful impact principally relies on Ken Turner's deranged performance as Rocky . This guy almost naturally radiates pure maliciousness & emotional nihilism , and he's literally as big as a house ! And very flexible , too , as demonstrated during the jaw-dropping scene in which he orally " pleasures " himself and uncannily forces a girl to do the same . There's a parallel storyline , admittedly just to stretch the running time a little , about an adult video store clerk fantasizing about the all the women that pass by his store . The finale is short but sweet , and you should truly prepare yourself to witness a LOT of filth , including bestiality , urinal sex and even scat . Demented 70's smut , highly recommend to all you sick puppies out there .
" May " surely was one of the most impressive & remarkable debuts in the horror genre ever , the short but masterful Masters of Horror episode " Sick Girl " definitely proved that they weren't just a one-hit-wonder and now , with " Roman " , Angela Bettis and Lucky McKee make it clear that they're here to stay ! Even though not on par with the two aforementioned titles , " Roman " is one of the most enchanting and artistically creative stories of the last few years and it's guaranteed to have at least some kind of emotional impact on you . Even though the characters drawings and atmosphere building is somewhat similar to " May " , this is not a real horror film . " Roman " actually can't be categorized in just one genre , as McKee and Bettis professionally blend together sinister horror , pitch-black comedy , melodrama and psychological thriller aspects . It's a tragic & hugely ironic tale of love vs . loneliness and how they can both turn out disastrously . Lucky McKee ? pretty damn good in his first real lead performance ? is Roman , an unhealthy introvert metal worker with an extremely depressing life-style . He doesn't talk to any of his colleagues , always eats the same pork & beans dinner and drinks the same type of beer and dreadfully fears simple things like TV . The highlight of each day is for him to sit in front of his apartment window at 5 . 30pm and observe his ravishing neighbor as she goes to collect the letters in her mailbox . When he finally meets her in person ( following her OWN initiative ) , Roman loses his mind and kills her in brief a moment of rage and despair . Realizing the crime he committed , he punishes himself by staying indoors even more and ritually disposes of the girl's body parts every Sunday . The attractive new neighbor then develops a romantic interest in him , but she has issues and obsessions that even surpass those of Roman . Quite a few people blame " Roman " for its predictable ending but , even though I agree it's unsurprising , I didn't think it affected the film in a negative way . This film almost introduces a new type of predictability ! Although you know what's coming , you still somewhat hope that things will work out positively for Roman because , despite of what he did , he's a truly likable and pitiable character . Angela Bettis constantly maintains an extremely moody and harrowing atmosphere , and the film is literally stuffed with unconventional jokes and wickedly comical situations . The wholesome actually becomes a bit disturbing , because you just know people like Roman really exist ! Moreover , we all know someone in our own surrounding who rarely ever talks and always keeps a distance from the rest of the group . Makes you think what he / she does when nobody's watching , doesn't it ? The camera-work as well as the editing often looks ugly and amateurish , but personally I thought even this suited the tone of the film . The soundtrack is downright sublime and McKee receives great feedback from his two bewitching female co-stars Nectar Rose and Kristen Bell . Not for everyone , but highly recommended in case you have a weakness for atmosphere-driven and genuinely moving dramas .
Island of Terror is decent British horror capable of providing its audience with some genuine frights despite of the wacky premise . It caught my attention especially because it was directed by Terence Fisher and stars Peter Cushing . These two worked together in making the finest films for the Hammer studios , like most entries in the " Frankenstein " series , " The Hound of the Baskervillers " and " The Mummy " . Island of Terror is not a Hammer film , yet it often feels like one since the set pieces are so alike and the screenplay uses the same proportions of wit British humor and severe shocks . The story takes place at a small Northern Ireland island where the local doctor has a bizarre case of a boneless corpse on his hands . He travels over to the mainland to recruit eminent scientists Brian Stanley ( Cushing ) and David West ( Edward Judd ) for helping him with this matter . Back at the island , they discover that the horror is caused by monsters that were the result of failing medical research by another scientist . The monsters look like crossovers between tortoises and elephants , feeding on bones while leaving the flesh untouched . If that's not bad enough , the creatures reproduce themselves and they're slowly moving towards the island community ? Terence Fisher makes great use of the isolated island location and the feeling of being completely trapped perfectly reflects on the screen . The story doesn't waste too much time and features more than enough action and fright-highlights to please the most demanding horror fan . The monster designs are surprisingly convincing and also the special effects are praiseworthy . The few shots of extorted corpses are efficiently icky and very well pictured . As the plot becomes more intense , Fisher terrifically adds sequences of hysterical villagers . A small but outstanding little detail . Veteran horror star Peter Cushing certainly doesn't give away his finest acting performance here , but he's always worth admiring even though he's outshined by Judd and the female love-interest , played by a gorgeous looking Carole Gray . Island of Terror isn't top class horror , at least not compared to some other films around that time , but it contains enough imagination and style to pass for excellent , undemanding entertainment . I wonder why the idea of bone-sucking creatures ( cool name : Silicates ) isn't used more in horror / science fiction epics .
This " portrait " of a serial killer is extremely short , but nevertheless long & detailed enough to make your stomach turn inside out ! Jim Van Bebber ( " The Manson Family " ) and Mark Gillespie introduce a fictional cannibalistic psychopath who spends his days grinding and devouring raw animals he picked up from the streets and yelling at the most stupid programs on TV . His living room is a total mess , with blood stains on every wall and flesh-leftovers in every filthy cover . Martin then goes on the road and picks up a young couple whose car broke down . Shortly after , the girl is locked up in a cage while the boy lies on a nasty operating table , waiting for his head to get cut off . The movie ends with images clearly indicating John Martin prepared his victims for evening TV-dinner . " Roadkill " is truly repulsive , with Van Bebber's camera zooming in on all the graphic details . It would normally be a pretty forgettable short feature , but somehow Van Bebber & Gillespie manage to create a solid morbid atmosphere that makes " Roadkill " much more effective and petrifying that most serial-killer flicks . The tone and filming style are indescribably nihilistic and raw , while Mark Gillespie scares the hell out of you as the titular madman . The music exciting and the filthy set-pieces are awesome . I didn't really care for " The Manson Family " or " Deadbeat at Dawn " , but Van Bebber's insane short films are total winners .
Sublimely paced and spectacular spaghetti western , albeit mildly unoriginal and a little too much relying on the powerful charisma of veteran gunslinger-hero Franco Nero . Precisely as in " Django " , the Italian western classic that made him legendary , Nero stars as a silent and rather introvert hero who single-handedly exterminates entire gangs of baddies without even tiring himself . Keoma is a half-breed ( partly Indian ) who spent the last several years fighting in the Civil War and immediately rescues a beautiful pregnant lady upon the return to his hometown . He'll have to battle the new malicious ruler in town , Caldwell , who carelessly exiled all victims of the plague epidemic , as well as his own 3 jealous and power mad half-brothers , who betrayed their father and joined Caldwell's troops . The most glorious years of spaghetti-westerns were as good as over by the time Enzo G . Castellari made " Keoma " , but this is another old-fashioned and adrenalin-rushing installment containing all the delicious ingredients cult-fanatics adore so much . There's a minimum of dialogs but a gigantic amount of virulent gunfights , beautiful widescreen cinematography , an absolutely staggering soundtrack and loads of macho fist-fights . On top of that , " Keoma " also upholds an strangely sinister atmosphere with strange ? but stylish ? flashbacks and oddly developing relationships between the different characters . The film's first hour moves slow and director Castellari puts a lot of time into extendedly introducing even the supportive characters characters , like Keoma's beloved father and his black mentor / former slave George . However , once the final battle begins , the action doesn't stop for 30 minutes straight and masterfully builds up towards an excruciatingly intense and severely unhappy ending . The many elegant slow-motion shots and extra saddening singing voices even increase the tension and I guarantee you'll be sitting on the edge of the seat . Many people seem to complain about the unusual use of music in " Keoma " ( idem in the case of Sergio Martino's " Mannaja " ) , but I honestly thought the peculiarly sung tunes were brilliant and very appropriate .
Well , sadly , I can't help but feeling a little bit disappointed after my much , much , MUCH-anticipated viewing of " Just Before Dawn " . Jeff Lieberman is a terrific filmmaker and he can undoubtedly do great things with a tiny budget , but I nevertheless expected to see a far more sadistic and gruesome early 80's slasher . But actually I'm beginning to think that Lieberman isn't the one to blame for this , but WE gorehounds are ! It's more than obvious that Lieberman intended to make his take on the backwoods-slasher look like " Deliverance " and absolutely NOT like " Friday the 13th " , which immensely popularized the sub genre one year earlier . The horror and constant sensation of menace doesn't mainly come from the demented maniacs with their machetes , but from the genuinely ominous and isolated Oregon forests where this movie was shot . In case the film seems slow and uneventful , this is only because Lieberman takes his time to introduce the dark woods and eerie mountains as extra characters in his film . We hardly ever see the killers in person , but there always appears to be someone luring from behind the trees or from underneath the mountain lakes . Bearing this in mind , " Just Before Dawn " becomes a highly admirable horror effort and actually a lot better than its contemporary blood-soaked colleagues . Amidst a nearly endless selection of gory and sickening slashers , Lieberman successfully puts the emphasis back on tension and character development . The plot revolves on five twenty-something friends heading for a camping vacation in the Oregon woods , where one of them owns a small piece of land . The woods are deserted and , naturally , the campers ignore forest ranger Roy's ( George Kennedy ! ) advise to return back to civilization . Shortly after , they brutally encounter an inbred family of which the twin sons have murderous tendencies . All five main characters are surprisingly likable and convincing ! No irritating stereotypes for which you don't feel sympathy anyway , like slutty girls or football jocks . As a result of this " natural " character , you automatically cheer for them , even when they eventually almost turn into savages themselves . The sublime camera-work supplies the film with an at times unbearable tension level and Brad Fiedel's chilling electronic score only adds to this effect . " Just Before Dawn " is a fine slice of early 80's horror , as long as you don't desire blood to drip from your TV-set .
" General Massacre " is an ultra-weird film that received some extra attention from me since it's a Belgian-American co-production . With me being Belgian and this being a very rare cult gem ? this was an absolute must see . The film describes itself best as a mixture between an anti-war protest film and the psychological analysis of a deranged war freak . This review will simply be too short to sum up all the bizarre ( most very shocking ) elements " General Massacre " features but I can already tell you it contains enough controversy to last a lifetime . The story focuses on a veteran ( the General ) who served the military during WWII , Vietnam and the Korean War . He has quite a few alarming conceptions about warfare ( " politics are the extension of war " , " Civilians are as much the enemy as men in uniform " ? ) When he returns to his estate in Antwerp , he continues to live under the impression of being in command of his troops and hikes into the nearby woods fully armored . This leads to a couple very disturbing and repulsive scenes that made this production the ultimate nightmare for critics and film committees . Once sequence in particular , in which the General sees an ordinary cow as the " enemy " and butchers it , caused this to movie to be forbidden in several European countries . Granted , the cruelty often is pointless and overly explicit . The above mentioned sequence even looks too realistic ? if you know what I mean . But the message " General Massacre " brings is far too impressive to be left untold . War too easily gives deranged people an excuse to feast their perverted world perspectives and the authorities only find out when it's too late ! " General Massacre " almost completely is a one-man-project by Burr Jerger who directed , produced , stars and adapted the screenplay from his OWN novel . That's impressive to say the least . This is an unhinged authentic cult film , totally unknown to the world . Special word of thanks goes out to IMDb-boarder Dario the 2nd . Without his help , I probably never would have seen this neither !
Multiple reviews , and even the BBC announcement voice-over , are stating that " Taste of Fear " is arguably one of the greatest films Hammer Studios ever brought forward . This is quite a challenging enunciation , as Hammer were responsible for an incredibly long list of genre classics , varying from old-fashioned monster films to thought-provoking Sci-Fi movies and psychological thrillers . " Taste of Fear " definitely belongs in the last category , but personally I wouldn't say it's their absolute best film . The quality and execution of Jimmy Sangster's screenplay is on par with their similar films " Nightmare " , " Paranoiac " and " Hysteria " , but since " Taste of Fear " came out a handful of years before those titles , I suppose it's entitled to a little bit of extra admiration . But still , the concepts of all these films are derivative of the French masterpiece " Les Diaboliques " , so we can only really praise Hammer for imaginatively imitating the original milestone at least four times . " Taste of Fear " is an atmosphere-driven and convoluted black & white chiller , but the direction of Sangster's script is slightly too predictable and it waits only until the climax before surprising the viewer with a couple of truly awesome and unexpected twists . The wheelchair bound Penny Appleby travels to her parental house in the French Riviera , supposedly at the request of her father but he isn't even there to welcome her when she arrives . According to her exaggeratedly friendly stepmother and the housing staff , her father is away on a business trip , but Penny soon begins to spot his lifeless body at several places on the estate . There are never any witnesses and the local doctor as well as the stepmother thinks she's hallucinating . With the help of the charming chauffeur Bob , Penny assumes that her father is really dead , and that it is the stepmother's plan to drive her insane and subsequently claim the inheritance . But before they can go to the police , she'll first have to proof that her father got murdered . Seth Holt masterfully builds up a brooding suspense and ominous atmosphere , but the pacing is a little too slow and the film lacks a few efficient shock elements to keep you attentive . However , there are some creepy images to enjoy , most notably the times when Penny spots her father's corpse around the house . The last 10 minutes are downright brilliant and definitely compensate for the rather tame middle section . Douglas Slocombe's camera-work is utterly stylish and surely contributes to the film's macabre atmosphere . Even though Christoper Lee always remains a truly reliable performer , the French accent isn't his strongest point .
Strong stomachs and nerves of steel are required in order to sit through this " shockomentary " revolving on the crimes and confessions of Albert Fish ; sadomasochist , cannibal and undoubtedly the most perverted serial child-killer in the history of the United States . The documentary opens with the extended analysis of the murder of young Grace Budd ; the crime that eventually ? six years after it was committed ? resulted in his arrest . The notorious letter Fish sent to the girl's mother alone , explaining in great detail what he had done to her , makes you sick with disgust and automatically causes you to contemplate how a human being can possibly act like such a cruel and relentless beast . Subsequently , Fish's childhood and the development of his bizarrely perverted sexual tendencies ( physical suffering , morbid religious aspects and the interest in young boys ) get further explored and the life-story of the monster personified becomes more incredible and astounding with each minute . Quotes like " I always had the desire to inflict pain on others ? and I always desired others to inflict pain on me " suitably draw an image of this deranged monster . If this were a fictional horror movie character nobody would ever take it seriously , that's for sure . The documentary is professionally made , with authentic images of New York during the depression era of the 1930's being altered with scenes with actors , atmospheric music and sinister voiceovers and nightmarish collages of morbid religious tableaux . The subject matter is truly engrossing and repugnant , yet fascinating to behold if you are interested in the darkest sides of the human mind . My sole complaint is one that I read in some of the other reviews already . I was hoping to get to known some new and still unknown little facts about the life and crimes of Albert Fish , but the documentary features absolutely no " scoops " or additional background .
This truly odd and eccentric black comedy is especially worth checking out in order to notice how drastically Peter Weir's filming style changed from dared and out-of-the-ordinary cult in the 1970's to dull and politically correct rubbish in the 1980's , 1990's and 2000's . No matter how popular and acclaimed films like " Dead Poets Society " , " Master & Commander " and " The Truman Show " are , they're blunt compared to the uniqueness and virility of " The Cars that Ate Paris " . At least this film doesn't feature tiresome morality speeches and here the dialogues are , in fact , surprisingly controversial most of the time . For example ; when explaining to total strangers that you accidentally killed a old man by accidentally running your car over him , do you expect them to reply with : " Yeah , those old pedestrians are a real problem , aren't they ? " Welcome to Paris ; a remote little outback Australian town where the people go to church , love their families and where the economy entirely thrives on one thing : car crashes ! The whole town assists in deliberately causing accidents and then use the parts and accessories as currency to buy stuff in the shops . The outsiders from the accidents either end up in the graveyard , as medical guinea pigs in the local hospital or ? as in protagonist Arthur Waldo's case ? as brand new residents of Paris and close friends to the mayor . It's truly close to brilliant how Peter Weir manages to sustain the friendly and nonthreatening tone throughout the whole movie . All members of the community are basically insane psychopaths , yet you symphatize with them a lot more because the " hero " ( Arthur ) is such an antipathetic loser and the young generation ( that eventually revolts against the town's ancient habits ) are boisterous and uncanny freaks . Even the mayor , who's really the evil mastermind , is portrayed like a jolly figure with whom you'd love to chat . I know that most people wish to forget their viewing of " The Cars that Ate Paris " because it moves slow and looks dark , but the basic premise really is one of the best horror ideas ever coming from Australian cinema . And that WV Beetle covered in spikes is a highly memorable piece of scenery !
The least you can say about Aaron Lipstadt's " Android " is that it is a bit of a maverick and rarity in the universe of early 80's cinema . In an era when people automatically associated the Science-Fiction genre with either hideous invincible creatures ( " Alien " ) or adventurous fantasy ( the " Star Wars " - trilogy ) , this movie actually attempts to make a character-study / drama using exclusively Sci-Fi characters . " Android " feels like a successful mixture between the themes of " Saturn 3 " and even the embittered atmosphere the almighty classic " Blade Runner " . That is highly ambitious and praiseworthy , especially since the credits list Roger Corman's name as an executive producer and during that time he was mostly infamous for his excessively violent and exploitative rip-offs . The always amazing Klaus Kinski gives a perplexing performance as a mysterious scientist , illegally constructing androids in a space-station far far away . Dr . Daniel is continuously preoccupied with his work whilst his android assistant Max 404 plays videogames and secretly craves to learn more about being a human . The arrival of three fugitive criminals drastically alters their existence . One of them is namely a woman , and both Dr . Daniel and Max are enchanted by her appearance albeit for totally different reasons . The good doctor finally sees an opportunity to research the possibility of a female android and Max discovers emotions he didn't even know existed . It gets worse when Max learns he's disposable and rebels against superior . " Android " benefits most from its witty and inventively written script . The film is most impressive when relying on substance and acting performances , as the special effects and decors appear miserably cheap and tacky . The " surprise " ending is efficient and unpredictably without being overly far-fetched . Kinski is , as said , genius is his familiar role of eccentric and slightly offbeat scientist , but Don Opper ( who also co-wrote the film ) is at least equally astounding as Max 404 . Not only does he look uncanny and artificial , but his grimaces and movements are truly spot-on ! Extra admirable is that neither Don Opper nor director Aaron Lipstadt had any cinematic experience before they worked on " Android " together . This may be an anonymous and underrated movie , but to me it's one of the most remarkable films of the 80's . Highly recommended .
Writer / director Mitchell Lichtenstein at least deserves some sort of symbolic award for coming up with one of the most original and refreshing new horror concepts of the last 10-15 years . In a time and era where the horror genre is dominated by remakes of older classics and vile torture-porn movies , Lichtenstein thought up an old-fashioned and tongue-in-cheek parody with mythological influences and a small-town-folks atmosphere . " Teeth " is a splendid little film and of the most pleasant surprises I encountered in a long while , especially because it successfully blends comedy and nostalgia with a handful of disturbing themes and uncanny gore effects . " Teeth " isn't the textbook title for the umpteenth wannabe eccentric vampire movie , but a modern day processing of the Vagina Dentata myth , which handles about women with teeth inside their vagina in order to scare off random men whilst waiting for the one right hero . Dawn's teenage years aren't the easiest ones . She lives with her terminally ill mother , stepfather and insufferably rebellious stepbrother Brad in a remote little town . She's a devoted believer of sexual abstinence and even encourages her fellow schoolmates to wait with sex until marriage . Her own principles are heavily challenged when she meets and falls for new kid in town Tobey , but she still manages to control her desires . Tobey can't , however , and he painfully experiences Dawn's physically build-in defense mechanism . The poor girl's in shock when she first sees the effect , naturally , but she gradually learns to use it as a protective tool against all the abusive and malignant men out there . The Vagina Denteta folklore tale mixes terrifically with the more typical drama themes in this film , namely the ' coming of age ' chronicles and the ' dysfunctional family ' portrait . This really isn't just another random horror movie , but a wide variety of relevant and identifiable stories with loads of genuine fears and sentiments . Dawn's abstinence beliefs as well as her mental restrictions and problematic family situation are extendedly portrayed before the toothed vagina even plays a role in the script . Once the first victim is castrated , " Teeth " definitely becomes more a more light-headed , gruesome and fast-paced film . Although definitely not being the bloodiest movie ever made , " Teeth " is likely to make a lot of ( male ) viewers squirm and squeal in their seats ! The castration sequences are quite uncomfortable and they gradually more sadist . For obvious reasons the toothed vagina never gets shown , but I imagine it to look somewhat like the jaws of the Kraken monster that attacked Johnny Depp at the end of " Pirates of the Caribbean : Dead Man's Chest " . The young cast is stupendous , particularly Jess Weixler as Dawn and John Hensley as her messed up stepbrother , and the film is literally crammed with unique little jokes and witty observations . For example , it's emphasized numerous times that Dawn and her family lives very near to a nuclear plant , and you're almost forced to assume the pollution will have something to do with the girl's condition , yet it's never confirmed or even hinted at any further . " Teeth " is a very good and innovative new film and comes highly recommended to all open-minded fans of cinema .
Maniac Cop was written by a genius in the field of horror . Larry Cohen , who also brought us the undeniable cult classics " It's Alive " , " God Told me To " and " The Stuff " . The script of this late 80's thriller really makes the hair on your neck rise . One of my favorite thrillers for a bunch of reasons . Two of my most favorite B-movie actors are present . That's always an extra reason to give it attention . Bruce " Ash " Campbell and Tom Atkins , who became immortal to me since he starred in Night of the Creeps . There's a new cop on the streets , but you won't feel safe . . . A city is terrorized by a brutal killer who dresses like a cop . This sure causes a lot of commotion and citizens start shooting at every cop they see . Detective Frank McCrae starts an investigation to clear the name of Jack Forrest . this latter one is suspected to be the " Maniac Cop " because his wife ( who he was cheating with a female colleague ) was one of the unfortunate victims . McCrae finds out a whole other theory but it contains a huge cover up story that even involves the mayor . . . Along with Theresa Mallory , the love interest of Jack , they hunt down the real maniac and tell his horrifying story to the outside world . . . Maniac Cop is often overlooked when it comes to creepy 80's thrillers . I prefer calling it a thriller instead of horror by the way . It certainly contains horror elements , but in general you can't compare it to the typical slasher-films . I'm not saying it's a masterpiece but I'll sure keep you focused for 90 minutes and you're heart will be beating faster when the ending credits start to roll . Bruce and Tom give away great performances as ever and the Maniac Cop played by Robert Z'Dar will leave a big impression to you . It got two sequels and even they are entertaining . Overall , a good trilogy by director William Lustig , but if I only may recommend one I choose for this original . An ideal movie to see when it's late at night and you're all alone . . .
Holy Macaroni ! Believe the hype , folks . . . this really IS one of the most shocking , confronting and raw movies ever made ! It actually is one of those rare purchases that makes you wonder what the role of cinema is in modern society . Irréversible certainly can't be classified as ' entertainment ' , that's for sure . It merely looks like a brutal eye-opener , highly unpleasant to watch at times and it sometimes makes you even feel ashamed to be human ! Some of the stuff here goes beyond your most feared nightmares and could easily provoke depression , anti-social behavior and anxiety among influential viewers . It's real-life drama and that makes it so powerful and shocking . Irréversible is told backwards , ' Memento'-style if you wish . . . only it's a lot more effective here as it was in Memento , which actually was a pretty boring and extremely overrated movie . This very simple backwards-structure aspect gives Irréversible the opportunity to implement a couple of unique and rarely seen style elements . The first half hour ( which actually is the end of the story ) smacks you in the face right away sets the tone for a non-stop , raw experience . Also , you don't really get to know the characters until the last chapter ( which is actually the beginning of the film ) The characters are a riddle to you constantly and you can't symphatise with any of them , since you just know too little . Through wild camera movements and simplistic techno-music , a claustrophobic and horrifying atmosphere gets created and the violence is really hard to digest . The infamous scene in which Monica Belluci brutally gets raped is one of the most perverted things I've ever seen . It seems to go on forever and you can really visiualise the painful hell the poor girl is going through . I'd call Irréversible a successful combination of ancient , rough exploitation and modern art-house film-making . The brutality portrayed here is typical for the euro-shock cinema but the stylish shooting lifts it up to Cannes Festival material . Cult as pure as it comes !
Long before Quentin Tarantino and Robert Rodriguez even considered the idea , other ambitious fan-boy directors already attempted to revive the Grindhouse cinema . Of course , these directors were inexperienced and unknown , so their movies never properly received the attention they deserved . Todd Morris ' " A Gun for Jennifer " is a prototypic example to state this theory . Judging by the story content , the gritty filming style and the excessive amount of graphic violence , it is plain obvious that Morris watched way too many exploitation & trash movies as a kid and then suddenly decided one day to gather together a bunch of friends to shoot his very own and cheap homage to 70's Grindhouse cinema . Well , I can only applaud Todd Morris and everyone else involved in this production , as I could only dream about realizing such a project of my own . Everything about " A Gun for Jennifer " is extremely basic and gratuitous - subject material as well as the elaboration - but that doesn't necessarily mean it's bad . Quite the contrary even ; a straightforward plot , amateurish acting and clumsy camera-work are almost fundamental characteristics in order to achieve an authentic Grindhouse movie ! Todd Morris borrows and even shamelessly copies several elements from older films , notably " I Spit on your Grave " , Abel Ferrara's " Ms . 45 " and the virtually unknown " Rape Squad " . It's about a beautiful young woman who flees from Ohio to New York City , for reasons explained later in the film , and almost immediately becomes the victim of scum rapists . She gets rudely rescued when a van full of tough chicks passes by and kills the rapists without hesitating . The girls apparently all work together in a nightclub and , since they got a little fed up with the endless amount of unsolved rape cases and various other acts of violence against women , they decided to form some sort of vigilante posse and roam the streets at night . Since she has nowhere else to go and because , after all , these women rescued here , the girl ? choosing the false Jennifer ? joins the gang . She gradually gets sucked more and more into a world of vengeance and violence , but also the fanatic female police detective Perez comes closer to uncovering their identities . What we have here , my dear fellow smut & exploitation fanatics ( as you are the only ones likely to read the comments for this type of movies ) , is an almost perfect tribute to politically incorrect early 70's trash ! The characters are complete stereotypes ( all men are scum , all women are tough mothers ) , the sleaze-level is extremely high in spite of very little nudity shown on screen , the soundtrack and photography make you feel uncomfortable and the violence is uncompromising to say the least . Although bringing little variety in the killings , " A Gun for Jennifer " is literally a bloodbath of a film and particularly the climax goes far over the top in depicting sick and sadistic ferocity . Deborah Twiss , who also co-wrote the screenplay , as well as her girlfriends aren't likely to win any major acting awards in their careers but the have the exact right looks , charisma and tough facials expression for this kind of role . The soundtrack is simply amazing and contains some marvelously apt songs . If you want to know what I'm referring to , just look up Moloko's " Killa Bunnies " on YouTube ! Purely talking in terms of good cinema , " A Gun for Jennifer " probably doesn't deserve a rating any higher than 5 or 6 , but I'm generously giving an 8 for sheer respect towards Todd Morris and his crew .
Here we have something totally unique : an Asian ghost story ! That's not unique at all , I hear you say ? Well , it is if you bear in mind that " Nang Nak " comes from Thailand and hasn't got anything to do with the overrated and rather weak stream of Japanese horror movies , such as " Ringu " , " Ju-On The Grudge " and " The Eye " . The film is based on a perennial Thai legend that apparently everybody knows over there and finally received a reasonably well-budgeted and international-orientated film version now ! The legend revolves on the happily married couple Mak ( the man ) and Nak ( the wife ) and is set in the second half of the 19th century . Mak is very reluctant to leave his pregnant wife to go and fight in the war , more particularly because she's expecting their first child . When he returns home , still recovering from the loss of his best friend in battle as well as a near-fatal chest wound , Mak finally hopes to find peace and quiet with his beloved family . But something changed here , too ? Friends and neighbors keep telling that Nak died whilst giving birth and that Mak only lives together with the spirits of his wife and child . " Nang Nak " is one of those extremely rare films that successfully blend romance and genuine drama with horror ! This film is as moving as it is frightening and , trust me , it's REALLY frightening at times ! The story is pretty intense and heartbreaking , mostly thanks to powerful performances , yet the horror elements are definitely not ignored and multiple images are almost too grisly to process . For example : One minute , you observe the romance between two people and the next ; you're watching eerie rats eating the corpse of a murdered woman ! Near the end , the film becomes even more horrific , with exorcisms and burials all around , and STILL the story remains incredibly poignant . Not only the substance is amazing , mind you . " Nang Nak " might easily be the most stylish and beautifully photographed Asian film ever made ! A giant amount of sequences , albeit unrelated to the basic story , are truly mesmerizing to behold and illustrate sunsets , animals , wildlife and agriculture . It's almost like watching an educational National Geographic documentary AND a great movie at the same time ! Highly recommended !
There's absolutely no way that any movie can start off better than " Violent City " . Charlie Bronson on a yacht with a ravishing blond chick , then moving onto land where the couple immediately gets subjected to a wild car chase through extremely narrow streets ( and over stairs ! ) and ending with a violent shootout ! And all this time not a single word is being spoken by anyone and all we here are the sounds of squeaking tires , snorting car engines and Ennio Moricone's umpteenth fabulous soundtrack . The first ten minutes of " Violent City " are so damn brilliant I was even tempted to stop watching the film because I honestly feared things could only go downwards from that point , ha ! Luckily it didn't . Sure the pacing slowed down a bit ( only a little bit , mind you ) but a great film unfolds itself , with a simplistic but nevertheless compelling plot , gritty atmosphere and terrific acting performances by Charles Bronson ( as the silent as always but deadly killer ) , Telly Savalas ( as the sneering , sleazy and eccentric super-villain ) and Jill Ireland ( as the bimbo who appears to screw around with half of the city ) . Jeff is a retiring hit man who completes one more personal killing job when a former friend double-crosses him , leaves him for dead and runs off with his lady friend . Jeff's spectacular payback , executed at a race car circuit ) gets him noticed by the big boss of the city's organized crime network . He wants Jeff to be a part of his successful crime-family , and when he refuses an exhilarating and testosterone-packed cat and mouse game ensues . The plot isn't highly original , but several independent sequences are magnificent , like the aforementioned opening , the intense finale or ? most of all ? the scene where Vanessa gets introduced to Weber ( Savalas ) in a restaurant . Sergio Sollima is a gifted director , who primarily earned his fame in the spaghetti western genre ( " The Big Gundown " and " Run Man Run " ) . That's also exactly what " Violent City " often resembles ; a gritty urban western with Bronson in his familiar role of lone outlaw passing through a town where no one can be trusted . If I understood correctly , the titular violent city is supposed to be Michigan , where strangely everyone speaks a combination of English and Italian . Funny detail on the Dutch DVD-release is that the dubbing is incomplete . Some of the dialogs start in English but halfway the conversation swifts to Italian and back to English again . Not at all bothering , especially not in case you looked forward to this movie as much as I did .
( Small Spoilers ! ! ! ) Children of the Damned got released as a sequel to ' Village of the Damned ' , though not officially and not starring George Sanders . Yet , both films are fascinating , prominent Science Fiction efforts and still some of the most jaw-dropping films I ever saw . A study , let by the United Nations results in bizarre and alarming findings . Six children , from all corners of the world , score unusually high on intelligence tests . It becomes even more remarkably when it seems that none of them has a father and all of them have label mothers . One mom even declared her boy is ' not from this world ' . While psychologists and other prominent scientists from all over the world search for explanations , the group of prodigies together seek shelter in an abandoned church ? . Things are getting more and more frightening when it turns out they're telepathic and able to hypnotize humans with their minds and eyes ? Children of the Damned offers suspense from the beginning till the very end , with a few breath-taking climaxes in-between . I rarely saw a movie that has such a constant tense-level . The silent , yet intriguing children are terrifically cast and often they look scarier as most other cinema-madmen ! I know it sounds like a cliché by now but ? This is SF like they only could have made it in the old days . Scriptwriters nowadays simply can't come up with such ingenious and creative plots anymore . The script is intelligent ( with a few interesting lectures on genetics ) and the black and white cinematography helps increasing the tension even more . And , if the high entertainment values aren't enough yet ? Children of the Damned also raises a stunning ethical debate and it severely questions the statement whether humans are a superior species or not . Impressive AND thought-provoking ! What more could you possibly wish for ?
Roughly translated as ' Fearless John ' , this is a 100 % Belgian production . Based on a wonderful book and turned into a rather well made and imaginative animated film in 1984 . Around that time ( and long afterwards ) this local figure was more popular than international action heroes like Superman or Batman . I clearly remember the days when every kid in the schoolyard wanted to be Jan Zonder Vrees . He's a very strong and charismatic figure who lived in Antwerp , round the 15th Century . Jan Zonder Vrees is some sort of Robin Hood , only he doesn't steal from the rich . He protects the poor physically and he makes sure justice comes to the ones who deserve it . He fears nothing and accepts every challenge , no matter how dangerous and deadly it turns out to be . He's constantly looking for new thrills to live and mysteries to solve . The art and drawing skills in this film are surprisingly professional , seeing it's only is a ' small ' Belgian production . Yet , it contains a little too much lame sequences in which nothing really happens . But only the adult viewers will notice this ? through the eyes of the younger audience , all these sequences will look fascinating nevertheless . Jan speaks with the voice of Jan Declair . A famous and legendary Belgian cinema-icon who once turned down international success by declining the role of the villain in a James Bond movie . Due to the new evolutions and a lot diversion in animated cinema , this premise got forgotten a little . It all looks less impressive nowadays and modern children are already used to seeing more terrific graphics . Nonetheless , I'd like to encourage as much parents as possible to watch this film along with their youngsters . They might still be enchanted by the fable of Jan ?
Ah , the cinematic industry of my beloved home country ? I'm usually very skeptical when it comes Belgian movies , because for some reason the writers and directors in this nation always exaggerate immensely when it comes to building up atmosphere . Either the films become so over-the-top dramatic that the story becomes implausible and pathetic , or the script contains too much typically Belgian ( = rancid ) humor that brings down the quality of the story . " De Hel van Tangiers " is entirely different ! Of course , it's not the type of story that lends itself to revert to comical situations , but I was particularly concerned about the drama elements . If you're familiar with the facts in the case on which this movie is based , you just know that it is the ideal opportunity for scriptwriters to exploit the drama and sentimentality . But I'm pleasantly surprised to see that all the emotional sequences are realistic and sincere . Most of the based-on-true-story dramas try ridiculously hard to bring tears to your eyes , but " De Hel van Tangiers " achieves this simply through powerful acting performances and by maintaining an objective point of view . Even though padded with fictional aspects , the plot remains fairly loyal ( at least , as far as I recall the news reports of that time ) to the horribly inhuman drama that overcame tourist bus driver Pierre Stukken in 1996 . On his way back from Morocco , he ( renamed Marcel Van Loock in the film ) and his co-driver Wim Moreels were arrested because there was more than 300Kg of drugs hidden in their bus . Despite confessions from the company's boss , stating that the driver was completely unaware of the drugs he was smuggling , Stukken was nevertheless sentenced to five years in a Moroccan prison , only because of the corrupt system . Whilst he spent 27 inhumanly months in a place worse than hell , his helpless family is catapulted back and forth between the complex Belgian legislation without any results . " De Hel van Tanger " is a courageous and important Belgian piece of cinema , because it effectively depicts the malfunctioning of both national and international legal systems ! The Belgian government didn't do anything for the poor family until the media got too closely involved and particularly the mismanagement of non-European prisons is forcefully criticized . The comparisons between this film and " Midnight Express " are fairly just , as both films terrifically capture the gritty and claustrophobic atmosphere of foreign prisons . The sequences inside the prison's walls are genuinely shocking and definitely not appropriate for people with a weak stomach . The place is filthy , the cells are severely overpopulated and you can't even afford half-decent food if you don't exchange it for cigarettes . Observing Marcel's physical & mental deterioration in this god-awful place is honestly depressing and therefore the title " Hell of Tangiers " is aptly chosen . The film owes a lot of its power to Filip Peeters magnificent and truly devoted performance . Peeters lost over 30kg of weight to make for the role and , near the end of the film , it really looks as if he spent those 27 months in hell . The rest of the cast exists of solid performers who are all quite famous and reliable according to Belgian standards and Frank Van Mechelen's directing is more than satisfying as well . With the financial help of commercial TV-stations , Flemish cinema is moving upwards lately and " De Hel van Tanger " is proof that things are moving towards the right direction .
I really like where the Hammer House of Horror series is going , as the quality level increases with every episode I watch ! The first one ? " Witching Time " was nothing spectacular but still fun to watch , number two ? " The Thirteenth Reunion " ? already featured the more typically Hammer trademarks and suspense and this third installment " Rude Awakening " is actually very good ! The plot may not be entirely original and plausible , but it's incredibly fast-paced and rich on atmosphere as well as tension . Denholm Elliot , the cool bloke from " Raiders of the Lost Ark " , stars as a middle-aged estate agent haunted by a series of hallucinating nightmares ? Or perhaps it's just one giant nightmare ? Or maybe he's not even asleep to begin with ! On Friday the 13th , Norman Shenley is lured to a remote and supposedly abandoned mansion where an uncanny voice tells him that he shouldn't have killed his wife . Suddenly the idea of murdering his wife and run off with his attractive secretary Lolly becomes very tempting , but Norman can't tell anymore whether his thoughts are real or all just dreamed . Peter Sasdy's directing is as surefooted as ever , as he creates confusion even among the viewers by implementing a bizarre dream / reality structure . The secretary's looks and attitude , for example , change in every dream and you never get to know the real her until the short movie's climax . " Rude Awakening " is low on explicit violence and bloodshed , but it oozes a dark atmosphere and most of the characters ? especially the supportive ones ? are pretty disturbing . It's a fantastic little film that'll keep you glued to the TV-screen for a good fifty minutes .
Wow ! Can you say ? disturbing ! ? ! With " My Friends Need Killing " , the undeservedly mocked director Paul Leder ( " I Dismember Mama " , " Ape " ) delivers one of the cheapest but also one of the all-time grittiest and most confronting post-Vietnam thriller / drama portraits ever ! Like its own subject matter , this film is thoroughly unpleasant and depressing to watch , and the poverty-row production values actually contribute a lot to the powerful impact of the story . This is one obscure 70's gem sensitive souls and people with a weak stomach should stay far away from , as it's a genuinely shocking drama revolving on thought-provoking themes such as post-Vietnam traumas , guilt , retaliation and mental instability . Greg Mullavy gives an incredibly strong performance as Gene Kline , a man who lies awake night after night haunted by visions of the inhuman crimes he and his unit buddies committed in Vietnam and unceasingly hears the agonizing screams of their victims . Then , one morning , he writes his army comrades and subsequently visits them all with the vast determination to kill . Some of them , like Gill and Walter , deliberately banned the ' Nam atrocities from their minds and others , like Les , still struggle daily as well , but Gene vividly refreshes all their memories and foresees a suitable punishment . Considering the budgetary restrictions , the massacres obviously aren't too bloody , but the atmosphere of the " My Friends Need Killing " is almost unbearably excruciating and bitter . Even during the ex-soldiers ' talkative reunion sequences , you simply feel how Paul Leder is building up towards a disturbing highlight . Mullavy is terrific , with a seemingly natural glance of despair and madness in his eyes , and he receives excellent support from the largely unknown cast . The song during the opening credits is catchy ( and typically 70's ) and the camera-work is surprisingly inventive for such an underdog film . " My Friends Need Killing " is definitely a cruel , relentless and nihilistic-toned piece of 70's film-making that is guaranteed to pester your thoughts long after seeing it . Music buffs will have noticed the title of this comment was borrowed from Billy Joel's Vietnam hit " Goodnight Saigon " . Goodnight Saigon , all right ? and also goodnight Texas , San Diego , Los Angeles and San Francisco .
No , this isn't the porno-version of Bob Clark's legendary 70's slasher , but an extremely twisted and rather sick-spirited Belgian short movie that will cover ten of the craziest minutes in your entire life ! Writer / director Pieter Van Hees surely has a demented world perspective , as he messes with pretty much all the sacred topics in life like religion , Christmas , marriage and children . The mini-plot is a mature & sadistic version of the Little Red Riding Hood fairy tale , only she's a teenage drug-whore , the wolf is a cannibalistic Nazi police-officer and the usually friendly hunter is an aggressive black burglar who disguises as Santa Claus ! He violently slaps children in the face and sleeps with the housewives whilst , parallel with these events , officer Wolfgang rapes and devours Little Red Riding Hood . This short promisingly opens with the words : " There are no good and bad guys . . . There's just bad guys and guys that are even worse ! " . And at least in this script , the characters live up to this statement . The on-screen violence is extremely graphic , with torn open torsos , wild gunfire and one entirely sickening head explosion sequence . For the true trash-fanatics , we'll even throw in some full-frontal nudity and provocative sex images ! With all the vile and demented black humor featuring in this little short , I was really proud to discover that it was made in Belgium ( where yours truly is from as well ) . In case the brief plot description sounds a little too harsh for you , there's a truly ingenious little wraparound story explaining how all the events are merely just happening on God's video game . " Black XXX-Mas " is brilliant and available for free on the internet ! It'll be ten minutes you won't regret spending in front of your computer .
Considering they had already successfully reprocessed the three most legendary horror tales by the time the 1950's were over ( Dracula , Frankenstein and the Mummy ) , it's was pretty much inevitable that the British Hammer Studios would also attempt at making their own version of " The Phantom of the Opera " . Personally , I was a little more skeptical about this idea at first because , unlike the aforementioned stories , Gaston Leroux ' classy novel does NOT revolve on shocks or gruesome images as much . Hammer is great but , let's face it , subtlety and elegance aren't exactly their biggest trumps and those characteristics happen to be fundamental when you're bringing a tale about murder & mystery in an opera house . Well anyway , I love it when my assumptions are wrong ! Hammer's Phantom is a truly masterful film , extraordinary stylish and benefiting from some of the most enchanting film sets in the history of British cinema . Scriptwriter Anthony Hinds slightly altered the original storyline without really detracting the merits of Leroux ' original tale . The story is set in England to start with , but that doesn't really matter . More noticeable is the portrayal of the phantom's persona , as he's quite an emotional weakling here and not even committing the vilest of the crimes himself . The real villain in this version is the obnoxious opera owner Lord Ambrose D'Arcy , played by the brilliant and still vastly underrated Michael Gough . Lord D'Arcy is getting praise and credit for an opera he didn't write himself . The real artist is the poor professor Petrie , who supposedly died in a fire but lives on beneath the opera house , hiding his mutilated face behind a mask . His life mission is to ruin all the recitals for his Joan of Arc piece , but when the talented Christine Charles becomes the new lead singer , his plans change and he wants her to make it the mesmerizing opera it was intended to be . The script may not be entirely flawless ( all the wrong people are punished ! ) and the grand finale is kind of a letdown , but the beauty of this whole production really compensates for everything ! Terence Fisher ' directing is accomplished as always , the decors are often breathtaking and the music occasionally even sent cold shivers down my spine . And that does not happen frequently , believe me . Herbert Lom may not be as charismatic as Lon Chaney , but his phantom performance is still very convincing . " The Phantom of the Opera " is perhaps Hammer's ' tamest ' horror movie when it comes to eerie images and violence , but it's another vintage classic and highly recommend to anyone who appreciates good storytelling .
This TV-movie is truly remarkable . It's a remake of an undeniable classic , and that word usually brings tears to your eyes . Remakes normally are a lame excuse used by uninspired directors to make more money out of a good idea . You know the drill of the average remake : bigger , louder and as less tribute to the original as possible . William Friedkin's take on 12 Angry Men is the exact opposite of all this . It's a modest re-telling of the story but obviously made with endless amounts of professionalism and respect towards the original . Taken up to an even higher level by on of the best ensemble casts of the nineties ! All members of the jury are familiar faces and some of them give away the best performances in their entire career . The acting level of the cast during some of the intense discussions and debates almost burns holes in the screens ? it's that perfect . A very special word of respect and worship goes out to Jack Lemmon , Hume Cronym and George C . Scott . These 3 late legends of the big screen kept on giving amazing performances till they sadly passed away . May their souls rest in piece , cinema will never forget them . Of course , I can't give this version the honor of being better than the original masterpiece starring Henry Fonda , but nevertheless it's an intense and fascinating courtroom drama that'll leave no soul unharmed . Naturally , one could ask the question if it was really necessary to create an update of 12 Angry Men ? the answer to that would be ? no ' of course , but what the heck . Almost every remake , sequel or spin-off is unnecessary , but that doesn't mean they can't be enjoyable .
" The Clonus Horror " quickly developed a cult and underdog reputation because there's an ongoing lawsuit between the makers of this low-budget Sci-Fi gem and Dreamworks / Michael Bay , who " stole " the concept for their massively budgeted film " The Island " . Personally I haven't seen " The Island " , too mainstream for my taste , but I can easily understand why Bay & C° had interest in the premise . It's close to brilliant , disturbing and ? considering the year of release ? impressively ahead of its time . Clonus is the name of secret and secluded location where young , handsome and sportive clones are carefully " nurtured " until their wealthy owners ( mostly politicians and industrialists ) need them for an organ transplant . Of course , the clones themselves don't know what they are and what purpose they'll eventually serve . They're led to believe that one day , when they train and study hard , they can go to America and live a life of luxury . One of the clones named Richard falls in love on the premises , skeptically begins to discover the truth about his existence and escapes into freedom . But , even though he encounters some friendly and understanding people in the outside world , Richard soon experiences that the he can't escape the fiendish Clonus conspiracy . This is another one of them films for which I can't possibly comprehend the negative reviews , hatred and low ratings . Did Michael Bay perhaps hire people to rate " The Clonus Horror " on IMDb ? Because I can't explain the miserable 3 . 30 rating otherwise . The tension and atmosphere are professionally built up , the make-up effects are admirably engrossing ( especially considering the budget ) , there are few neat and efficiently shocking twists near the end and the acting performances are fairly solid , with even some remarkable cameos of veteran stars like Keenan Wynn and Peter Graves . Terrific and criminally underrated film , I hope it soon gets the recognition and praise it deserves .
When the screaming stops ? ! ? The screaming NEVER stops , baby ! This sadly obscure and obviously cheap-produced gem is an authentic Spanish exploitation highlight and it's about time it gets the appreciation of real horror fans it deserves ! Even though more than 30 years overdue , director Amando de Ossorio finally received the much-earned respect for his " Blind Dead " quadrology and I hope that " Lorelei's Grasp " follows soon , as it's as least as fascinating and memorable as the saga of the Templar-zombies . The basic premise of this film is inspired by a terrific ancient myth and centers on a beautiful girl living in a cave underneath the Rhine . When the night falls , Lorelei mutates into a hideous watery creature and sets out to maul defenseless people , as she needs to eat the hearts in order to prolong her own existence . Considering the brutality of the first killing , the concerned teacher of a nearby girls ' school insists on hiring a watchman to protect her students and he ? the hunky Tony Kendall ? quickly becomes obsessed with the mysterious Lorelei and , of course , romantically involved with the beautiful teacher . As said , " The Lorelei's Grasp " is a magnificent film ! Amando de Ossorio masterfully combines old-fashioned tension with stylish eroticism and really graphic gore . The build up to when the Lorelei-monster mangles another victim is atmospheric and creepy , yet the actual kill is nasty as hell ! The decors and filming locations are often breathtaking and every woman that walks through the screen is a genuine beauty , especially Silvia Tortosa in her role as the teacher . There's not a single boring moment in the entire film and even the slightly disappointing finale didn't bother me that much . The monster design and some of the bloody make-up effects will probably seem ridiculous to nowadays CGI-horror fanatics , but they won't be searching for this rare film , anyway . To any other fan of vintage 70's euro-horror , " The Lorelei's Grasp " comes with my highest possible recommendation !
( Small plot spoilers ) ' Pain and the knife are inseparable ' is an often-heard line in this film , referring to the fact that surgeons until late in the 19th century had to perform their operations without anesthetics . The always-amazing Boris Karloff plays Dr . Thomas Bolton , a humanitarian medic determined to find ways to perform an actual painless operation . But Dr . Bolton doesn't receive any support from his closest colleagues , nor from the prominent hospital he works for , so he begins to experiment upon himself . Pretty soon , the heavy effects of opium and other hallucinogenic products turn him into an addict and he loses his grip on reality . The hospital precautionary suspends him after a couple of almost-fatal operations , but Dr . Bolton continues his experiments . His search for an efficient anesthetic leads him to a filthy environment of crooks and body snatchers ? ( End spoilers ) ' Corridors of Blood ' is a modest , but well thought out chiller that can depend on a charismatic performance by Boris Karloff . It's hard to pick a favorite Karloff film with all the milestones he starred in , but this simply has got to be one of his most intriguing performances . The film also is another proof that a giant budget isn't the main requisite to shoot an effective terrifying tale . Director Robert Day succeeds in creating a perfect 1840 London Victorian atmosphere . Even though the basic plot is more of a drama and / or historical study , Corridors of Blood still features several outstanding and pure ' horror ' moments , like the fast-faced images of patients suffering on the operating table . One last aspect that is certainly worth mentioning is the brief appearance of Christopher Lee as ' Resurrection Joe ' . Lee , recovering from his very first Hammer successes , impresses as an ultra-creepy villain .
The not exactly subtle director Pete Walker triumphs here with a very decent sexploitation gem about a well-hidden prison , serving to re-educate naughty young girls and ruled by an elderly couple . They ( he's a judge , she's an ex-warden who resigned due to her share in a suspicious suicide case ) found the British law-system to be ineffective and therefore order the handsome son Marc to bring pretty girls who committed small felonies back to the prison . Even though the blind and senile old judge doesn't realize it , the girls are humiliated , tortured and eventually executed . The script centers on a French nude model ( with an atrocious accent ) named Marie from the moment she gets seduced by Marc to when she faces true misery . Walker's idea is great and the film is overall very well-scripted , with an eye for black humor and imaginative perverted undertones . Our daring director clearly aims for controversy and goes for the shocks ( the opening sequence ironically states that this film is dedicated to all those who wish to see the return of capital punishment in Britain ) but yet he doesn't stuff his movie with gratuitous sleaze or explicit violence . No , he merely reaches this effect by suggestive disturbance ( the vicious hanging scene ! ) and ? especially ? the grim and ominous characters . Barbara Markham , otherwise a relatively unknown actress , is terrific as the sadistic and quite insane " head " of the prison and she receives excellent feedback from Sheila Keith as the charismatically cold warden Walker . Just as they would repeat it in the equally surprising successor " Frightmare " , scenarists Walker and David McGillivray portray the women as the depraved lunatics while the men are weak and unable to interfere . Details that prove that Walker unquestionably was the most gifted independent British filmmaker of the early seventies and his twisted world perspective make him a favorite among cult-horror fanatics . Slightly negative aspects include that many , many scenes are underexposed and far too unclear to follow . Walker also could have made more out of the potential Gothic theme and bleak prison-surrounding . But now I'm just splitting heirs ? " House of Whipcord " is an essential euroshock film , often regretfully mistaken for depthless sleaze . I highly recommend it to horror lovers that look for original and unusual stories .
" The town ? " is an early triumph in the serial-killer section of the horror genre , handling about a small American town terrorized by a masked murderer shortly after the end of World War II . Actually based on true events , the maniac picks out his victims on Lovers Lanes and shoots them without mercy . This important low-budget production , from the hands of the legendary producer Samuel Z . Arkoff , completely depends on unsettling atmosphere and the icky sound editing . The isolated location of a town of the edge of Texas and Arkansas has something raw , primitive and terrifying . This aspect is stressed extra by the grim voice-over that repeatedly informs us about the facts . Although you never get to know much about the killer's identity or personality , it's one of the most fascinating madmen in film history . His heavy breathing and primitive mask ( similar to the one Jason Vorhees wore in F13 part 2 ) make him look truly chilling and mysterious . What's also great about this movie is that it features so many tricks and familiar sub-plots , only they were used here of the first time ! Profiling of the killer , copycat behavior etc ? All this makes " The Town that Dreaded Sundown " a vastly underrated and film and more horror fans should reckon its brilliance . Too bad it's so hard to obtain a decent copy of it . I spent years looking for this film before finally seeing it in poor picture quality . The only few flaws to detect is the lousy and typical redneck humor that director Charles B . Pierce inserts in order to lighten the demanding tone of the film . The same mistake also almost ruined Wes Craven's " Last House on the Left " .
Wow ! Phew ! This has never happened to me before ? I've never been in love as much as I'm in love with Lady Terminator . Ours is a marriage made in heaven and I swear I'll love her till the end of times . She's quite the lady , all right , but she's also so much more . She's the duchess of sleaze , the queen of exploitation , the empress of tastelessness and the goddess of rip-offs ! This is quite possibly the most outrageously amusing movie ever made and all those people complaining about how awful and unoriginal it is should either lay off drinking entire bottles of vinegar and / or make the effort to research what the ( foreign ) exploitation film industry is all about , anyway . How do you recognize the ideal cult movie classic ? Well , if you're witnessing gratuitous nudity , bloody killings , eels crawling out a woman's vagina and inexplicably changing into a daggers and delightfully cheesy quotes like " I shall now retire to the see but return in a hundred years to have my vengeance on your great-great-granddaughter ? " ) , during the first five minutes ? even before the opening credits appeared on screen ? THEN I'd say you found yourself the ideal cult movie classic . And it even gets better ? Much better , in fact ! One hundred years ago , the malignant Queen of the South Sea swore to kill the female descendant of the man she loved but whom betrayed her . To fulfill this promise , the Queen's evil spirit possesses the luscious body of an innocent young anthropologist student ( Barbara Anne Constable in her sole but unforgettable performance ) and turns her into an indestructible , unstoppable , sex-driven and relentless killing machine . Armed with heavy artillery and a literally endless amount of ammunition , Lady Terminator goes on her mission and she isn't too concerned about the trail of collateral damage she leaves . Our heroine quickly finds her target but she ? Erica ? receives protection from a clique of hilariously implausible cop characters , one with a ludicrous mullet . I honestly can't imagine anyone who watches " Lady Terminator " , with the correct attitude and / or in the right state of mind , won't tremendously enjoy it ! Everything about this movie is so WRONG ; I simply love it ! The sudden change in tone , from an Indonesian folklore myth about the Queen of the South Sea into a wannabe American Sci-Fi imitation of one of the genre's greatest classics , is stupendously amusing , the character drawings are wondrously inept , the dialogs as well as the acting performances and the English dubbing are completely bonkers to listen to and ? last but not least ? the use of violence is so unimaginably excessive and graphical ! If you love James Cameron's " The Terminator " ( and who doesn't , right ? ) , you actually should watch " Lady Terminator " and try and consider it as some sort of crazy homage . As soon as the possessed girl walks out of the sea butt-naked , the shamelessly copied ideas and sequences of " The Terminator " become impossible to list . Almost identical to how Arnold Schwarszenegger did it , Lady Terminator dodges shotgun bullets , drives a car into a police station in broad daylight , performs eyeball operations on herself and makes a whole lot of victims before she reaches Sarah Connor ? I mean , Erica . This movie literally has everything : gore , sex , stupidity , bizarre characters , a typically 80's pop-song sung from start to finish , an incredibly inappropriate " we're falling in love " sub plot and a stoned 80's dude with the ugliest mullet hairdo ever . Please marry me , Lady Terminator ?
THIS is perhaps the greatest film ever made . A passionately penned down portrait revolving on the downfall of the West-era . Brilliantly filmed , with careful attention for the smallest detail and performed by gifted actors and actresses in not so obvious roles . Straight from the slow and clammy opening credits sequence , you notice that this is an epic that will require your full attention and one that'll automatically provoke great feelings of respect and admiration . A cowboy's struggle with a fly is portrayed like it is a devastating battle , guided by unnatural noises on the background that put an extra emphasis on the unbearably tropic climate . This is the merciless West and you need your eyes and ears focused at all times to avoid trouble with someone more powerful than you . I have seen this masterpiece of film-making numberless times now and I still get mesmerized instantly when I behold the atmospheric set-pieces and the ominous characters . A truly magnificent opening to what will become a powerful movie experience and yet nothing of the actual storyline has been revealed yet ! " Once upon a time in the West " is a collaboration between titans . . . For the flawless screenplay , Leone ( already a master-writer himself ) received assistance from no less than Bernardo Bertolucci and Dario Argento ( this latter is a personal God of mine ) . These icons , who already deserve statues for the work they did separately , combine their talents and deliver a genuine western story that involves organized crime , blackmail , revenge and even human emotions . Separate story lines that only come together neatly in the end , after a series of fascinating sequences filled with suspense and dazzling action . Leone grabs every chance to innovate with both hands and this results in unexpected shock moments ( the slaughter of the Irish family ) and even completely unimaginable anti-castings ( Henry Fonda as a relentless gangster ? ) . The main story lines are very diverse but Leone takes his time to slowly clarify them all . Tough guys are hired secure the construction of a railroad while a notorious gangster escapes from jail , only to find out that someone abused his trademarks to get their dirty work done . A beautiful woman has been widowed without knowing it and she stands alone in an abandoned , dangerous land . And then there's a lonely cowboy patiently waiting to fight a personal battle of which no one knows the details . If you've chosen to watch " Once upon a time in the West " , get ready to be overwhelmed by fascination and involvement . . . expect yourself to sit on the edge of your seat , exploring all the corners of the TV-screen as you want to make sure you're not missing a thing ! Leone could count on the perfect cast , with the already mentioned Henry Fonda in an unusual but fitting role and Claudia Cardinale who embodies every male creature's dream . Charles Bronson and Jason Robards complete the great cast , both in the finest roles of their overall brilliant careers . The previously summed up elements already indicate that this is an unmissable cinema event and then I haven't even spoken of the music yet ! For many fans the ultimate reason to point out " Once upon a time in the West " as the greatest film ever made and they're right ! Ennio Morricone's score is so marvelous , so perfect that it began to lead its own life outside the film . The constantly repeated tunes " Man with the Harmonica " and " Goodbye to Cheyenne " cause a chemical reaction inside your body every time and they provide the story with extra depth and atmosphere . The images on the screen and the music you hear form a wholesome that can never be topped in cinema . This is the best , period ! We should only use superlatives when talking about this film : the BEST and the most UNIQUE In case I haven't made myself clear thus far : " Once upon a time in the West " is a motion picture that belongs in every DVD-collection . With my most sincere apologies to Sam Peckinpah , John Ford and Howard Hawks but this is simply put the best western ever !
