I haven't seen any Steven Seagal movies apart from this one , and I probably won't , considering how awful this one is . If the rest of his films are even remotely as bad as this one , I can't understand how he could manage to have such a long career . Everything about this film is bad : the plot is lame , slow , and has more holes in it than the victim of a heavy burst of machine gun fire . The acting is horrendous , by each and every single actor ; I don't really blame Caine , McGinley or Thornton , I've seen them do much better . I blame the lousy script and the badly written characters . The characters are as cliché as they get . The dialog , ugh , the dialog . . . how can I possibly make it clear just how impossibly bad and unimaginative it is . . . do you know the saying : " this is so bad that it's good " ? Well , the dialog in this movie , to quote Ghost World , " is so bad it's gone past good and back to bad again " . The whole movie reeks cliché from every orifice . The fight scenes are OK , but they don't make up for the rest of the movie . Also , all of the fighting is seen before , and done better plenty of times . By the way , what the heck was up with the extreme overuse of slow-motion , especially during the fight scenes ? It was even used at all the wrong places , most of the time . The film has a message , yes , and a good one , definitely , but the way it's told is so unbelievably obvious and preachy . . . has Seagal ever heard of " subtlety " ? Apparently not . I only recommend this to huge fans action / martial arts , and possibly also huge Seagal fans . For everyone else , you should skip this one . You can find a better way to kill slightly less than two hours .
Well , here it is . . . the last Porky's film . The lowest of the low . Does it actually get any worse than this ? I hope not . The first two movies had some ( albeit not an awful lot ) value and were just above being garbage committed to celluloid . . . this one is different , worse . The direction is lazy and uninspired . Scene after scene is misdirected and lacks effect . The writing , since the first two films , has taken a turn for the worse , something I didn't think possible before watching this tripe . Characters are messed up completely , going in a completely different direction from what was seen in the first two films . Jokes and gags are incredibly forced and unforgivably poor . The humor is taken down a further notch from the first two films ; again , a surprise for those of us who weren't aware that it was possible to go any lower . Acting is overplayed and uninspired . Unlike the first two films , this one doesn't have one single redeeming quality . . . it's just bad . Really , really bad . I couldn't give you one good reason to watch this film . . . not a single one . I recommend this only to people who loved the first two so much that they simply can't stand the notion of there being a film in the series that they haven't seen . . . no matter how bad it is . Everyone else should avoid this . . . at all and any costs .
When I heard about this film ( some three years ago , I think ) I immediately shunned the very thought of sparing it as much as a glance , due to my strong dislike of Matthew Perry . Then the TV channels started sending it . Over . And over . And over . And today , after who knows how many times I've skipped it ( which I thank myself for , even more so now ) , I decided to give it a shot . . . you know why ? I found out Neve Campbell was in it . Of course , that's not the only reason . . . Campbell's hot , and a good actress , but she's not good enough to outweigh Perry's aggravatingly stupid presence . No , what really did it was that I found out that John C . McGinley had a role in it . Believe me , as long as he's in it , I'll watch almost anything . I discovered and immediately loved McGinley when I saw an episode of the series " Scrubs " , and saw , nay , experienced his character of Dr . Perry Cox dish out one hell of a verbal punishment . I'm not exaggerating , I'd watch " Scrubs " if it was just half a minute of McGinley giving one of his speeches directly at the camera , once a week . I love his character . Since I know he often plays that same type of character ( The Animal , On Deadly Ground and The Rock ) , I hoped that he would have a big role in this , and that he'd make the movie tolerable . Unfortunately , it was not to be . His entire screen-time amounts to about five minutes in total , and the film is even more horrible that I could have imagined . The plot is one of the most ridiculous and unoriginal that I've ever heard . The pacing is so bad that it seems like the director expects the audience through anything . The acting is not worth mentioning . The characters are all clichés and stereotypes . . . especially the characters that were supposed to be homosexuals . Believe me , I try to be tolerable . My personal philosophy of , well , anything at all , pretty much , is as follows : as long as it doesn't hurt anyone , I'm fine with it . Homosexuality , metro sexuality , sports . . . anything . As long as no one is hurt , neither physically nor psychologically . I try to tolerate and respect any and all movies out there . . . but I can't bring myself to respect this putrid piece of trash . I know the majority of people are ( at least , so it would appear , from all the ' entertainment ' based on this assumption ) ignorant when it comes to homosexuality . . . but this is too much . This is too far . Every single human being is supposed to have that one impulse-controlling part of the brain , the one that keeps you from jumping on every woman that walks by you , and so on . . . but apparently the director and everyone else who really had anything to say on the production on this . . . ' film ' didn't have that . Just when you think it has reached the bottom , it goes lower . Why must Hollywood portray homosexuals as constantly horny , will-take-what-they-can-get types ? Are we supposed to think they are some kind of animal ? A genetic mutation ? Why ? Just because they aren't interested in women on a sexual level ? I think if I ever had one wish granted , it would be to have a . . . shall we say ' talk ' with the director of this putrid piece of cinema . Tell him exactly how ignorant he is . . . if possible , keep him from spewing of more movies like this . It's people like him and the director of other horrible propaganda-like movies like Saving Silverman , which displayed atrocious amounts of misogynistic tendencies in its tone that are the downfall of morality . . . not violence in popular media . I don't recommend this movie to anyone . . . stay away . . . far away . You might catch ' stupid ' from watching it . I know my head feels lighter . . . about 20-30 IQ points .
Yep , that's it . Cold and hard . You can call this film ' sweet ' . You can try to justify its existence through every possible way known to man . You can even claim that it's romantic , rather than dated , derivative and ' been there , done that ' . Nothing will change the fact that this film simply is not funny . The humor is just not there . The chemistry between the cast is non-existent . The film reeks of ' could have been ' . There's nothing funny about it . While I watched , I tried come up with things less amusing than this film ; I couldn't think of a thing . Within the first thirty minutes or so , there's an ethnic wedding . Somehow , I felt that it was supposed to be funny , that I should laugh , but nothing about it was even remotely humorous . Early on , there's a scene where Aniston's character's boss tells her she needs to spend more money than she has if she wants a promotion . I couldn't help but be disgusted at this ; in a country where a few people have almost all of the money and so many people have nothing at all , someone actually looks down who doesn't spend more than they need to . Worse even , this is passed off as humor . I felt like turning off the TV at that point , but due to my strong curiosity , in other words , my desire to find out if this garbage got any worse forced me to keep watching . Fortunately , it didn't , but I still couldn't muster up the effort to watch attentively after that first half hour . The plot is so stupid and far-fetched that it's almost a waste of space to put it in writing here , but I feel that I must warn others , deter them from watching this utter mess . Aniston , as just mentioned , can't get a promotion if she doesn't start spending more money . Her friend knows this , so she does what any sensible person would do for their best friend . . . she uses a big , fat lie to get her the promotion . She tells the boss that Aniston is engaged to be wed . Apparently , this also makes her attractive to a guy she's in love with . . . like I said , I didn't pay much attention to it . Not much else to say . . . the acting is fair . Jay Mohr ( who I am a fairly big fan of , and because of whom I watched the film at all ) does very good , as usual . The film isn't really worth watching , for any reason at all . I recommend this only to huge fans of one of the leads and girls who sob over even the most ridiculous love story . No one else should bother .
As this aired on TV , having heard nothing but awful things about it , I decided to see for myself if they were true . Oh how they are . From the very first frame . The Italian ( who aren't the only in this mess , trust me ) stereotypes are irritating right from the beginning . I am not certain if absolutely nothing positive came from the couple ? I don't really make it a point to look into the personal lives of celebrities ? but if anything did , this was not it . Say it with me ? just because two people work off screen does not mean they will on as well . Both of them having a poorly done accent each doesn't really help . The plot is never engaging and consistently utterly uninteresting . The pacing is drab . For the entirety of this picture , nothing whatsoever happens . This overstays its welcome something fierce . The language really felt thrown in , without any actual point to it . There are aspects of this that are just offensive . Walken and Pacino must be kicking themselves . Not a single scene is captivating or entertaining . The dialog is largely unimpressive , and holds no memorable or quotable lines . It also tries far too hard to sound eloquent . Filming and editing are average at best . Neither Lopez nor Affleck are particularly convincing . At least the latter doesn't hold any delusions of ability as a musician , and has proved himself an actual actor elsewhere . I recommend this solely to the biggest fans of Jennifer Lopez and Ben Affleck . Everyone else ? you have been warned .
When I borrowed this from a friend , he said that it was " just a stupid little movie that you could watch , if you didn't take it seriously . . . at all " . Well , I must say , he was absolutely right . This film has no redeeming qualities whatsoever . . . it's just bad . The very idea is so stupid that it's no wonder that this was an independent film . . . I can't imagine a studio that would be so overbearing that it would fund a film like this . I have seen some bad horror films in my time , but this is just . . . it's hard to put into words just how bad it is . The plot is stupid and lame . The pacing is horrible . How can 90 minutes go by so slowly ? The acting is awful with no exceptions . And I do mean awful . Not one single character is convincingly acted . Even Rip Torn , the one name on the cast list that is actually a recognizable actor , does a bad job in this . I'm going to have to assume that it's the quality of the direction that is to blame for this , as Rip does a fine job in everything else I've seen him in . The characters are poorly written and not even the least bit credible . They are paper-thin , stereotypical and clichéd as well . The dialog is poorly written , and can be divided into two sections , both equally bad . The first is all the standard dialog that you hear in all of these half-cooked horror films . . . the clichéd stuff . " Something is in there ! " " It will kill again ! " Stuff like that . The second is dialog made up to sound smart . . . most of this is said by the character of the son . This is something the writer put in to appeal to teenagers that see the film . . . which is a problem , because the son character is supposed to be an inquisitive , book-smart , intelligent kid . So it doesn't fit very well to have him say " dude " and " cool " in-between his smart lines . The doll was about as scary as a visit at grand-ma's . . . and that's being generous . The film has very few , if any , genuine scares or shocks . The premise is unoriginal . The only real reason to see this is to laugh at the pure ridiculous nature of it . The number of clichés , the amount of stupidity in the production , the ludicrous script , the lack of creativity . . . it can't be properly described . If you have a chance to do so for free , see it for yourself and you'll see what I mean . An unremarkable film that is only worth spending time on if you , like me , want to compare horror films ( particularly bad ones ) . No one should have to spend money on seeing it , though , unless they are crazy about " killer doll " horror films . I recommend it only to people belonging in one of the two aforementioned groups . No one else .
I had expected this movie to impress me with good action scenes , and probably some good humor too ; I was heavily disappointed . I knew it was about cars , but come on , nothing else ? The movie consists of scene after scene involving cars racing . It might as well have taken place at a race track . The humor mainly consists of the main character constantly being kept from having sex with his girlfriend . The action scenes consist of a lot of people shooting , without it ever being very clear what the hell they're shooting at . Now , I'm not a big racing movie fan , in fact , I mostly hate movies that involve a lot of car racing , but some good movies involving cars have impressed me ( The Matrix Reloaded , for example ) , but I must admit , the car scenes in this movie were simply nothing special . The plot is instantly forgettable . The characters are annoying . The stunts are nothing that isn't seen hundreds of times before . The movie is in no way entertaining , impressive , or just mildly worth your time . Skip this one , no matter how big a racing movie fan you are . I don't recommend this movie to anyone , unless they are so into cars that they can't stand the thought of not having seen every single movie involving them .
I watched this film thinking that it was the half-cooked horror flick of the same name about a serial killing snowman ( yeah , I know , but it's one of those films where you just have to see it , just to find out if it's really as bad as it sounds ) . While it rather quickly became apparent to me that it wasn't , I decided to keep watching , thinking that it might be better . . . worth watching . I don't know if it's better , but I wouldn't say that it was worth watching . While there may be a scene or two early on that are somewhat interesting and / or entertaining , but once Jack turns frosty . . . well , the film really starts to go downhill . Scene after scene of forced sentimentality and ' moving ' moments . I'm not against touching films ; as I'm writing this , What Makes a Family is on TV , a film I consider to be excellent . I'm just against these phony attempts at providing touching moments . Nothing seems genuine or heart-felt in this film . It's set up to be and played as it , but it just doesn't work . The humor tries way too hard to be clever , and falls flat on its face . Gags and jokes are terribly overplayed . Plot is dull , however original it may be ( I honestly haven't bothered to look into that ) . The pacing is poor , the film barely held my interest for more than a few minutes in a row . The acting is uninspired . The dialog and writing in general is insipid . The whole film is just not very memorable . I recommend it only to huge fans of Michael Keaton , and even those should consider if it's really worth it .
This is one of several NP2K films that was made by multiple of the site's frequenters . . . rather than , as usual , the frequenter and their own group ; a collaboration . This has ( from what I could tell from the credits , the editing of Eric Branco , but the listing here doesn't seem to agree ) the direction of Bryan Harley and the writing of Adam Bertocci . Of them , it is the last ( sorry , guys ) that I could recognize the most . The mix is interesting enough to watch , and I personally disagree with the votes of 1 . . . I realize that every time there's a title here on the site with a low ranking and / or a bad rep , there's at least one review with the sentiment ( many times , even as a summary ) " it wasn't that bad . . . " , so I'm not going to add to that . Instead , I'll say that this could have been a lot worse , even if it could also have been better . As has been said , a lot of the comedy is forced . This never is quite as funny as it tries to be , but it does bring some good stuff , and the writing has at least two references that people who know Adam will get ( and if you've got no clue who the guy is , you may still , they're not really in-jokes ) . The plot isn't bad , the idea behind it is perhaps the most memorable aspect of this . Acting varies . Keep your eyes open for a Harley regular or several . Editing and cinematography do the job , but they could have been more engaging . I recommend this to fans of off-beat , quirky comedy , particularly that of Adam's . . . just know that the people who made this have done finer work elsewhere .
I've never really been a fan of Stephen King . He always seems to write basically the same story , the same characters . . . and use the same scares . The movies based on his films are not always bad . . . but for the most part , they are even worse than his books . Mick Garris is the man who typically directs films of the books King writes . Usually these films are made-for-TV . . . and after / if you see this exception , you'll know exactly why that is . You'll also realize that it's for the best . The film is about vampire creatures who are deathly afraid of cats , apparently because of the animals importance and symbolism in ancient Egypt ( ! ) . The creatures look quite a lot like cats themselves . . . when not in human form , of course . They have the ability to cloak themselves and the things around them . . . except , of course , from the sharp senses of their natural enemy , the cats . The ridiculousness of this film doesn't stop there . . . but I wouldn't want to spoil anything . The film is quite entertaining , if only for the fact that it's so incredibly poorly made and corny . The one-liners , the effects , the situations . . . oh the humanity ! It needs to be experienced to be believed . The plot is decent , however unbelievable . The pacing is fairly bad ; for being so short , the film is boring a lot of the time . The acting is barely passable . The characters are mostly stereotypes . The dialog has its moments , but they're few and far between . I'm not certain if the film was supposed to be corny and cheesy , or if King just gave up half-way through the script and started making a stronger emphasis on the humor . There an idea in the film that the audience should feel sorry for the sleepwalkers , but it's so vague and underdeveloped that it doesn't work . Then there's the incestuous mother-son relationship between the sleepwalkers , which I'm sure has turned many viewers ( potential as well as actual ) off ( pardon the pun ) , as well as disgust them to the point of turning it off or deciding against watching it altogether . Something that will probably be a kick to the horror-fans out there ( it was for me , anyway ) is that five known names in horror have cameos in the film ; Tobe Hooper , Joe Dante , John Landis , Clive Barker and Stephen King himself . In conclusion , this film is really only worthwhile for die-hard fans of cheesy horror flicks . I recommend it to fans of the genre and / or of corny horror films , as well as anyone who's willing to sit through it to spot one or more of the five aforementioned horror persona's .
I've never been a big fan of monster films , and after having seen the first , I merely watched this to see if it was as bad . Since the first concerned a truck-driving , winged monster who was " the devil , a demon or just some evil thing " with an affinity for oldies and eating people's body parts in an insect-like cycle , I felt an inexplicable urge to see if this one followed the same idea , or if it had been developed a little . I didn't see anything really different from the first , apart from the fact that there were far more victims , and far more characters ( one wonders if there is some connection between the two ) . The plot takes place mostly in and around a broken down school bus , which allows for some good shocks , some unintentionally funny moments and some OK suspense . The plot is pretty good , though it seemed to not only slow down , but actually stand still for too long at a time . The acting is OK , but nothing special , but since none of the actors are well-known , it's not surprising . The characters are somewhat believable , and their actions are reasonably credible , but rarely particularly likable . The script is very poorly written , which pulls the rest of the movie down ; the dialog is very repetitive and unimaginative , and far too many of the situations were predictable . The special effects are better than the first , but there were a little too many fake-looking effects that make it less scary . All in all , an OK sequel to the first one . I recommend this to anyone who enjoyed the first .
This is a very shoddily made horror / comedy film about toxic spiders . The film is so predictable and boring , that I doubt that anyone would be surprised or shocked by anything that takes place in the film . The attempts at horror fall flat ; I found myself often laughing at what I guess was supposed to be scary . The ending was so ridiculous that it was anticlimactic . The films theme immediately reminded me of Eight Legged Freaks , but I can definitely say that this has nothing at all to offer compared to that film . Every single attempt at comedy failed , but that was overshadowed by the fact that the production values actually made it look like this had the budget of a TV-movie . In fact , had it not been for the few big names on the cast list , I could have sworn that it was a made-for-TV movie . Maybe it should have been ; at least that would have given it an excuse for being so lame . I doubt that anyone who doesn't have arachnophobia themselves will find any part of this film scary . The acting is decent . The humor is pathetic . The film sustains a slow , boring pace throughout the film , but somehow , I never really felt like turning it off , which is the only reason that I rate it a 5 . A decent way to kill two hours , if you're either in the mood for laughing at a poorly made excuse for a horror movie , or you want to be scared , and you have arachnophobia ( in which case , the film probably will scare you , at least to some extent ) . I wonder if one can get Arachnophobia-phobia ? I recommend it to people who belong in one of the two aforementioned groups .
This was a little too far out and boring , it has it's moments , but mostly it's just one long lesson in " how to be one of the cool girls in high school " . The plot is pretty far-fetched , but does allow a few very funny , very black moments . The acting is pretty good , mostly . The plot seemed to try to get going right from the start , and then the scriptwriter ran out of ideas , so he just stalled the movie , until the ending . The humor is pretty black , and definitely too much for many peoples taste ; however , if you're into black humor , you'll most likely enjoy it . Most of the film is a bit slow and boring , it pretty much goes downhill fifteen minutes into the movie ; it doesn't really pick up until the very end , and by then it's too late to save it . It has it's moments of great black humor , but at the end , it just seems empty , without a real purpose other than an instantaneous laugh , only to quickly forget it again . This is a movie you can see once , if you're into black humor and teen comedy , and then never watch it again .
When someone takes such a good idea . . . a man who decides to break the ten commandments in order to spite god . . . and creates a movie out of it , I tend to sit up and pay attention . I won't lie , part of me watching this was in order to enjoy watching someone mocking religion ( me being a lifelong Atheist ) , at least at first ( when I watched this at age . . . what , eleven ? when it first came out ) , but I started to see it as a somewhat good satire . However , that's all it is . . . somewhat good satire . There is some good questions in this film . . . dealing with faith and religion . However , the film spends too much time on . . . nothing . Plenty of time passes without anything important happening . And in the end , it's just too cookie-cut and happy to mean anything . It should have kept with the style instead . The whole film is shot very darkly and dreary , every single scene looks at though it's night-time and is seen through the eyes of a natural born pessimist . The plot is fairly good . The pacing is decent . The acting is solid . The characters are fairly well-written , though a few of them are underdeveloped . The whole romantic part of the film ( together with the ending ) makes it too sweet and pretty . Too positive compared with the rest of the film . As if the writer / director was bound and gagged while someone more positive finished the film and added the romantic subplot . The dark comedy is one of the best points of the film . Very funny . The satire is quite good , as well . All in all , a fairly good film , but not one to make a quest out of getting your hands on . I recommend it to fans of the actors and of dark comedies . People with questions for religion ( particularly Christianity ) might also want to check it out .
Since this has just about every conceivable teen flick stereotype and just about every teen drama cliche there is , it's kind of hard to take it seriously . The story is just the typical " unaccepted romance " , with the happy ending which is in plain sight of everyone but the most naive of viewers , less than two minutes into the film . Think of every single cliche and stereotype for teen dramas ; the interracial relationship , the teen who's headed for trouble because he / she feels the need to rebel , the troubled relationship , the parent who doesn't accept this or that . . . every single one , with one or two possible exceptions is crammed into this movie . The plot is decent , but it's seen before , and it's been done better . The pace is decent , but pretty draggy , for a 90 minute film . The acting ranges , from good to pretty bad . Dunst's performance ranges between those two . The various other actors performances range ; about half of them are good , and the other half bad . The characters are , like I mentioned before , mostly stereotypes . That makes it fairly hard to relate to any of them , or even care the slightest about what happens to them . The dialog is flat . The humor is nearly non-existent ( arguably not necessarily something that needs to be taken into account in a romance-drama , but still ) and often badly delivered . The romance portion of the film is so dull , predictable and fake in appearance ; like another reviewer so eloquently put it , a few Kodak moments do not make a good romance . All in all , I guess the film is decent , average . Nothing more , possibly a little less . I recommend it to fans of the actors , fans of teen dramas , and fans of romance movies . Everyone else should avoid it .
I have not read the novel , nor do I particularly intend to . It isn't too difficult to tell that this is basically ( that would be completely fine , if it was just , you know , good ) a dog movie ( right down to the usual near-ending scene of such ) , with the addition of a werewolf . That likes to play with its food , tends to be utterly incapable of closing its mouth , and the effects of which scream " we paid for this animatronic and darn it , we're gonna use it " . The framing seems odd . The pacing only gets to be painful when this tries to build suspense ( meanwhile , did it ever occur to them to go for an effective reveal on the creature ? Or at least attempt to hide how obviously fake it looks ? ) , with it merely being decent apart from that . The characters , motivations and credibility could use more consistency and quality writing . The script jumps straight into all the pitfalls of clichés and predictable developments , and after it makes an effort to change the familiar rules of the lore ( presumably to tailor them to what they wanted to do in this ) , it proceeds to follow them instead of going with what they changed it to . The music isn't always dreadful , but it is considerably grander than the visuals it's put to , once or twice . The acting is adequate , no one really stands out as either strongly positive or negative ( and they didn't have a lot to work with ) . The actor playing the being does have the voice and the appearance to match it . The kid isn't that expressive . This at most barely reaches the running time of a feature-length production . The camera and editing are powerfully uninspired , when at their best . There's some gratuitous sex and violence , and a little language . This can be fun to MST3K , though beyond that , hope for and expect little satisfaction from this mutt of a picture . I recommend this solely to the biggest fans of canine ( think Lassie ) and / or undead flicks .
When I first heard of this film , I remember being quite unimpressed . Everything I heard about it told me that it was , at best a half-cooked , Luke-warm psychological thriller . I put off watching it for the longest time ; I only just saw it tonight . Sadly , it proved to be exactly what I had expected it to be . The basic idea is decent enough ; the idea of believing something and suddenly finding yourself doubting those beliefs . Of course , some genius decided to take that idea , put it in a psychological thriller and mix it with a horror-mystery . The result is a mish-mash that never actually becomes anything even remotely solid . The focus is all over the place . About half-way through the film , plot twists start to crop up . . . apparently to keep the film going and to distract the viewer from how pointless and nonsensical the film is . The plot never actually makes sense . The acting is overplayed , as is the direction . The characters are caricatures . There is nothing new here ; merely an unsuccessful attempt at combining two far too different movie genres . What really gets to me is that this is done by Mathieu Kassovitz . . . the man who directed The Crimson Rivers , which at the very least showed promise . This doesn't . It's just incredibly poor . One would think that he'd have improved , but he seems to be getting worse . The writing is awful . I can't recall when I've last witnessed such horrible dialog . The scenes , actions and the rest of the writing aren't exactly the epitome of good film-making , either . This movie is just as bad as they all say ; possibly worse . There is nothing interesting or worthwhile here . Everything here has been done before , and far , far better . I recommend this only to huge fans of the people involved in making it . No one else should bother .
Considering the concept of this , it could perhaps have been funnier . And if the ending was not as formulaic , unsatisfying and easy to figure out / obvious , that would have been just peachy . But what you get isn't bad . Caan , Grant , Tripplehorn , Young and Viterelli shine . Anyone who would call themselves a fan of one or more of aforementioned may want to consider giving it a look or three . This definitely has memorable moments of pure gold and hilarity . The jokes and gags tend to remain within the confines of what can be called good taste , without being boring . The whole Italian / mobster thing is played well , in spite of somewhat clichéd portrayals here and there . The pacing is good . The music choices are . . . interesting , but often nice and fitting . As far as mafia comedies go , you can certainly do worse , there are ones out there where you have to wonder why even one movie was made , much less a sequel ( read : Analyze This series ) . I recommend this to all who think this sound appealing . There are scenes in this that can leave you in stitches . It's really too bad both of them are within the first half hour or so .
Following the success of the first Child's Play Don Mancini was asked to write a sequel . Not much later , he was asked to write a third film of the franchise . He said it impacted his writing , as he was out of ideas after writing this one . Well , how many ideas did he have before , exactly ? The first had a fairly good plot , but this has the unlucky fate of being the second film in a series of films that started with an idea that only really allowed for one film . The same could be said of Terminator 2 , but James Cameron worked that out nicely , by directing a sequel that was almost a remake . But enough about that . Where this movie goes wrong plot-wise is by using a cheap ploy to put Andy , our main character , in basically the exact same situation that he was in the first film ; knowing that the doll was alive but no one believing him . That worked well in the first film , partly because we weren't sure if Chucky was alive for a while . Here , it's just a cheap ploy to ensure that no one will help Andy . Of course , this installation also suffers under the curse of sequels to horror movies ; everything needs to be bigger ( because ' bigger is better ' ) . More deaths , more gruesome death scenes and , for some reason , more obscenities . It might be because Chucky talks more for this one , but he seemed to swear more randomly as well . And why was he suddenly so bloody lighthearted ? Early in the film , he seemed to laugh every five seconds . Anyway , the deaths are nicely done , and the fact that there are more of them doesn't bother me ( I am a horror fan , after all ) . It's more how they are virtually ignored or written off by characters in the film . In the first film , the deaths were few and far between , and they looked like accidents . Here , the bodies pile up , and it's clear to anyone that these are intentional killings . Which leads me to a gaping plot hole ; in the first , we were told that he was a psychopath and a killer . The killings weren't expanded upon . Here , we're told that he , being the voodoo aficionado that he is , killed them ritually . Now , if he did that when he was alive , why does he settle for just killing people now that he's dead ? I mean , he does go out of his way to kill people , but now he doesn't care about the voodoo stuff anymore ? What gives ? Now , as the one line summary of my comment tells you , this has grotesque amounts of ' fake ' scares . For anyone who doesn't know what that means , it's getting a cheap jump-scare out of the viewers through something that has nothing to do with the actual horror of the film . Cat jumping down from high point , friend appearing suddenly from behind character , etc . You know them , I know them , and we ( by ' we ' I mean us horror fans ) all hate them . The plot is somewhat good , what little there is of it , though too much of it is just to set up new Chucky scenes , either involving him going after Andy or killing off one or more of the many characters that have the words ' I'm going to be killed off ' printed on their foreheads from the moment we see them ( . . . not literally , of course ) . Which brings me to the point of the characters . They are somewhat well-written and credible , but they are in no way interesting or likable ( with the exception of Andy and Kyle ) , making them uninteresting victims ( where's the fun in seeing you don't care about getting killed ? ) and they , like the plot , are written around how Chucky acts , to protect him and his ' mission ' from interference . The acting is good enough , with Christine Elise and Alex Vincent , the kid who plays Andy being the only two who transcend the mediocre level of acting that everyone else seems to stay at . The special effects have clearly evolved quite a lot since the first , and it makes the Chucky scenes more pleasing to the eye . The end is about as overdone as the first one . All in all , probably only a film for the people who really liked the first . If you only ' kind of ' enjoyed the first , you probably won't like this one . . . unless you thought what the first lacked was more death and less plot . I recommend this to fans of the first and of horror in general . I don't advise anyone to watch this if you haven't seen the first yet , though . Not only is the first a better film , it sets the tone for this pretty well and contains a lot of plot that this doesn't summarize for new viewers .
Having seen many thrillers , most of them being formulaic , I was somewhat excited to see this one , since it has a pretty good cast ; Stellan Skarsgård , Leelee Sobieski & Diane Lane . The plot does , admittedly have some holes , but these newer thrillers are rarely ( read : never ) perfect . All things considered , it wasn't a disappointment , as I didn't have that high expectations . The plot is OK , fairly see-through and obvious though , but it does have some twists that I ( even though I may be alone on this ) wasn't expecting . The acting isn't anything special , but at least Skarsgård and Sobieski both pull of decent performances . The characters are reasonably well-written , none of them come off as one-dimensional stereotypes , even though some of them , in all honesty , more or less are . The script is fairly well-written , though it does have its share of cliches , but most films do , anyway . All in all , a fair addition to the thriller genre , nothing that will stay in your mind for a long while after seeing it . It will , however , most likely keep your interest for the duration of the film , and keep you entertained , too . I recommend it to fans of thrillers , it would help to be a fan of at least one of the actors , and it doesn't hurt to have reasonably low standards or expectations .
First off , let it be known that the reason I rented this was because of my seemingly never-ending crush on Milla Jovovich . I started watching because of her , but I kept watching because I genuinely enjoyed what I saw . The film starts out a tad slow , but it quickly picks up and never lets the viewer down again . The thought of not paying attention to it never crossed my mind past the ten minute mark or so . I hadn't expected such a good film at all , particularly because the name Bob Rafelson meant nothing to me before I saw this . I seldom have high expectations for films from directors whom I have no prior experience with unless someone tell me that they're good . The plot takes so many twists and turns that you'll have to pay attention to keep track of it . The pace picks up almost instantly . The acting is all very good . The characters are all well-cast , well-written and for the most part credible . The film is quite well-shot . In the end , what keeps you watching is the twists more than anything else . There's very little chance of connecting with any of the characters , and when all is said and done , it's hardly a life-changing film , or even one that will stay in your memory very long after watching it . Good watching for fans of the actors , not good for much else . I recommend this to fans of anyone involved in the film and / or of this kind of thriller .
At some point in the early nineties , with video-games becoming more and more common , and Disney cranking out a new adventure for the little ones every chance they got , a fad was born . Now , pretty much every time Disney releases a new animated feature , they also simultaneously release one of their so-called Action Games based on the film ( provided it was one that had some ( if not necessarily very much ) measure of potential to form an action game around , of course ) . While these have varied in quality ( the early ones , like Aladdin ( in particular ) and The Lion King were quite entertaining and fairly well-crafted ) , most of them are obvious and weak attempts at milking the concept , getting more money from the people who enjoyed the movie ( and the parents of the kids who did , provided said kids are good at bugging their folks into getting ' ' em stuff ) . This is one such effort , and while that's pretty clear from the very beginning of the game , it's actually somewhat entertaining ( I know , it surprised me , too ) . You start off training for a few levels , with plenty of references to that sequence . Not long after , you're fighting boss enemies taken from the film . The producers of the game must have felt that there weren't enough possible enemies , so they put in creatures that were never in the movie ( and make little , if any sense to be there ) . This results in three levels right after each other being packed with boss enemies . . . actually , the last two consist entirely of one long boss fight each . While this can be fairly challenging and / or entertaining , it's really hard to ignore how loudly it screams " We want this game to be longer , but we haven't got a clue how to achieve it " . There are an awful lot of other places throughout the game where things are repeated until the point where you're tired of them . Level design is fair , but there are far too many jumping puzzles for my tastes ( those worked so much better in Aladdin ) . It's also fairly repetitive , and then there's the obvious lack of freedom of movement ( the game's just about as linear as they come ) . There are three kinds of levels ; the regular two-dimensional platform ones ( as well as one or two variations thereof , one of which is kinda cool ) , boss levels , and this odd third kind where you run constantly , and you have to move and jump out of the way of any obstacles in your way ( what that has to do with Hercules , apart from his ability to run fast ( and , one would assume , inability to come to an immediate stop . . . ? ) , I do not know ) . Most levels are the first kind , there are only two levels in the second category , and there are three ( as far as I remember ) of the third kind . Some of the level try to maintain a mix between 2D and 3D , which looks odd , because most enemies and characters are modeled ( and look best ) in 2D ( it was a cartoon , not a 3D animated feature ) . The game utilizes the main character quite well , as far as control ( though Wonderboy handles like a friggin ' Mech , for some reason ) and powers go . Where Tarzan had you throwing fruit ( which I , admittedly , never fully understood , for more than one reason . . . how good a weapon is that , anyway ? Gotta be difficult to survive in the jungle if your food can be dangerous ( and enough so that it would make a weapon deemed useful by the guy who's widely recognized as the king of said area ) and Aladdin had you throwing apples ( why would someone who has to steal to survive throw away food ? He also seemed to have the sword way earlier in the game than in the film ) , Hercules allows you to slash with the sword , punch with the fists and charge up one of your fists for a more powerful punch . These are reasonably effective in dealing with enemies and obstacles , but Aladdin still has got this beat in this aspect . The game is quite short ; it took me less than two hours this time , and only one try . Granted , I have tried it a few times before , but still . The makers of the game tried to conjure up some re-playability by putting in a few bonus power-ups , which grant advantages , but most of these are just annoying and should have either had more thought put into their development or been scrapped entirely . There are the letters to Hercules ' name , which are collected in the correct order . . . and most of the time , these just tell you how far you are in the level ( which can help when they seem to go on for too long ) , and how many letters you've already missed . Then there are four vases per level , which , if collected , give you the password for the next level and the ability to save your progress . Hurrah ! We can finally save . Once we find all four of them , and what is the point , anyway ? You can just use the passwords provided . The game-play is quite repetitive . The small effort put into creating background stuff and enemies result in you often ignoring dangers that weren't clear enough . Powerups / general design isn't as accomplished as other of these games . The final boss fight is kind of anti-climactic , being the very easiest fight in the whole game ( no , seriously ; the character is also robbed of all the coolness he possessed in the film , which is a real shame , as he was just about my favorite thing about it ) . The sound is awfully repetitive ( fitting , since most of the rest of the game is as well ) , with , for example , the same four instructions being yelled at you by Philoctetes , in no particular order and at seemingly completely random times during the training levels ( including , but not limited to , him possibly exclaiming praise right after you've gotten hurt ) . All in all , decent , certainly nothing more . I recommend this to big fans of the movie and of Disney's other Action Games . Just keep your expectations low ( shouldn't be a problem , if you belong in the second group ) .
When watching this movie , I was pretty much prepared for the worst ; after seeing what disasters Halloween 4 & 5 were , I was sure it couldn't possibly , in any way known to man , get any worse . Luckily , it definitely isn't the case with this sequel . It apparently pretends that 4 & 5 never happened , but that's OK ; without Laurie Strode returning , this franchise would be dead and gone . Something I more or less missed in this movie was the presence of Donald Pleasance ( R . I . P . ) , but after I got used to the movie missing the good doctor , I actually enjoyed it . It's nowhere near as good as the first , but it's better than some other recent slashers . The movie is reasonably low on cliche-count , unfortunately , the characters are pretty much one-dimensional , and a few of them are just there so that they can be killed off later in the movie . The acting varies , but mostly above average ; the plot is OK , but mostly just there as an excuse to bring back Michael Myers and revive the franchise . It's worth checking out if you're a fan of Halloween ( and you don't have too big expectations for it ) or just a fan of slashers in general . It's watchable .
Watching this film again , after several years , after having seen many far better films since the first time I saw it , I can't help but compare it to looking at an old class photo , from a school you only spent one year at , and didn't like too much ; you recognize a lot of the faces , but you can't bring yourself to look too long at it , and soon you start paying attention to something else . Of course , you knew from the beginning that it would probably end up like that , and before you know it , you've pushed the memory almost entirely out of your head , once again . Yes , there is a good amount of talents involved in this film , and I quickly recognized Cary Elwes , who I've also seen in Liar Liar , Bram Stoker's Dracula and Robin Hood : Men in Tights , and Kurtwood Smith , who I only know from the original RoboCop , where he played Clarence Boddicker . Of course I recognized Alicia Silverstone as well , but I already knew she was in the film , as I had seen her in one film before seeing The Crush the first time ( can't remember which , though ) . The plot is pretty much a rehash of Lolita , with the tables turned to provide mainstream cliché thriller , in the vein of films like The Hand That Rocks The Cradle . The pacing is daft . The acting is decent , but one would expect better from Elwes and Silverstone ( then again , it was her first film . . . still , we don't see any of the talent that she proved she had in later films ) . I suspect it's the directors fault . Misdirection , or simply bad direction , can ruin a lot . The characters are the usual clichés and stereotypes of the thriller-genre . The film lacks any real thrills , and relies entirely on the typical formula of this type of thrillers ( the psycho-close-to-the-lead ( s ) - tries-to-kill-him / her / them ) . The film has no surprises and is thoroughly predictable . All in all , the film has no real purpose , apart from seeing Cary Elwes and Kurtwood Smith in different roles ( from what I've seen them in , at least ) . I recommend it purely to big fans of any of the three actors and very big fans of thrillers . Everyone else should probably avoid it .
Neither this nor The Anti-Hero's Journey were made by Rodriguez . This is a look at the physical ( mostly make-up-wise ) effects of the film ( Once Upon a Time in Mexico ) , with the title of this extra being a direct reference to the movie it's a tribute to ( going by Robert's Mariachi Trilogy being inspired by Sergio Leone's Dollars Trilogy ) , The Good , The Bad and The Ugly . The special effects crew take us through several of the prosthetics and make-up effects , with detailed descriptions and footage from the creative process . They also explain how working on this film was different than others , due to how fast Robert wanted to work , to re-capture the feeling of making El Mariachi . It's paced fine , and it gives good insight into how the physical effects were achieved , for anyone interested in such . Nicotero is always interesting as far as such go , and this does hold some details about Robert Rodriguez and his methods , as well . One to watch for the fans of either , both , or those intrigued by the effects of the film . I recommend this to anyone who finds themselves in one or more of aforementioned groups .
Another ( Hollywood ) remake of something that was popular . . . I haven't seen the original TV-series , but I tend to believe that it's a hell of a lot better than this . Despite huge star power and sex appeal , the film fails on pretty much every level . The action is dull and powerfully overdone . The plot is ridiculous . . . 30 script rewrites , and that's what they end up at ? Jesus . . . the acting is good enough , I suppose , but for so many big names in the comedy genre I expect to actually laugh during the movie . The movie spends a lot of time referencing far better movies . The special effects are decent . Too much of the film is ripping off better movies . . . the slow-motion bullet effect is an obvious rip-off of the much better effect presented in The Matrix . The film is predictable and barely makes sense . The plot has multiple gaping holes . The only worthwhile thing in this movie ( don't bitch about me saying this , I'm a guy , and the director is obviously as well ) , I'm sorry to say , is the sex appeal of the three main characters / actors . There are plenty of scenes that are really alluring and it's hard to completely hate the movie , due to that . The movie is silly , corny and cheesy , but if that's your thing , you might enjoy it . Otherwise , avoid like the plague . . . unless you're a straight ( preferably teen ) guy . Decent for a single watch and then forgetting , if you don't actually have to pay for it .
I haven't read Grisham's novel ( nor really any of his others , with maybe one odd exception . . . and I do mean odd , the one I'm referring to is Skipping Christmas ) , nor watched too much other stuff of Foley's ( Fear , and maybe one or two others ) , so I don't really know too much about either ( but I haven't really found any of the latter's to be amazing ) . The plot is good , and it develops fine throughout . Story-telling is mostly reasonable , though there are a few places where it could really use help . The pacing isn't bad . The acting is usually great . O'Donnell is a surprise , a pleasant one , Hackman and Dunaway are magnificent ( for the very most part ) , as usual . The film seldom , if ever , stoops to the lowest common denominator . Cinematography doesn't really impress . Editing is at times effective , and for the most part , it's sharp and , at the very least , sufficient . There are some good scenes in this , and it does tend to keep you interested and entertained . The continuing uncovering of the truth never lost me , on either of my two viewings . It doesn't really bring anything new to the table , or anything that you mustn't do without to the media of film . But that's not a crime , and you certainly could do considerably worse . I recommend this to fans of the people involved in making this , perhaps even fans of the author . . . even if he has said it's his least favorite adaptation .
This movie started out as an apparently good movie , but about halfway through it started to go to hell . The only mildly good thing about the latter half of the movie was Sean Connery , who pretty much shines through the entire movie . His acting was pretty good , and could have been a saving grace , had the movie not been so bad . The end was especially horrible , as it was a nearly total ripoff of Cape Fear ( the new version , with Robert De Niro ) , in fact , several lines were taken directly from that same scene in the movie . The second-to worst thing is the ' twist ' in the end , that was so obvious that I could just as well have been sitting there , waiting for it to happen . The worst thing is that the twist ruins everything that has happened up to that point , and makes the whole movie pointless since it directly opposes nearly everything that happened in the movie before that . I wouldn't recommend this to anyone other than huge fans of Sean Connery , or people who love to watch crime mysteries . Other than that , there is no reason to waste time on this movie .
Compared to the other Resident Evil games , this has poor graphics , less scary monsters , less challenging game-play and less . . . well , just less . Does this mean that the game is bad ? No . It just means that is less than what you'd expect from a typical Resident Evil game . And that seems to be more than enough reason to write it completely off for many RE fans , it would seem . Let me make one thing completely clear ; in my life , I doubt I've spent more than a few hours of gaming time playing any of the RE games . I don't care much for them . The camera angles often work directly against you , posing more of a threat to your safety than the walking dead around you . The door opening animations break the intensity and lower the pace . The aiming is painfully and unnecessarily hard . Because of my general dislike of the RE games , I enjoyed this game . Quite a lot , actually . The story may not be terribly original ( in fact , it's one of the handful or so of those stories that writers fall back on using . . . but hey , it did become an element of the plot in the first Resident Evil movie , so at least it made a lasting impression on Paul W . S . Anderson , and judging by how he paces his movies , he suffers from extreme ADD and believes that every young person today does as well ) , but it keeps the game fairly interesting . The game contains tidbits of information about the other in the series , about their time-line and the events which took place . Not awfully interesting to me , but I'm sure most RE-fans will enjoy reading them and piecing the whole story together . There's even an attempt or two at tying this game and its story into the regular RE franchise . The game-play is somewhat unique ( well , not anymore . . . but I believe this game was the first of its kind ) in combining the genres of first-person shooter and light-gun shooter . Of course , US players will have to import this game from Europe in order to use it with a light gun ( something about PAL vs . NTSC coding . . . technical stuff , a censor thing , I think ( and a fairly logical one at that , since the game does reward firing a gun ) ) . . . but that's a small price to pay , not counting shipping . Control is highly entertaining with the light gun ; you point at the screen , you shoot , you point away , you move . This is surprisingly easy to master , and you'll wonder how you ever enjoyed a shoot-em-up game without the light gun . If you don't have / don't want a light gun , the controller control is fine , too . If you hold down R1 , you can fire . Release it , and you can move . Moving is as simple and easy as any other first person console game . . . the controller isn't really made for it , and you'll miss your keyboard and mouse ( well , I did . . . never really got why they make first person games for consoles , anyway ) . . . but it's fine . Sound is pretty good ; from what I understand , if you use headphones , you'll be able to hear where the zombies ' moaning is coming from . . . very cool . Graphics are fair , but not impressive compared to the other games . The game has far less emphasis on puzzle solving than shooting than the other RE games . Pretty logical , considering the first person camera and the fact that you can control it with a light gun . Not much room for adventure elements , really . It's not really about survival either , the game is incredibly easy . . . it's just about shooting , and finding out exactly what has happened ( not that it's particularly hard to piece the " mystery " together . . . I had figured it out long before the main character , and , well , that's never a good thing in a story-driven game ) . The shooting isn't as entertaining as , say , the House of the Dead games , where you can actually blow the zombies apart , but it's quite good nonetheless . The freedom of movement is pretty good . The game is very easy ( you can beat it on your first try without much of an effort ) and pretty short . I beat it in about an hour and a half , and you can't really spend much more , there's little time spent looking for the way , and even less on figuring out puzzles . There's no in-game save feature , but it's really not necessary . The only thing you can save is how many guns you picked up . That's one of my favorite things about the game ; there are plenty of different routes to go through it ( and a pretty good amount of guns . . . all of which you can keep at all times ( none of that limited inventory stuff of the regular RE games ) , which is good ) . There are three different paths to go . Each has a different piece of the story and some enemies and areas the other ones don't ( though one of them is , admittedly , pretty lame ) . Each one has one specific gun to collect , too ( I believe all the other weapons can be picked up no matter which way you choose to go , or how many times you play , as each path takes you through many of the same areas ) . As such , there are four main guns . . . one you start out with , the other three you pick up . . . and they all have unlimited ammo ( as the only guns in the game ) , but each has different specs ( speed , reload time , accuracy , damage done and such ) . Obviously , you have to beat the game at least three times , each time going a different route to get all of them . Not much replay value apart from the three routes , though . The voice acting is just . . . bad . The writing and dialog is painfully poor . Fair shooting game . I recommend it to fans of shooting games . Fans of Resident Evil should think twice before playing this , as it's barely even a game that belongs in the franchise . Had it been an unrelated game , it would get less negative words for it , but it would probably not have had as wide sales .
This movie is really a lot less funny that what I would expect from a funny guy like Owen Wilson . . . it has few funny jokes , most of the material just falls flat . The gags are also a bit lame , half of the time . It also seems to throw in to much love drama for a supposed comedy . The plot is OK , but the movie goes at such a slow pace that I almost fell asleep out of boredom . It barely entertains at all , using mostly used material . The acting is OK , but nothing special . The humor seems tired and worn out , it rarely gets as much as a smile out of me . It does have a few mildly amusing scenes though , among others , several of the robbery scenes had me laughing a little , at least . The whole romance thing never works when it's worked into the movie as clumsily as it is here . It also seemed so misplaced in this film ; it might have worked had it been done with just a little bit more seriousness , in fact , the whole film would have had to have been more serious . Either that , or the romance had to be dumbed down . It just doesn't work well here . I recommend this to fans of Owen Wilson who really love his films , otherwise you probably won't like it much . I know I didn't .
I have a ( fairly ) vast collection of VHS tapes . I rarely get rid of anything , especially movies . Given that , there are a few among them that I don't care all that much for . . . some , I've even forgotten . There are even two or three that I've only watched once , and never really felt like watching again . . . each time it came up as I searched through my collection of films for something to watch , I would cringe at the thought of sitting through it even one more time . This is one such film . I'm not entirely sure what compelled me to give it another chance . . . I read a quote or two , half-remembered how they were said , and recognized some names on the cast . . . Phil Hartman , Ed Begley Jr . and Jere Burns ( in order of how talented and funny I'd rate them ) , all three of which I've seen elsewhere and grown to appreciate the talents of ( Douglas and Fox were the only two actors I knew the first time I watched this ) , and I think those were the main contributors , the last of the two reasons being the most important ( in fact , Hartman is one of the people on a short mental list of people that I want to watch all of ( well , at least as far as the watchable ones go ) the work of ) . As the opening credits come on , I nearly regretted this decision . . . but that went away fairly quickly after the film itself began . The plot is pretty good . The actors all fit their roles and perform quite well . The cinematography does its job fine , as well as the editing , even if they are a little weird at times ( speaking as a film aficionado ( and someone who enjoys using words from foreign languages in everyday life ) as well as someone who's enjoyed the pleasure and the privilege of trying his hands at both , it seems like there were many situations ( be it in the production or post-production phase ; shooting or editing ) where they couldn't quite think of a good solution how to get all the elements or properly frame the shots , so they just went with the best they could think of ( which leaves a bit to be desired , at times ) . It isn't that huge a deal , though ) . All those elements are fine , if not downright good . The real problem here is the humor . . . in spite of some wit and some black comedy that is among the darkest I have seen , there just seems to be too little of the film's humor that works . The timing is occasionally off , and a lot of potential ( not to mention comical talent ) is wasted . For a comedy , this just doesn't provide enough laughs to keep you watching for almost two hours . What made it truly worth it for me , and the main reason I urge anyone who decides to give this film a chance is the moral . . . the message of the film ( it alone lifted my rating above the average of a 5 ) . It gives such a clear perspective on greed , one that I don't believe I've ever seen presented before ( and certainly not so skillfully ) . I recommend this to any fan of comedies who is willing to accept a lesser comedy to get to the great message of it ( which is neither preachy nor heavy-handed , as some the moral of some message-movies is ) . Maybe the biggest fans of the actors should avoid , though . . . you may hate for the sole reason of how little the biggest talents in the film get to do .
This was an OK thriller , the plot is especially good , but it just isn't as good as it could / should have been , even for a TV movie . The plot seemed great when I read about it , but it just wasn't very special once you got into it . The movie is another typical " guess who did it " mystery thriller , and it primarily fails because it's almost instantaneously obvious who the perpetrator is , and from there , it's just watching the cops get to the bottom of the case , which you've already done . The acting ranges from good to just above average , but none of it's totally bad . The excitement of the movie is barely ever present , as most of the movie consists of the mystery of who did it ( which is obvious very early on in the movie ) , and not the possible suspense of " can we save someones life ? " . It's just above average , and I guess it's worth watching if it's on TV , and there's absolutely nothing else interesting to watch . You could do a lot worse than this though , as a thriller it's just above average , and that's good enough , as this type of thriller rarely is more than that .
This is a special feature found on the 2-Disc set of X2 , released in 2003 . . . but . . . and this is where it gets confusing . . . it doesn't mention the second movie , and never clearly defines itself as being about neither the first film nor the comics , but really takes some of both . It comes off as mostly about the second , and does present a lot of information on that , so if I had to call it , that's where I'd put my money , what I'd put it on . This is made up entirely of interview bits and clips of the film , with many , many drawings and comics added in ( more subtly and effectively used than the clips ) . Some talk about what was changed from the comics to the movie , a bunch about the history , efforts to bring it over to another medium and a pretty reasonable amount of insight into the characters , with some really great things said . There are an anecdote or two , perhaps the best being the one involving a very long car ride . Overall , the ratio of who talks seems to favor the comic people , which is exactly as it should be . Lee is just awesome to listen to . It's got decent pacing and editing . All in all , this isn't bad , but it could be stronger , and it would have helped if it had found its voice . The cutting in of film clips and the like ( but not interviews or comics ) seems unimpressive at best . I recommend this to any fan of the movies and / or the comics .
I've watched every episode of this . After months of uncertainty , The 4400 was cancelled . Possibly a victim of the writers ' strike , probably not the only one . . . but it would be unfair to put all the blame on said union act . Yes , this show definitely had its ups . Yes , there were occasional great episodes , such as the season two finale ( which shall remain nameless in this review , to avoid spoilers ) , and even the rare extraordinary one , such as Life Interrupted . Yes , some of the show was fantastic . Some of the writing was intelligent , realistic . Several points made , themes explored , were very interesting . There was genuinely good and worthwhile science fiction found here . How often do you find that on television ? Among the action and the special effects there were parts that were truly impressive . The drama wasn't without accomplished moments . No , this show wasn't all bad . But all the wasted potential is just difficult to overlook . The problem is , the very concept is flawed . . . it's partially overreaching ( twelve episodes per season ) , and it's also just not limited enough . The obvious gaping plot hole , the logic problem , was never addressed ( I cannot reveal what it is here , because it would be a spoiler ) . . . in fact , the show always seemed unwilling to limit itself , for purposes of concise story-telling ( and never run out of material . . . and for an inestimable amount of such , not to mention only having 42 episodes in total , for four seasons , they had far too many episodes that . . . just weren't all that good ) . Said storytelling did have something to offer , but not very much . There were too many things that they seemed to never really explain . Plots and ideas were introduced , seldom developed enough , and they either were not concluded , or it was done in an abrupt and unsatisfactory manner . Characters were presented , explored ( if even that ) , and dismissed ( another error in that department is arguably taking the Mulder & Scully approach ) . Acting was hit-and-miss . The symbolism was blatant , sometimes even insulting . It always seemed like it was going somewhere , bigger , smarter , better , and it just never got there . If it had some message , it lost it along the way . The season finales got increasingly more desperate , trying harder and harder to be given a renewal , and to promise viewers more , but continually failed to deliver . They almost never seemed to handle actors being unavailable terribly well , either . In the end , this was a mini-series that got unexpectedly high ratings , so the network decided to capitalize on that ( and the lack of ( new ) Summer programming ) by bringing it back as a series . . . and the producers may not have had enough of a plan . The people behind it maybe just weren't up to the task . The behind the scenes people were of insufficient talent , I suppose . I recommend this to fans of sci-fi and the actors ( a certain one , perhaps known more from his horror work , who's done sci-fi before , appears . . . excellent as always , a bright spot in the show ) . . . just don't expect consistent quality over the run of the series , or for everything to be wrapped up ( partially due to the show's cancellation ) .
I used to read the comics as a kid . . . by now , I only vaguely remember them , and those of the animated attempts that were produced that I watched , but a lot of things do seem to fit with what I remember . And hey , at least it's produced by the French , featuring the French , France being where the comic is actually from . There are many details that ring true as far as the source material goes . . . the first few moments contain a well-known image from the comics , reproduced in live action . This also has an interpretation of the singing of the village musician ( I can't claim to know the original French names ) . Also seen is a recreation of the village leader on his shield . Whether or not you particularly care for seeing this , and whether or not you agree with this envisioning of it , it's there to take in . The small dog is there , as well , and he gets used some for comedy ( if in fairly morbid and grotesque ways ) . The production values are of high quality . The acting is pretty good , if some is overacted , more or less intentionally . Depardieu isn't bad in his native language , either ( and he is a fairly logical choice , as far as physical type goes , for Obélix , and Roberto Benigni ( who , I guess , speaks French . . . ? ) is one of the best additions ( although one could argue that he wasn't up against much ) , and gets several laughs . Ceasar was done well , the actor looks and performs as he should . The humor isn't bad , if at times childish , much of it derived from the comics ( more or less well-integrated in the film ) and some of it is run right into the ground . I did laugh at this film , if not terribly often . I watched this in the original , French language ( not a fan of dubbing . . . actually , that's a powerful understatement ) , but some of the material still worked . The pacing is reasonable , well , it runs fine , at least . The plot isn't too bad , and works , if some more or less minor points don't make sense once you think about them ( and one sub-plot is never fully resolved , characters not seen in the film anymore once they've done what they were there to do ) . Some things are lifted from the comics , though perhaps too much material from there was used , leaving too little time for development of what there is , as others have pointed out . This is a cartoon brought to life , obvious in the action ( which I'm honestly not sure I've ever found particularly intense . . . entertaining , occasionally , maybe , but not intense ) . One particular character shows that the French , too , know of , and stoop to , the lowest common denominator ( though I suppose it could have been more gratuitous , but this is at least partially a children's film . . . torture sequences and such notwithstanding ) . Most of the characters from the comics seem to be there ( again , whether or not they're properly done or well-integrated can be debated ) . The effects are quite good , and help with the cartoon-y action that we know from the original stories by Goscinny ( R . I . P . ) . Some ideas could have been explored in what the plot does , in particular something near the very end , but are not . There is one reference that could be considered clever . . . but by the second time it's made . . . yeah . The music isn't bad . The casting and costumes aren't bad . I guess fans might enjoy it , if they aren't too attached to the original . Making live action productions of drawn source material is seldom a good idea . I recommend this to those who want a live-action version of Astérix and Obélix , but not those looking for a good one . Whether or not the second one would fulfill that need , I can't say .
I like Pollack . I'm not sure there's anything that I wouldn't at least give a chance , as long as he had an important part in the making of it . This is probably the most formulaic thing I've seen of his . . . which isn't to say that it's necessarily bad . It's just that , well , if you don't see the majority of what happens in this , coming , the likeliest explanation is that you haven't seen one of the many films that follow essentially the same plot . It's not exactly unpredictable . The points of it are also made in a pretty see-through manner , with poignant speeches and the like . But with those in mind , and the fact that this isn't necessarily meant to be taken too seriously , this isn't bad . The direction is effective . Its editing and cinematography are well-done . The acting leaves little to be desired . The writing is good . The characters are at least average . The music is very fitting . That would be the original version , with Willie Nelson performing it , not the other kind . There is a limited amount of language in it , of varying degree , not a lot of which is terribly harsh . The drug / alcohol material is vague , and the sexuality tends to be tastefully done ( for being partially set in Las Vegas , this is mighty clean ) . I recommend this to any lovers of the four-legged animal , Redford , Fonda and / or anyone else who helped create this .
I haven't seen the play that this film is based on , though I do see how it could work as a play . The film adaptation does perhaps not particularly add something specific to the media of film , but I'm not sure the piece needed it or called for it . . . it could very well have served as nothing but a distraction . The basic setup is fairly simple . . . but simplicity is only a bad thing when the production calls for something else . The themes and characters are quite complex , and the film is compelling . The story is interesting and well-told , and it's paced right . The acting is downright impeccable in parts , and never bad . The portrayals are amazing , and the parts fleshed out and full . The writing is excellent . Deep , profound and interesting . The development , throughout this production , leaves immeasurably little to be desired . The leads are somehow appealing , and you do manage to forgive them for the obviously morally wrong activity they engage in . The costumes are also nicely done , as is the make-up , if the latter could perhaps be done better today . One thing that should be noted is that children should not watch this . The dialog , whilst magnificent , does hold some language that isn't fit for younger ears . It is a film for more mature audiences , in any case . I recommend this for anyone who isn't too young , and particularly couples .
I guess movies like this are the ones that established Jim Carrey , and secured him a good , long career . It's definitely one of the more easily remembered of his films , and one of those that made him known as the comical genius that he is . The script allows for plenty of facial expressions and sounds by Carrey , and he makes the most of every second that he's on-screen . He is the very center of most of the comedy , and that's exactly the way it should be in his movies . The plot is pretty good , it allows for many entertaining scenes , and the mystery in it is pretty good , too . The film is primarily carried by the comedy , but the plot is carried forward by the mystery , which isn't a bad idea at all . The acting is all fairly good , nothing spectacular , but not bad either . Carrey , of course , steals the show as the eccentric but smart pet detective , by the name of Ace Ventura . The characters are well-written , though admittedly not terribly deep . The film has a lot of crude jokes and gags , but they work well , as the same joke is rarely repeated , like it is in many other crude comedies ( Scary Movie 2 , various Adam Sandler films ) . The comedy is pretty good , very few jokes fall flat , and many gags will have you rolling around on the floor laughing , as well as Carrey's facial expressions and eccentric behavior throughout the film . All in all , a pretty good , typical Carrey comedy , but I guess it isn't anything special or unique . I recommend it to any fan of Jim Carrey , and fans of comedies in general .
While this is still not as funny as the first one , it's still worth watching . It has a load of recycled jokes from both of the earlier films , and a little too many references to the first , in my opinion . It's not entirely bad though , after a slow start it kicks off and gets very funny , very quickly . Most of the old characters return , with a few new ones too . The plot is pretty much the same old deal from the first two , still spoofing old Bond movies . The acting is still pretty good . The characters are more colorful in this one , I think . More developed , perhaps . The sexual crude humor is still there , and is better here than in the second movie , I think . The first is still the best , but if you only see one of the sequels , I recommend you see this one . I thought the twist-in-the-end was pretty lame , but it didn't entirely ruin the movie , as it didn't seem totally out of character or totally unbelievable . I'd recommend this to anyone who liked either or both of the first two movies . The humor is mostly the same , and people who enjoyed the first two will most likely also enjoy this one .
After having seen Resident Evil god knows how many times , and being pretty psyched for the sequel , I finally got to see it , and on the premiere night , too . Of course , I knew that the director of the first RE , Paul W . S . Anderson , wasn't doing this , since he was busy making his dream project , Aliens Vs Predator . Luckily , I can cope with changes like that . . . as long as the change isn't devastating . For this movie , however , it's hard to tell . . . maybe the mediocre attempts at scaring the audience and providing shocks was Anderson's fault , as he wrote the script , but it may be the new director , first-timer Alexander Witt , who's responsible . Let me say this upfront ; I , as many others who enjoyed the first , really liked the ending , the whole foreshadowing thing , and , thankfully , the film picks up exactly where the first one left off . Actually , it goes a little further back , to show us exactly what happened before Alice woke up . The plot is decent , about as good as it gets when it's Paul W . S . Anderson writing it . It doesn't drag . . . heh , it doesn't drag . . . heck , it doesn't even leave the slightest chance for it to drag , as it's constantly moving . The movie never allows the audience to catch their breath ; apparently , someone ( I'm guessing Anderson or Witt ) has never heard of the danger of overdoing action sequences . For anything ( at all ) to be good , entertaining , thrilling , whatever . . . there needs to be what is commonly referred to as ' buffers ' . Without those nice little talky-talky scenes in-between , heck , maybe even a dash of good old-fashioned character development , the action just ends up being trite . And that's pretty much what happens here . They try to squeeze as much action into every single frame as possible , and it ends up annoying the audience rather than exciting . The director also has a horrible habit of blurring the image whenever there are more than five zombies on-screen , apparently to ( I guess ) cover up a bad job on makeup . . . or something to that effect . If the first had too much make up and such , this has too little . The acting is decent enough . Milla Jovovich gives the same good performance that she usually does . The rest of the cast are acceptable . The characters are mostly clichés and stereotypes . Of course , by mostly I mean almost 90 % of the cases . You got the stupid reporter who just wants to make a story out of all of this , despite her being in obvious danger ; The bad-ass cop who's suspended but still takes her duty deadly serious ; the half-witted pathetic guy who's obviously only there for comic relief . . . actually , scratch that last one , as he was actually pretty darn funny . For once the person who's supposed to be there for comic relief works , instead of just being the most ( or even worse ; least ) laughable character . The special effects were well done , but not spectacular . Definitely not the best I've seen . The action was good , but really over-the-top . The scenes with the Nemesis range between being some of the best action in the movie to being some of the most pathetic and smirk-inspiring scenes . The cinematography is nothing special . The film introduced an unnecessary amount of characters , most of whom are just fodder for the zombies or Nemesis anyway . The showdown between Alice and Nemesis was somewhat pathetically staged , and probably would have seemed out of place , hadn't the rest of the film been of the same quality ( honestly , it seemed like a video-game . . . and while I am quite a big fan of them , I'm considerably more interested in playing them than watching them ) . That big ol ' hunk o ' biologically engineered walking death was simultaneously underdeveloped ( for what they had him / it do ) and overexposed . The film is noisy and loud , but not as loud as the first film , and while the sound is often horribly overdone , it doesn't distract as much as several other big action hits . The film is also less loud when it comes to the soundtrack ; it was nice to have some change from the one-note loud heavy metal from the first film . All in all , a pretty entertaining flick , but out of your mind much faster than it got in ( and that's saying a lot , believe me ) . If you liked the first , are a big fan of one or more of the actors , or you just have nothing better to do for 90 minutes , give it a shot . It kept me watching through the end , and , despite a few disappointments , kept my interest as well . It just didn't stay fresh in my head for more than about fifteen minutes after the credits started , which is very little for a film with so much going on in it all the time . I recommend it only to big fans of the first or of Milla Jovovich . I suppose big fans of Paul W . S . Anderson ( they must exist , somewhere ) will probably enjoy it too . I will say that most who liked the first will probably like this as well , but possibly a little less due to the lesser directing .
This is one of Hitchcock's very first films , and his first talkie . Considering that , I think the actors do a pretty good job . . . this is probably the first time they have to act while talking at the same time , instead of just using their body language . Even though this is one of Hitchcock's first movies , you can clearly see a lot of his later famous details , such as camera angles , playing with shadows and such . The psychological terror is also terrific , though not as sophisticated as in his later films . Hitchcock took good use of what was possible at the time , concerning effects , editing tricks and the likes . The plot is pretty good , like with most of Hitchcock's films . The acting is pretty good , especially considering that it's one of the first talking movies , and the actors were not terribly experienced with that kind of acting . The movie moves along at an acceptable pace , though it isn't as exciting or psychologically terrifying as many of his later movies . However , it's interesting to see how good a director he was , even at that time in his career . I recommend this to most fans of Hitchcock , as most will find it enjoyable , if for nothing else than at least a look at how he directed movies back then .
I haven't read much of the comics , but I understand that they are much more mature and complex than the campy cartoon series they aired , starting in ' 87 . They intended to make this relatively faithful , without alienating the apparently anticipated audience , the kids . This is darker , bleaker , smarter and less insulting to those of us who are not in said group . The humor is still mainly for them , in particular the couple of bits where this almost feels like a Scooby Doo adventure , though there are also jokes that can be enjoyed by teenagers and older still , without being too " adult " . This can be taken as a sequel to the 1990 movie , and this resembles it in tone ( albeit surpassing it , and definitely adding an edge that the film franchise hasn't had before this ) . It's difficult to say if the other two are to be considered canon or not . The plot is interesting , and keeps you watching . The pacing is reasonably good . The character development is nice , and this is definitely the most consistent as far as the personalities go . The voice acting is spot-on , Evans seemed especially fitting as Casey Jones , and Stewart hands in his usual great performance . The atmosphere is well-achieved . The cinematography is marvelous , with several " different " angles . The editing is sharp . This does utilize the fact that it's animated , in such sequences as Michaelangelo skateboarding . The CGI is spectacular , and the stylized look makes this neither downright intimidating nor overly " for the whole family " . You have to be careful , with these types of productions , that the visuals don't take over , but I'd say they succeed here , and they don't become the focus . The action is well-done , choreographed well and exciting . The licensed game is a fun companion release to this , without being required to appreciate this . The music is well-done , score and some rock . This is somewhat short , at just under 80 minutes before the end credits roll . There is violence in this , although it is entirely safe for the PG crowd . The DVD has a featurette about the people doing speaking parts in this , as well as scenes that were cut or changed ( including pre-vis material ) , and a commentary track by director / writer Kevin Munroe , that is well worth listening to . I recommend this to any fan of the famed turtles .
One of my ( and I would guess , many others ' ) main complaints regarding the prequel trilogy , in particular parts two and three , were the heavy usage of CGI . No more sets , little of the action is " live " , heck , quite a few of the people aren't even real , but animated . I was quite happy to learn that the fight scenes in Episode III , with the obvious exclusion of one particular fighter , was actually really done . Live action . Some stunt people , yes , but at least it was actual , living people . And this will also reveal to you that certain fighters , whom you may not ( I certainly didn't , especially for one of them ) have expected to have done their own fighting , actually did . Featured are various interview snippets , with the actors and film-makers describing the process , the training , and the apparently rather talented and helpful stunt coordinator Nick Gillard . One thing that definitely earns him respect is that he prefers to do it for real , without computer enhancing . At about eleven minutes , this is a concise featurette . I recommend this to anyone who enjoyed the movie and wanted to find out how much was real , as well as any fellow fan of the light-saber duels .
In the wake of the success of Home Alone , this fun little game came to be . Focusing on what is arguably the most entertaining scene in the film ( or the only entertaining one , as some cynics will undoubtedly say ; I should know , I used to be one ) , this pits you against Harry and Marv , in the role of Kevin . The plot is simple ; you have one hour ( I'm not sure if that's " real time " , the clock seems to move faster than that ) , not unlike the film ( if I remember correctly ? ) , to set up traps all over the house , before Harry and Marv start breaking in . . . by which time , you had better be prepared . If you find yourself ready before the clock is at 9 pm , there is a function that allows you ( by pressing N on your keyboard ) to fast-forward until they come . The first half of the game-play consists of you running around the house , picking up things ( mostly household items , like in the movie ) by pressing F1 , placing them as traps in select areas , scattered around the house , by walking and / or jumping up to where it should be placed ( clearly indicated , both from afar and when you're close enough to place it , there's no missing it ) and pressing F3 . You can carry three items at a time , F2 cycles through them . There are just shy of thirty traps to be set ( I believe the exact number is 27 ) , and two wild-cards ; the BB gun and the tarantula . The aforementioned is required to execute certain traps ( most just work by Harry or Marv walking into them ) and is good for one hit ( it takes ten hits for both burglars to go down , give up ) dealt to each of the thieves ( you can shoot them more than once , but that will only give them slight pause , giving you a second or less of more running time ) , both achieved by firing it , the key for which you set during setup ( to be able to use it , just make sure you have it in your inventory when the clock runs out ) . The last-mentioned is not an actual trap . . . you can set it , but don't expect it to stay still . Or get you hits . It will only give pause , though more than shots from the BB gun ( after the first one ) . The second part of the game-play , once the clock reaches 9 ( either by itself or through the player using the feature to jump in time ) has you running around the house , now with the ability to fire the BB gun ( if you picked it up and kept it ) , with the traps set ( meaning that you , yourself can also walk into them , ruining them ) and with Harry and Marv breaking into the house . Now , the clock counts up , and you are now to lure both burglars into enough traps each to secure they take the hits , and the high-score will then rank you based on damage they received ( the highest being a hundred , each hit counting , yep , you guessed it , ten points ) and the time it took you ( hence the clock ) . All the ordinary ( the ones that don't need shooting at ) traps work the same way ; there is an animation ( some have more intricate and detailed ones than others ) as Harry or Marv walk into them , they are stopped in their advancing for the while the animation takes ( never more than a second or two ) , the trap is disabled ( one use per each . . . no one said it was going to be easy ! ) and the counter at the top of the screen adds 1 hit to the scoreboard for that character . The thieves have different speeds of walking . . . the closer they are to you , and the angrier they are ( meaning , the more of a beating they've taken , trying to get you ) , the faster they walk . You can usually get them to slow down by simply running away . . . they can't " see " much more than one room in front of them . Be wary , though . . . the one way you can lose in the game is getting caught by one of them , so stay on your guard . Whether or not they've seen you , and how fast they're moving can be seen at the top two corners of the screen . . . the first by whether or not the color of the text ( red if they have , blue if they haven't ; this text also helps you find doors and passageways ) indicating which room they're in ( only by name , though , so you may want to run around the house a couple of times and note the different rooms and their names and make sure you know them , since the McCallisters have what isn't much less of a mansion for you to go wild in ) , and the second is indicated by the animation ( running or walking ) of them in their respective upper corners . The animation will also show when they run into traps out of your field of view ( which is only the room you're currently in ) and when they give up . Speaking of the animation , it's fair for a game of this time . The graphics go for a somewhat satisfying level of detail and they do the job ; you're never really confused as to what you just picked up or how a trap worked . The game-play is fairly entertaining , if somewhat limited . For such a simple game , the re-playability is pretty good ; not only is there the motivation of trying to top the high-score , there is the unpredictability of where the burglars turn up , and how they move . Also , with the many places you can set up the traps , not many people will play the exact same way ( plus , that allows you to change around the way you play , yourself , trying new things ) . The moment the second part of the game starts , where you lure Harry and Marv towards the traps , you get a counter that displays how many traps there are . . . of course , it doesn't say where any of them are , so you'd better be keeping an eye on where the two of them are , which traps they walk into . I recommend this to fans of puzzle-action games .
I'm normally not a big fan of Sam Raimi's work ; I enjoyed Darkman to a certain extent , but hated Spiderman . Most of his other films , I've only heard about , never seen . This movie proves that he has a lot of talent ; there are a lot of very psychologically horrifying sequences . The plot is very interesting , through most of the film it keeps your interest quite well . The characters are interesting and well-developed . The acting is all great , every single actor does a very good job . The atmosphere of the film is fantastic , the horror scenes were all well-made ; I jumped several point throughout the scenes . The psychological terror was almost unbearable ; every single sequence involving psychological terror is very disturbing . Whoever did the editing for this film obviously knows a great deal about how to affect the subconscious . The films supernatural side is very well-handled , and seems quite believable . I'd recommend this to any fan of supernatural horror , or any fan of Sam Raimi and his style . A pretty good horror movie , could have been better , but definitely worth watching for fans of the genre .
The " stranger comes into main characters ' life , screws everything up and then tries to kill them " sub-genre of the thriller genre is ( or was , in the early 90's ) popular , and this addition to it might , at first glance , seem like it's every bit as shallow and predictable as the next one . However , it deserves a closer look , since on closer inspection , it displays a very accurate and credible psychological portrayal of the villain , some top-notch acting and some pretty good cinematography . The plot is fairly standard for the genre , as are the twists . No real surprises here . The pacing is quite good ; the film is never truly boring . The visuals are nice , but not really anything exceptional . The acting is quite impressive . . . everyone gives in a credible performance . The real force of this film , however , is the incredibly psychologically accurate behavior and presentation of the villain . Every action of hers , every train of thought was entirely psychologically accurate , as far as I could tell ( through my new-found love for and somewhat sparsely educated experience in psychology ) . The film has some very direct and revealing scenes of nudity and sex . They aren't exactly explicit ( we're not talking soft-core here ) , but they don't leave that much to the imagination , either . Definitely not for the faint of heart or the easily offended ( though I've never understood why someone could be offended by something as natural as nudity ) . Then there's of course the lesser parts of this film . . . notice how everything I've written up to this point has been either positive or neutral ? Well , that's about to change . The death scenes are more than unusually unrealistic , and they pretty much lose any shock effect because of this . The film is littered with the same usual clichés that plague the other films of the genre . In the end , the film doesn't really hold any surprises to fans of the sub-genre . The old saying is pretty much true , even in the case of this film . . . " If you've seen one , you've seen them all . " All in all , better than most of this type of film , but still far from perfect . I recommend it to fans of the genre , the actors or skin-flicks ( since there is a fair bit of skin in the film by the three leads ) .
I can't say I've ever really been a fan of Zorro . As a child , I was fascinated by fencing , but never Zorro himself , as a character or a legend . However , my love for fencing kept growing , and that is the main reason that I sat down to watch this movie , as it came on TV ; to see some good , well-choreographed swordplay . However , despite my sincerest efforts , I couldn't manage to sit through the entire thing . Maybe it's because the film takes the legend of Zorro and tries to make fun of it ; maybe it's because the film was overlong and poorly paced ; or maybe I just care too little about the whole Zorro thing to sit through a movie about him . . . I've never seen any of the other Zorro films ( as far as I can remember , at least ) , so I can't really say if this is as good or better than any other version . The plot is decent enough , but it drags too much and the film is too long . It lasts about 2 hours and 15 minutes ; I think I looked at the film for a collective 30-45 minutes . The rest seemed dull and the film quickly lost my interest and attention . The acting is good ; the three leads , Hopkins , Bandera and Zeta-Jones all give great performances . . . or , at least they did , for most of what little of the film I payed attention to . The characters are somewhat one-dimensional , especially Banderas ' Zorro . Very goofy and humorous , but that's about as deep he gets . Hopkins really shines , though , as always , and Zeta-Jones really lights up the screen for every second she's on-screen . The sword-fights are well-choreographed and intense , but most of the rest of the action is a bit of a let-down . I don't know if it was the direction , the writing or just the overall kiddie-like PG tone of the whole film , but something just seemed to be dragging the film down . It is saved by entertaining dialog between Hopkins and Banderas , as well as the beauty and talent of Zeta-Jones and the exciting and well-choreographed sword-fights . That's about it , though . Not much else worth watching in this film . I recommend it only to big fans of Zorro ( or , maybe they are the ones who should avoid it most of all , seeing as how it's almost a parody on the character ) or any of the main actors . Big fans of fencing might also want to check it out , provided that they can do so for free . I once considered renting this movie , and now I'm thanking myself I didn't . If you can watch it for free , consider it . If not , just don't watch it . It's mildly entertaining but hardly memorable . I gave it a , purely for entertainment value and acting talent .
This is a special feature found on the DVD ( please don't ask which one , I . . . can't tell from the cover ) for Saving Private Ryan , and it's not really about the title in question at all , but rather the soldiers on the American side in the second World War . That should be noted by anyone considering watching this ( well , it's less than half an hour , it's not that much time spent even if you don't care about it ) . It's not too bad paced . It's got considerably more non-Hollywood , " real " people interviewed , and time spent on such , than the actors and film-folk , and has several recollections from those who were actually there , their families / relatives and the like . It's about 25 minutes long . Spielberg does say a thing or two about his childhood and inspirations . In addition to the talking , there is also footage from documentaries shot at the locations during the conflict . It's all edited fine . The actors do say a thing or two , some of them . This is the only viewable extra on the DVD I have , apart from two trailers . Whether you're looking for , or trying to avoid , this , you may want to keep the title of this in mind when you look at the back of the DVD cover of any prospective purchase of . . . said item . I recommend this to those who want authentic tales from WWII .
As others have said , this is a movie of two halves . Quentin's and Robert's . There's no doubt about which they are . From the very beginning of them both . The shift between is immediately recognizable as well . I doubt even a little effort was made on anyone's part to cover any of this up . Why should they ? They aren't kidding anyone , nor attempting to do so . This is clearly , from start to finish , meant to be enjoyable , and guess what ? It is . Whether that makes it their weakest piece is up for debate . . . I personally don't believe so . It's no secret that Rodriguez does his best work when the writing is done for him . . . just take Sin City . . . and he actually emulates Tarantino's directorial style well , keeping his own , highly energetic and cartoon-inspired , under wraps save for his portion . Aforementioned , however , is a more skillful script author ( and herein , actually a pretty decent actor ) . So with them each filling the respective role they fit better , we're set for solid entertainment . And they certainly deliver . So do the effects crew . The music never leaves anything to be desired . The action is awesome . There is quite a bit of blood , gore and violence in this . Straight , single males also have plenty to look at . Clooney is bad-ass , with credit to QT for putting the words in his mouth , literally . The acting varies , but it's never downright poor . Savini isn't bad . The humor is twisted . The tone is cheesy . The pacing is about spot-on . The plot remains interesting throughout . Characters are relatively developed , certainly sufficiently . If you'll allow me to briefly digress . . . those viewing this and subsequently wanting a similar gaming experience , I would advise against going for the licensed release , of 2001 . . . I did only play the demo , but I was rather underwhelmed . I instead suggest Vampire Slayer , the free and legally so modification for Half-Life , as it is very obviously inspired by this . Turning my attention back to the film . . . go for this , those who are into Quentin Tarantino's dialog and story-lines , and / or Robert Rodriguez ' action and visuals . There's a DVD of this available with featurettes , music videos , the full-length documentary Full Tilt Boogie and alternate footage . There is also an informative commentary with the two who came together to make this , and it's definitely worth a listen if you like this . I recommend this flick to any fans of the people who helped create it , the ones who belong in one or more of the aforementioned groups in particular .
Released a few years after the cartoon series started airing , this follows the tone , and that take on this concept . I have read very little in the way of comic books about it , and I don't know how close that is to the original version . But yes , this is silly and goofy , and very much directed at children ( don't say " family film " , we all know that's just code for " you don't have to keep the kids from watching this one " ) , especially evident in the humor , a lot of which can be annoying to those not inclined to enjoy stuff a 7-year-old might , and the characters . Thus , the TMNT's start out flat and ( save for the different color on each ) not standing out from the other three , however that changes , and they get personality , and gain what at least casual fans know as their individual traits . The crew must have been happy with the costumes , because they waste no time showing us the mutant guys who use surfer-lingo . I can't blame them , because they're not half bad . The puppets and the like have a decent enough range of motion , both for when this was made , and how much it was put together for ( especially if you compare what it cost to what it made ) . The Shredder , who gets to be a dark and menacing presence ( hey , that's more than they granted him in the TV show ) has his armor translated to the silver screen rather well . The turtle-on-ninja-action is very well-done ( get your mind out of the gutter , this is rated PG ) . The fights have fine choreography and are entertaining , if you're into martial arts . The music and sound effects fit . The DVD holds both a wide-screen and a normal copy of the flick , in addition to a brief biography ( T Files ) on each of the six lead creatures , previews for similarly geared efforts , a theatrical trailer for this and a mini-game , which is nice . There is mild violence and a disturbing aspect or two , beyond that , nothing objectionable in this . I recommend this to any fan of the teenagers , though be aware of the intended audience for this .
Yes , we all know about the usual quality level of licensed releases . No , this does not particularly raise the bar . But it is definitely an entirely reasonable effort , and I would say that if you like the movie , you may enjoy this . I will start with my personal favorite thing about all of Star Wars . . . the light-sabers . The use of them can be entertaining enough in this , and the way they did them in this ( I will keep it vague intentionally so as to not spoil it for those who have not seen the Prequel Trilogy , it is awesome beyond the point that it should be blown ) definitely fits ( and , lest we forget , this is the only time it has been done this way in this medium , to the best of my knowledge ) with the recent silver screen depiction . . . but for one thing . The speed . They move rather slowly in this , both the sword itself and when they move as they attack with it . There is also not exactly an abundance of different moves . They look real nice , however , in fact , the graphics of this in general are quite well-done . The engine somewhat supports an enormous scope , if you aren't allowed to go everywhere , which helps the feeling of being in the galaxy far , far away . The architecture can be . . . blocky , I guess is the word , by which I mean that a lot of . . . big , square . . . " things " are found . " Eye-sore " and " distracting " spring to mind . The way they kept you out of areas that you shouldn't have access to can also be clumsy . The level design on the whole isn't bad , though . . . and you get to visit and to some extent explore locations ( unless I'm terribly mistaken , all of them ) seen in the film . The voice acting varies a bit , and there are points where there is too much dialog . The overall writing is pretty decent . . . the story is told relatively well , and a little expanding is done . In spite of that , this isn't that long . . . I can imagine it could be beat in a weekend . Add to that that the re-playability value is limited to only one single-player campaign , no difficulty settings , and with no more than a sparse breakdown of your performance and time following its completion . There is good stuff in this , though . You get Force Push , and even , at certain points , Mind Trick . The former is especially fun to use , to effects similar to those we've seen at the cinema . This is an action adventure game , if anyone was not aware , and both aspects are fairly nicely done . The first-mentioned runs well , letting you fire half a dozen guns or so , and features throw-ables , as well ( the method for aiming . . . don't even think you're gonna use a mouse for this . . . can be a tad trying ) . The latter portion is fine . . . the puzzles are arguably easy and tend to be both few and far between , as well . This is seen in the third person , or a mix of that and bird's-eye-view , and the camera is usually helpful ( with a couple of glaringly obvious exceptions ) , in spite of you not having much sway over it . . . much at all , and there are some great tricks done with it . This isn't always perfectly smooth . You get to control multiple different characters ( anyone's who's watched The Phantom Menace could probably guess who all four of them are , and I'd be happy to tell anyone who asks ) , each with skills and / or weapons that the others do not , and for my money , all are useful ( really , every piece of your arsenal and every ability in this comes in handy herein ) . I realize it's not popular , but I do care for the Stunner , if it can be a trial . . . the concept and execution may be unique , and in spite of a measure of unpredictability to it , it makes for magnificent dispatching of adversaries . The AI can be . . . well , is , erratic , but there are interesting and noteworthy details to it . . . for example , I've seen foes step out of the line of fire of a projectile headed at them , successfully , as well as move if they are being hit and either can't see you or don't appear to be able to shoot straight at you . Sometimes annoying , perhaps , but you gotta admire the technology and effort behind it . The internal logic of this is , more often than not , broken . . . you may find yourself trying a lot of things that seem like they could be the solution , and it turns out it was something else entirely . The low level of interactivity with your environment doesn't outright aid you . The game-play is very cool when at its best . This was seemingly rushed , to get them out at the same time , and there is some feel of it being an unfinished project . And if I , or anyone else , really , for that matter , said " buggy " in reference to this , you can be almost 100 percent sure that they do not mean the mode of transportation . This has several cut-scenes , in-game ( scripted without errors , more or less ) and fully rendered alike , and the last-mentioned are purdy . All are directed just fine . I don't believe there are any clips of TPM itself in this , I , myself , did not miss them with what we had instead ( bearing in mind that I like it more than the other two PT entries ) . The score is marvelous , save for the remarkably abrupt shifts that there can be . The sound is done well almost invariably , including in the menus , which are concise . The boss fights vary , not all are imaginative , but none are downright poor . The enemies are somewhat well-done and diverse . All in all . . . I'd conclude that if you dig the flick , you are set for having a solid playing experience , with hours of running around the SW universe with this , provided you can accept blemishes . This is not a flawless masterpiece , but it by no means deserves being branded an utter failure . I recommend this to fans of Episode 1 , and the franchise in general .
Jim Carrey hasn't been in a comedy for a couple of years ; in fact , he hasn't done anything but some not-too-good dramas , so naturally , his fans were expecting a lot from the film that would mark his " return " to comedy . I believe that a lot of people , especially Christians , are offended by this , because of the somewhat comic portrayal of God , among other things . I didn't find said things offensive , though I can understand how some might find them offending . However , if we forget about the immediate offense some will take from the very theme of this film , and look further , we'll find an okay attempt at explaining faith and God , without simplifying or mocking . Yes , the attempt is hidden behind a lot of ( so-so ) comedy , but if you look closer , there are a lot of references to Christianity and perhaps even a few metaphors . It's not a particularly funny or effective comedy , in spite of director Tom Shadyac's track record with working with Carrey , but it's not awful . The jokes are found more in special effects , and situations we accept because of the power harnessed ( and given that , one might have expected more interesting things to happen ) by the title character . . . rather than Carrey's performance , the dialog or other material . I'd recommend this to any fan of Jim Carrey . Just don't expect it to be as funny as his best work ( I maintain that Steve Oedekerk is unfunny and ought to stay away from Jim ) .
I dig Hellraiser . I dig Pinhead . And I dig Douglas Bradley . Fortunately , those three are in all of the Hellraiser films ( unless I'm mistaken ) . Since this also has Kirsty , one of my favorite parts of the first two films , I wanted to watch this as soon as possible . It finally appeared at the local Blockbuster , and I made sure to watch it as soon as I could . Hellraiser is such an interesting idea , and I think there is so much room for excellent stories in the universe . So far , I've seen the first , the second , the fifth and this one . The first was a good introduction , but the story was a tad . . . shall we say ' dull ' . The second really wasn't all that good ( sorry , fan community , I know many people love it , but it just seemed poorly directed to me ) , and the fifth , while having a quite good idea , was poorly executed . This is my second favorite of the bunch , after the original film . By far the greatest story . Certainly the most impressive visuals , apart from , arguably , the first . The somewhat Luke-warm direction and less-than-stellar acting brings my final rating down a few notches , sadly , but don't let that fool you . . . it's a film that should be seen by any fan , big or small , of Hellraiser . The plot is very , very good and the way it's told , the way it evolves is great . The twists and pieces of the puzzle will keep you guessing to the final outcome , and I doubt anyone will be able to figure it out prematurely . The effects are some of the best of the franchise ( well , what I've seen of it so far , at least ) . This contains some of the most disturbing visuals and ideas of the films I've seen in the franchise . I recommend this to any fan of Hellraiser or Douglas Bradley . A great film , one to make sure to watch for even the least elitist of Hellraiser fans .
I watched this mainly with the hope and intent of being entertained . . . and on that , this did just fine . If you're looking for a review that evaluates the historical , religious and so on and so forth , aspects , I'd advise reading someone else's ( but hey , if you want , by all means , stick around . . . I've got a deck of cards around here somewhere ) . The plot isn't bad . The acting is very good , with both powerful and underplayed performances herein . The action is very , very cool , immensely intense ( even if there are points where it's . . . kind of obvious that it's staged ) and with good use of time and camera work . This is quite epic at parts . The music is great , a grand score . The choreography is commendable . The cinematography and editing are both impressive . There is a considerable amount of violence in this . Effects are nicely done ( apart from those things I alluded to in the . . . other parenthesis ) . This should most definitely not be watched by children . . . and it may very well offend some adults . Casting was done well . I recommend this to those interested in the story and the period , and while there is a reasonable amount of it , those looking more for fight scenes and such may want to look elsewhere . . . from the Trivia , I gather that this was not meant to be that .
This covers just about every area of the creative process , and goes through the three stages chronologically , with the main focus squarely placed on the production . There are documentaries that go into more detail , and cover the other two groups better . This consists of artwork , behind-the-scenes footage , clips of the movie , and many interviews . With a running time that comes in at just over two hours the audience is entitled to a lot of information , given that this is nearly the same length that the film itself is . It could be argued that a lot of the time is spent on the people , with the craft and the result of their collaborative efforts coming in second . This is well-done , with tight editing . It gets into the technology some , and reveals how certain effects were achieved . This spends a lot of time on the physical training , in preparation for the fighting and such . You do get nice candid shots of the people , crew and actors alike . The Ultimate Matrix 10-Disc Set of this also holds nearly three hours of music , in a simple system , with individual track selection and a Play All function , about 38 minutes worth of BTS material in addition to the title itself , in various featurettes . The original release , however , has several very brief extras , including clips of the making of the sequels , a preview of The Animatrix and Yuen Wo Ping's Blocking Tapes ( a complete run-through of a couple of the biggest martial arts sequences , with stunt performers and almost the exact cinematography , with the same shots and angles of those bits in the finished silver screen effort ) . The language is quite strong , but rather infrequent , nearly non-existent . I recommend either version of this to anyone who enjoys the concept , and / or wants to know about how they put the first one together .
After having seen this at the cinema , I can't help but wonder . . . what exactly was the point ? Two hours spent , and the only message I could find in the film was that Hans Christian Andersen just really didn't want to do anything other than , well , what he wanted to do , not even if it meant becoming the great talent he wanted to be ( and famous , apparently , according to the film ) . Now don't get me wrong ; the film isn't bad . Not at all . It has surprisingly good production values for a mini-series ( and a Danish one at that ) . There are some very impressive effective cinematographic effects , like zooming in at an intense pace on people's faces , tiny details to show us Andersen's insecurity and make us feel it with him . The script is reasonably good , though most of it is fiction , slightly based on truth ( which makes the film a bit redundant , because it diminishes it from a great piece of film about one of Denmarks greatest authors of all time to a typical film with some historical truth in it ) . The plot is pretty good , and the pacing is good enough . Only one of the five people I saw the film with thought it was too long , and that was mainly because she , like I , thought it was somewhat pointless . The dialog is mostly well-written , though there are downright embarrassing exceptions . I think the main problem with the film lies in the execution , particularly the way Andersen is presented . Let me cut right to the chase ; he's whiny . He moans and whines constantly about his life , his imagination , everything . . . and the thing is , if someone saw this mini-series without knowing his past ( which this doesn't deal with , this only revolves around his teen years , just before he first became successful ) , they might think that's what he was . If one didn't know the tragic truth about him before seeing this , they certainly wouldn't know after , either . The invention of the character of Tuk removes the point , the very strength of the story of Andersen's popularity ; by putting in a friend , someone who supported him and helped him . The thing is , he was alone . For his whole life . And that's what makes his stories so strong . He never belonged . And that's what many of his stories are about . Too few authors write about that , and the fact that this film missed that is an eternal testament to mainstream films and possibly Danish cinema in general . It's not supposed to be cookie-cut , clean and dry . Life isn't like that . Most of the acting is good . Henning Jensen makes Mr . Meisling come to life , and Simon Dahl Thaulow looks and acts the role of Andersen well . Puk Scharbau is good as Meisling's wife , but I suspect she was mainly put in to please the young males in the audience ( which she certainly succeeds in doing ) and fill one particular scene with the smutty , crude humor Danish films are ( in ? ) famous ( and hated by me ) for . A good film , but in the end , it's just the typical formulaic one-man-rises type film , made in an attempt ( yet another one ) to cash in on the poor man's popularity ( ' incidentally ' , the release of this coincides with Andersen's 200 year birthday ) . To make it a tad better , there are a few good references to his poetry and his fairy tales , as well as a few bits of historical truth to make it easier to swallow . I recommend this to fans of Danish cinema and possibly fans of Andersen , though they should definitely make sure they know that this has very little to do with the true story .
Just after seeing this film , I didn't understand it , or know what to make of it . Not being a huge fan of ignorance , I went ahead and read a few different analysis's , and I think I've pretty much figured out what the film means now . I'd probably have to watch it at least once more to understand it , though . I get what it's about and several of the interpretations of it make nearly perfect sense . . . but I'm left still not understanding large parts of the movie . Therefore , this review will be entirely based on the film as entertainment , and as a piece of art that wasn't understood by the author of the review ( yours truly ) . First off , like most other Polanski films ( at least to my recollection ) , this features some great dialog , an involving story and a likable lead character . The plot is very good , and it evolves nicely throughout the film . The pacing is very good , I was rarely bored . It seems to go out the window near the end , though . The final few scenes seemed tacked on as a result . The acting is all top notch . . . there wasn't one single character who I found poorly acted . The cinematography is exceptional , though I have come to expect nothing less from Polanski . Roman reuses Emmanuelle Seigner , the young French beauty he earlier used in Frantic . She does an equally good job in this film . She's mysterious , hypnotizing and alluring . Though I don't understand her native tongue , I believe I'll have to find some of her other films , just to see more of her . Polanski certainly knew what he was doing when he chose her for the part . All in all , a very good horror-mystery-thriller , which should entertain even the most critical fan of any of those three genres . Unless you're into western religion , however , you will probably have the same reaction as me ( not understanding it ) . I recommend this to any fan of Polanski , Seigner and films with supernatural undertones .
After Scream respectfully made fun of the slasher sub-genre , this sequel was done . In addition to more satire and clever jabs at the films , from the very first scene , this also has some material on sequels in the genre . An obvious choice , yes , but why not ? Such would not have worked in the first film , for self-explanatory reasons , and while it may not all be of quite as high quality as that of the film preceding this , there are still points made . The plot is fairly good , but the reveal at the end is just not as effective as the one of the first ( which , going by the Trivia , can be attributed to the original script leaking . . . thanks , guys , now will ya just let them make the movies in peace ? ) . There are suspenseful and tense scenes in this , as well , and , as the sequel rules dictate ( and as is said out loud within the film ) , this is bigger than the first . There's more blood and gore ( though I'm not sure the death scenes are necessarily better than , or even match , the ones of the original ) . The characters are reasonably well-done , if the new ones aren't as interesting as those of the first . At least one character of the first gets more of a role . This picks up nicely from the first ( not right where it left off ) , and should definitely not be watched prior to watching the first . If you have , however , watched Scream and want more of the same , this'll do nicely . It isn't quite as good , but it is worth watching . Score , music and sound is well-done . This has some good scares , too . I recommend this to any fan of the first , horror and / or respectful parodies of said genre , specifically earlier-mentioned sub-genre .
In case the one line summary has anyone fooled ? I'm not actually that experienced with the series . More Tekken , really . It may be more of an availability issue than one of preference . The video-game feel of this is pretty decent , if it does wind up feeling more like watching that than a film . The music and several characters , of which there is a nice amount , as far as I know , are straight out of those releases . Shou is a martial artist before an actor , but hey , which will draw in a bigger audience for this ? In fact , that seems to be the general rule here , with Wilson as a possible exception ( and some that aren't skilled at either ) . Great decision , casting the king of B flicks , Lambert . The fighting tends to be marvelous , if some could have been captured better . The slow-motion in this is seldom effective . This is very much an Anderson piece ? some of the humor really doesn't fit the otherwise reasonably well-established dark tone ( presumably it was to avoid this taking itself too seriously , but it instead winds up making parts come off silly , whilst not even accomplishing said task ) , I'm specifically referring to Ashby's remarks . The trademark " surprises " ( for the uninitiated , these are Paul's attempts to pull the carpet out from under the audience , by going in the opposite direction than what might be anticipated , but the nonsensical nature and the cheapness of them more often disappoint than impress ) are also present , and uncalled for . Lastly , there are logic problems , more considerable in their scope than their quantity . The design is not half bad . Effects vary , but some are certainly good . I recommend this to fans of Paul W . S . Anderson and / or Mortal Kombat .
While I do think Alastair Sim from the ' 51 version of the story , ' Scrooge ' , looked and acted the part of Ebenezer Scrooge better than Patrick Stewart does in this version , this is possibly the better film overall . I'll have to see ' Scrooge ' again to be certain . I haven't read the original novel , but I hear that this is the most faithful adaptation of it . The plot is very good , and thoroughly interesting ( even to those who know it by heart , as this is , apparently , a word-for-word film version of the novel ) . The pacing is good , I never found myself being bored with it . The acting is great . . . Patrick Stewart , while not as good for the part as Sim , does a very good job on Scrooge , and most of the supporting cast , including the child actors , give good performances as well . The characters are well-written , interesting and credible . The film isn't sappy or overly sentimental . . . I'm not too big on Christmas , especially Christmas films , but I found this to be a good film . Thoroughly interesting and entertaining . For a Christmas film , this is fairly good . I suggest you see Alastair Sim's version of Ebenezer Scrooge as well . Personally , I find his performance more accurate and impressive than Patrick Stewart's , but some might disagree . I recommend it to fans of Dickens ' and the story , A Christmas Carol . Just about any fan of Christmas movies will probably enjoy this .
In spite of one half of the meaning of the title of this , it doesn't exclusively deal with the process of applying make-up on Danny DeVito , for the character of The Penguin . This is a a special feature found on the 2-Disc Special Edition release of Batman Returns , which came in 2005 , and revolves around said character in said film . It starts with Winston detailing the creation , the design of the characters look for the film , goes through the application of the make-up , and has bits here and there from the various interviewees , mainly crew , but also Burton and DeVito . I actually found parts of this to be somewhat slow , compared to the other extras on the DVD . DeVito is good to listen to , though , and both Burton and Winston have stuff to say ( if not much , but hey , this is pretty short ) . This is 8 minutes in length , and for the most part , it's well-paced . It's well-edited and does have a fair amount of information . This features interviews , clips of the film and behind the scenes footage . It ends with DeVito revealing what he feels ought to be done with the character ( outside of film ) . I recommend this to anyone who wants to know more about The Penguin of the film , and the design of him .
This featurette is found on the X-Men 1 . 5 DVD of 2003 , and perhaps people expecting something else from it explains the , at the time of writing this , 10 votes for 1 . It's not the overall look , colours or production design . No , this deals with the make-up and costumes , with the former of the two taking up almost all of this ( and given how elaborate it is , that makes good sense . They go over each of the mutants that had much done ( not actually every single one in the movie ) , and the transitions between them are smooth . This consists of interviews ( especially with Gordon J . Smith ; also , note that not everyone listed actually speaks in this , thought most of the actors referred to , do ) , behind-the-scenes footage and clips of the film . It's pretty thorough , going over seemingly everything there is to the subject , all of it that isn't self-explanatory . The editing is well-done , essentially invariably . This is informative and entertaining . Near the end of this , they go into one particular bit of the shooting , and a fair bit of amusement comes out of something both very simple , and , when you stop to think about it , pretty obvious . There is one or two instances of harsh language in this . I recommend this to anyone who wants to learn more about how they got the appearance down , and how they decided on it , as well .
This is a documentary on the VG , and it is found on the second DVD of the 2-Disc release of The Matrix Reloaded . The biggest positive that could be said about this , I would say , is that it really makes it look appealing , and without coming off as a trailer . Being that I have played , and that I do enjoy , but at the same time realize that there are better ones out there , I would advise any viewers of this to take what they hear in it with a grain of salt . This consists of behind-the-scenes footage , interviews and clips of cut-scenes and game-play . This is well-edited , and spends the almost half an hour well . It's well-paced , and doesn't waste any time . They go over technology and what they intended to do with the product , and this introduces you to several concepts in it . They also talk a little bit about the kiss . Given that this is a piece of PR , this is a love-fest and everyone is quite excited ( hypothetically , if there were any nay-sayers caught by the camera , they took it out ) . Don't expect deep and profound answers . However , it's informative , interesting and well-done . There is a little ( less than half a dozen words ) strong language , and an adult theme or two . I recommend this to anyone who wants to know more about how they put the title together .
I can tell you exactly what I thought when I first read about this : Uh-oh . . . is this Hit-man all over again ? I hate to admit it , but a case could be made for that . Both have promising trailers , you didn't know for sure what to expect from the person who helmed each ( maybe particularly in this genre ) , they got re-shoots to add more action after preview audiences didn't respond well , and they feature Thomsen . And neither fully live up to the expectations one ( well , I ) had . The plot isn't bad . It moves along reasonably well . You can follow it OK , and it holds your interest most of the way . The pacing works , and this can be intense when it tries to be . The dialog has good lines , quotable and memorable . There are fantastic moments in this - the atmosphere and sense of danger are impeccably done - and up until a certain scene , it keeps being largely magnificent . The sophistication lasts until that one . . . you'll probably know what I mean if or when you see it . The direction is marvelous , pretty much throughout , although you can tell that , let's say the added material , is not Tykwer's forte . This has some great points , however , the way in which they're made could perhaps be stronger . The music works well , and shows that simplicity can be effective . The acting is nice , and the character development is fair . In addition to a bit of violence , this has a lot of harsh language . For another meaning of that word , this holds no less than three , spoken . . . English ( duh ) , Italian and . . . Danish ! They let Ulrich speak his native tongue . Though they didn't have to , they did . I recommend this to fans of the people involved in making it , and anyone who likes drama-thrillers . The quality doesn't remain as high as it starts out , but it's still a fine piece .
Some would call this a tamer / toned down version of Pulp Fiction . . . I don't know . I guess it is , but the film is also more devoid of Tarantino's style than any of his other work . The non-linear time-line would be the prime example of this ; it's only used in a handful of scenes , rather than the one thing that keeps the film going , as is the case with one or two of his other films ( Reservoir Dogs , arguably Pulp Fiction ) . The film has much less violence , sex and drugs than any of his other films as well , which , together with the non-linear time-line , is Tarantino's trademark . However , in some ways , it lifted the film above expectations of the standard Tarantino production ; instead of sitting there , waiting for some shocking violence , I actually payed attention to the story , which is more than what I can say for Reservoir Dogs and Pulp Fiction ( Kill Bill managed to juggle both things , Tarantino's style and a good , interesting plot perfectly , which is partly why I like it more ) . The problem with the plot , however , is that it's so damn confusing . . . if you don't pay perfect attention every single second of the way , you'll miss something . Normally , this would rate high with me , as I like films where it pays off to pay attention . . . only , this one doesn't . It doesn't pay off to pay attention , because the one reason there is to watch the movie , is to enjoy Tarantino's unique style , which , as I mentioned before , is not as present here as it is in his other movies . The ending is a anti-climax , and a powerful one , since it gives you exactly the ending you expect from the very start of the film , and you realize that you've just spent two and a half hours , watching something that ended exactly the way you knew it would end . Pulp Fiction ended unexpectedly , both in time and situation . Kill Bill had a great twist , at the end of each part / volume . Even Reservoir Dogs had a better ending than this . The plot is a pretty good , but a little too predictable , and it has almost as bad a pace as Pulp Fiction ; the thing that kept me watching was my enjoyment of Tarantino's style and the fact that I wasn't as confused by it as I was by Pulp Fiction . The predictability might have something to do with me having seen so many other Tarantino's films , but it still should have surprised me more ; all of his other films surprised me , some more than others , but all surprised me at some point or another . The characters are well-written , like with most of Tarantino's other work . The dialog is also about as good as Tarantino's other films . The soundtrack is also pretty good , but it's inferior to his other films , in my opinion . The actors are all well-cast . Hmmm . . . what else . . . I don't know , all in all , it's just a typical Tarantino film , with the twist that it's in several ways different from , uh , the typical Tarantino film . That's pretty much it . If you're into Tarantino's style , you'll enjoy it , but you have to love his films and style to really love it . I recommend it to fans of Tarantino , who are up for a slightly different film from what he usually does .
This is a set of documentaries , 9 or so total , about the three stages of production , on the 2-Disc DVD of Kingdom of Heaven . The setup allows you to view any single one of them when you want , divided into the groups of Directing , Crew and Cast , and the aforementioned phases . All added up , it has a running time of 84 minutes . It consists of interviews , behind-the-scenes footage during all of the parts of making the film and clips from the movie itself . It covers a lot of ground , and little about it should be unclear by the end of the hour and a half , if one chooses to watch all of this . Several of the main actors speak , as well as Ridley himself , and various people under him , responsible to different degrees for the many areas of creating the feature . They talk process , the freedom that Scott allows , and there is , of course , some of the obligatory love-fest . It's quite informative , thorough , and it can be entertaining , as well . I recommend it to any fan of those who helped to put the title together , and / or anyone who wants to know more about it .
Being that this is his first big role in a feature film , I was excited to see how well Eminem could act . I'm happy to say that he pulls it off perfectly . I didn't even think about that it was Eminem in the lead role , as he portrays his character perfectly . Even though it's similar to his real personality , it must have been hard for him . The rest of the actors mostly perform well too , actually pretty much everybody except Kim Basinger is completely believable . Unfortunately , she seems a bit out of place in this film , and she didn't portray her character too believably , in my opinion . The plot is interesting and keeps your attention , for the duration of the film . The characters are all believable . The cinematography is excellent ; it really makes you feel that you're there , in every single scene , in every battle . Being a rap fan , I really enjoyed the rap music aspect of the film too , though I guess people who aren't into rap will dislike big parts of the film . I also felt that the ex-girlfriend subplot was a bit underdeveloped ; it could have been take a bit further . Apart from that , and the acting of Kim Basinger , this couldn't have been much better . I really liked that it wasn't entirely autobiographical , that would have been predictable and probably boring , especially for us fans of Eminem who know his background well . I like what they did with the theme , and where they took the plot . Overall , a pretty good drama that could have been better . I'd recommend this to most fans of dramas , and fans of hip-hop / rap / Eminem .
The two things that stand out most about this game is that it's in the genre of " noir " , which exceptionally few games are , and that it's the very first game to involve bullet-time . The film-noir works very well in the game , and the story is pretty typically noir ( revenge is the main theme ) , and all in all , I'd say the game has a very good noir feel to it , especially due to the narration . The bullet-time has ( which was surely to come in some game , after the massive success of The Matrix , in which the photography technique was invented and used quite well ) , since this game was made , been done a few times more , most of them better than in this , so that's not as special anymore , but they did marvelous in programming and animating it , and while it isn't as nicely explained as it was in aforementioned philosophical sci-fi action film , it's very well-integrated . The game has you controlling Max Payne , an ex-cop with good cause to seek revenge . I won't reveal here what happens to the man to provide him with said cause , as the in-game reveal is quite simply so effective as to rival the emotional impact of a masterfully directed motion picture . The story develops throughout , with clues being provided and Max slowly figuring out who's behind it all . The voice acting is very good , and the diverse character gallery is credible and well-written . I'm not sure which of the two games , this or the sequel , had the better story ( though perhaps this had too much technology by comparison ) , though I remember more of this . . . perhaps simply because I played it for longer , more times . This had the more concise amount of characters , and at least one character went through a change in the second game that I didn't care too much for . The game seems far too hard to beat ; the enemies seem to have far superior aim , or maybe their weapons just several times as much damage as the player does . . . anyway , I often found myself emptying entire clips ( ! ) at my enemy , only to be killed by a single shot , when Max stopped shooting to reload . The game-play is also incredibly repetitive . The only thing you do is run around and shoot . Of course , the slow-motion running makes for more intense fire-fights , and the dives help give you the feel of being in a John Woo film ( giving the game a feel of , I suppose , being in a noir film directed by the Chinese master of action movies ) . Oh , actually , there are also a few jumping puzzles ( yes , jumping ) in the game , which really mostly serve as more frustration as you also have far too little ( read : hardly any at all ) control over how long or how high your character jumps . The weapon selection is very good , with a Beretta ( and dual use available , fitting right in with the John Woo feel ) , an assault rifle ( from the looks of it , probably an M4 ) , two shotguns , one of which is a sawed-off , a sniper and more . Last-mentioned ranged weapon has a very nice slow-motion camera effect that I won't describe in detail , activated simply by shooting at an enemy with the rifle , using the scope to aim . The sound is very good , everything sounds as it should , with marvelous ambient sounds to make you feel like you really are in New York . The graphics are very good , but the graphic engine requires far too much , and the game will sometimes lag on computers that can run newer games with better graphics flawlessly . It especially lagged for me in the cinematics , bringing several of them so far out of sync that most of the enjoyment of watching them was severely negatively affected . The game has a great atmosphere , they've managed to capture the whole experience of a noir film almost perfectly , with the mood , the music , the story and the plot-twists . Had the game only been better game-play-wise , it would have been very short of a masterpiece . Unfortunately , the creators were too busy improving the graphics and inserting in-jokes to do anything about it . They put more effort into the atmosphere , graphics and bullet-time , and the game-play , re-playability and length suffered . The level design of the game is very good , but it still doesn't save it . Overall , the game is good , but it could have been great . If you are going to play it , I urge you to try it with mods , instead of the regular game . . . heck , actually , with how many marvelous mods that are available , for free for download off the ' net , I urge anyone who enjoys action games and can run this to get it just to be able to play the mods ( in fact , for any creative folk who double as gamers out there , I can say as one such person myself that modding for this game is a lot of fun . . . if you can use the tools . You can make new levels ( and program cinematics for them , tons of fun ) , mess around with coding , put in new weapons and change just about everything to fit what you want to achieve . It may not be the most easy to figure out how to do , but there are a ton of tutorials , and these two are quite probably the games that let you change the most . . . at the very , very least among them ) . If you do intend to play the game through , do it because of the excellent story and the noir-like mood , and don't expect a very diverse experience to be gotten out of the main game-play . Also , if you insist on beating it , prepare to use cheat codes , unless you're very , very stubborn ( like me ) or very , very patient . The game takes about ten hours to beat , give or take , and after that there is somewhat little chance that you'll play it again . It's just far too hard , to the point of being frustrating at times . I recommend this to people who dig noir and / or third-person shooters . If you have the patience .
When I first sat down to watch this , I was quick to judge it as a dud . About ten or twenty minutes into it , I suddenly started to love pretty much every second of it . It doesn't last every single second of the movie , but most of it is really funny . If you're into black humor you should definitely check it out . All of the main characters have a very distinct dialect for the entire movie , which at first seems annoying , but eventually you grow to love it , and laugh at it . The acting is mostly acceptable , as most the characters are laughable stereotypes . The movie is very black , one of the most pitch black I've ever seen , so if you don't think you can stand extreme black humor , or you're easily offended , you should definitely avoid this film . It isn't for everybody's taste , and most people probably won't like it . It's gold for any fan of black humor though , if you like a movie like One night at McCools , you'll probably like this one too . It's made in the style of a documentary , I think the genre is called " mockumentary " . Once again , not for everyones taste , but worth watching for fans of black humor .
" I can't watch anymore " . I understand you , but that really refers more to the entire Prequel Trilogy . When you put a line like that in . . . I mean , just look at the title of Intolerable Cruelty , and the tag of The Matrix Revolutions . But yes , my summary refers to the most recent three . And it does , indeed , not take into account how frenetic this can be . There's a healthy dose of action , and some of it does work . . . but much is overdone . The light-saber stuff varies , but some bits , with how casual its participants are , while the intent surely was to make it look cool , it just takes away the sense of danger , and the thrill and excitement go with it . At times , the fights are done in medium shots , which doesn't help any . The battle scenes , for really the only time in any of these movies , lack any kind of sense of progression , you can never tell who's winning , and it renders them little more than visual spectacles . The effects are amazing , I do give them that . Do the cameos add , or merely detract ? The dialog ( though it does have moments ) and acting ( come on , Hayden , you're better elsewhere . . . so's essentially everyone else ) still need work . More holes in the overall canon exist from what is seen and heard in this . This does try to , and to some extent , succeeds in , bridging the gap . The efforts do range between abruptly sudden and too slow , but the middle is reached at least for portions . It's dark in tone , and this is fairly well-achieved . My conclusion after having viewed the entire PT in succession is that Lucas started where it would have been fine to end . . . Phantom Menace feels classic , and to me , it scores the highest marks as far as being entertaining goes . After that , it just went further and further , and the emotion and how memorable they were declined at the same rate . I imagine few will argue that George has too many yes-men around him , or for that matter that he clearly did not have the entire series in his mind whilst working on any one of the individual films . I would like to point out that I am neither a disgruntled fan nor someone who grew up with the OT and / or experienced a lot of hype for these . The DVD has over a dozen featurettes ( of varying length ) , trailers , TV-spots , cut out material and a commentary track . I recommend this to those who wish to take in all of the canon cinema releases .
When I borrowed this , as well as the other Blackadder series ( or , uh , seasons , I suppose ) , it was presented as the ' weird but good start ; weird , because it hadn't found its true form yet ' . I can't comment on the rest of Blackadder in relation ( since I haven't seen any of it , yet , but I will as soon as possible ; reviews to come ) , but I will definitely good . I've never been much for Rowan Atkinson . . . I consider his creation , Mr . Bean to be the ultimate in simple humor ( which is something I do not hold in high regard ) . While he does many of the same facial expressions and some of the same humor here , this is of far higher comedic value and quality . The plots are far-out and highly unlikely . . . highly amusing . The acting is great , although occasionally overdone for effect . The characters are well-written and credible . The humor , while at times quite simplistic , is mostly laugh-out-loud funny . Not to mention British . Very , very British . Very verbal . Read any of the ' memorable quotes ' and you'll see . If you find it funny , you should , nay , must see this . It's incredibly funny and entertaining . The theme is excellent ; I found myself humming along to it , and what I picked up of the lyrics was quite humorous . The DVD I borrowed even has a sing-along . I'll have to try it . The production value is somewhat unimpressive ; several gags are ruined by poor angles and less-than-credible props . The form is somewhat sitcom-like , but not quite . . . this is the reason why it's ' weird ' . If you can get over said weirdness , you will most likely find this series / season a nearly unending line of laughs . I loved most all of this . Incredibly funny show . I recommend this to fans of Atkinson ( even of his Bean character , since he does retain a bit of it here ) , British humor and sitcoms . Very , very entertaining and at times hilarious . You'll laugh , you'll cry ( with laughter ) , you'll wish there were more episodes .
I haven't watched very many silent films , so I really can't draw many comparisons . I watched this because of Brooks , and I was not disappointed with it . Making a " non-talky " this long after that died out was an impressive feat , whether or not you like that genre or the result . What's interesting here is what he did beyond simply doing such a piece decades after the time of their grandeur ( he's hardly the only person who's ever thought of , or accomplished , something like that . . . the Coen brothers did , as well , though I'm not sure it was as many years ) , mainly in the high self-awareness evident throughout , and one specific bit that works on several levels , which I will not wreck by putting it here . The comedy is what you'd expect from Mel . A lot of silly material , some downright childish and / or sexual in nature . There are references and spoofs , as well . This may have more slapstick than the other movies helmed by the man , for obvious reasons . The physical gags and humor in general varies , and a little of it does fall flat , at times landing hard . It's the right people doing the stuff , though , Feldman ( whom I don't believe I've seen before ) and DeLuise , in addition to the lead himself , do great . The music fits perfectly , and sound is used extensively and to good to magnificent effect . The cameos are cool . There isn't a whole lot of plot , the focus is on getting laughs , and there are portions that could be cut without the overall feature losing much beyond jokes and running time . I can't promise this is necessarily one that stays with the viewer , and while that is a matter of taste , I would imagine that plenty of fans of the old pre-sound-recording releases remain fresh in their minds . . . and since there are still copies available for purchase , at least here and there , it would seem that they do still have an audience . I recommend this to fans of the director / star , and / or , to a lesser degree , the others involved in making it . Those who love the type of silver screen production that this is about I would say will be divided in opinion of it .
This is mainly noteworthy on account of how little they had to work with , and how impressive the result is . They had little time and limited set , and what they put together actually does work . The plot isn't bad , and there is enough of it to keep this going for the duration of it . This is a sit-com , with the very unusually chosen back-drop of a dictator state , with the typical characters , types and line of jokes . The camera-work and tone emulate the sub-genre of television-based comedy , and save for perhaps one visual gag ( which does become apparent when the punch-line is reached , but if a joke hasn't been realized by the audience before that point . . . ) , there's very little to criticize in this department . It is somewhat uneven , and , possibly partially due to how short it is , characterization isn't a strong suit of this . The material varies in quality , but it tends to be consistent in style ( if not always terribly logical , there's at least one point . . . ) , but the players aren't bad , they embrace it for the very most part . Sound is fine . Editing is more or less spot-on . I recommend this to fans of shorts , indies , Sanderson and / or sitcoms .
From the commercials for this film , it didn't look like much . . . a pretty entertaining Western , and that's about it . Well . . . my predictions were true . An entertaining film , not much else . But dang . . . is it entertaining ! Gun fights , chases , etc . So much spaghetti Western action in one movie . The plot is well-written and keeps your interest . Making the gang be the good guys was an interesting twist , anti-heroes are always fun to watch . The acting is very good all-round , no performances seemed weak or unsatisfying . Farrell , Smith and Bates are particularly fun to watch . The characters are well-written , human and credible . The dialog has its moments , but is often contrived . It's mostly nicely delivered , at the very least . Few lines are quotable and fewer scenes are memorable , but it's still a fun and entertaining film while it lasted . I found the cinematography to be quite good , and the overall stylish feel to the film was effective and a welcome addition . The action is all very nicely set up , and well shot and quite intense , not to mention involving . It was hard to look away for a second during the action scenes . The humor is pretty good , though at times somewhat forced . By no means a great film , but a sufficiently entertaining one . I recommend this to any fan of any of the actors involved as well as fans of Westerns , spaghetti Westerns in particular . If you're into that kind of film , don't miss this one .
I've been trying to see more of Roman Polanski's films , partly because I find him interesting , and partly because he always adds something unique to the film , small details which most mainstream directors skip . I found this and was interested , both of Polanski and Ford . It turned out to be different from what I expected ; not necessarily in a bad way , but still . The beginning had me thinking of Steve Martin , for some reason . . . I think it was the humor and the likeness between him and Harrison Ford . Again , I wasn't disappointed , just surprised . When the plot took off , it became quite exciting , but I can see how some might find it funny ( as another reviewer did ) . Cultural differences that Polanski has included for a more full picture may be mistaken for successful attempts at comic relief . Who knows , maybe he was going for a bit of both . The little nice touches he adds are what make the film memorable , raise it above the run-of-the-mill suspense-thrillers . A kidnapping that leads the kidnapped woman's husband to search for the kidnappers himself ? Please . How many times have we heard that . Polanski doesn't really add anything new to the genre or the idea , but his eye for details help with making it far more entertaining . For the male audience , something that may ( read : will ) also make it more easy to sit through is the fact that about half-way into the film , Ford meets a french girl who's quite easy on the eyes , and isn't afraid to show it . She runs around in a very short skirt for a good part of the last part of the movie , which is always good to see in a film that's arguably a bit too long for its own good . The plot is interesting , but loses momentum around the end . Too many scenes that could have been resolved enormously easy , but are made more complicated through very obvious and inelegant plot points . The film also seems to go on for a good half hour more than it needs to . The acting is pretty good , apart from the french girl who is less than convincing in a little too many of the scenes . The characters are interesting and well-written . The film as a whole is worth watching , but probably only once . I recommend this to fans of Harrison Ford , Roman Polanski , kidnapper flicks and mystery-thrillers .
I know that this is based on a Stephen King novel , but I haven't read it , so I can't really compare the film to it . I have watched a few movies based on novels by Stephen King ; IT , Carrie , The Green Mile , Children of the Corn , The Shining , Golden Years , Quicksilver Highway , Cujo , Christine , and , obviously , this one . Most of them I didn't like , I don't know if that has to do with King's novels , or if the directors screwed the films up , but anyway ; Of all of those , this one ranks up there as one of the best ( The Green Mile is the best ) . The plot takes off almost immediately , and then goes slowly for the rest of the movie . I was a little surprised at the slow rate , but , fortunately , at times the plot takes off again and provides some thrills for a short while , but it only last shortly , and once again it gets slow . The acting is all pretty good , there weren't really any of the actors who did a bad job . The film has a magnificent sense of humor , too , and there are a lot of funny moments all through it . The twist is pretty good , there are a few hints at it throughout the film , but I was definitely surprised when it happened . The films climax is also pretty good , though the very end is a little drawn out . All in all , a pretty good thriller , that could have been better . I recommend this to fans of thrillers .
The one line summary says it pretty well ; this film is pretty weird . It's fast-paced , very few scenes last more than a minute or so , so you have to pay close attention to it , or you'll miss crucial details . The plot is pretty good , and fairly interesting , though it confuses its audience a lot , especially near the end . It is , like I mentioned before , very fast-paced , and yet it seems to crawl through the film a lot , if not most , of the time . The acting is mostly good , though I have to admit that Drew Barrymore drove me crazy for a lot of her scenes , with her annoyingly , overly sweet type of acting . Julia Roberts is decent enough . Sam Rockwell gives a great performance and carries the film almost entirely on his shoulders . George Clooney was great as well . The characters seemed fairly well-written , though Roberts apparently jumped straight out of character in a single scene ( I don't know if that has to do with her acting or the script , though ) , but most of the time they were credible . The script is pretty good , though I think it jumps a little too much forward at times , and seems to refuse to stay at one point long enough for us to think about that period . The film has some good , well-edited and nicely cut sequences that show promise , but the film never really picks up on it , leaving only a few really good scenes , but no good continuity , and no really good film . I know that the film is based on someone real , Chuck Barris , but I find it far too boring and seemingly pointless to make for an interesting watch , unless you're really interested in knowing how Mr . Barris ' life was . I guess the moral of it is , that you should do everything you can to realize your dreams , or you might wake up one day and find out you're too late , and you've wasted too much of your life . That's a good point , and kudos on trying to make it with this film , but at least make the film interesting and watchable . Barris isn't even particularly likable , not to mention , the shows he made could very well be the fault of the low-brow nature of most TV-shows today , which is only reason to loathe him , as much as most of the female characters in the film do . I recommend it to fans of black comedies , and possibly of the actors too . Just be prepared to be bored out of your mind , if the film doesn't grab you or your attention almost immediately . Unless of course you're just dying to know who the ' famous ' Chuck Barris was .
This is really a funny parody of the Bond movies . This is the best thing to watch if you've seen a typical by-the-numbers Bond movie , one of the old ones , for example , and thought it was ridiculous , or at the very least something other than great . The plot is directly spoofing the old Bond movies , with an evil villain trying to take over the world . The acting is pretty good , for a spoof movie ; the characters are mostly caricatures and stereotypes , to further parody the Bond movies , but they add to the humor of the film . Mike Myers is great in this movie , pretty much anyone who likes him will probably enjoy him in this . I loved how it was spoofing the Bond movies , sometimes even mentioning the ludicrousness of the characters actions in details . If you're into 60's stereotypes , crude sexual humor and some great Bond-spoof action , you'll most likely enjoy this . I recommend this to anyone who enjoys spoof movies , and who's seen at least one Bond movie and thought it was a bit ridiculous . It's filled to the brink with crude sexual innuendo and Bond-spoofing .
I watched this shortly after viewing the ' 78 film . Within half an hour of the end credits rolling of that , the opening ones of this came on . Therefore , I have an unusually clear memory ( and basis of comparison ) of the first . From the first frame ( literally . . . as the credits roll at the beginning of the film ) , I could tell that Singer is a definite fan of the original . As the film progressed , it was also proved without a doubt that he's a fan of the character . For a revival film , for restarting a franchise , this couldn't really have been much better of a superhero / Superman movie ( as far as I can tell , from my non-fan view , and having only seen the first film prior to this ) . The in-jokes and references to the first are quite funny , if there are arguably a tad too many of them . The plot is well-written , explains the various changes and developments nicely . . . and I , for one , love the way it uses the first as a starting point . The acting is all good . Routh is fitting as both Superman and Clark Kent . Bosworth seemed too young a Lois Lane to me . Kevin Spacey basically is Lex Luthor . There was less energy put in his performance than the trailer suggested , which is a shame , but he's still marvelous . Posey provides some good comic relief and shows off some of her somewhat seldom seen acting talent . The characters are fairly well-developed . Kent is less clumsy here . The pacing is solid . There are drawn-out scenes , but the action more than makes up for them . . . and I was never actually bored or hoping it would end soon ( though I will admit that the film may be as much as half an hour too long ) . The cinematography is quite good . . . the camera takes on a panicky shaking during several of the intense scenes , but it never really seems overdone . The action is exciting and breathtaking . The visuals are stunning . . . the effects are amazing . You truly will believe that a man can fly . Yes , one or two of the subplots may have been unnecessary , but the end result , what it all comes down to , is a pretty solid film . You can watch this without having seen any of the others , though I would recommend watching the first . . . first . I recommend this to any fan of the character , of superhero films in general and / or of the 1978 movie . Highly enjoyable .
I don't know how old I was when I first watched this , but I may very well have been too young to comprehend how long ago it was made . . . much less how old some of the score is . I still recognize some of it from watching it more than a decade ago , and probably further back still . Putting images to classical music is a great way to get those of us ( yup , guilty as charged ) who just wouldn't sit down to listen to something like that under normal circumstances to experience it . Cartoons have aged remarkably well ( not just this , in general ) . . . what needs to , and / or is meant to , look imposing still does ( I won't blow what they are , for anyone who hasn't seen this . . . and those who have may very well know exactly what I'm referring to ) , and the whole thing still works , almost 70 years after it was originally released . Little sound is added . . . the visuals are scored almost entirely with the performances of the orchestral classics , the way the animation brings the well-known composed pieces to life . Drawing styles vary , and some segments are naturalistic , others almost psychedelic . Colors are vivid , and sometimes underplayed . Segments are briefly introduced by a speaker . There is story progression in at least some of the bits . I recommend this to anyone who doesn't object to two hours of animated visuals to go with some of the greatest score ever composed .
What makes this commercial really stick out from the others is the filming style , which seemed documentary-like . While I found this style a little annoying at first , I ended up actually enjoying it and liking the commercial for being different without being bad ( like the one Ang Lee misdirected ) . The cinematography is very good , and gives us some great intense sequences . The acting is great , both by Clive Owen and Stellan Skarsgård . Owen must have gotten very much used to his character of The Driver by this point , so it's interesting to see him in a more emotional take on the character . Skarsgård is very good as the war photographer , and his final speech , though going very close to crossing over into being cliché , manages to work perfectly and arouse actual emotions in the viewer , rather than just being sappy , manipulative drivel ( which this sort of thing almost always is ) . The action ( the little there is ) is great and the amount is just right . It's obvious that this was more about story and characters than action and thrills , and director Alejandro González Iñárritu pulls it off perfectly . It's rare to see something so short that manages to hold your interest without a lot of action and whilst managing to tell a story so beautifully and emotionally . While I prefer Ambush over this one , I think it's a great commercial . I recommend this to fans of the commercials and of this type of stories .
Blade is probably the most bloody action film of the nineties , and probably the most bloody comic book adaptation too . You get used to this pretty quick though , well , if you don't , you won't be able to sit through the entire movie , as it's very bloody , throughout it's entire run time . The action is very intense , and the best thing for people who like / love martial arts in western cinema ( like me ) . I've watched it seven or eight times now , and the action scenes are still pretty entertaining to watch . The special effects are nothing special anymore , but they were pretty good for the time ( it's no The Matrix , though ) . The acting is nothing special , but it isn't very bad , well , apart from maybe N'Bushe Wright's acting . Most action fans will like this , Blade comic book fans might love it , I have never read it , so I don't know how accurate an adaptation this is . I prefer this to the sequel , that's for sure . A lot of people seem to compare this to The Matrix ( myself included ) . While I think this is definitely nowhere near as good as The Matrix , it is pretty good nonetheless .
I base this on the PC version . I will be comparing this to the first throughout . The journey of the brooding cop goes on , and he hasn't lost his touch . This has improvements over the one preceding it : One of the very noticeable ones being the new physics engine , Havok , that makes almost everything ( that ought to ) be able to move , in stark contrast to the admittedly rigid nature of the environment in the one before this . Now you can affect your surroundings , knock over stuff , break things and such . The game-play is varied , as well , with bits where you provide cover , defend someone or similar . The structure is intact , with the order altered somewhat , making it less predictable without losing the arc . I am of course referring to the plot , which again is brilliantly written , unfolds and develops incredibly well , and is another well-crafted mystery , perfect for the genre . The system for throw-ables is considerably freer , now it's a secondary attack , and the alternate to it is " melee " , something that in this is code for " pistol-whip " , and you can do that regardless of what you're packing . Finally , beating this doesn't only unlock the next difficulty setting ( there are three , that should help ensuring that anyone , regardless of expertise at these will be challenged as well as enjoy it ) and the New York Minute mode ( in a word : run ) , but now also the Dead Man Walking one , where you can choose one of five locations where you have to try to stay alive for as long as you can , through the shootouts with spawning enemies , and it'll list your best time for each , and you get a mission selector , as well . These add to the re-playability , a good thing , since this is short , 10-12 hours I would say . However , not all of the changes are positive . I don't know if people found the original too complicated in that aspect , but this one has hints , in case you forget what you're supposed to do , or you can't quite figure it out . That's part of the things they did in this one to make it easier , as one of those recent releases where the start of the series was thought to be too hard and thus they made the follow-up less so ( another case is Hit-man , and Commandos is one where it did work out ) . Another step is that this is less snippy about the amount of Bullet-Time ( and it looks better still , and now , you get to reload during it ! To top it off , they gave it a wicked and fitting animation ) that you get to use , you can sorta " store it " , and it regenerates over time . I am personally not fond of the choice of villain , though I do not know of the general reception of it . In what I can only imagine must have been an on-going attempt to keep this from becoming too depressing , this has a bunch of humor not in the other one , not only that , no , even made from things that were disturbing in it . Then there are parodies of things in that one , including the overall , well , the entire thing . There's a self-awareness to it , maybe they were trying to prevent themselves or others from taking these too seriously , and I'd say it hurts the experience at least a little , it gets too silly at points ( and that is tough to accuse the 2001 title of ) . Not all of this aspect is bad . Whilst this is potentially a tad less dark , the potent satire on the US , American life , etc . is going strong as ever , in the ads , on TV and otherwise . Moving away from the new . . . this continues an excellent Noir piece , as directed by John Woo . In fact , that may describe this one spot-on . You've got a femme fatale , a tale about love , and this one , ahem , does not end up going high-tech and modern . The time-line is more non-linear , as well . The story-telling remains mainly in the comic book style ( including the brief and great summary of the past adventure of Max , for those who've just joined us ) , and is astounding . Thus , the nicely articulated facial and body movements of the characters are not used as often as they could be ( and that's fine ) . The graphics are magnificent , and I'm not sure it even puts that much of a strain on the video card . Level design is marvelous , and you're seldom lost . The audio is all top-notch , with qualified voice acting that never lets down , well-composed score music , and sound effects that are all fantastic . There's only really one Boss Fight in this , I would say . The AI is well-done , they may follow you , they'll try to get you and they use grenades and they'll even try to avoid those you toss at them . The weapons are well-chosen , most of them are returning favorites . They still include sidearms , shotguns , SMGs , assault rifles and snipers ( no , the Grenade Launcher does indeed appear to be gone ) . The realism is impeccable , ammo and the likes are always found in places where it makes sense , there is recoil , and so on . The tone is bleak . There are mature themes in this , and material ( nudity and what goes beyond sensuality ) and that is certainly not for younger audiences . The amount and harsh nature of the language is gratuitous . I agree that it can be used in works of fiction to establish what type someone is , or display growth ( like someone becoming not as crude , or the other way around ) , but in this , it does honestly come off as " we get to use it , so we're sure as heck gonna do so " . Like John McTiernan apparently putting a sex scene in Die Hard : With a Vengeance just because he knew it would be rated R . It's immature and stooping to the lowest common denominator . Nevertheless , this is an immensely well-done effort , and helps dissolve the myth that sequels have to suck . I recommend this to any fan of the game that got this franchise going , and the ingredients . .
First off , I'm an atheist . That means I don't believe in any higher power or deity , and that I am in no way spiritual . So naturally , when one of the first things said in the film was about how the main character gained his faith in god , I wasn't too thrilled . Still , I decided to give it a shot , if for nothing else then to trash in it my review . Well . . . now I've seen it . . . and I don't really see any reason to trash it . Truth be told , it's not half bad . It's actually fairly well-made , though this was no big surprise to me , as the director is the same guy who made Daredevil ( one of my favorite of the new superhero flicks ) . Now , like I said before , I'm not big on spirituality or faith in god . I'm of the opinion that if you need to believe in something like that , you're fooling yourself , and merely proving that you can't accept the world's harsh realities . Religion is simply an invention designed to make our seemingly pointless existence , as well as our ultimate death seem less empty and bleak . Personally I've found constructive thought and the gathering of useful knowledge to be a far better way to fulfill this purpose . Anyway . . . I'm getting off track here ; even though religion is a big theme in the film , I still found it to be pretty good . It's quite funny , for one . The plot is good ( enough ) . The acting is very good . No complaints in that department . This contains what is arguably the best acting by Jim Carrey ever . . . he does a voice-over narration throughout the film that underlines what happens . The characters are all well-written and credible . Some of the humor is overly childish , but most of it works . The direction was one of the best points of the film . Mark Steven Johnson proves his worth and talent as a director , using interesting angles , great cuts and displaying some of the best usage of slow-motion I've seen for a while . However , I didn't really find this movie to be particularly moving . I see a lot of people comparing this to The Mighty . . . now , this has better direction than that film , but this doesn't evoke even a fraction of the same amount of the emotion as The Mighty does . I never really found myself saddened at Simon's lost battles , though I did cheer a bit at his victories . I guess that counts for something . All in all , a fairly good comedy-drama with very good direction , acting and writing . I recommend this to fans of comedy and drama and fans of movies in general .
Comedy is an art that can take many forms , and can be seen more places than more or less any other . Almost anywhere you search , you may find it by looking closely . Many would argue that slapstick reminiscent of the late Benny Hill isn't the greatest expression of the comedic arts , but it's difficult to dispute that it's one that anyone understands ( if not everyone will find it funny ) . Here , that type of humor is meshed ( and with quite good results ) with the innocence of Bushmen who have never seen modern society . There are three story lines ; following Xixo , a Bushman who has technology thrust upon him in the form of an object common in civilization , Andrew Steyn , a young man who works in Botswana ( where the whole film is set ) and a malevolent man fighting the government . These story lines run parallel each other very well , and the overall plot is rather good , for the production . The pacing is relatively even , and the movie neither moves too fast nor too slowly . The comedy is almost all in the form of the slapstick , and there is occasional cleverness in the dialog . It all goes together well , and makes for a very funny movie . The innocence and the general tone of the film makes it very sweet ( without being sappy ) , and though few will make the claim that it is an unpredictable piece , it's a nice little film , one to take your mind off bad things and just relax ( in-between the laughing ) . An inexpensive movie that doesn't look cheap . The humor is very well balanced ; it never tries too hard , and it is almost invariably successful at getting the laughs . Seeing Xixo be introduced to modern conveniences , and respond with the naiveté ( which is perfectly accentuated by the narrator ) is heartening , and watching how he adapts to it is a testament to human ingenuity . A simple film , but one that can be watched by just about anyone at any time . The slapstick does get a little violent at times , but it's cartoon-y violence ( think Tom and Jerry ) . It shows little actual consequence of violent actions . . . for better or for worse . I recommend this to any fan of slapstick and physical comedy . Very good for what it is .
If not necessarily by the start , then by the end , of the opening credits , you should be well aware of what the point of view driving this movie is . Like this piece or not , it doesn't really try to pass itself off as anything but what it is . I've liked all that I've seen of Niccol's ( not always equally much ) , and this was the one I looked the most forward to . It lived up to my expectations . With an ironic tone lasting the duration , this takes you through the world of gun-running , with Yuri being our guide , also filling out the role of obvious metaphor , something not exactly foreign to Andrew ( do not worry , this is by no means another S1m0ne . . . that would turn making fun of it into a ridiculously easy task , what with it featuring the actual , real-life kid of the director and star of said other effort ) . While there are moments of see-through material , and the occasional poor lines of dialog , this is a solid contender for the best film helmed by the man . It's fun , it's dramatic , it's fairly unpredictable and it does build tension when it seeks to do so . And when all's said and done , like the rest of his movies ( again , to varying degrees ) , this'll provide something important to think about . The plot is great , and develops well throughout the running time . Pacing is rather good , neither boring nor in a hurry at any time . The acting is pretty spot-on for the whole thing . Music isn't bad . This has violence , language and sexuality , and plenty of them , for anyone either avoiding or seeking out such . I recommend this to any fan of Andrew Niccol , Nicolas Cage and / or their respective ( heck , throw in the respect-less ones , too ) works .
I first saw this three-part mini-series when I was this tall ( not to be confused with " high " . . . I was shorter , not under the influence ) , 11 years ago . . . more than half a life-time , with my current age . No , I won't start talking about ' the old days ' or start talking about how things were when I was young . My point is ( yes , amongst all this rambling , there is a point . . . somewhere . Honest ! ) , even then , at the tender age of 9 , I was strongly affected by this . So much so that I still remembered much of it today , when I re-watched it . I recognized much of it . Not as much story as simply themes , ideas in it . Detailing the young life of Lise Nørgaard , the great contemporary Danish writer , this runs at nearly three hours . . . and there is not a boring second to be found . The pacing is near-perfect , with both drama-heavy scenes and slower ones to allow the viewer to take in the events . The plot is thoroughly well-written and revolves around the first thirty years of the famous author's life . . . during which , she is neglected , ignored and overlooked until she finally rebels , and fights back , against her parents , the male-dominated society and everyone who doubts her abilities and are bewildered by the magnitude of her ambitions , as well as the very fact that she harbors any at all . . . simply because of her gender . The acting is very good . There is fairly little dialog , so much of this is told through acting ( requiring quite a bit of talent , and some of it is even limited to facial expressions , not body language ) and cinematic effects . Events are hinted at , mentioned in passing by characters and shown . . . but rarely ever littered with dialog . The cinematography is marvelous . . . with relatively few cuts , long takes and nicely planned dolly trips . Great attention to detail and some extensive research makes this a rather remarkable period piece , as well ( spanning over 30 years , no less ) . The film has very high production values . The editing has its moments , times where it is simply superb ( one particular sequence is rather reminiscent of one in the Brian De Palma film The Untouchables ) . . . but much of the time , the cinematography does the job , leaving little to cut from or to . The sound work is nice , though , with a few sounds exaggerated for effect and a great score ( not to mention soundtrack ) . The orchestral score works perfectly to enhance the emotions on the screen , whether genuine or slightly overplayed , as an early scene intentionally is . The jazz-packed soundtrack works excellently to underscore later scenes , and it fits perfectly due to it being contemporary . In spite of this being a Danish production , there is little tacky humor , and this really comes across as far more serious , touching and strong than just about any other Danish production , with the possible ( well , let's be honest ; probable ) exception of last years Mørke ( Murk , in English ) . Featuring deep insight , solid social commentary and very good characterizations , this ranks as one of my very favorite Danish film experiences , and , in my humble opinion , one of the best of them . I recommend this to fans of drama , period pieces surrounding the time this is set in ( between 1917 and 1947 ) and / or the actors and filmmakers involved in making it .
One day , as Jim , the earth-worm , was crawling around , he found himself chased by a crow . . . he was fortunate enough to escape to safety , but what made this particular day stand out was the fact that right after that event had played out , a super-suit fell from the sky , and landed right on Jim . . . transforming him into Earthworm Jim , the superhero that we know today . The game starts with you going out to find Princess What's-Her-Name , who's been kidnapped by her hideously ugly twin-sister , the appropriately named Queen-Slug-for-a-Butt , who employs Psy-Crow , and various other evil creatures , in trying to get their hands at the suit , since it will make the Queen beautiful . The controls are simple and easy to learn , letting you fire the gun in basically any direction . The graphics are good , and still hold up nicely . The humor is silly and the gags are plentiful . . . and almost all of it works really well . Personally , I could have done without quite so much gross-out comedy . . . but maybe the fans of the character like that , I really don't know ( I've only played the first two games , I haven't seen the show that came later ) . The level design is pretty cool . . . the places you get to visit are imaginative and varied , and the challenges are good , if they don't always fit how far into the game they appear . The genre is action-adventure , with you alternating between blasting enemies with the red gun that goes with the suit ( or whipping them with Jim's worm-part ) and solving puzzles . You work your way through about twenty levels , to the almost impossibly and frustratingly hard last level . You get to play around with a few vehicles during the course of the levels , and some of the levels consist of racing Psy-Crow through increasingly thick asteroid fields , on a small one-person jet . Apart from the standard machine-gun blast , you can also pick up ammo for a few other weapons ; two , I believe , one , a blast of plasma , that does massive damage to anything in its path , and the other being seeking missiles . The sound is excellent , with both the music and the sound effects also adding to the hilarity . As you fly through the aforementioned asteroid fields , you are accompanied by a number of instruments ( which are unrelated to each other ) playing a merry tune . . . occasionally interrupted by a dog barking , a Jew's-harp or the sound of a farm animal . This is a game that takes you to Heck ( as it is known in this game ) and back . . . and on your trip down there , you'll encounter lawyers that attack you with case-files , and , when hit by your weapons , retort " I'll sue ! " The entire thing has that silly and goofy tone throughout . If that is how you like your games , then this is a must-have . With an entirely linear level design and a lack of high-scores ( or even anything to collect that gives points ; everything that you can pick up is extra lives , more health and more ammo for the weapons ) , the replay value really lies only in selecting a higher difficulty to complete the game at . The main levels are platform , with a dynamic camera which is mostly locked on Jim . Fast-paced , hopping , floating ( since Jim is , in fact , a worm , he can use his head as a propeller to keep himself afloat , though he can't stay in the air for very long , and will continually drop downwards , slowly ) and fighting fun . The game is exciting and addicting , and the boss fights and occasional unique level keep things interesting . Made by David Perry , who later went on to be the lead designer on Enter the Matrix , the simple controls and interface let you do quite a lot of fun feats . The sequel went on to add more weapons and a feature or two more , but only featured half as many levels , several of which weren't different from each other . I personally prefer this game , and one has to admire the fact that this was apparently what started the show , instead of the other way around . It certainly isn't hard to tell why this begot more games , and a television show . I haven't heard Castellaneta's Jim , so I can't say how good Douglas TenNapel ( the character creator who does the voice here ) , is comparatively , but whilst Dan ( no , I'm not putting myself through spelling out his last name again ) is known for his comic voices , on The Simpsons , Douglas does quite good , with a wacky , spaced Jim . Though I haven't tried the original version , I would advise anyone who intends to play this game , expecting to like it , to get the Special Edition , as it adds several things ( which you can read about in Alternate Versions ) , and improves on what is there . I would guess that children are the main audience that is aimed for , here , though basically anyone can play this game . It does take good reflexes and a bit of patience , however . You are given a level selector , though you cannot choose to start in a level that you haven't reached by playing through the previous ones , first . You start out with only a few lives , based on the difficulty . . . and though most levels have a few continue-points , which , if reached , allow you to start from there , instead of starting over on the level . But , if you run out of extra lives and Jim passes on , you will be sent to the " continue " screen . . . and you'll have to start the level all over , not necessarily knowing how to pass the part that cost you your level progress . That , and the gross parts of the comedy is pretty much the only problem I have with the game . If you plan on purchasing and playing this game , know that it can be very difficult . But through that , it's usually fun , always silly and makes for great escapism . I recommend this to any fan of the character , as well as anyone who enjoys silly , goofy fun . Cartoony , creative and colorful . . . and a great game for all ages .
Before I commence with this review , I must regrettably inform anyone reading that due to game-crashing bugs that I have been unable to work around ( yup , in both campaigns ) , I have not finished this game recently . . . so my review will be based in part what I've played of it over the last few days , which makes up about half of the game put together , and what I remember of playing it back when it was new . This came out around the time of StarCraft ( don't believe the year on that game's IMDb listing ; 1998 was the year that marked the release of Brood War , the expansion pack , not the original game , which came out four years earlier ) , so comparisons are logical to draw . One of the first things that you will find this has that StarCraft doesn't is areal damage . This has flames , grenades and explosions . . . whereas in the futuristic RTS title , you either attack a certain object . . . or don't attack at all . True , some damage can affect more than one target . . . such as the blast of the Siege Tank . . . but this has a much smoother and more versatile engine for such . In both games , most of the stuff in-between levels is briefings , with occasional cut-scenes that tell back-story , further the plot . . . or just plain look cool . Blizzard's game had the looser , more colorful style ( possibly due to the science fiction genre of it ) , where even the humans were animated , and Westwood's . . . that would be this one . . . was more realistic and natural . Sure , we can tell today that it was green-screened , and the CGI no longer has as much of an effect . . . but it was an ambitious project , and the drive still clearly comes through . Playing this after one has played the later Command & Conquer titles ( yup , it's not only the title of this , the first game . . . but also the franchise as a whole , including the ones that take place in different " universes " than this one ) , you miss some of the later features and such . . . but once you get used to it , you find that this had more than enough to keep you entertained , and most of the features that people love about these games were present right from the start . Selecting multiple troops and assigning the squads numbers , the radar window ( which has a zoom feature that I'm afraid did not last long in this franchise ) , great scenarios . . . not to mention the cool units , awesome style , and the music . To take them in the order I've just mentioned . . . you've got the grenadier , and the flame-thrower , to name one from each side , both of which can hit several units with a single attack , but which are also dangerous to keep in clusters , because if one goes , his arsenal goes with him . . . his fellow soldiers burning up with him ( War is the H-word , as the Futurama episode title goes ) , several cool tanks which pack a punch but of course also move slower than the less armored and armed vehicles , and last but most definitely not least , the Commando , who can take out enemy troops in a single shot , and blow buildings up with explosives . The style is not overdone , but rather very easy to take in , and you feel as though you're in a cool alternate world , or possibly just in the not too distant future . And the music . . . adrenaline-pumping techno to get you in the war-waging mood , with around a dozen diverse pieces . The missions are all very good , and the difficulty of them increases as it should . Many objectives will seem relatively similar , but the many different level designs help to keep things interesting . After each level , the game lists percentages for how many of your own men you kept alive as well as how many of the enemy's you neutralized , as well as the same for buildings and a count of how many credits you had left at the completion of the level , and a time for how long it took you . There's a top 10 list of scores that lets you put in your name , which , together with all the levels that there are several different versions of ( only one of which you may play each play-through ) keeps the re-playability quite high . The game also offers multi-player , over modem , internet or network . In this , as in other RTS titles , later C & C ones as well as StarCraft , you can play as both the good guys and the bad guys . . . the first being GDI , the Global Defense Initiative , who were established as peace-keepers and who seek to rid the world of terrorists , and The Brotherhood of NOD , a religious cult that wish to control the planet ( you know they've got serious megalomania when their barracks ( named The Hand of NOD ) is a large hand with the world in its palm ) and rule it according to their beliefs . Now , when you play as NOD , you will find that the leader makes a rather powerful entrance when you first see him ; his name is Kane , and he's got charisma and screen presence enough for several dozen warlords , each one more brilliant than the last . Joseph D . Kucan portrays him , and he is . . . incidentally . . . also the man behind these games . Whenever Kane makes an appearance in any of these games , Kucan is the one doing the acting . And whenever he is on screen , he has your attention . The actors are all fairly good , but he stands out as the best . Now , I'm afraid there are also a few things about this game that are negative . . . the AI , for example , could have used some work . The AI programming is about the same as StarCraft , all in all . . . each has good and bad points . The plot and story-telling is quite good , especially for a game from the mid-nineties . While ID Software were busy making bleak monsters for players to blast away , Westwood were doing well-done cinematics with CGI . I recommend this to any fan of the franchise as well as people who just plain enjoy RTS gaming . Cool , fun and well done .
I haven't seen too many of Clint Eastwood's films , at least not the ones he's directed himself , but after seeing this I will probably check his other work out . The plot is great ; it shows how deeply peoples actions can affect each other , even over many years , actions they thought would make little to no difference for their future . The acting is all great ; Sean Penn is amazing , and the other actors are all great too , especially the actors who portray the main characters . The cinematography is great . The story is captivating , it gets your attention and keeps it , for every single scene of the movie , in it's 2 hour 15 minutes runtime . This is a great emotional drama , topped off with an exciting criminal mystery that keeps you guessing the final outcome of the movie for the entire time . I never lost interest in the movie . I doubt that it could have been a lot better , the only thing I didn't really like about it was one scene at the very end , in which a character gives a long monologue , that neither I , nor the two people I saw the movie with , could make very good sense of . Apart from that , it was nearly perfect . I'd recommend this to anyone who enjoys a good drama or an interesting criminal mystery . It's worth watching .
I had forgotten how astounding this was . This is my second viewing , first chance I got to watch it again after the first , a few years ago , and I re-discovered it . I must say , this is difficult to take one's eyes off . The plot is very interesting , and keeps you watching throughout . The pacing is deliberate , it's seldom fast but it's not meant to be , and it's about spot-on throughout . Acting is just about perfect , for every part . Nicholson mostly drops the mannerisms that we all know , and Del Toro is barely even recognizable . There is a lot of heavy acting talent featured in this . The direction is masterful . . . I've made a mental note to seek out some more of Penn's directorial efforts , and I can't help but wonder why he doesn't do more . This is to an extent a psychological thriller , and so much is more hinted at than shown . The writing is remarkable , very realistic and intriguing . The camera-work is magnificent . The editing is top-notch , and very , very effective . Both should impress just for the planning that went into those aspects . The ending is powerful . The film as a whole is incredible . I recommend this to any fan of skillful movie-making , mysteries and / or thrillers .
I have seen ( too ) few of Tim Burton's films ; Mars Attacks , Sleepy Hollow and the two first Batman films . . . all of them display dazzling visuals , Gothic style and an eery mood . I try to search out as many of his works as I can find , but they are hard to come by in my area . Therefore I was happy to find that a friend of mine had this to loan me . Burton created an amazing , enthralling and engaging world here . Never having been terribly into Christmas and never having celebrated Halloween ( not being American ) , this movie had less impact on me than it would most viewers , I guess . The character of Jack Skellington ( and his conflict ) was an interesting one . I've never been terribly into musicals , but this one really had me intrigued and watching closely . The score by Danny Elfman is excellent . The plot moves along nicely , never losing your interest . The dark , Gothic tone of the film is incredibly absorbing . Though Tim didn't himself direct this ( due to his commitment to the second Batman movie ) , but you can tell his involvement in the creative process . His influence is unmistakably visible in each shot . The colorful ( or colorless , depending on how you look at it ) characters are plentiful , diverse and fascinating . The DVD features a good commentary by Henry Selick , the director , and Pete Kozachik , the director of photography , and it has a lot of interesting information on the animation process . Lighting and production values are exceptional . So rich color palettes were used to create all of these vastly different worlds within the film . I remember watching most , if not all , of this a few years ago , at Christmas , as it was aired here . . . though upon watching it this time , I realized that I could remember very little of it . I doubt I ' got it ' back then , and to be honest , I'm afraid I may not have , this time , either . Still an enjoyable fable , playing with the two holiday celebrations , and a creative thrill-ride from start to finish . I recommend this to all fans of Tim Burton , Gothic style and animation .
I've honestly never been much of a fan of RTS ( Real Time Strategy ) games . . . I generally find them to be uneventful and unimaginative , most of the time . The better part of them are essentially the same , when you break them down to basic elements : Build up a base , collect credits through some kind of natural ( or unnatural ) mineral , build an army and defeat the opponent who has more or less the same type ( s ) of army / units / buildings as you . Well , this one is something else . . . here , you have three species . . . each unique . That's different technologies , units , strengths and weaknesses . There's a larger-than-usual single player part that has 10 missions per race . Most of them are fun , and they grow more challenging , so you won't tire of it before you're done , either . Music is fitting ( and it's even differentiated for the three , as is the color scheme and HUD design ) . The game-play is among the best that the RTS genre has to offer ; it's quite open-ended , allowing you to experiment to find out what works best for you . There are an awful lot of drastically different units and abilities for the three races . I have to admit , I've experienced several RTS games which unfortunately have one inferior army , which can only defeat the other army through means of drastically superior numbers . The model this utilizes has been used other times ( since ) , recently in the Generals game in the C & C series . The graphics are excellent , and still hold up well today . The animations are smooth and positively bursting with detail . For better or for worse , compared to , say , the Command & Conquer franchise , this allows more for a higher number of bases . . . as soon as you can build , you can pretty much build yourself a new base . Also , I would say that this is a game where you have to expect that you may need to spend time finding yourself more minerals . . . or making what you get last a while . Take note , those used to there being credits aplenty throughout the RTS titles they play , as I can't off-hand think of another game that isn't pretty much like that . There is a limitation on how many units any player ( human or computer-controlled ) can control ( clearly shown , in any given level ) , which rules out the often applied strategy ( for other RTS titles ) of just attacking the enemy with a swarm of powerful units , and necessitates proper strategy . The game also has a magnificent story ( and well-told ( partially through rather marvelous voice-acting , and some through beautifully animated video sequences ) , complete with three perspectives , and well-written characters ) . Usually , when playing single player in a RTS game , you have to lead the army you've chosen to victory . . . the campaigns contradict each other , or simply don't relate to one another . In this game , you lead each of the three races through the three parts . This way , you feel like a much bigger part ; you're the one fighting the hardest battles of the war , and making the biggest difference in the plot . Each race has a final mission where they have to destroy an enormously important , heavily defended building , making for an awesome ending to that part of the game . Of course , once you've beaten the single player portion of the game , you'll want something else to entertain you . . . so there's multi-player , which can be played both over the Internet and over LAN . There are several different modes of multi-player , allowing for many hours spent without it getting boring . The multi-player is also reliable , with no errors during play . And if you tire of that , there's even a level editor . No , in fact it's a campaign editor . You can make entire series with this tool , and it's about as easy to use and packed with features as such editors get . Believe me , I've been making levels ( well , trying to ) for several years , and this is one of the best , most compact , and most easy-to-figure-out editor I've tried ( others include the ones for Max Payne ( which allows for much greater freedom , but doesn't allow much easy tweaking , and the interface of which more or less immediately weeds out all but the most well-versed in computers ) and Heroes of Might and Magic III ) . You can make extensively programmed levels and completely redefine the game-play . Even if you don't fancy yourself a creative type , this is to your advantage if you get this ; there are tons of websites with new levels , custom-made , for more or less any purpose ( single-player , multi-player , various separate ones , etc . ) , and all you need to do is download and put the file in the map folder . It does not get much easier . Heck , you can even download more tools to customize , if you want to do something that the regular editor , that comes with the game , won't let you ( though there is precious little that fits into that category . . . it's incredibly open and , as stated earlier , jam-packed with features ) . The interface is better than that of contemporary titles . This is undoubtedly one the best RTS games out there . . . but there are a few minor complaints . Some of the programming does leave a little to be desired . . . at times units go the long way around obstacles , sometimes they don't go exactly where you tell them to , just somewhere in close proximity , and finally , there are examples of units ' acting up ' as a side-effect of certain magic / special abilities . Also , though the games does have a number of in-game tips , it can be fiendishly hard , and there's only one instructional tutorial , and it doesn't cover much . Finally , the three races don't have equally interesting story-lines , and they have to be beaten in the preset order , so if you're stuck on a dull and / or hard mission with an uninspired one , there's really nothing to do , except to just do your best to get through it and hope for the next one to be more interesting . Of course , that is a minor complaint . All in all , the game is an accomplishment . I recommend this to any fan of RTS games , and most gamers and sci-fi fans in general .
I've been a fan of John Carpenter for years . I've seen every movie of his that I've had a chance to watch . This is among his best work . Film can be an art-form . It is a medium that can be used to express profound thought and interesting ideas . This is one that transcends what we call film . By the end of watching , I was very short of being in awe . Carpenter has most definitely not lost his touch . He took an interesting idea and gave it near-perfect execution . The plot is interesting and intriguing . I was on the edge of my seat for the entire film . He builds atmosphere as skilfully as ever , and creates scares like few horror directors can . The movie has quite a bit of violence and gore , though Carpenter fans know to expect that ( though , as he points out in the interviews featured on the DVD , it isn't the point of the film ) . I won't detail the plot or the point of the film , I leave that up to the viewer . Once again , John deals with the supernatural ( personally , I'm not big on that , but I tolerate it , when the film is good ) , and I'll leave it at that . The actors all do very good . . . Kier is someone you can always expect to deliver a creepy performance , and Reedus is good ( though not great ) . Redman is probably the person I found to have the most effective presence . . . and I urge anyone who will watch this to not read the cast-list to see what he portrays , or at least not think too much about it . As far as rating goes , this has the earlier mentioned gore and violence , and a good bit of it , so anyone watching should be able to handle a lot of that . There was some language . There is also some nudity , for anyone who are offended by that ( I can't see anyone being attracted to it , in this . . . I certainly should hope not , considering the nature of it ) . The music in this helps convey the creepy mood that Carpenter masters creating . . . it was composed by his son , a third generation musician , making this another father / son collaboration ( another example , the only other episode of this show that I've seen , is Deer Woman , which was directed by John Landis , and written by his son , Max ) . I recommend this wholeheartedly to any fan of genuine horror , John Carpenter and film as an art-form .
The only two problems with this movie are , as the one line summary states , the length and the ending . It's so long that unless you're very determined or very patient , you're not gonna sit through it to the end ( particularly not if you're watching the " redux " version which I was ( un ? ) lucky enough to see on TV ) . And the ending seems to suggest that Coppola had either run out of steam or simply didn't know how he should end it . As a war film , it's not particularly realistic , I guess , but more of a piece about the descent into madness that you experience under such dehumanizing circumstances . I found it interesting to see as such a film , but arguably not much else . . . I also found it interesting to recognize the actors , whom I , for the most part , hadn't seen in a film from , at least before the 80's . If any of this doesn't make sense , don't blame me . . . blame the fact that I'm writing this as I'm almost falling asleep after the movie . Now , let it be known , that I didn't pay attention to the entire thing ; I am neither a man of great patience nor determination ( well , not enough , anyway ) so I fell asleep once or twice through this film , and actually found myself awaking a few minutes after it had ended , and had to rewind it to catch the ending . Maybe that affected my judgment , maybe not ( it probably did ) . However , what I saw , I mostly liked . The acting is very good . The characters are well-written and nuanced . The action is well-done . The cinematography is very good . All in all , a very good film , if you have the patience and you're sufficiently interested in seeing this very well done piece of film , despite it's very long runtime ( maybe you would want to start with the original version , not the " redux " one I saw ) . I recommend it to just about anyone who really is interested in films and the media of movies . If you can sit through it , you probably should . Any Coppola fan should definitely experience this .
I decided to check out this film after hearing many good things about it , among others that it was the best film Curtis Hanson has made . . . and since Hanson also directed 8 Mile , a movie I enjoyed very much and have seen several times , I thought it would be worth watching . I wasn't mistaken . What I wasn't prepared for , however , was how darn slow it was . . . it never seemed to take off . Maybe it's the fact that there are almost constantly introduced new characters , maybe it's the fact that half of the actions in the film don't seem to have much of an impact on anything , other than move the plot a little bit forward ( a tiny little bit ) . . . I don't know . It never really captivated me , and I found myself often not paying that much attention to it . The film is good , no doubt about it . . . but it's just so slow . . . and in the end , it seems unrealistic . The very ending seems to be set up to throw in an action scene . The plot is good , but the pacing is bad . The script is good . The acting is great . The characters are well-written and well-acted . The dialog is well-written and well-delivered . The film has so much going for it , and , luckily , pulls most of if off perfectly . But that pacing is horrendous . I haven't read the novel which this film is based on , but I think that the film does it justice . . . anyway , that's what the author says on one of the featurettes on the DVD . The dialog has several memorable lines , the characters are conflicted and not immediately likable , but you eventually grow to like them , the script has some great scenes . . . but the pacing just . . . no . Maybe it had something to do with how hard it was for me to tell Kevin Spacey's and Russell Crowe's characters apart , partly because they looked alike and partly because both characters acted alike . I liked this movie , but I'm not going to lie and say I wasn't bored out of my mind for about a fourth of the run-time , scattered around the film . Too long and too big , in my opinion . . . but not bad . I recommend this to fans of Curtis Hanson , neo-noir drama-mystery-thrillers and any of the actors involved in it .
As a Christmas calendar , this has very little to do with Christmas , but it has just enough mentions of it to convince you that it is in fact a Christmas calendar . It's kind of more anti-Christmas than Christmas . It has a lot of what Americans would call " R-rated material " , and it has a thoroughly adult tone . The humor is somewhat aggressive and provocative , just as Anden's humor always is . Some people will definitely be offended , but I'm sure that just as many people will love it , just as I did . The plot is pretty good , but is honestly a bit repetitive in a few of the episodes , but nowhere near as much as Christmas calendars usually are . The comedic timing is nearly always perfect , there are times where fans of Anden will laugh for up to half a minute or more , at just one great joke . The comedy is laugh-out-loud material for fans of Anden , most of the time . The acting is all good , as it is the multi-talented Anden who plays most of the roles himself . In fact , he plays about 15 characters or voices all in all , and he portrays each of them perfectly . The characters are all well-written , they mostly rely on stereotypes , but that's pretty much the point , as that's what Anden relies some of his humor on , especially in this one . The " special effects " in this , I have to mention , are pretty good , when I found out that Anden was playing all the characters at once , I was excited to find out how they handled having him appear on-screen as two or more characters at once . It looks very good , and very convincing . All in all , this is the most entertaining , most funny and most interesting Christmas calendar that I've ever seen , and I've definitely seen my share . Running at just over 4 hours , all the episodes put together , it's an incredibly funny , very anti-Christmas , while still being reasonably Christmas-like , Christmas calendar packed full of controversy , contemporary social satire , stereotypes and Anden's personal brand of humor . I recommend this to all fans of Anden , and it helps to have a decent knowledge of contemporary politics and the likes .
I don't know why it took so long for me to watch this film . . . I think it's the fact that I've always been told that it's a gore-fest and not really anything else . I can tell you now ; I have been grossly misinformed . This is one of those films that everyone who's into the genre should see . If you as much as ' like ' horror , you should see this film . Look past the less-than-stellar acting , the dubious dialog and the thin character writing , and you will see one of the greatest horror films ever created . The plot is hardly worth mentioning . The pacing is top-notch , you're not bored for a second through the entire film . Not one second , throughout the whole film . Seriously . The acting is mostly unimpressive . The characters are daftly written , and so hard to tell apart due to vague personalities that I was never completely certain how many men or women there were , or who was who ( well , apart from Campbell as Ash , but his face is a pretty recognizable one ) . The dialog , as mentioned earlier , is quite dubious . Just about all characters ( including the demons / Evil Dead , in-between moans and ' join us ' ) get at least one really bad line . Delivery isn't exactly perfect , either . The effects , though some cheap and a few outdated ( but not noticeably so ; none of them looked fake or were easy to figure out ) are very good . The real strength in this film , however , is the buildup to the horror and the editing . The way " The Evil " , this unseen , abstract force of true evil is hinted at through the film . . . impossibly effective . The POV shots originating from said force are incredibly creepy . The editing is tight and excellent . The cinematography is by far some of the best I have seen in my entire life . A few shots were off , but there is no doubt that Raimi knows exactly where to put the camera or how to move it , even when he doesn't have the money to get a hold of expensive rigs . Now , as mentioned earlier , many have told me that this is a gore-fest . . . while everything I have put in my review up to this point still stands , let me make one thing clear ; there is plenty of gore in this film . For better or for worse . Plenty . Limbs are torn off , bodies are maimed and blood is dripping by the truckloads . However , even if you don't like gore , if you don't care for blood and violence , you should watch this film . . . if you are into horror and you can take the gore ( which is graphic and intense , make no mistake about that ) , you should definitely watch this film . One to watch for everyone who is into horror . I recommend this film to every horror fan who believes he can stand the violence and gore , and to everyone who is into both horror and gore . . . you've probably already seen this film , but if you haven't , go do so now . You won't regret it .
I was very excited when I got into the theater to watch this . I had reasonably high expectations , from the fact that I found the first to be so magnificent . I must say , all of my expectations were met , and I was very pleasantly surprised . It is as much a masterpiece , a work of art , as the first was . The first one had heavy focus on old martial arts movies , and the revenge was the most important , most obvious part . This time , old westerns are also added to the mix . The revenge is still a very big part , probably still the biggest . The plot is excellent , and the non-linear time-line works just as well as it did in the first part . The acting is all top class , I can't name a single character , not even one , who wasn't well-played . All of the characters are well-developed , their actions , and reactions , are perfectly credible . The movie isn't as action-packed as the first one was , instead it has more back-story . That doesn't mean that this is more boring than the first , nor does it mean that the first had too little back-story . It simply means , that this one ends , what the first began . Nothing else . The movie has all of the typical Tarantino traits ; great score , surprising violence , great script , great dialog . It doesn't lack anything , in my humble opinion . Nearly everyone should see this , as long as they've seen Vol . 1 first . I recommend this to pretty much anyone who can stand to watch it , especially fans of Tarantino , and people who loved the first . Anyone who enjoyed the first will also enjoy this , on some level . Highly recommendable .
I haven't seen any other feature film length documentaries of Michael Moore's , nor have I read any of his books . I mainly watched this because the subject interests me , and because I had seen one or two short documentaries by Moore , and I enjoyed his direct , provocative and uncompromising fashion of making documentaries . When I found this on DVD at a fair price , I bought it immediately , and watched it as soon as possible . It's a fair argument to claim that this documentary is somewhat biased and one-sided , since Moore ( apparently ) has a reputation for only showing his own opinion and stand on the subject , but he makes up for it by being very well-informed and only using facts to present his argument . I liked the way he presented the subject , by showing , for example , just how easy it is to get a gun , and how , despite not being terribly different from many other major countries , the U . S . has a far higher murder rate than most of its neighbors . The various clips that were edited in were obviously carefully selected , and mostly has exactly the effect on you , the viewer , that it's supposed to . The interviews are well-done , though arguably presenting a fairly stereotypical view on the pro-gun interviewees , while making the anti-gun interviewees seem intelligent , and having more sense , and better arguments for their opinions . Overall , the film is ironic , provocative and thought-provoking , but it's also at least a little biased . I recommend it to anyone who is interested in the subject , the subject being gun control and the right to bear arms ; despite your opinion on it . Excellent documentary , more than worth your time and attention .
