Most of the people who give this movie a thumbs up comment on the music . In fact , all the awards this movie has won relate to the music . Are we talking about a movie or a music video ? When you strip away Prince's music , you basically have another version of Glitter without the only redeeming factor - Mariah Carey . Honestly , that is the only reason we watched that movie . Prince cannot act , and only Olivia d'Abo saved Apollonia Kotero from being named the worst new star of 1984 . Of course , she was not really new as she had her first named role in 1980s Sex Beach , which was infinitely better and provided more exposure . If you want to hear the music , buy the CD .
Bruno Mattei , often called the Ed Wood of Italian cinema , started his directorial career with Nazi exploitation films , then moved to women in prison movies , and now directs zombie movies . he actually acted in Lucio Fulci's Zombie 3 ; I guess to learn the genre . This is his second attempt at Nazi camp films , and it is poorly made . The lighting is absolutely atrocious and that is better than the acting . The effects are non-existent , so the experimentation they were doing has no effect . It is just an interesting look at the sickness the Nazi's were working on , like transplanting a uterus , or reviving frozen pilots with women's bodies , or poison bullets to make people suffer more . Naturally , since this is an exploitation film , you see a whole lot of full frontal nudity , degenerate monsters who rape , and some really creepy Nazi commandants and wardens . It is funny in that I have seen a lot of girl fights in movies , but in this film , they always manage to get totally naked when they fight .
This German horror film has to be one of the weirdest I have seen . I was not aware of any connection between child abuse and vampirism , but this is supposed based upon a true character . Our hero is deaf and mute as a result of repeated beatings at the hands of his father . he also has a doll fetish , but I cannot figure out where that came from . His co-workers find out and tease him terribly . During the day a mild-manner accountant , and at night he breaks into cemeteries and funeral homes and drinks the blood of dead girls . They are all attractive , of course , else we wouldn't care about the fact that he usually tears their clothing down to the waist . He graduates eventually to actually killing , and that is what gets him caught . Like I said , a very strange movie that is dark and very slow as Werner Pochath never talks and just spends his time drinking blood .
I sure that fans of Hostel Part II this year paid no attention to the Italian detective ( Luc Merenda ) in the film . He was part of the Italian trend in the 70s to make movies that followed the trend of Dirty Harry and The French Connection . In this film , a man's movie to say the least , he was a cop that had no hesitation in killing criminals even when they had their hands up . He went undercover and participated in a robbery where an innocent got killed . Not a problem as his goal was to get Mr . Big . Of course , like Dirty harry , that meant anyway he could regardless of procedure . The DVD was of particular poor quality - the interior lighting was terrible . Except for two really good car chases , there isn't much to recommend this film .
This was so bad that If it hadn't included a hot tub scene with Jennifer Hill , it would have been one of the worst movies of all time . It has a good monster in The Ice Queen , but she was wasted with her incessant screaming , and the set just didn't allow her to really develop . The battle with Audrey ( Tara Walden ) was set up for a promising scene , but it just didn't develop . There was really no one you could care about in this film . It really didn't matter who came out . The pair that did were probably the least likable . Despite giving us her all in that hot tub , Elaine ( Hill ) didn't fare too well .
I have only walked out on one film in my life . This almost became the second . It was that bad . John C . Reilly has to be given credit for delivering the lines in this film with a straight face . I couldn't have done it . The dialog was plain cringe inducing . Only a tweener boy would find the lines remotely funny . The only thing resembling humor were the drug lines , and a tweener wouldn't have gotten what was so funny about them . This film ranks with Beerfest as the lowest of the low . Raymond J . Barry as Pa Cox , and Jenna Fischer as Darlene were the only redeeming lights in this otherwise unfunny movie .
I have only seen Gretchen Mol in two other films ( Girl 6 , Donnie Brasco ) , and don't really remember her , but she did a great job as a naive girl who posed for pictures because it made people happy . She really didn't think what she was doing was wrong , even when she left the business and found her religion again . The photos she made were certainly tame by today's standards , and it is funny seeing men with cameras get all excited , and politicians pontificating on the evils of pornography . David Strathairn ( Good Night , and Good Luck ) played a super part here . Mary Harron ( American Psycho ) wrote and directed an outstanding biopic of the most famous pinup girl ever .
This film was nominated in practically every category for worst film of 1986 . Of course , Sly Stallone gets those nominations regularly for his totally emotionless performances . He was no different here . I cannot believe that Madonna took the award away from Brigitte Nielsen . She , too , went through this film like a zombie . You are paid to act ; let's see some acting . I do disagree with the criticism of Brian Thompson as Worst New Star . I thought he was typecast as the psycho slasher and I would run as fast as I could should i ever meet him on the street . Bad acting , bad direction , and bad dialog .
I like those movies with the little dogs , and this one was worth watching just for the presence of Michelle Rodriguez ( " Lost " , Bloodrayne ) . It's not Cujo or Rottweiler , but it did feature some ferocious animals and a bitchin ' ending . Besides Michelle , it also featured Taryn Manning from Hustle & Flow , and Lisa-Marie Schneider for a short while . Yeah , there were some dudes ( Hill Harper from " CSI NY " ) there , too , but who was watching . Chomp chomp .
This film was very hard to rate . For a low budget horror flick , it wasn't bad , but it could have been so much better . First , it spent entirely too much time with the actors just acing stupid . Lots of hot girls running around , but the guys were just plain dumb . It wasted a lot of time that could have been spent on horror . After all , it is a Halloween slasher film . The old man was one of the best parts of the film . Now , he was really creepy . Lance ( David Austin ) and his buds were just like Draco Malfoy and his crew . You just wanted them to get their due . The pissing on the head bit was certainly original - and funny . Less silliness and more slashing .
Sometimes we watch movies for the strangest reasons ; at least I do . I tuned into this movie about a bunch of aging mobsters for one reason - and it wasn't to see Richard Dreyfuss , Burt Reynolds , Dan Hedaya , or Seymour Cassel , who played some aging mobsters trying to stop the development of their South Beach hotel . I do have to say that the mob needs a retirement plan , as it is pitiful seeing old wise guys flipping burgers or dancing with old widows for $3 . 50 an hour . The mobsters came up against the Columbian mob led by Miguel Sandoval when they accidentally whacked his father . They didn't really , but that part of the humor in this film . It was nice to see Jennifer Tilly and Carrie Ann Moss , and Jeremy Piven as a sleazy mob-connected detective that was always trying to hit on Moss , but they are not the reason I tuned in either . This story has been done before in different ways with different characters . There was noting especially funny about this version or the actors involved . So , why did I watch it ? I wanted to see Christa Campbell , who was on the screen for maybe five seconds . I could have waited for next month's Playboy , or October's Scars , or the release of Death by Engagement , but I just couldn't wait . It wasn't worth the five seconds .
Oh , Santa , you are just so out of date . I mean that suit is so last century , and a beard , Eww ! You just have to quit stuffing those cookies and milk in your stomach . Brooke Nevin ( I'll Always Know What You Did Last Summer ) is a superficial teen who wants to go skiing on Christmas and makes a deal with Santa . She'll make him over and help him deliver presents , and he'll help her with her problem . She makes Santa over into George Hamilton and they work on each other until the predictable ending . The only thing that was really bad about this movie was the mall security guard . He was a real nut case . Who knew that Mrs Claus was so hot . Donna Mills from " Knots Landing " played Santa's missus .
From the cover of Playboy magazine to the bowels of hell as Nurse Charlotte Beale ( Rosie Holotik ) takes a job in a private insane asylum in backwater Texas . The doctor in charge had some strange ideas . He thought that he could help patients take out their aggression on a log with an ax . Too bad he turned his back . This film is more commonly known as Don't Look in the Basement , and was one of the video nasties banned in Britain , but released uncut in 2005 . The gore in the film is tame by today's standards . Bill McGhee , as Sam , the lobotomized patient who just wants someone to float his boat , does an incredibly good job .
I am a big Carl Hiaasen fan and , while this may not be his best work , it certainly exposes the flaws in Florida politics for all the world to see . While certain environmentalists are celebrating Governor Charlie's transfer of $1 . 7 billion to Big Sugar , you can see in this film , even in a comical way , how they have out congressmen in the bag . Demi has come up against DCF and has to do anything to get her children back . Unfortunately , she has come into the clutches of Congressman Burt and his evil henchmen . I really didn't think her performance was all that terrible , and I certainly appreciated the new work she had on display in a very skintastic moment , just as I appreciated seeing the lovely Pandora Peaks , Rina Riffel ( Candyman 3 ) , another skintastic performance by Dina Spybey , and that snakey performance of Barbara Alyn Woods . Let's hear it for all the fine performance that took our attention away from , well , I guess there wasn't much else . Ving Rhames was good as usual , and I did enjoy Armand Assante . But , that aside , it was the performance on stage that really stand out .
One thing is certain . Carl Weathers did not age one bit from all those Rocky films , and he looked as good as ever in this action film that features a really bad guy that got what was due to him . Craig T . Nelson was evil , evil , evil . Of course , Sharon Stone was hot , hot , hot in a pre Basic Instinct film . I would even guess that she might have had some work done in the intervening four years , but I could be wrong . Maybe I'll have to go back and stare some more . Vanity ( Wasn't she with prince at one time ? ) didn't need any work , and i though she was unfairly criticized for her performance . Her singing was great and she really wasn't that bad an actress . Well , it wasn't a wasted 90 minutes , but look for it on cable .
There are two shower scenes where we are treated to incredible views of my favorite psychologist ( Anne Heche from Prozac Nation ) and the lovely Ione Skye . This was definitely not a CBS Schoolbreak Special with Missy Crider and TV regular Bahni Turpin . Outside of these shower scenes was the cheesiest dialog that I have ever heard . I cannot believe this movie even had a script . I am sure the actresses were told just told use whatever cheesy prison dialog you can think of . It was painful to listen to . They threw in dialog about the Korean War and McCathyism to set the times , but it was just terrible . It would have been a much better production if they had 80 minutes of shower scenes and 3 minutes of dialog , instead of the other way around .
This film will not be to everyone's tastes . It is a tale of corporate intrigue and , frankly , even I was bored at time with the pace . But , I have to remember that I was here for Asia Argento . Yes , she has a body to die for , and she is definitely on my top ten list of babes with guns . She gets caught up in corporate shenanigans between two lovers ( Michael Madsen and Carl Ng ) . One is trying to unload his shares , and the other is trying to make a lot of money . People die , there are some kinky sex scenes , and there is Asia doing an incredibly good job of trying to get through everything and stay alive . You never really know whether she will make it , and you are not sure why she does what she does at the end . Love is stringer than hate ? Maybe . You just have to love that bod !
How unfortunate is it that two films come out about the same time telling the same story . If this film had been released before Capte , I am certain that it would have won all the awards it richly deserved . Toby Jones was magnificent as Truman Capote . Sandra Bullock did her best work since Crash . I am glad that I have not seen Casino Royale yet , as it might have ruined the part Daniel Craig played as the killer , Perry . I even forgive Jeff Daniels for The Squid and the Whale . He was great as the District Attorney . Infamous played much lighter than Capote in its setting in New York society , and it really focused on the agony that Perry was going through . One can understand from this film why Capote never wrote another novel .
Now , this just happens to be the wackiest movie I have ever seen . It was actually four movies in one , but it was still over the top . Maybe they should have called it Hotel , je t'aime , as it feature four directors : the Grindhouse pair Quenton Tarantino and Robert Rodriguez ; Sugar Town and TV director , Allison Anders ; and Jennifer Beals ex , Alexandre Rockwell . Beals was in two of the four stories , and the cast list has a lot of favorites . There was Ione Skye showing off her assets as a witch who failed in her mission until Ted the Bellhop ( Oscar-nominated Tim Roth - Rob Roy , Planet of the Apes ) helped her out . There was Salma Hayak featured on TV . There was a slick Antonio Banderas . There was Marisa Tomei and Bruce Willis . Those are my favorites , and I am sure that many can find their's in those I didn't list . There was even Razzie favorite Madonna as an incestuous mother . A little bit of everything for those with a twisted sense of humor and a broad mind .
Maybe if they used different tag lines to advertise this movie , it would have greater appeal . While all of the above is true , it was a small part of a wonderful film about George Adamson ( Richard Harris ) and Tony Fitzjohn ( John Michie ) . Those familiar with Born Free know about Adamson . This film is about his life in Kenya after wards , and the relationship with Fitzjohn , who went on to do the same work in Tanzania . It has a documentary feel throughout and absolutely stunning cinematography as they interact with the lions in the bush . It is sometimes bloody as the natives revolt , and the battle between men and animals will get your blood boiling , especially when Terrence ( Ian Bannen ) discovers his precious elephants destroyed by ivory poachers . A film for all animal lovers , and an outstanding performance by Harris .
Love may be better the second time around , but movies usually aren't . There are exceptions , but this isn't one of them . Tibbs ( Sidney Poitier ) is back home and out of that hellhole in Mississippi , but the excitement of In the Heat of the Night is missing . He is doing his thing as a detective ; trying to solve a murder where the chief suspect is his preacher friend Logan Sharpe ( Martin Landau ) . The problem is that Gordon Douglas is no Norman Jewison and his direction does not have any magic . The acting is good , but the movie just seems to plod along , switching between Tibbs ' home problems ( And , I have to mention , his child abuse regarding his son . ) and the murder . The fast pace of Jewison's effort is sadly missing . It's a fair murder mystery , but the pace makes it one to skip .
Starting off with an effort to replicate the grindhouse use of " coming attractions , " complete with grainy , scratched film , we expect the cheesiness to continue as the feature is not one , but nine separate horror shorts . I am sure everyone will find their favorites in the collection , but I was particularly impressed by " Alone " with Mandy Amano as a sorority girl alone in the house with a killer on the loose . The sets and costuming were excellent and really gave a 50s feel to the story . It had a nice twist at the end . " Mental Distortion " with Kim Sønderholm , who also wrote and directed this short , as well as the first one shown ( When John Met Julia ) stars with Maja Muhlack and the voluptuous Danish model Barbara Zatler . The story is really open to multiple interpretations , and I am sure each viewer will have their own . " Disconnected " is the story of bloody brutality , but it is the twist that will have your mouth dropping open - totally unexpected . Those are my three favorites , but the other six shorts are just as interesting and others are left to find theirs .
I loves me a good horror movie , even if it is one that I have seen before with another title . Running through the wood to escape some inbred cretin is so overused , but at least they did this one in West by god Virginny , rather than another in Texas . Do you think that maybe , just maybe the word has gotten out now to stay on the damn highway . Do not go into the wood looking for trees where they hung the devil , or shortcuts , or places to have a nice picnic . Stay on the highway people ! Well , they didn't listen again , and they get to pay the price - the ax in the mouth was precious . Eliza Dushku certainly made this worth watching . I would gladly follow her into the woods . No , stay out the woods , even if she is going in , you fool . Can't wait for the sequel . You never did see dem hillbillies die did you ?
Writer / director Nick Willing did a very good job of keeping the action moving in this thriller ( also known as Close Your Eyes , and Hypnotic ) that kept you enchanted throughout . Of course , the premise of the story is a bit far fetched , that doesn't detract from a good mystery involving a Doctor ( played perfectly by Goran Visnjic - " ER " ) , and a cop ( Shirley Henderson - Moaning Myrtle in two Harry Potter films , and Jude in the two Bridget Jones films ) . I really liked the way Henderson played the cop . She was believable in a story that didn't make a lot of sense outside the chase for the murderer . Sophie Stuckey in her first film did a really good job as the object of the search .
Wow ! I get to see Tchéky Karyo ( The Patriot ) two days in a row . I just watched him with Nick Nolte in The Good Thief , and now here he is as a ghost hunter ( yeah , right ) with a beautiful assistant Megahn Perry . But , they come in later . First , there is the grave dancing - and grave pissing . I am sure everyone has at least thought about pissing or dancing on someone's grave . Well , you might want to rethink that after seeing this film , especially if you are the type that watches " Ghost Hunters " on TV . Hee Hee . After doing the drunken deeds , our heroes : Dominic Purcell ( Primeval , Equilibrium ) , Josie Maran ( Van Helsing ) and Marcus Thomas ( Edmond ) , are getting their reward - crazed spirits after them . This spooky film has it all : creaky sound , apparitions , super special effects , blood and gore , and perversion in what i would call a traditional horror film . There is enough to keep your interest throughout , and certainly enough to keep you jumping out of your seat . And , hey , I wonder who did the casting here as I see a couple of more people from The Patriot ?
As a James Patterson fan , I was really interested in seeing how this film was adapted from the book . I also wanted to see Angie Everhart . I they knew she was in Bucket of Blood early in her career , it would have helped them solve the murders . I liked all of the leads - Tracey Pollan as Inspector Boxer , Carly Pope as the reporter , Megan Gallagher as Jil , and , especially Pam Grier as Dr . Washburn . Robert Patrick ( The Marine , Flags of Our Fathers , Terminator 2 : Judgment Day ) was especially good as the suspected killer . Fans of the new Women's Murder Club on TV will want to check this out .
We start off Herschell Gordon Lewis ' Blood Feast sequel with Miss Louisiana Christina Cuenca screaming her pretty head off as Fuad Ramses III ( J . P . Delahoussaye ) puts her through a meat grinder . We expect a lighter film , and we are getting it as Delahoussaye is a comedian and brings that to the film . Oh , why did he have to go to Laci Hundees ( Michelle Miller ) for the brains and more liver ? She was giving us such a fantastic show when he rudely interrupted . Detective Loomis ( John McConnell ) is played by another comedian , and we get comic breaks during the investigation . After a boring examination of the remains of Misty Morning , we quickly go to a lingerie shower for the new bride , Tiffany ( Toni Wynne ) . We stay her a while why all the girls model lingerie and we enjoy them as they change . Two of the girls go off into the other room and we expect some hot action . No , here comes the killer again . Harvest time . And , what does he have in mind for Candi Graham ( Jill Rao ) ? Well , we can watch some dudes tromping through the jungle using the " R " word , or we can bathe ourselves in blood and intestines and lots of boobies , while having a good laugh . Me ? I'm going back for seconds , thank you .
Monica ( Mónica Zanchi ) is a very naughty girl . She gets caught with her young stepmother ( Dirce Funari ) - " But , dad , you told me to be friends with her ! " - and is sent off to boarding school run by nuns . One nun in particular is Sister Emanuelle ( Laura Gemser , a veteran of many " Emanuelle " films ) . Monica proceeds to seduce her roommate ( Vinja Locatelli ) , sets up an escaped criminal ( Gabriele Tinti ) in the tower , and tricks Sister Emanuelle into breaking her vowels as she lies and schemes . The sex is hot and heavy - schoolgirl on schoolgirl , criminal on schoolgirl , and criminal on nun . There isn't much to distract from the sex as there is little else going on . It's a good story with a really funny twist at the end .
I do not like Ron Silver . I don't like his politics and I don't like his characters . When he gets it , I am happy . This movie made me very happy for two reasons : he has the absolutely worst haircut in the world , so I get to laugh at him throughout , and he gets his just desserts . He plays a sleazy Senator who is on the take and screwing with Danny O'Neill's ( Pierce Brosnan ) wife ( Lisa Eilbacher ) . O'Neill is an FBI agent specializing in bombs . Not a great job by Brosnan , but the bomb in the film is one of the best parts as it is an original and gruesome device . Did I mention that Silver gets what's coming to him ? Yes !
The cartoonish Ilsa ( Dyanne Thorne ) is the keeper of the Sheik's ( Jerry Delony ) harem , and trains the beauties kidnapped from around the world . She is just what you would expect in the role of a Nazi she-bitch . The Americans are sending a Henry Kissinger type ( Richard Kennedy ) along with a naval officer ( Max Thayer ) to try and overthrow the Sheik and get his oil . So , what else is new ? Ilsa and her henchwomen , Satin ( Tanya Boyd ) and Velvet ( Marilyn Joi ) are ruthless in their methods and devise extreme methods of torture to get what they want . Despite what Ilsa tells the Sheik , it is apparent that she is becoming close to the naval officer . He becomes tired of her delay and devises punishment that was decidedly extreme . Of course , there is a bloody Palace coup after that . And , Ilsa gets her reward . The porn was decidedly soft-core .
Keeping up with the fireworks on the 4th , we see that Godzilla has to defend Baby Godzill , who is much bigger , against a UN built Transformer-type machine and also Space Godzilla , which was formed by some Godzilla DNA that traveled to space somehow . They keep getting sillier and sillier . This one seemed to drag on forever before we got to the real action . When we did , it wasn't as good as the others . I do have to admit that the finale , when Godzilla destroyed Space Godzilla , was spectacular and one of the best fireworks displays I have seen . The ending was sorta cheesy as Godzilla calmly reenters the sea to some romantic music and a setting sun , as two of the G-Force team walk along the beach holding hand and whispering sweet nothings . Megumi Odaka , Kôichi Ueda , and Kenji Sahara are back from the last film . Watch , if you must , but not as good .
Nikki Reed ( American Gun , Thirteen , " The O . C . " ) , Jonathan Tucker ( In the Valley of Elah , Love Comes to the Executioner , " The Black Donnellys " ) , and Julie Gonzalo ( " Veronica Mars " ) come together in this indy film that has some interesting twists and fascinating characters . There is nothing you haven't seen before in a film reminiscent of classic noirs of the 40s . People aren't who they seem to be , lying and distrust abound , and the final twist is predictable , but getting there was fun as we follow Jordan ( Tucker ) , a rich kid , and Shay ( Reed ) , as they do their dance , with D ( Gonzalo ) as the ignored friend who is called upon only when needed , and who comes through as a true friend in the end . Not DiBella's first film , but certainly the first to get any notice . Looking for more in the future .
Udo Kier has 180 roles to his credit . Most recently he was in Grindhouse and Rob Zombies Halloween . But , it is his roles in Andy Warhol's Frankenstein and this film that really show him at his campy best . Here , he plays Count Dracula , a man we really feel sorry for , as he only has two weeks to live unless he can find a virgin's blood to drink . he travels to Italy with his manservant ( Arno Juerging ) to the château of a Marchese ( Vittorio De Sica ) who happens to have four daughters ranging from an old maid to a 14-year-old , and a gambling problem that has left him almost penniless . He welcomes the Count ( and his wealth ) to choose one of his daughters for marriage . What he does not know is that the one servant he still has on staff ( Joe Dallesandro ) has been using more that rakes and shovels . He has a special tool that is admired by the two middle daughters and , suffice it to say , they are no longer virgins . Count Dracula finds this out the hard way . Who knew that he was bulimic ? He throws up a disgusting amount of blood after noshing on their necks . The servant figures out what is happening and rapes the 14-year-old to save her from the vampire . Isn't he a thoughtful guy ? But , the spinster saves Dracula temporally until the servant used an ax to turn him into a quadriplegic before putting the stake through his heart . Despondent , the spinster falls on the stake also to be with her love forever . What a sweet story of love .
It's like old home wee when stars like Jim Brown ( Slaughter , Black Gunn ) , Fred Williamson ( Starsky & Hutch ) , Pam Grier , Ron O'Neal ( Superfly ) , Richard Roundtree ( Shaft ) , and Paul Winfield ( Sounder ) get together to teach some young punks a lesson . Heavys of the 70's blaxploitation genre are called home to get some revenge and clean up the town . Lots of talking and shooting and good old fashioned fisticuffs . Pam Grier ( Coffy , Foxy Brown ) is back in the form we like . She was one of the first female action stars in Hollywood . Looking forward to a retrospective this weekend when they replay two of her best .
I can imagine that we will be watching Saw for a few more years . This episode gave us the back story for Jigsaw ( Tobin Bell ) , and now we can feel a little sympathy for him . After all , he didn't exactly go after the innocent , did he ? It was certainly gory and the inventiveness of the traps were still impressive . In addition , there was more story here ; more of a psychological thriller . I imagine that we will see Agent Perez ( Athena Karkanis ) again , and that is worth waiting for . It will be interesting to see if they can keep coming up with interesting gadgets . I await the next installment .
OK , not the greatest movie in the world , and the outcome is fairly predictable , but it was another opportunity to see Halle Berry , and I cannot pass that up . Besides that , I am trying to get my teaching certificate , so I watch teacher movies , no matter how silly . I understand that it is also based upon a true story . In addition , it also featured Eliza Dushku ( Buffy , Tru Calling ) , Casey Affleck ( brother of Ben ) , and James Belushi . It wasn't memorable , but it was cute and not a total waste of time . Also , it was written by Barry Morrow , a member of the Association of Retarded Citizens , the National Association of Social Workers , and the Austism Society of America - a lifelong advocate for the rights of persons with disabilities . That puts him solidly in my camp as I am also a member of NASW and work with the developmentally disabled . Morrow won an Oscar for writing Rain Man .
I cannot remember where I first saw Rhona Mitra , but I knew I wanted to see much more of her . That is why I watched Ali G Indahouse . Big mistake ! Even Rhona could not make that film worth watching . I never looked at Sacha Cohen again . There was nothing that he could do that would interest me . However , when I saw him win a Golden Globe and saw this film nominated for an Oscar , I knew I had to watch in the interest of finding out what the interest was . I did not laugh one time during the film . Not once . I do not find his demeaning of women , Jews , gays and others to be one bit funny . Yes , I know he is a Jew , and I know it is satire , but there are limits . he crossed those limits and it diminished the film and it diminished him . For the Golden Globes to put him in the same class as Aaron Eckhart or Johnny Depp is beyond my comprehension . Yes , the concept was good , the performances worthwhile , and the satire was excellent , but I just can't get over the subject matter and I do not like potty humor . I just feel that this film has no place at an awards show .
Is her a serial killer or a werewolf ? That question is left for you to answer . Francisco Plaza's thrill / horror film is based upon true events that happened a couple of hundred years ago in Spain . Julian Sands , who plays Manuel Romasanta has appeared in a lot of horror movies . He is also scheduled to be in Ocean's 13 . Will we have a werewolf there ? He dispatches his victims in a gruesome manner , some quickly , and some he takes time to enjoy , like the lovely Elsa Pataky . This is not a great film , but it is slightly interesting . It also stars Ivana Baquero , who was in last year's El Laberinto del fauno . More on that film later .
Nick Nolte , Chazz Palminteri , Michael Madsen , and Chris Penn make up the notorious " Hat Squad , " that will stop at nothing to rid L . A . of criminals . This neo-noir film brings back the look and feel of 1950s L . A . and unfortunately was not to receive the acclaim that was given to the similar L . A . Confidential one year later . That is a shame as it is almost as good . Jennifer Connelly is at the center of things as she is found dead and just happens to be Nolte's mistress from the past . A black and white film is found with her and the head of the A . E . C . , General Timms ( John Malkovich ) . I can assure you that Connelly looks as good in black and white as she does in color . Treat Williams is the bad guy here as he tries to protect the general and the secret they share in the desert . Good stuff .
Five-time Oscar nominee Sidney Lumet ( Network , Dog Day Afternoon ) directs John Hopkins ' play and gives us an intense and revealing portrait of the effect of years of crawling around in the slime , and what it can do to people . Whether it be child abuse investigators , or social workers , or soldiers , or police ; dealing with the sordid and dangerous side of society takes it toll . It certainly did on Sean Connery , who had 25 years dealing with the worst criminals . he finally lost it all when faced with a child molester . Psychologists would call it " stamp collecting . " Every little injury is placed in an album and cashed in all at once . Couples do this all the time , as do employees . Ignore the hurt for the moment and then cash them in at some insignificant time . In this case , Connery cashed in when he just couldn't take it anymore . Oscar-nominated Ian Bannen ( The Flight of the Phoenix ) gave an incredibly good performance as the molester . A superb film that shows the stress of dealing with society's ills .
Now , this is the first sexploitation / grindhouse film that I thought worth paying money to see . I can imagine a whole theater full of men in white overcoats getting a thrill from this feature which had full frontal throughout the entire 70 minutes . Nude dancing and lesbian activity would have thrilled them for the first 60 minutes , then the film , which had a noir overtone , turned darker with sadistic encounters and even death . This is the best Michael Findlay sexploitation film I have seen , and it certainly beats his video nasty Snuff .
Can you imagine students that love their headmaster ( principal ) so much that they try to sabotage his leaving by playing practical jokes when a district ( ? ) team is visiting the school ? That's the premise of this , one of the early Carry On films . I can certainly imagine the reaction of the visiting psychiatrist played by Leslie Phillips ( Venus ) when he saw Miss Allcock played by Joan Sims ( The Last of the Blonde Bombshells ) . I had the same reaction in Walmart yesterday when some young miss in short shorts and a tight Tee walked by a couple of times . Full of the usual Carry On stars and some guests , it is typical British humor at it's finest .
I cannot imagine a better example of religion's failure than the war in Northern Ireland . The land that we celebrate in March as a place of happiness is one where Catholics and Protestants bathed the ground with the blood of their young . Danny ( Daniel Day-Lewis ) is a former IRA member who has spent the last 14 years in prison . he just wants to get on with his life and forget the war , but it is still going on and cannot be ignored . He also has unresolved personal issues with Maggie ( Emily Watson ) to address . They have to sneak around as she is a symbol - a wife with a husband in prison for his activities . Outstanding performances by Daniel Day-Lewis ( My Left Foot : The Story of Christy Brown , There Will Be Blood , Gangs of New York ) and Emily Watson ( Hilary and Jackie , Breaking the Waves , Punch-Drunk Love ) , and Brian Cox ( Zodiac , The Bourne Identity , The Bourne Supremacy ) as the man who was trying to establish a peace . As you would expect of a film set in the war , there is no comedy or romance , just a dark , dirty , grim tale of life as it really is , not what we wish it to be . A brilliant cast giving us a needed reminder of the cost of war .
I saw that there was a couple of Nazi films on TNT last night and decided to give them a viewing . Sometimes these old black and whites can really have interesting stories . This was true to my expectations . This was a Jules Dassin film . He was one of the most important directors in post-WWII America . Unfortunately he got caught up in the Red Scare led by Senator McCarthy and was blacklisted . he moved to Europe , where he continued to make movies . His most influential film was the heist movie Rififi , which inspired a genre of movies including Ocean's Eleven and Mission : Impossible . The movie stars Conrad Veidt , who is himself a very interesting character . Most movie goers would remember him as Gestapo Maj . Strasser in the classic Casablanca . This is interesting because he was a staunch anti-Nazi who was himself chased out of Germany under threat of assassination . He was to play Dracula in 1931 , but Bela Lugosi got the job . His performance in The Man Who Laughs , was used as the basis for " The Joker " in the early Batman . Veidt give a good performance as a twin whose brother is a Nazi agent . he kills him and takes his place to fight against the Nazi underground in America . It is not a terribly exciting film , but it was suspenseful , and a chance to see one of the great American directors and a great German / British actor .
In the second part of a twin bill for Ian McKellen , he stars with Deborah Kara Unger in a compelling drama about a man who goes back home after 40 years and has to deal with the past he left behind . In contrast to Cold Comfort Farm , in which McKellan played a small role , this movie is all about him . He goes back and forth from the present to his life in Canada 40 years before . He even engages in conversations with his brothers , who appear in the present . he works to resolve his crisis and , with the help of 10-year-old Theo Crane , is able to come to a comfortable conclusion . For those of us who leave home and return , there is a lot of things familiar in this very good movie .
I don't miss an opportunity to see Joh Cusack . This was a good film for him . Not terribly innovative - a lawyer trying to rip off the mob on Christmas Eve . The usual double crosses and a somewhat predictable ending . It was good film noir . Billy Bob Thorton was not in the movie as much as I thought . He was Cusack's partner , but had a small role . I do not think that I wish to die as he did . Oliver Platt is another I like seeing and he was hilarious in every scene that he was in . A real riot ! Connie Nielsen ( Gladiator ) was a classic femme fatale . Richard Russo & Robert Benton wrote a good caper screenplay , even if it was not innovative . The movie moved along well and had some very good moments - like Thorton's death scene . : - ) Harold Ramis did a good job directing . He's done some interesting films like Groundhog Day and Anaylize This ; I like his work .
Why would I add this to my Christmas list ? Curiosity , for the most part , as it was produced and directed by Barry Mahon . Yes , the same Barry Mahon that gave us Blood of the Zombie , The Diary of Knockers McCalla , Nudes on Tiger Reef , and over 50 more films that make this one an unusual choice . I really wanted Santa and the Ice Cream Bunny , but have not found it yet . No zombies , no knockers , and the ax is just for cutting down a Christmas tree , not chopping off heads . Two cute bears cubs refuse to hibernate after the Ranger tells them about Christmas . They want to wait for Santa . Hal Smith , who played Santa in Billy Wilder's The Apartment , and voiced Santa in many productions over the years , is the voice of the ranger and Santa here . This is a really well done cartoon with great music and a story that kids of all ages will appreciate .
Some compare this to Lost in Translation . I had to watch that film three times before I really enjoyed it . I can say that I enjoyed Steve Martin's story on the first viewing . I actually tuned in to see if Jason Schwartzman was as obnoxious as I have seen him in other films . I was pleasantly surprised . I could not under stand how Mirabelle ( Claire Danes ) could even give him a second look . She certainly made the right choice in telling him to take a hike after she met Ray ( Steve martin ) . But , he got his act together and came back in the stretch to get back in the game . Ray blew it , and he knew he blew it . He had it all and just let it go . What a shame . Well , all is well that ends well , and this one ended very well . The music was especially great throughout , and Bridgette Wilson was cute as the ditsy blonde .
It takes courage to grow up and be who you really are . I would not even pretend to know what teenage girls go through as they mature . Despite the fact that I have experience with many of them , I would not be privy to their innermost thoughts . This film can only give us a vicarious glimpse into their minds and emotions . But , that is enough for now . Piper Perabo has come a long way from Coyote Ugly and has matured into a good actress . She is Paulie , a girl abandoned twice by her mother and who is in a torrid affair with Tori ( Jessica Paré ) until they get caught by Tori's sister Allison ( Emily VanCamp ) . Tori realizes that she must deny her love and end the affair to maintain connections to her family . Another loss is more that Paulie can deal with and , despite her best efforts to get Tori to admit her love publicly , she takes the only step she knows will end her pain . A beautiful story that gives a glimpse so that we can empathize a little and grow a little and maybe find that courage .
I am sure that I've seen this film before , but I watched it again to see how Stephen King managed to write a story that captured teen-aged angst amidst bullying and popularity contests . Sis Spacek was simply incredible and it is no surprised that she got the first Academy Award nomination for a horror film . Piper Laurie was also superb as her mother and got a well-deserved nomination herself . The effects and cinematography were superb , as was Brian De Palma's direction . I also liked seeing some people in their first or early roles like Amy Irving ( Yentl ) in her first role on the big screen ; RoboCop's Nancy Allen ; John Travolta in his second screen appearance ; and P . J . Soles ( The Devil's Rejects ) in one of her first roles . A great horror movie about teen life .
How to describe a film so avant-garde that Dirk Bogarde threatened to quit the Cannes jury if it got an award ? A film that references Blade runner , with a burned-out cop ( Michael Elphick ) brought back into a futuristic Europe to find a serial killer . A film that has been described by some as " The Silence of the Lambs " meets " Delicatessen " . Fans of David Lynch may thrill at this futuristic film noir . Many will run for the exits , as it takes quite a bit of time to develop . It is Lars von Trier's first English-language film , and it is in a sepia-tone that adds to the feeling that Europe is crumbling . Water is an element that flows throughout , again adding to the feeling that something is rotten . Elphick hooks up with Me Me Lai in her last film . She had done a lot of cannibal work before this - an interesting combination of actors . Elphick goes into a experimental drug-induced hypnotic state to try and recreate the crimes and catch the killer . Things get really surreal from here . Cinematography , sound , and special effects were all superb in this very strange film .
The role of Provost Marshall at the Presidio was not real stretch for Sean Connery . He just had to continue the role he played in The Untouchables the year before . That is not to say that he wasn't good , but it was a familiar type for him - tough cop and tough father . This time he was protecting his daughter , played by Meg Ryan in a role that is familiar also , against a San Francisco police detective ( and former MP ) played by Mark Harmon . Ryan gave that sweet role that she played in Sleepless in Seattle and You've Got Mail . The cute smile and the girlish manner that we all love ; not the raw role we saw in In the Cut . I am a big fan of Harmon in NCIS and I always enjoyed his earlier roles . he does a good job here as well . There was plenty of action : car chases , running through the streets of San Francisco , and a final gun battle that ends it all .
Not a particularly noteworthy episode , but another opportunity to see Jerry Orbach as Detective Lennie Briscoe . Executive A . D . A . Jack McCoy ( Sam Waterston ) rips him up on the stand , but Lenny gets the last laugh as he really solves the crime - for which Jack just convicted the wrong man . Jill Hennessy as A . D . A . Claire Kincaid is always fun to watch . Eye candy to be sure , but what the heck . Steven Hill is the D . A . Not my favorite . Just an old John McCain-type politician who probably parts his hair on the right side . I must remember to look . Someone said this morning that the new movie Righteous Kill is just like an old Law & Order episode . Even one as bland as this one is worth watching , so maybe I'll go see it .
This is an interesting episode not just for the fact that the judge was the wife of the former Mayor of New York . Ray ( benjamin Bratt ) refers to the printer on which the letters to the paper as a " garden variety bubble jet . " He might as well had been talking about Commodore 64s or 5 inch floppies . Few people remember the bubble jet . There is a lot of Unabomber in this as the brother turns in his brother hoping to save his life . Adam Schiff ( Steven Hill ) wants the death penalty , but Jack McCoy ( Sam Waterston ) pulls a fast one so Jaime ( Carey Lowell ) could regain her credibility . Good performances bu all , including Lennie Briscoe ( Jerry Orbach ) .
I enjoyed Ramin Bahrani's Man Push Cart , and this film is equally good . This slice of life is almost a documentary about how life on the edges is lived . Alejandro Polanco and Isamar Gonzales do an excellent job as a 12-year-old brother and a 16-year-old sister who live in a small room over an auto shop . There are no parents ; they are on their own surviving . Ali supplements his income by stealing auto parts , selling bootleg DVDs and selling candy on the subway . Izzie supplements her income working a food truck by selling herself . They are trying to make money to but their own truck . One is tempted to express outrage at the fact that these two children are left to fend on their own , and certainly one can be very upset that Izzie sells her body to willing truckers , but the fact is that this exists today in the world's richest country , not some underdeveloped land . Save the outrage and do something .
I bought this film and Desparados on Region 2 by mistake and so it sat on my shelf for a long time . Fortunately , my new computer plays Region 2 , so I got to see it again in Hi Def . It was as good as I remembered . No , it's not high quality , but it is fantastic considering that it was written , directed , shot , and edited by one person - Robert Rodriguez . It was his experiment , and he showed his talent and what can be done for $7 , 000 . He even used his friend to star in the film . The non-actor Carlos Gallardo was perfect for the role and made the film more believable . Even the little town of Ciudad Acuña added realism to the film . An inspiration to filmmakers everywhere .
There isn't a lot of story here . Four brothers come home for mom's funeral and find some suspicious facts that cause them to kick ass and take names . Or , did they take the names before they kicked ass ? It doesn't matter . The movie starred some great names and had plenty of action for those who love action movies . Check it out : Mark Wahlberg ( The Departed , The Perfect Storm ) , André Benjamin ( Idlewild ) , Tyrese Gibson ( Baby Boy , Flight of the Phoenix ) , Sofía Vergara ( one of Maxim's " 100 Sexiest Women " ) , Garrett Hedlund ( Eragon , Troy ) , Terrence Howard ( Hustle & Flow , Crash ) , Chiwetel Ejiofor ( American Gangster , Children of Men ) , and Taraji P . Henson ( Hustle & Flow , Baby Boy ) . What a cast for an action movie ! Only criticism : When a film advertises nudity , I do NOT want to see some guys butt as the only nudity in the film . Cheesh !
Another great Donald Sutherland film and a great caper film to boot . Sutherland stars with Sean Connery and Leslie-Anne Down in a bawdy and fun caper to rob a train while moving of a gold shipment of £25 , 000 heading to pay British soldiers in the Crimean War . A seemingly impossible task that is complicated at the last minute and has some funny twists and turns is a joy to watch . Of course , the real joy is watching Connery and Sutherland as the plan and execute this caper . Great cinematography and Michael Crichton does not disappoint as director of a film based on his own novel .
As I move through the original film and the two remakes , I am dropping the rating each time . Does that Bode ill for The Inasion this summer ? We will have to wait and see . They didn't wait 22 years to redo it the second time . This time they used Bad Lieutenant and King of New York director Abel Ferrara , and cast the young beauty Gabrielle Anwar ( The Librarian : Return to King Solomon's Mines ) and " thirthsomething " Terry Kinney in the leads . He went on to do The Laramie Project later and was fantastic . If you want conformity , then setting your movie on a military installation ensures that you have an easier time of it . Younger people will love this version , but just updating to modern techniques and special effects doesn't always make for a better picture . So , as we look forward to Kidman and Craig , we can discuss who did the best job in what will likely be the last remake - well , until our grandchildren's time .
Not all good movies managed to get US distribution . This one , only played in Columbia and France , but it is still worth the time to explore . Victor ( Daniel Giménez Cacho ) is a bum journalist who drinks too much and mourns the fact that his wife left him . He gets a deal from the Police Chief . In exchange for writing a speech , he can investigate a man who was impaled . He teams up with Estupiñán ( César Mora ) , who is trying to find out where his brother is . Their investigation is reminiscent of Chinatown , in that they are having great difficulty , as we the viewer are , in sorting out the good guys from the bad , as gangsters and politicians and civil servants all appear to be involved in a crooked land deal . Along the way , he is joined by Quica ( Martina García ) , a prostitute , and just about the hottest think out of South America since Selma Hayek . Their adventures take them through a nudist colony , and , before it is all over , crawling over many dead bodies . The ending should be surprising , but it is to be expected in this climate of corruption . Well worth viewing , and not just for Senorita Garcia .
Roman Polanski ( Bitter Moon , The Ninth Gate ) gives us another suspense thriller set in Paris . Harrison Ford is in town with his wife on a second honeymoon and to give a speech at a medical conference . His wife disappears while he is in the shower . He starts a search and , despite the fact that he can't speak a word of Frence , makes good progress . He then runs into Emmanuelle Seigner , who was also in Bitter Moon and The Ninth Gate . They work together to solve the puzzle running all throughout Paris . Good story and good action , but it seems poor Harrison Ford has made a career out of saving his wives from terrorists .
OK , face it , Jean-Claude cannot act his way out of a wet paper bag . That is not why we watch him . We watch for the action , and this film has plenty of that . No viewing of Jean-Claude's films would be complete without this one where he plays both himself and his brother . Separated by 25 years , one ( Alex ) stays in Hong Kong as a smugger , and the other ( Chad ) is a fitness instructor in California . That's ladies fitness instructor in pretty blue tights . Hmm , is there something to his role as " Gay Karate Man " in his first film ? California Jean-Claude returns to Hong Kong to join Honk Kond Jean Claude to regain what is rightfully theirs . Luscious scenery provided by Alex's girlfriend Danielle ( Alonna Shaw ) . Hot breathing brought on by action between Danielle and Kara ( Corinna Everson ) . The return of Bolo Yeung ( Bloodsport ) as Moon is a big big plus for the film . Lots of action , lots of laughs , and a good time for all .
This episode goes back to the double story . In one , Edward Woodward is going up against the KGB station chief ( Jaroslav Stremien ) in New York . He had his informant ( Joe Silver ) of 15 years killed , and is now after the daughter ( Melissa Leo ) . Robert Joy ( Dr . Sid Hammerback in " CSI : NY , AVPR : Aliens vs Predator - Requiem ) screws up and has to redeem himself with Woodward . Not an exciting scene , but effective . In the second job , Woodward is helping a teen ( J . D . Roth ) being bullied by thugs ( Jorge Noa ) . He helps the boy stand up for himself . Fair episode , but little excitement .
The best thing about this movie is the music . The song " Windmills of Your Mind " and the whole score was just fantastic . Michel Legrand , Alan Bergman , and Marilyn Bergman are to be commended for the excellent work . That , of course , is not to diminish the acting done by Steve McQueen and Faye Dunaway , not Norman Jewison's direction . They were all fantastic and made the whole experience of watching this film a real pleasure . I hesitate to call this a caper film , as the actual caper was just a small part . It is more a cat and mouse between McQueen and Dunaway . It was done with style .
This is one of Robert Redford's best films . It is the one I remember most when thinking of Redford . All of the glory went to Faye Dunaway and Max von Sydow however . That is not to say that they didn't put in fine performances , but Redford's was superior and I cannot understand how he was ignored . Remembering Sydney Pollack , who died last month , this is also one of his best films , and one of several he did with Redford . Cliff Robertson was also good , and I always like to see the late John Houseman . who I will always remember as Professor Charles W . Kingsfield Jr . If you like tight suspense thriller , then this is a great one , and the message in 1975 is ever so poignant today .
Sure , Director Robert Rodriguez created one of the very best indie films with El Mariachi on a shoestring budget . Now , with bucks in his pocket and a name cast , there is room for excellence . Some may say that the low budget effort is better , and I won't totally disagree from an artistic standpoint , but from an entertainment standpoint , this venture with Antonio Bandaras and Salma Hayek is truly a cut above many other films . The state-of-the-art special effects and polished effort Rodriguez put into this film make for an enjoyable and explosive ride . And did I mention Salma Hayek ?
The John Wayne Marathon has reached the halfway point - 17 hours of The Dukes action . This is a real departure as Wayne is being ensnared by a Quaker girl ( Gail Russell ) . he struggles to give up his past and there are many pitfalls along the way to a dramatic conclusion when he makes a choice . Harry Carey joins the Duke again ; this time as a territorial Marshall who seems to keep turning up hoping to catch him in a bad deed so he can hang him . He plays a significant role in the choice Wayne makes when the girls is apparently on her deathbed . Excellent movie about the good / bad dilemma .
This Oscar-nominated documentary is one that will make you shudder to think that there are people in this country with so much hate that they could do this heinous act . In a sense , the murder of these girls was a blessing as it awoke the American people to the fact that such people existed . America saw the burned and battered bodies of four girls , not yet teens , and realized that action had to be taken to remove the stain of segregation . Spike Lee did a terrific job of showing the attitude and actions of the hate-mongers in the South in the late 50s and early 60s ; and also showed the impact these crimes had on the people who lived in Birmingham , Alabama . A magnificent film .
Naturally , sequels are not usually as good as the original . The technically isn't a sequel , but a prequel , giving us a taste of what came before . It is mainly concerned with SP Wong ( Anthony Wong ) and Sam ( Eric Tsang ) . They are much more friendly in this film - before they both get killed in Infernal Affairs . The original actors are replaced . Yan is Shawn Yue instead of Tony Leung , and Lau is Edison Chen instead of Andy Lau . It doesn't matter as they are minor characters in this movie . Francis Ng does a great job of the bosses son , and Carina Lau as Mary , who is in all three movies is superb as well . Kai Chi Liu as Uncle John and Chapman To also turn in good performances . Of course the music was just incredible !
How could I not like this movie based on the superlative novel by Nikos Kazantzakis ? Besides being a great film , it has so many of my favorites . Staring with the director , Martin Scorsese , who did this just before Goodfellas . I can imagine that he took a lot of heat for this film , which depicts Jesus ( Willem Dafoe ) doing things that we all do , like getting married , and making explicit and sensual , but not pornographic love with the luscious Barbara Hershey ( with tattoos and lots of mascara ) as Mary Magdalene . Do you think The Davinci Code was right ? here is the evidence . Harvey Keitel , another favorite , was especially great as Judas ; I just like seeing him act . And , David Bowie as Pontius Pilate . Who thought up that one ? He was magnificent ! This is no sappy Christ picture . It is harsh and real and angry . Christ is depicted with a rabble-rousing fervor . He has doubts and doesn't feel that he is worthy . He even steps down from his mission to raise a family . You have to look at this with an open mind and still it may be hard to take . In this film , Christ not above us , and above our weaknesses , but on a level with us , and prone to the same doubts and temptations . With lots of blood and Peter Gabriel's music , the film is a feast for the senses .
If there is a god , then I will live to see at least four more John McClane adventures before I die . I do not know how much longer Bruce Willis can endure the pain , even if it is fake . He has to be tired of constantly killing evildoers . He certainly stretched my imagination this time . Knocking an evildoer out of a helicopter with a fire hydrant was better that Rambo's rock , and who wou7ld have guessed that a semi could beat a jet ? I just saw Justin Long in Accepted the other day and I was impressed with his ability . I am really impressed now , as he was perfect in the role of the nerd who grew some balls and became " that guy . " The amazingly hot Maggie Q was amazing as the " Asian hooker bitch . " Too bad she didn't know that martial arts won't work on McClane as he just keeps coming at you . I've seen Timothy Olyphant in several movies and really not paid much attention to him . I didn't pay too much attention here either as his role was pretty insignificant as the pretentious asshole who thinks he is better than anyone and finally meets a real man and can't last 60 seconds . Willis , you are the man when it comes to action and I hope you are around for a long time .
Maude Lebowski : What do you do for recreation ? The Dude : Oh , the usual . I bowl . Drive around . The occasional acid flashback . That just about sums up this trip : Some bowling , where we meet one of the most interesting characters I have ever seen in Jesus Quintana ( John Turturro ) , and where The Staranger ( Sam Elliott ) pops in from time to time to offer such sage advice as . " Sometimes you eat the bar , and sometimes , well , he eats you . " Some driving around in a comedy of errors where John Goodman really shines as Walter Sobchak . With friends like that , you certainly don't need enemies . We also meet really colorful characters like Maude Lebowski ( Julianne Moore ) , who just wants The Dude's seed ; Bunny Lebowski ( Tara Reid ) , the porn star turned gold-digger ; and , of course , The Big Lebowski ( David Huddleston ) and his faithful servant Brandt ( Philip Seymour Hoffman ) . And when Steve Buscemi started talking about the In and Out Burger , I almost lost it . I swore he was going to go into " the old in and out " routine . A visit to Jackie Treehorn ( Ben Gazzara ) brings about an amazing thing that could only be described as an acid flashback . I have to admit I had my mouth open the whole time it was going on . It was just that incredible . You should get the idea that this is not a film about kidnapping and money and criminals ; it was a film about the characters . i only touched on the main ones . There are plenty more interesting gems to find . Only the Coen brothers could have dreamed up the story of a slacker caught up in a bad situation . It was one of the funniest films I have ever seen .
Still hanging in there as we go into the second day of the John Wayne Marathon . This is not one of the best , but it was pretty good . The dialog left a lot to be desired , but it had some interesting characters . Besides Wayne , who was a Yankee Colonel who was looking for two traitors ( Victor French & Robert Donner ) after the war , there was Jorge Rivero and Robert Mitchum's son Christopher , who both fought on the Confederate side and who helped Wayne find the traitors after the war . Jack Elam was there and also George Plimpton , who played in many movies like Good Will Hunting and Reds , and who wrote " Infamous . " Jennifer O'Neill , Susana Dosamantes , and Sherry Lansing all added beauty to the film .
Writer / director Tommy Stovall's first and only film is worth the time to watch for a very good story and some great characters . Brian J . Smith does his first film as Trey , partner of Robbie ( Seth Peterson ) . Trey is the victim of a hate crime , presumably at the hands of the religious kook who just move in next door . Turns out this isn't his first hate crime , but no one locked him away after the last one . Cindy Pickett does an outstanding job as Trey's mother , and Bruce Davison is perfect as the pastor and the father of the kook . Granny Boone ( Lin Shaye ) is also present as a neighbor , and you just have to love her character . The police did not seem interested in finding the person who beat and killed Trey , so it was up to Robbie to find out what happened . Some secrets get exposed , and a killer is found and dealt with in a manner where it could be said that justice is served .
I tuned into this because it was Johnny Depp's first movie and I wanted to see what he was like at 21 years old . I hardly recognized him . I really didn't at first . I had to keep staring and I still wasn't sure . Anyway , Wes Craven has written and directed a classic horror picture . Is it real or is it a dream ? What is real ? It had me on the edge of my seat the whole time . I guess that means it was great horror . I especially liked the bathtub scene . That was definitely creepy . I think I'll stick to showers . An those blades scraping against metal is like fingernails on a chalkboard . I hear the sequels are not as good as this one , but I'll probably be back just to see what happens . And , hey , there's Granny Boone !
Sure it's familiar , but that doesn't mean it isn't great . Guy Richie has a formula for entertaining gangster flicks , and this one is full of fun . You really need a scorecard to keep track of who's screwing whom , but it is fun watching all the crooks just do it to each other . You are left wondering who will be on top at the end . Gerard Butler , Idris Elba , Tom Hardy , Tom Wilkinson , and Karel Roden all make this an interesting film , and you add the luscious Thandie Newton in the mix , oh boy ! Laughs , witty lines , and action throughout ; this is one great film . Can't wait for the next one , Guy .
I was up late last night watching this great film , so i didn't make it part of my Memorial Day Tribute , but it is one that should be viewed by all , nonetheless . We tend to think of the Ben Affleck vehicle when we think of Pearl Harbor , but war is not about love stories . It is about death and destruction , and there is no greater story about such destruction than this one . It was a brilliant military move made in an atmosphere where no one could believe it was happening . It was great strategy among a comedy of errors . And , as Admiral Yamamoto predicted , " I fear all we have done is to awaken a sleeping giant and fill him with a terrible resolve . " Directed by Richard Fleisher , who gave us Soylent Green ; and by multiple award winning Japanese director Kinji Fukasaku , this film is characterized by excellence in Special visual effects , art direction , editing , sound and cinematography . It is an excellent film all around .
I was thrilled by Todd Haynes work on Glam Rock in Velvet Goldmine , and I looked forward to a film about Robert Allen Zimmerman ( possibly a cousin ) . I was more intrigued about the fact that favs like Christian Bale , Heath Ledger , and Cate Blanchette , and others would be playing different parts of Dylan . Leave it to Haynes to come up with a non-traditional take on this great artist . How else can you show the many sides of an individual than by having different people play the man and expose his artistry . Some may find it difficult as the film bounces from side to side and back and forth with color and greys , but you are rewarded by seeing great performances by Blanchette , Bale , ledger , Richard Gere , and others . For the traditional , there is Martin Scorsese's No Direction Home , but there is also a place for Haynes work on the man .
If there was ever the remotest chance that I would ever go into a cave , that chance just became non existent after seeing this film . Girls may want to have fun , but these girls - Shauna Macdonald , Natalie Jackson Mendoza , Alex Reid , Saskia Mulder , MyAnna Buring ( Grindhouse ) , and Nora-Jane No one - are starkers ! I'm all for a little adventure , but this was more than my heart can take . Hell , it was almost too much just watching it . If you want to get scared shitless , then you have to see this film . Makeup was incredible and there were some great performance in an adrenaline-pumping exercise in terror .
Let's face it . I am not a Woody Allen fan . So , I had to pick a movie that was written and directed by him , but I would not have to see or hear him . It was brilliant ! John Cusack was the right shade of neurotic as a director who had to get into bed with the mob to get his play on Broadway . And , who better to represent the mob than Joe Viterelli and Chazz Palminteri . Excellent choices . Jennifer Tilly was a real treat as the mob boss ' girlfriend who couldn't act . And , her relationship with Jim Broadbent was a gem . The movie was as funny as I expected a Woody Allen film to be and the shades of Sunset Boulevard with Dianne Wiest was captivating . There are so many little gems in this show that it would not be possible to repeat them here . You have to see them in context to enjoy them , and you should take the time to do just that .
This was the last Godzilla film in the Heisei series , and it certainly topped all the rest . All the stops were pulled out to make this one a fantastic and explosive film that made July 4th a real firecracker . First , they are trying to develop some new chemical to kill Godzilla and they create some really neat looking creatures that look somewhat like a crab or a lobster with a long neck and a head . I really don't think Godzilla will have any trouble with these things as one spent five minutes trying to get a girl our of a car and couldn't do it before he was destroyed . But , the creatures apparently form in to one Destroyer and this one kills Baby Godzilla . Godzilla arrives to do battle and what a battle it is . The fireworks were spectacular and the sound track was marvelous . Add to the mix a space shuttle-like super jet piloted by a cross between Tom Cruise and Will Smith and these babies don't stand a chance . Since this is the end of the series , you know Godzilla will die , but you can be sure that he will likely comeback in some form in the future .
Not just worth watching , but a very good Tarantinoesque film that will definitely reward you for you patience . It has the typical western flavor and the typical western gore , but it is not overdone . The main journey of the film is for our hero to go deep withing himself and face his fears to find out who he truly is . Vincent Cassel ( Ocean's Twelve & Thirteen ) plays Blueberry ( the French Title ) in this Jan Kounen film about the West and mystical experience . He and Michael Madsen ( Reservoir Dogs , Sin City ) get into it over a saloon girl ( Vahina Giocante ) , who was definitely worth getting into a fight over . He leaves Madsen for dead and he is restored by the Apaches . He returns to civilization as the town Marshall and Madsen returns as the evil villain looking for the Apache's gold - not the shiny kind . Juliette Lewis ( From Dusk Till Dawn , Natural Born Killers ) is in the mix after Madsen kills her father and she chases after him and Eddie Izzard ( Ocean's Twelve & Thirteen ) , who is looking for real gold . Blueberry ( Cassel ) and Blount ( Madsen ) are left to battle each other , but not in the way you expect . This is where it gets really good as they go on a mescaline / peyote trip that brings forth some real nasty demons and then they fly through the universe in a 2001 type adventure before they discover their truths . I can only say that Blueberry wins the grand prize at the end when he is swimming with Juliette Lewis in all her natural born glory . Also features Djimon Hounsou in a good scene . Star wars fanatics will recognize Temuera Morrison as the mystical guide and Blueberry's friend .
Neither shall they say , Lo here ! or , lo there ! for , behold , the kingdom of God is within you . Luke 17 : 21Leo Tolstoy used words from this passage to title his book on nonresistance : The Kingdom of God is Within You . Mahatma Gandhi wrote in his autobiography The Story of My Experiments with Truth that this book " overwhelmed me " and " left an abiding impression " . It is also the central theme of the movie Kingdom of Heaven , which I finally got around to watching this weekend . Sure , I wanted to see the newest Bond girl , Eva Green , and I loved Ridley Scott's Gladiator , but I was also interested in the subject of this movie . So much so , that I am glad I got the two-disk DVD so that I could catch the commentary that appeared on the History Channel . It really added to to film to see the discussion of what was real and what was Hollywood . They really do a good job of staying close to the facts and , by the way , I think Green will make a great Bond girl . For pure action , the film matched the excitement of Gladiator , even the attack of the Muslim army under Saladin mirrored the attack of the Roman army under Maximus against the Germanic hordes . While it may not be exactly accurate , it was , nonetheless , impressive . But what really got me was the underlying message . It wasn't just the code of Knights : to protect the helpless , safeguard the peace , and work toward harmony between religions and cultures . It was also the message of Luke 17 : 21 and the message of Humanism : the Kingdom of God is within you - in your mind and heart . It is not a place , but an attitude that should guide your life and your relationship with others ; for the Kingdom of God is within them also . Maybe that is too deep for some . OK , Just enjoy the battle , but , now that I have implanted this message in you mind , you will enjoy the movie more because you will be looking for it .
Black cats are supposedly common in Japanese history , and this film makes a creative use of the animal . Two women , left alone by the drafting of their son / husband to fight the wars raging in Japan at the time are raped and killed by a marauding band of samurai . We see them again as samurai start dying by having their throats slashed . They have made a Faustian bargain to get their lives back as long as they take revenge on samurai . In comes the farmer , who has slain the bear and is now a samurai . He is tasked with ridding the city of the ghosts that inhabit the bamboo groves . Much to his surprise , it is his mother and wife . It is a great combination of horror and fantasy and also a beautiful love story . Certainly different from the usual samurai stories and well worth seeing .
Will Smith gave an Oscar-nominated performance in this excellent film about a father's love and going after your dream . I doubt if anyone could possibly imagine the heartbreak and struggle the Chris Gardner went though unless you have been there yourself . The fact that is was based on the story of a real person made it all the more powerful . I cannot imaging anyone watching this and not feeling tears welling up as they saw the impossible odds that faced Chris and his raw determination to just keep going . he knew that there was happiness waiting for him as long as he continued the pursuit . Isn't that all we are promised - the pursuit of happiness ? It is up to us to keep going and try to reach the goal . Thandie Newton also gave a great performance as his wife in a small and unheralded role .
The John Wayne Marathon closes the first 24 hours with this rock ' em sock ' em family comedy with a host of stars . It is typical of John Wayne films that things get broken and there are always big fights . Sometimes the fights can seemingly go on forever . There are a lot of broken mirrors ans windows and chairs and tables . North to Alaska , Donoivan's Reef and this film are home to famous mud-brawls . Wayne is joined here by Maureen O'Hara ( Mr . Hobbs Takes a Vacation ) ; Yvonne De Carlo ( American Gothic ) ; Patrick Wayne ( Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger , The Alamo ) ; Stefanie Powers ( " Hart to Hart " ) ; Jack Kruschen ( The Apartment ) ; and Chill Wills ( The Alamo ) .
This was Tatsuya Nakadai's film . He was an evil samurai ( Ryunosuke Tsukue ) that would kill at the drop of a hat . Toshirô Mifune as Toranosuke Shimada had only a small role in the film , but Ryunosuke managed to see him in action and knew not to mess with him . Ryunosuke killed Hyoma's ( Yuzo Kayama ) brother after sleeping with his wife . Hyoma was away at school at the time . He went after Ryunosuke , but the movie ended before he had a chance . It had the kind of ending that was used in Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid . After killing a couple of dozen samurai , Ryunosuke was still fighting , although badly wounded , at the end . Did he make it ? I guess director Kihachi Okamoto wants us to guess if there will be a sequel . The film was typically a very beautifully filmed Japanese artwork , and it seemed to have a lot more blood that I would expect for a film in 1966 .
Daniel Auteuil ( Caché ) and Vanessa Paradis certainly give us a good answer to that question . She is ready to jump off a bridge when he comes to save her and convince her that , if she is going to kill herself anyway , she might as well be his target in a knife-throwing act . But , her luck changes when she learns to trust him and give herself to him . She has a need to sleep with anyone she fancies , but not with him . Their intercourse is in the act , and you can can see the passion on her face as he uses his knives as a means of penetration . Well , not penetration of her , as that would be messy . Auteuil was extremely funny with a script by Serge Frydman . The direction of Patrice Leconte ensured that the film's 90 minutes packed the wallop of a 3 hr film , and cinematography by Jean-Marie Dreujou gave this black and white film a magic that was captivating . Love ? It's trust and concern and belief in your partner .
Set it Off , with Jada Pinkett Smith , Queen Latifah , Vivica A . Fox , and Kimberly Elise . The story of four Black women , all of whom needed money , but , more importantly , all of whom suffered at the hands of the majority causing a change in the direction of their lives . Whether it was being fired so a bank manager can save face , or having your brother shot due to trigger-happy cops , or having you child removed by an unfeeling and uncaring child welfare worker , prejudice worked to change the lives of the women involved and , ultimately , lead to their deaths . A powerful film with a powerful message . This was one of the most enjoyable films I have seen lately .
There are two reasons I tuned into this film . One , I love Terrance Howard ( currently on the big screen in " Pride ) , and two , I was hoping to see another " Chicago " - style musical extravaganza . I was definitely disappointed with " Dreamgirls . " It just didn't measure up , but " Idlewild " comes much closer to the gold standard . Forget the story of the cigarette girl who wants to be a singer ( Paula Patton ) , or the mortician wanting to be a piano player ( Andre Benjamin ) and their eventual romance . That was just a side story . Just as was the story of Trumpy ( Terrance Howard ) and Rooster ( Antwan Patton ) . They added interesting bang bang , sweet love , and tremendous moaning to what is essentially a musical extravaganza . And that is just what we got with the tunes of Benjamin and Patton along with the golden trumpet of Autouro Sandoval in the background . Outstanding choreography and luscious costuming adding to the mix and gave us a punch that was straight to the gut . If you are not tapping your feet and clapping you hands at the end , then you are ready to be laid out .
We have to take this rock . Director Terrence Malick made us look at something else . It wasn't a rock , it had trees , and people , and wildlife and real beauty before anyone outside the rock ever appeared . It also has human emotions and thoughts and dreams along with those who came to take this rock . Can you come back the same ? Not likely . You will be changed by this rock and you will be a different man because of it . Some great actors appeared in this film , some in small parts , and some crucial to the film . I won't forget Nick Nolte as Lt . Col Tall . I've known many like him - passed over for promotion and looking for a chance at glory , no matter what the cost . Or Elias Koteas as Capt Staros , who cared about his men and looked at them as more than sacrifices for the war effort . Of course , you can't forget Sean Penn as that Sergeant that manages to keep it all together . Others will have their favorites , and everyone will take what they want from this movie . For me , it is war's futility . Everyone will experience a beautifully shot film that really was a pleasure .
I went back to revisit this film that started all the Bond nonsense . It doesn't age well and the performances seemed a little silly , but I am judging it in it's time when I give it a rating . One of the funniest things about this film is that it is considered an " action film . " In fact , it won an award for best action film of 1964 from some group . Now , how anyone can consider this film to be in the class of John Wayne's McClintock or Steve McQueen's The Great Escape is beyond my understanding . There was so little action in this film , that it should be categorized as a dramedy . A little fisticuffs here and there , and some ridiculous moves , was just about it . That's the comedy part . Most of the film involves talking , and not good dialog at that . But , we are introduced to Sean Connery as Bond , James Bond and SPECTRE , and the whole gang . We get to enjoy Ursula Andress , who won the only award of her career for Most Promising Newcomer for her first English-language film . They didn't have very high standards evidently as all she did in the film was walk around half dressed . Even her dialog was dubbed . Connery would half to do until Brosnan came along to make Bond the real star that he is , however , there are some that are still strangely attracted to this hairy character .
John Landis has directed a brilliant original screenplay by Timothy Harris and Herschel Weingrod . Eddie Murphy is absolutely hilarious as a street hustler that was placed in the world of options trading by a couple of old farts who just like to bet with each other . Of course on the opposite side , the real options trader , Dan Aykroyd , is dumped on the street . Coming to save the day is Jamie Lee Curtis , who is funny and hot as a prostitute who feels sorry for Winthorpe ( Ackroyd ) . Denholm Elliott is positively lovable as the butler . Don Ameche and Ralph Bellemy play the betting Duke brothers .
2004 was a good year for foreign films with Feux rouges and Mar adentro and Pedro Almodóvar's La Mala educación . Feux rouges is a great thriller in the style of Hitchcock . Antoine ( Jean-Pierre Darroussin ) and Hélène ( Carole Bouquet ) play husband an wife who bicker with each other on a road trip to pick up their children from Summer camp . I bet that many , if not most , husbands may see a lot of themselves in Antoine ; and many wives will see themselves in Hélène . It makes you really think about marriage . They split up , with one taking the train , and both come in contact with an escaped convict ( Vincent Deniard , in his first film ) . What happens is the second best part of this film and what makes it a Hitchcock thriller . Not to be missed .
Ridley Scott directed a winner here . I don't need to list all the awards this film won and was considered for ; let's just say it was a shtload . I have never been a sci-fi buff , but I was attached like glue to this film from start to finish . The horror was minimal , but the suspense was incredible . Sigourney Weaver was everything I was expecting . She was just incredible and made this film worth watching . Tom Skerritt was the jerk that I expected him to be . He did not disappoint . There was a great supporting cast and this film is a must for all suspense buffs .
Two-time Oscar winner Hillary Swank WAS Brandon . There just wasn't any doubt about it . She gave one of the most powerful and magnificent performances on the screen . There is no not knowing the pain , the fear , the anguish of someone who is struggling with their sexual identity after seeing this magnificent film . Chloë Sevigny had given many good performances over the years , but her performance here was worth of all the awards that she received . She was caught up in something she didn't understand and gave a tender and moving picture of love . With the job that writer / director Kimberly Peirce did here , there is no doubt that I am going to see Stop-Loss as soon as I can .
How many accolades could one add to previous reviews of the film . There is only one other western that comes close to this , Once Upon a Time in the West . This is the ultimate western , not made by John Ford , or starring John Wayne , by a great film by Sergio Leone , and starring Clint Eastwood , Lee Van Cleef , and the great Eli Wallach . You want shooting ? There is so much you will get a headache from the sounds of guns and cannons . You want laughter ? The competition between Wallach and Eastwood was a constant stitch in my side . Yes , it is probably the best western ever .
I tried to watch Jeanne Moreau in François Truffaut's Jules and Jim the same day I saw this . I really tried and , despite the fact that it was the best Europen film of 1963 and Truffaut won a couple of awards for directing it , I couldn't make it more that a half hour . It was just plain boring . Not so with this film noir classic . Jeanne Moreau was simply captivating as a woman who was having an affair and could not figure out what went wrong with the murder of her husband and why her lover played by Maurice Ronet ( The Scandal ) was driving away with another woman . What she didn't know was that he was actually trapped in an elevator and his car was stolen by some young kids . What happens to the kids and the effect on the adulterous couple was totally captivating . This was film noir at its best and director Louis Malle gave us a classic worth watching again and again .
What an apt time to revisit an old classic . With Tropical Storm Barry banging at the door , I tune into John Huston's classic . Huston directed and co-wrote ( with Richard Brooks ) this amazing story of gangsters coming up to Key West from Cuba to do a deal in the middle of a storm . Starring the greats Humphrey Bogart and Lauren Bacall , with Edward G . Robinson as Rocco , the quintessential gangster , this was a joy from start to finish . Lionel Barrymore was outstanding as the father wanting to hear about his son from his commanding officer ( Bogart ) , and the gnat that was irritating Rocco . Claire Trevor won her Oscar as the drunken girlfriend . She was magnificent . Not Casablanca , but darn close .
One cannot relate all the superlatives of this film without the risk of missing something . This is the film " The Departed " wanted to be when they tried to duplicate it - - they didn't come close . Felix Chong and Siu Fai Mak wrote this incredible story of and undercover cop in the mob , and an undercover mobster on the police force ( Andy Lau ) . Directors Wai Keung Lau and Siu Fai Mak ( again ) did not waste one second of the hour and a half that this story runs . The sound was superlative . The art direction , cinematography , music , visual effects and editing were top notch , and the action choreography was the equal of any Chinese action film - just breathtaking ! And then there is Tony Leung ( Jet Li's Hero , Hard Boiled ) as Yan and Anthony Wong as SP Wong . What could you possibly say that hasn't been said in the over 100 reviews of their performances ? If you liked The Departed , then check out the original . You will not be disappointed .
