TerrorVision is apparently a horror-comedy ; but I have a problem with this . Any horror in the film is laughable ; but like the rest of the movie , it's not laughable in the funny kind of way . No , this film is just lame , and unlikely to be enjoyed by anyone over ( or under ) the age of ten . I'll get the positive elements of the movie out of the way quickly so I can comment on the more prolific bad elements of the film . The film is about a newly installed satellite dish that begins to receive signals from another planet . These signals are apparently ( and fittingly ) another planet's rubbish that they've converted into energy to get rid of it . However , a trash monster is accidentally beamed down , and begins to cause trouble . To director Ted Nicolaou's credit , he does create a good and fitting atmosphere , as the film always feels like one of those tacky TV shows that America makes . The film gets off to a lively start with a daft song that is played over the opening credits , and a glimpse at the offending alien world . The good points end there , however , as it's all downhill from then on . We are introduced to an array of irritating characters , including a punk girl and her ' Bill and Ted ' style boyfriend , a swinging pair of parents , the common ' senile ' grandfather and some kid who hallucinates , apparently . From there on out , it's obvious that there's going to be little in the way of interesting elements in this amazingly dull film , and despite the scriptwriter's best efforts at being funny ; this film really is anything but . Aside from being lame , the film is also boring as most of the running time concerns the characters wallowing in their own weirdness ; and all this showed me is that swinging can be very boring ( not that I've ever actually tried it . . . ) . The creature effects are purposefully silly , but look like something out of a kids program ; not a proper movie , and since the film focuses mainly on the kids ; it does feel very much like a movie made for children , and so in unlikely to offer anything in the way of enjoyment for serious horror fans . I do realise that this is meant to be a bit of fun and isn't to be taken seriously ; but it's not fun and that's the problem . Avoid .
The original Battle Royale is one of my favourite films of all time . It's fusion of extreme violence and a thought provoking , complex substance made for a very different and refreshing movie . The sequel , unfortunately , is merely a stale variation on the events of the first film . It's ironic that this sequel is a complete disaster as making a sequel to ' Battle Royale ' should be one of the easiest tasks of all time . It's simple ; another battle royale , with all the uncompromising violence of the first , and to continue the story ; we'll have Nanahara , survivor of the first film , put back into the frey . Simple . But no ; for some reason , the writers have opted for some drivel involving Nanahara becoming an internationally wanted terrorists and an act known as ' BR 2 ' , whereby school children are ' hired ' to fight terrorist threats . . . or something . Now , you might be thinking along the lines of " well , as long as there's school kids with weapons , I'm happy ' ; but it's no again . The film plays out more like a feature length version of the start of Saving Private Ryan . That's it ; it's more or less a simple war film . Damn . One of the things that made the first film work was the underlying theme that the violence is coming from children that know each other , killing each other . This gave the film a soul-searching horrific edge ; " could you kill your best friend " was the tagline , and the film got it's depth from that . Here , that message is gone ; and it's replacement is a dull ' anti-war ' one . The film piles on the sentiment in an effort to get it's message across , but it never really succeeds . The film also seems keen to prioritise it's ' Requiem ' subtitle . Far too keen , in fact . The requiem sequences were the worst thing about the first film ; interrupting the adrenaline pumping action sequences all too regularly , I don't doubt that I'm the only person who feels this way . Battle Royale 2 is much like one long requiem sequence , with characters ' reflecting ' left and right and the film on the whole suffers because of this . If the film had focused more on character development , the reflecting parts might have worked because we would have cared ; but it doesn't , so we don't . Pretty stupid really . Battle Royale 2 isn't completely devoid of positive aspects , however ; the first half hour is definitely good . Going back to how it was in the first film , we see a group of unwitting school children kidnapped by the government and , of course , the hysteria that results in a couple of the kids ending up dead . Although this is almost a complete copy of the first film ( we've got knives being thrown , necklaces exploding etc ) , it works because the first film worked , and fans of the original masterpiece will no doubt enjoy it . However ; when I said that I'd have been happy with just ' another Battle Royale ' , I did mean one that's different from the first one , not just a remake of it . In fact , the sequel takes most of the ideas from the first film and reuses them ; from the danger zones to the maniacal teacher who delights in seeing his kids maimed and killed . The only real new idea in the movie is the idea of the ' tag game ' , which involves the detonators being linked to each other , so if your partner dies ; you go too . However , although this is a fairly good new idea , it doesn't make sense . . . . you see , the government want these kids to kill Nanahara , so why do they make it hard for them ? Why not send them in with an army of tanks and just have done with it ? Why not just bombard the island with napalm ? On that note : I deem this movie ridiculous and pointless , and therefore not worth your time . Even if you like the original as I do ; this film is one to miss .
Well , I've never seen Miami Vice the TV Show ( or ever wanted to see Miami Vice the TV Show ) , I dislike Michael Mann films very much and I'd heard this one was below par even for him , so why did I bother seeing it ? Well , I suppose I maybe thought it might be an entertaining buddy cop flick - wrong ! I never realised a cop flick could be so boring - usually things like car chases and shootouts pop up to make even the most dull cop flick at least slightly interesting , but this one somehow manages to stay boring for the overlong and torturous two hour duration ( seriously , this film is about two hours overlong ) . I don't know how Mann managed to pull off a cop flick as dull as this , I remember thinking that he has an amazing talent for making things that should be interesting dull after suffering through the likes of The Keep , Heat , The Insider , Last of the Mohicans etc , but he's really outdone even my lowest expectations here . Mann actually made his best film right before this one with the surprisingly decent Collateral , but that hasn't spared him on to make a good follow-up . Colin Farrell and Jamie Foxx do not make a good on-screen partnership ; neither actor is all that good in their own right anyway , and they have no chemistry together in this film . The plot has something to do with drugs and / or guns or whatever , and it's hard to care about anything that happens in the film after the first half hour . Or before it . I can't believe I actually spent two hours of my life watching this garbage , and a further ten minutes or so writing this review , what a heinous waste of time that I'll never get back ! The music is rubbish too ( a Michael Mann trademark ) , and by the way ; this review has been poorly cobbled together on purpose to give would-be viewers a brief preview of what watching Miami Vice is like ( just so nobody thinks I'm a bad writer ) . I would not recommend this film to even my worst enemy ? well , I might do , but if you're not my worst enemy and you must watch a buddy cop film , go with Bad Boys or any other buddy cop film ever made and leave this drivel well alone !
The Scorpion with Two Tails has all the makings of a great Giallo . Aside from the intriguing title , it's also directed by Sergio Martino ; the same man who made some of the best Giallo's of the seventies with films such as The Strange Vice of Mrs Wardh , it's written by Ernesto Gastaldi ; whose name will mean a lot to every Giallo fan worth their salt as he has written many of the best films that the genre has to offer , and on top of that - we've even got a performance from cult actor John Saxon . However , Martino clearly didn't have his penchant for directing by 1982 , Gastaldi was having an off day and John Saxon's character lasts all of about two minutes ! Like the earlier Giallo , The Dead Are Alive , this film focuses on the ancient ' Etruscan ' civilisation . Joan Barnard , the wife of Arthur Barnard ; a famous archaeologist is having problems . She's suffering from nightmares that focus around ancient tombs . Her woes increase when her husband calls from Italy and ends up getting his neck snapped mid-phone call ! She then travels to Italy to investigate . This film was apparently cut down from a television series , and I can only assume that they left the worst parts in ! There's barely any excitement to speak of whatsoever , and this ensures that the film is very hard to care about . Add in some extremely unenthusiastic performances ( unenthusiastic even by Italian horror standards ! ) and some silly fantasy crap and what we've ended up with here is one of the worst Giallo's ever made ! It's a real shame too as this film blends in a few different styles and if Martino could have just pulled it all together better , this could definitely have sat alongside his more esteemed film credits . One of the few saving graces in this film is the music ; but once you recognise it from The Beyond , the credibility soon dries up ! At least the film manages to limp through with a decent finale ; though once you've sat through the first eighty five minutes of the film , it could be the best ending of all time and most people would be unlikely to care . Overall , this is absolutely nothing to recommend this film for and I recommend that everyone skips it !
Every now and then , I see a film advertised in the TV guide that I'll see for no other reason than the title sounds interesting . Believe it or not , I thought that ' Witches of the Caribbean ' sounded interesting . I'm a fan of witch related films , as they often make for good horror and the Caribbean setting was leading me to believe that this might offer something in the way of originality . Any hopes I had for the movie were quickly dashed , however , when I found out that the film was directed by David DeCoteau ; a man that has made a whole host of straight-to-video rubbish , including the awesomely bad ' Wolves of Wall Street ' . Really , though , all I wanted from this film was some decent magic done by some hot Goth girls in a nice setting . It's safe to say , however , that I didn't even get that . What I did get is a severely under imaginative movie with a cast that is about as impressive as the film's setting - which looks more like a UK holiday resort on a bad day than the Caribbean . The plot stinks of " cant be bothered " and follows the dull and overly familiar idea of a witch being burnt at the stake , only to be reincarnated centuries later . Not that there's a big problem with this sort of plot ; several films , such as Mario Bava's Black Sunday and Roger Corman's The Haunted Palace have took that theme and made it work ; but both of those movies had something about them , whereas this one clearly does not . The cast of actors doesn't help the film in it's bid to be successful , as none of them stand out enough to make any kind of lasting impression . The only impression made on any level is just that the actors are irritating ; the lead witch , Nicole Marie Monica , being the foremost irritating member of the cast . The special effects are just as bad as the rest of the film , and once again feel like whoever was in charge had something more important on their mind . The awful ending tops off what is a bad movie on the whole and I can tell that if you ever see this film in your TV guide and think it might be worth a watch . . . think again .
2005 gave us the very decent " gore porn " flick Hostel , and 2006 gave us Live Feed ; a not so decent rip-off of Hostel . Live Feed follows pretty much the same formula as Eli Roth's earlier film , except this time the dumb kids are in Asia rather than central Europe . The plot focuses on these dumb kids , and one of them has annoyed one of the locals so they find themselves in trouble . The locals decide to lock them all in a theatre , and kill them . Despite the fact that I'd heard some less than favourable things about this film before seeing it , I still hoped that it might be at least half decent because director Ryan Nicholson previously made the very decent 45 minute rape and revenge film ' Torched ' , but this film falls down simply because most of it is either ridiculous or boring . The film is obviously trying to hark back to the good old days of Grindhouse cinema ( which Hostel did , successfully ) , but it really doesn't come off . Surprisingly , considering Nicholson's previous work in special effects - not even the gore is impressive . . . although it is a lot better than the acting ! There's not much else I can say about this film . . . it's bad and not in a good way . Avoid it !
This is my third film from Seduction Cinema ( the other two , coincidentally also directed by Tony Marsiglia ) , and it's by far the worst . For some reason , the director has attempted to mix mysterious Gothic horror with soft-core lesbian action and the result is truly ridiculous . A lot of the film doesn't make sense , and what does make sense is often hard to decipher because it's all damn boring ! If it wasn't for the fact that the film stars the oddly compelling Misty Mundae , I doubt I ever would have seen . . . it is , therefore , unfortunate that she stars in it . The plot line isn't important ; but it has something to do with a bunch of lesbian vampires , one of which is called Countess Dracula . There are some nods to Bram Stoker's classic tale - including character names and a few lines of dialogue , but none of it is clever and it's clear that this is just a lame excuse to film some porn . I'm sure Bram Stoker wouldn't have approved ! Aside from Mundae , the film stars some other Seduction Cinema ' luminaries ' such as Julian Wells , Andrea Davis and Darian Caine , who is definitely the worst ' Dracula ' ever . . . but on the plus side , she is pretty damn hot ! Overall , I really can't recommend this film . There are better vampire films out there , better lesbian porn films out there ; and better vampire-lesbian porn films out there . Don't bother !
This film by Jim Sotos ( the director of the surprisingly decent eighties slasher ' Sweet 16 ' ) is apparently a remake of the earlier infamous film of the same title by Shaun Costello and starring Harry Reems . Forced Entry was never meant to be a mainstream flick , but it would appear that Sotos was trying to turn it into one with this film as the plot is basically the same but we don't get any of the sexual violence , which is a bit of a shame because that's the only thing that most people will have tuned into the original for and it's always going to be difficult to make an R-Rated film based on this plot line and make it a success . The plot is very simple and focuses on a psychopath who works at a gas station . It's the old story of abuse as a child and this man suffered at the hands of his mother ; which has lead to an acute hatred of women . Naturally , he decides to use his job ( which involves meeting women ) to find females to have his way with and murder . However , soon he meets Nancy and actually falls in love with her , which puts him at odds with his murderous rage . On the whole , it has to be said that this film is not successful and the only part of it I really liked was the music on the opening credits sequence . Showing the violence and gore is not always necessary in films ; but it is in this one . The original was meant to shock and it did ; but this film's neglect towards showing the violence means that it is not shocking , not true to the original and it also doesn't feature a plot strong enough to hold up a film like this without violence . Ron Max is the lead and while he convinces as the psychopath , he isn't very charismatic and the performance feels a bit flat . Luckily , there's some female talent in the form of Tanya Roberts and Nancy Allen on hand to help the film along . The film features a voice over that shows us what the psycho is thinking and feeling and it's all rather generic stuff and the film could have done without it . There's not a great deal of interest created in the plot and the ending is both predictable and generic . The film has a handful of decent moments and it's worth tracking down as a companion piece to the original ; but it's not very good unfortunately .
There are two types of bad films : bad films that are fun and somehow end up being good , and bad films that are no fun and only manage to be crap . Given the plot line , this bad film really should have belonged to the former group ; but somehow it doesn't manage it and ends up being a part of the latter . Quite how a film about ravenous , over-sized animals could be so boring escapes me , but somehow director Bert I . Gordon has managed to make it so . The film is based on a story by the great H . G . Wells , and while I haven't read it , I think it's safe to say that The Food of the Gods is a lot better on paper than it is on screen ! The plot focuses on a group of friends who go hunting on a Canadian island . It's not long before they are attacked by a group of wasps , but they're not just any wasps - they're giant aggressive wasps ! One of their number is killed by the wasps , so the friends go looking for help , when they come upon a barn inhabited by giant chickens ! It's not long before they put two and two together and realise that something funny is going on - shortly before they meet the most dangerous creature on the island , the rats . . . Giant animal films don't tend to be high quality , and this one does nothing to buck that trend . Most of the action is unexciting , and when you've got people battling giant animals - that really shouldn't be the case ! The special effects are decent in places , the rat attack looks decent enough considering that this is a very low quality film , but some of the effects look terrible and the gore isn't any good either . The plot is fairly basic and there isn't much explanation for anything , which is a shame as the story basically just lays out it's stall ( a load of white goo trickling down the side of the mountain ) and lets the giant creatures take it from there ; but the giants aren't enough to keep things entertaining , and the film fails for that reason . It becomes hard to care about anything shortly after the film starts , and that doesn't get any better as it moves on . Probably quite unsurprisingly , I wasn't impressed at all with The Food of the Gods , and that's a shame as this could have been quite decent if it had been handled better . I can't really recommend wasting time with this film - shiny new DVD release or not !
Here we have a sequel to a classic cult film , made almost two decades after the original . Guess what ? It's rubbish . Oh yes , obviously someone had a bright idea to make a sequel to a well known film in the hope that it would emulate the original's cable TV success in the dreary direct to video market . Trouble is , while this was being thought through ; these people obviously forgot to hire a decent scriptwriter - d'oh ! What we are left with , therefore , is a rehash of the original film - except with less excitement , less ideas and less reason to see it . The film has a few flashbacks to the original film during its running time , and ironically - these are the best bits . The film's plot has written itself , and sees the hero from the original film making the mistake of driving back down the road where the events of the original happened . As if this mistake wasn't silly enough , he then makes the mistake of picking up another hitchhiker ! Some people just don't learn , but in his defence - it was naturally all the fault of a woman , in this case his girlfriend . It doesn't take a genius to guess what the rest of the film is about . The original film was very much a B-movie , and this one is too . We have , therefore , a B-movie cast . C . Thomas Howell is in it for the money , as he reprises his role from the first film . He is joined by Jake Busey ; Gary Busey's son , who actually manages to turn in a decent performance amidst this train-wreck of a film - but nowhere near Rutger Hauer , of course . B-movie actress Kari Wuhrer tops off the central trio . I saw Kari Wuhrer in the pointless seventh part of the Hellraiser series ( " Deader " ) recently , and along with her small role in Eight Legged Freaks - have come to the conclusion that she needs a better agent . She's not a brilliant actress , but she's good looking and definitely deserves better roles than what she's been getting . The action is generally very tame , and stinks of a film that couldn't get the budget . The original didn't have much of a budget either - but that made the best of it , this one doesn't . Several sequences in this film are merely rubbish rehashes of scenes in the original - including the most famous scene from ' The Hitcher ' - which isn't nearly as effective here . On the whole , this film shouldn't be seen by anyone . If you're not a fan of the original , you won't like it anyway - and if you are ; you won't want to see one of your favourites defiled like this . Avoid !
My interest in seeing Highwaymen stems from the fact that it was directed by Robert Harmon ; the same man behind what is probably the best road thriller ever made , ' The Hitcher ' . Any hopes of this being as good as the 1986 film are quashed immediately , however , as an early scene that sees a number of cars smash into each other makes it clear that the action scenes aren't directed with any panache , and once the film starts properly and we are introduced to the dull cast of characters ; all that we are left with is a rather crappy thriller . It seems as if Harmon thought he was directing something more like The Terminator , as the lead villain is a mechanical monstrosity , while Jim Caviezel's character stinks of Michael Biehn's Reese in the aforementioned masterpiece . The film gets underway when a young woman escapes from a car accident that claimed her friend . It soon becomes apparent that the perpetrator is a serial hit and runner , as the mysterious Rennie pops up and tells the young woman that he has been hunting the man in the car ever since he killed his wife . In fairness , this film has to be given some plaudits for the fact that the car chases don't utilise CGI , and so they have a certain realism to them ( even if this realism is often way over the top ) . It's hard to really care for any of the action , though , because the characters are so poor and since the lead actress is so irritating , I often found myself cheering on the murderer . The villain is slightly different to the norm ; given that he's a wheelchair bound maniac driving a specially adapted car , which he uses as a murder weapon . However , this sort of thing has been seen many times before and the fact that it's all so unlikely brings it down . Jim Caviezel hasn't been in many great films , but he should be glad that Mel Gibson took a chance on him in 2004 as I'm sure he wouldn't want to make rubbish like this for the rest of his career . The central cast is rounded off by British actress Rhona Mitra , who doesn't get to do much in her role . Overall , this is a far from perfectly pitched thriller ; the action sequences aren't very exciting , the characters are boring and the plot doesn't offer much . Not worth bothering with , is my verdict .
This film annoyed me . I have to admit that a thriller doesn't necessarily have to do anything special for me to enjoy it ; and I tend to like any movie that offers entertainment value regardless of how good it actually is . This film had all the resources and star power to become an above average thrill ride , but instead all we have is a continually lacklustre effort that builds it's plot around an idea that has been done many times already , and doesn't even do it with any panache . The plot plays out sluggishly , and even during the shootouts and chases ; The Sentinel doesn't manage to thrill or enthuse its audience . The two dimensional character designs are mostly to blame for the film's shortcomings , but the actors don't do it any favours . Michael Douglas just goes through the motions and does nothing to change my already low opinion of him . Kiefer Sutherland , however , is an actor that I like ; but he's been lumbered with a role that is a lot like a less interesting version of Jack Bauer ; his character in 24 , and therefore he isn't given much to play with . Eva Longoria does well at providing eye candy , but never convinces as a Secret Service agent and the rest of the cast don't appear long enough to get a mention . I could go on but there's no point ; this is a forgettable thriller and there is absolutely no reason to recommend it .
I'm a big fan of Euro horror and went into this one hoping for something along the lines of Sergio Martino's excellent paranoid Giallo All the Colours of the Dark , and came out of it severely disappointed . The plot focuses on Hilda Torres , a woman who decides to infiltrate a strange cult when her sister goes missing . She soon gets noticed by Tils Nescu ; doctor and leader of the cult , and he has his own designs in Hilda . The film does look very nice and this is complimented by a cast featuring several nice looking ladies , but this doesn't cover up this film's main problem - that being that it's far too slow and the plot is completely uninteresting for most of the film . There's a hell of a lot of talking in the movie and it started to grind me down after a while . Usually with films like this , I can pick out a few good things to say about it ; but Feast for Satan is seriously lacking in anything positive aside from the aforementioned good looking cinematography and actresses . There's a little twist at the end that doesn't really add much to the film and overall I feel safe in saying that even you're a fan of Euro horror , you can find something better to do with this part of your life .
The Amityville Horror is considered a classic in some circles ; I don't know why ; to me it was merely just another haunted house horror flick , and a rather dull one at that . Amityville 2 has addressed the problem of its predecessor being dull by packing in plenty of violence and demonic horror , but it's really just lead to another load of problems as this film fails on too many levels . The film is directed by Damiano Damiani , an Italian director who cut his teeth in the seventies with a load of Polizi flicks . I wasn't surprised that it's an Italian at the helm ; rip offs of The Exorcist almost became its own genre in Italy after 1973 , and really that's all this film is . The plot focuses on the house that was introduced to the world in the 1979 film and we follow the first family that lived there . The Montelli family move into the house not realising the evil that dwells there . It's not long before the son , Sonny , becomes possessed by an evil demon that instructs him to shoot his family . A local priest discovers what is happening and decides to try and save the boy's soul . . . Damiano Damiani clearly wanted to shock his audience with this film , but he doesn't manage it because every time something shocking is about to happen , the camera cuts away ! I don't know if it was his fault or the orders from the producers , but this film completely misses the point of ' less is more ' . The point of it is to make the audience think they're seeing something without actually showing it ; but the camera cuts here make it quite obvious that we aren't seeing the shocking things in this film , and it just kills it . Had the film been well shot , it actually would have been quite a shocking horror flick , featuring things such as incestuous sex and young children being blown away ; so it's a bit of a shame . In spite of these problems , the film is fairly good , story-wise , for the first hour . After the central set-piece , however , it all becomes rather superfluous and silly . The final third of the movie almost feels like a different film packed with silly demonic voices and rubbish special effects . Clearly this is not a good example of the horror genre , but it is at least interesting as a heavily flawed example of how NOT to make a shocking horror movie .
I've been looking forward to seeing Dark Waters for ages , and with that in mind ; I have to say that the film is a huge disappointment . The film is definitely style over substance , and it would seem that director Mariano Baino ( a man with only one film credit ) was happy to have it that way as Dark Waters features a wealth of memorable nasty sequences , but hardly anything in terms of plot and coherency . Italian films aren't exactly renowned for making a whole lot of sense ; but the plot here is completely pointless , and this ensures that the film is actually really boring and the stylish elements just aren't enough to save it . The film focuses on an island where strange things are afoot . The island features a bizarre convent full of nuns who don't seem to be interested in God , as well as a load of other strange and eerie characters . We follow Elizabeth ; a young girl who travels to said island , where she just happens to have been born , as she constantly suffers from nightmares about it . It's obvious that there's a strange ancient evil on the island , and after staying there ; she soon finds that there is no escape . . . The main influence on this film would seem to be the work of H . P . Lovecraft , as themes of ancient evil being reawakened are rife , and the film features a typically Lovecraftian atmosphere . It is for this reason that Dark Waters is so disappointing as if it could only have been fused with an interesting storyline , we could have had a masterpiece . If I were to slot this film into a genre , it would be somewhere between nunsploitation and good old Gothic horror as the film features themes from both sides of the spectrum . I'm guessing that the director didn't really know what he wanted the film to be , as it's all very disjointed and that makes it a shame that Mariano Baino was the man at the helm as someone with more experience could have done a lot better . It's hard to really judge the acting performances given the nature of the film , but lead actress Louise Salter at least looks the part and fits into the film nicely , which is to Dark Waters ' credit . The island itself certainly has presence , and the cinematography is generally of a high standard too , which is nice in that it ensures the film is easy on the eyes . Still , it all boils down to the fact that there is no plot here and , unfortunately , the style isn't enough to save it !
This redundant and superfluous sequel to 2000's Meet the Parents is an enjoyable , if not overly brilliant , piece of fluff . Of course , cinema could have done without this production , but since it's been made and I enjoyed the first one , I figured I'd enjoy this one too . However , simply put ; this film isn't as good as the original because it's gone way over the top with it's quirky characters and instead of being something of a muddled commentary on in-laws like the first one ; this is more of a film where a load of incompatible characters have been thrown into a mixing pot together . This isn't all bad however , as it does make for some nice entertainment and it also allows room for some nice jokes . While the film doesn't offer anything in the way of intelligent humour that you'll remember for a while after the final credits , it does supply the audience with nice set piece gags that are very funny at the time of watching . My personal favourite of the set-pieces involves Ben Stiller , a baby and . . . Scarface . Robert De Niro has been getting lots of stick lately due to the fact that , with the exception of his relatively small role in Jackie Brown , he hasn't been in a really good film since 1993's A Bronx Tale and This Boy's Life . However , his performances haven't diminished and even though the material he has to work with here isn't exactly of the highest standard , he still makes the best of the role and is easily the highlight of the movie . Returning from the original is Ben Stiller , who does just fine as the eager-to-please son-in-law , and the rather incognito Teri Polo and Blythe Danner , who don't really get to do much . Joining them is the duo of Dustin Hoffman and Barbara Streishand , who play Stiller's parents ; the ' amusingly ' titled " Fockers " . The material for them is weak , but they both look like they're having fun , and a few of their gags are funny . On the whole ; this movie will be remembered more for it's name than it's hilarious gags , but if you find yourself with nothing better to do than watch this movie . . . well , it's better than nothing .
To the untrained eye ; Slap Her , She's French is just another pointless teen comedy ( albeit it , one with a title that is more snappy than most ) , but to the more astute eye ; this film is a metaphor for the current state of international affairs . A portrait of the western world and it's relationship with it's eastern counterparts . Of course , it's a metaphor that is saturated with make-up , shoes , cheerleaders and shallow people in general ; but you have to admire the imagination and astuteness of this film's observations . The main character of Starla Grady , played to perfection by the sublime Jane McGregor is a hollow cheerleader from Texas . An all-American girl ; She rules the roost , talks with a funny accent and comes across as being rather stupid . Remind you of anyone ? A certain . . . American politician , perhaps ? Of course , Starla Grady is much more attractive than George Bush , but the comparisons between the two are too obvious to ignore . Starla's opposite number is Genevieve LePlouff ; a French exchange student , played by Piper Perabo , a young lady whom you hopefully wont remember from Coyote Ugly . Genevieve is the quintessential French person , or at least the quintessential American idea of what French people are like . She's primitive ; impressed by everything " American " . This is a metaphor for American values . . . America is so much better than France ( not to mention everywhere else ) , don't you know ? This is also linked to the Iraq war as France obviously opposed it , which has lead to French Fries having their name changed to Freedom Fries , among other such childish activities . The title is metaphoric too . . . . she's French , let's slap her ! The comparisons between world politics and raunchy teen comedy don't end at the main characters either . Starla's younger brother , Randolph is a walking dictionary . He helps Starla out when she's in a tight spot later on in the film . Where do we know him from ? That's right , he's America's younger brother , the nation of walking dictionaries . . . Great Britain ! Even the underlying lesbian tones coming from Starla's friends can be seen as . . . oh wait , let's just forget about that . The film is about as funny as your average teen comedy . The storyline , however , is slightly above average . It follows the story of the aforementioned Starla Grady ; the most popular girl in school , who agrees to take a French exchange student on in order to win a competition ( somebody else played the ' god card ' , if you're wondering why she didn't just do that ) . This taking on a French student is also very " American " . . . look at us , we HELP nations . However , to our heroine's surprise , this Frenchie is not all frog legs and beret caps ; she's secretly evil . . . I didn't see that one coming ! This is indicative of the backlash of the Iraq war , and also provides the film with some of it's best laughs . Seeing Starla in jail is priceless . . . actually it isn't , but it is sort of amusing . On the surface , this movie is silly and forgettable ; but if you look past the facade of innocence and stupidity , what we have here is a very deep and complex masterpiece that is indicative of the time it was made in . Slap Her , She's French is a mind game , it will play with you and it will make you think . Few movies have this kind of vision and still manage to be funny and accessible at the same time . A modern classic . . . . . Or maybe it's just a silly teen comedy .
Get Over It tells the heartbreaking story of a young man , dumped by his one true love . Ben Foster is said young man , and man ; is he put through it . The poor lad first has to go through the horrors of being dumped , and not just by anyone ; but by his high school sweetheart , and his pain doesn't stop there ; salt is added to the wound when his ex-girlfriend gets a new boyfriend . Fair enough , you may think ; until you realize he's a petty , leather pants wearing nancy boy , who's in a boyband no less ! Things aren't looking up for our hero . In a final , desperate attempt to win back the girl of his dreams , Foster joins with the theatre school , who happen to be putting on a musical performance of " A midsummer night's dream " , and to help become a better actor , he enlists the help of his friend's sister , Kirsten Dunst . Yes , I don't blame him either . Naturally , romance ensues where ' you least expect ' ( or not ) , and that is the major plot point of the film . I didn't have particularly high expectations going into this movie , but Get Over It managed to fall short of them anyway . You cant go into a teen comedy expecting great things , but this movie has so many things going for it that it really should have been towards the top of the genre . First of all , it has a great cast . Kirsten Dunst headlines it , and rightly so . Her performance in this movie isn't one of her best , but she is sweetness personified ; and that's all she needs to be . Ben Foster is the backbone of the movie , and his performance is great . Not great in the Robert DeNiro sense of the word , but for what it is ; his performance is good . Excellent support is given to the two leads by Melissa Sagemiller ( whom you might remember as the true star of Soul Survivors , although hopefully not ) , Shane West , who is campy but fun and also Martin Short , who is hilarious as the director of the play . Get Over It also has a decent enough script , but it suffers due to the high concentration of teen comedy clichés . We've got an overly hormonal dog , various people being hurled around in the air , overly silly characters etc ; and it devalues the film . Had it have pulled away from the pitfalls of teen comedy , and more into a teen drama such as Kirsten's other 2001 film ; Crazy / Beautiful , it would have been a far better movie . That being said ; Get Over It is worth watching if you're after 90 minutes of entertainment . It has more than enough funny moments , and there's a good sense of fun overall . It's just a shame that it wasn't better .
One sub-genre that was popular in the decade of kitsch ; the 1980's , was teen comedy . This is a good or a bad thing depending on which side of the fence you're on , but whatever side ; this isn't a particularly good example . As a big hater of Animal House , me writing this review begs the question " why did you bother ? " The answer to that is probably because I liked the title . It has a fun ring to it , and I reckoned that a title like that should spawn a good film . While the film isn't essentially ' bad ' , it does have a strong scent of deja vu following it around , and while I aren't a guru on the subject of teen comedies ; even I have seen the stuff in this movie before . It's got all the clichés , from all the kids getting stoned to the geeky kid getting off with the hottest babe in the school . The plot , as you might expect , is paper thin ; and it follows the story of a couple of nerds that move to a new college and immediately find themselves at the mercy of a fraternity of football ' jocks ' , who see fit to tease the nerds because they're nerds . This film came to my attention after the nerdy character in American Splendor gave it such high praise . From the way he described it , I was expecting something in the way of intelligence and maybe even characters that you can identify with . I don't know , maybe real life nerds who went to college in America will find the events of this film similar to events in real life and will therefore find this uplifting or whatever , but for a non-American schooled , non-nerd ; there isn't all that much to like . Some of the jokes are funny , such as the ' cool ' nerd's poker skills against a less savvy player , but many of them are silly in a not-very-good way . Younger audiences will almost certainly enjoy the nudity that the film features , along with some of the more childish jokes ; but for the serious cinema buffs amongst us ( me included ) , this is lacking even for an 80's teen comedy .
This fairly unknown Mexican zombie movie may not be the most original horror film ever to be released , and clearly takes a lot of influence from many successful American movies in the same vein ; but in it's own right , this is an extremely fun little romp that I'm sure wont be a disappointment to most people with an inclination to track it down . The plot is halfway between a zombie movie and a psycho slasher flick and focuses on a killer who a professor believes may have come back from the grave . Enter a bunch of kids who decide that it would be a good idea to read from a strange old book and resurrect the dead ( to impress some girls , naturally ) . It's not long before the killer has come back as a zombie - bringing the rest of the cemetery with him and the dead have eating the kids ' flesh on their minds . If you've seen more than a handful of zombie flicks , you'll have seen everything included in this film many times before . But that's not to say that Cemetery of Terror is not worth a look . Director Rubén Galindo Jr does an excellent job of creating a thoroughly fetid atmosphere to surround the cemetery at the centre of the film and there's a fair bit of gore included too , most of which is well done . Naturally the acting is nothing to write home about , but everyone approaches their roles with gusto and the film remains entertaining for the duration . Overall , this is not brilliant ; but it's a more than worthy Mexican horror entry and I would say that it's worth seeing .
Razorback marks one of Australia's only successful forays into the horror genre , but it's certainly not without it's critics . It's negative reaction isn't unfounded , as Razorback is badly acted , has a trite script , utilises any number of clichés and has an overall ' deja vu ' sort of feeling ; but in spite of this , it still succeeds in being a fine piece of entertainment . A wild boar isn't the first animal you would think of to star in it's very own creature feature ; but the idea actually works quite well , and it makes a nice change from the usual barrage of sharks , crocodiles and whatnot . This feature is also notable for it's special effects , which certainly aren't groundbreaking - but it ain't half bad either . In films such as this , it's usually shabby effects that end up letting it down ; but the creature in this movie is surprisingly realistic ! The plot is a familiar one , and it basically follows a gigantic wild boar that's on the loose somewhere in Australia . It's not exactly intelligent stuff , but it's a lovely premise for a fun ride . The film is directed by Russell Mulcahy , and it was made a year before he would have his big hit with Highlander . His direction is solid enough , and it's notable for the way that he captures the locations within the Australian outback . Some of the shots are truly breathtaking , especially the atmosphere ones that are filled with smoke . One thing you will notice about the plotting of this movie is the way that it swaps through different characters for it's main protagonist on numerous occasions . This is both a help and a hindrance to the movie as , on one hand , it ensures that the film stays lively and exciting ; it also restricts the viewer from placing their confidence in the character as we don't get to spend a lot of time with them , which hinders it when it comes to the tension building sequences . This also makes the plotting of the movie inconsistent , which certainly isn't a good thing . One thing I love about Australian cinema is the way that it captures the accents and dialect , and this film is no exception to that trend . It's a lovely tongue to listen to , and that helps to make this movie more of a pleasure . On the whole , this film won't win any awards ; but there's worse ways to spend ninety minutes of your life .
Eighties horror cinema produced a lot horror comedies , and House is one of the most quintessentially eighties films that I've seen . That , however , doesn't mean it's one of the best . The film fuses horror with comedy , but in doing so ; doesn't manage to spearhead either one . The film is amusing , but never hilarious ; and the horror is so laughable that it's impossible to be frightened by it . The special effects fit the film in that they're jokey ; but again they don't help it any when it comes to the horror side . It looks like the filmmakers couldn't really be bothered , and it that doesn't fill me with love for the film . Parts of the film are made up of Vietnam flashbacks ; and if there was an award for ' worst representation of Vietnam ' , this film would run away with it for the ridiculous scenes here . The plot follows a Vietnam veteran turned horror writer who retreats to his dead aunt's house for some solitude while writing his new novel . However ; his aunt must have hung herself for a reason , and this was also the house in which his son disappeared and his marriage broke up . Going back there might not be a wise move . . . This film pans out something like a less outrageous version of Evil Dead 2 . Several things that Sam Raimi would utilise a year later are present in this film - from a severed hand with a mind of its own , to a moving wall ornament ; but the film is nowhere near as good as the later surreal fantasy , mostly due its lack of finesse . The film is directed by Steve Miner ; a man behind a couple of Friday the 13th films and the same one who will direct the Day of the Dead remake . Sean S . Cunningham , a man better known as ' that guy who directed Friday the 13th ' has a producer's credit . The lead role falls to William Katt . On the whole , the acting in this film isn't too bad ; but Katt isn't wholly believable as the linchpin of the movie . He's fine during the scenes where his character is being driven insane ; but he just doesn't look like a Vietnam veteran , which makes it very hard to believe his character , and the film loses more credibility for that . George Wendt gets the best role , and as most of the comedy comes from him ; he steals every scene he's in . I wouldn't hesitate to recommend this film to people that love eighties horror ; but as I love eighties horror myself , be warned that this isn't a film that eighties fanatics are guaranteed to love .
The Ice Harvest received an incognito release , and that's fitting - because this is a very incognito film . The last time someone put a crime comedy on ice , the resulting film was Fargo ; but don't be expecting anything even close to the quality of the Coen Brothers ' film here . The film reunites Pushing Tin stars John Cussack and Billy Bob Thornton for a tale of stealing money at Christmas time . As a crime caper , The Ice Harvest doesn't work too well ; and as a comedy , it's even worse . The first hour doesn't feature a single laugh , and although it picks up for the final third , there is never enough to allow the film to fully redeem itself . The plot is largely character based , and it follows gutless Charlie Arglist and his plot with the brainless Vic Cavanaugh to rip off $2 million from the boss of Kansas City . They've got twelve hours to get it all sorted and skip town , but in the cold icy atmosphere of Christmas ; skipping town might not be too easy , as everyone from a dim-witted policeman to Charlie's drunkard friend seem to have an interest in what's going down . I like John Cussack a lot , and that was my main reason for seeing this film . His persona fits his character in this movie , but I've seen much better from him . Billy Bob Thornton isn't given much to do , but again ; he fits the role given to him . Oliver Platt , an actor whom you'll recognise from the film ' Three to Tango ' , if you've seen it , stands out in his over the top role as Charlie's drunken friend . Randy Quaid makes a splash towards the end , and the cast is topped off by the beautiful Connie Nielsen . The film is written and directed by Harold Ramis , whose film credits include Groundhog Day and Analyse This , and this film is pretty much what you'd expect from someone with those credits in terms of quality . The script is very uneven , and it's hard to care about anything that goes on in the first hour . The characters become more prominent in the final third , but by then it's too late and it feels like an afterthought . The comedy is supposedly black , but I'd say it's more nonexistent and Harold Ramis would be better off sticking to the over the top comedy that we're used to seeing from him .
I've found , after seeing a dozen or so of them , that made for TV seventies horror flicks are generally good for seventy minutes of entertainment . This one looked really good considering the comments about it , so I hoped that I'd be in for one of the better ones ; however , that wasn't the case . It's not that this is a bad film , but it's not all that good either and certainly isn't one of the better made for TV movies from the seventies that I've seen . The plot is interesting enough , and focuses on a small town where a bunch of old people are dying . There are certain similarities between the deaths , and it leads Sheriff Dan Barnes ( Alan Alda ) to investigate . The plot plods along at a relaxing pace , and there's not a great deal of suspense or interest , which is a bit of a surprise since director John Badham would go on to make the very suspenseful thriller ' Nick of Time ' . . . though that was twenty two years later . The small town setting provides a good place for the film to take place , but this isn't taken advantage of to any notable extent , and the film simply boils down to a simple ending . Overall , this film isn't terrible ; but it's not great either , and I can't really recommend bothering to track it down .
From the title - ' Vampyros Lesbos ' - it isn't very hard to deduce what this movie is about . If you're hoping for vampirism and lesbian in equal doses , however , you're in for a disappointment as it quickly becomes clear what Jess Franco's intentions were with this movie . . . and they went to make a horror film . The porn element of the movie is abundant , and this comes at the expense of everything else , including story , horror and atmosphere . The plot itself is very weak , and really just a podium for Franco to show some girl on girl action . It follows a young woman who dreams of being seduced by a sexy brunette . After benefiting from a minor inheritance , our heroine travels to a small island , where she just so happens to meet the woman of her dreams . As you might expect , this gives Franco ample opportunities to film interactions between these two women , and much of it is actually very enjoyable . There's a sub-plot about an occultist who wants to be a vampire thrown in to help bulk out the running time ; but really , this movie is just about lesbians . One of my favourite aspects of this film is the ultra-sleazy undertone . From the euro-styled musical score to the suggestive way that Franco builds up to his love scenes ; the film just breathes sleaze throughout ! One of the film's main problems , however , is that the lack of plot ensures that it gets boring far too often , and while the porn will be enough to keep people who are into this sort of thing happy ; it isn't porn all the way through , so don't be expecting a roller-coaster ride . The pornographic sequences aren't always all that interesting in themselves anyway , as Franco fails to generate any kind of interest surrounding the scenes ; so they can comes off as being a bit cold ( seriously ) . The master of sleaze has made a lot of movies ( bit of an understatement there ) , and the vast majority don't seem to have any point to them at all , apart from the obvious moneymaking one . This movie is no different in that respect - but then again , if you're tuning into this ; you probably wont be bothered about substance anyway . Well . . . not the deep and complex kind .
I've been watching a lot of these Italian cop flicks recently , but unfortunately ; Violent City isn't one of the best . The film was released before Dirty Harry ( unlike the rest of the genre ) , so it does deserve some credit for originality . That's not to say it's bad by any means , but this Charles Bronson vehicle doesn't entertain on the same level as a lot of the rest of the genre . There are certainly a lot of good things about this film ; but unfortunately , there's also a lot of bad and the film features long stretches where little or nothing happens , which certainly isn't to its credit . It's a shame really as this has the basis to be one of the best of the Italian crime films just because of the fact that it stars the ' man of few words ' Charles Bronson . The plot is pretty standard stuff , and focuses on a hit-man that is double crossed by his friend and girlfriend . After getting out of jail , he decides to take revenge on those that wronged him . However , some way into his revenge ; he begins being blackmailed by a powerful crime boss that wants the hit-man in his organisation . Charles Bronson has a lot of screen presence , despite the fact that this role doesn't really suit him . His character is called ' Jeff ' ( it's really hard to imagine the grizzled Charles Bronson being called " Jeff " ) , and it's also rather difficult to imagine him having the women after him . . . The film's positives are , luckily , enough to save it from being a complete loss . The opening car chase is really good , and provides the perfect opening to the film . From there , we are treated to a handful of good action scenes , including plenty of shooting ( a given , since the lead character is a hit-man ) . The sequence at the end is the best part of the film , as it's both exciting and inventive , and provides the perfect way for our lead character to get his revenge . The support cast isn't great , and features Telly Savalas , who is decent enough and Jill Ireland , who looks nice throughout . However , the plotting continually gets in the way and the fact that the film doesn't run smoothly greatly hinders it . Overall , Violent City certainly has its moments ; but it's not one of the best crime films to come out of Italy during the seventies .
This bizarre slice of " Drive-In " cinema takes obvious influence from films such as Psycho , and handles the graphic and unsettling themes of incest , rape , torture and necrophilia . The film wallows in its sadistic nature , and it's rather unsurprising that Schoolgirls in Chains has suffered banning in several countries , including the UK ( although it's not an official Video Nasty ) . It has to be said , however , that it really isn't all that good ; as while the themes comes across in a way that is as sick and as sleazy as possible ; the whole piece is actually rather boring on the whole . If you go into this film expecting something along the lines of The Texas Chain Saw Massacre or The Last House on the Left , you will no doubt come out disappointed ; as Donald M . Jones ' film is as good as neither notorious film . The plot follows the antics of two deranged brothers who take delight in holding schoolgirls captive by chaining them up in their basement . However , they're not content with merely holding the girls ; as the brothers ' sick and sadistic nature means that they have to subject the girls to a number of humiliating games . As you would expect from a film with a title like " Schoolgirls in Chains " , the atmosphere is very sleazy ; and shots that see the young , innocent girls wearing a collar pretty much sum the film up . Director Donald M . Jones ( probably a pseudonym ) stays away from making the film overly erotic , however , and it's probably a good thing that Schoolgirls in Chains doesn't depict the actions of its lead characters in a favourable light . Jones ' direction is solid , but since this film was made for the drive-in , you can't expect any directorial brilliance - and this film doesn't have any . The acting is similar in that it's nothing to write home about , although both Gary Kent and John Stoglin get to have fun in their absurd roles . Stoglin plays the retarded side of the pair of brothers , but it's Gary Kent who wins most of the plaudits where the acting is concerned for his portrayal of the more subdued side of the pair . The locations are well used , and the house in which most of the film takes place is suitably rural and isolated . Overall , this film isn't bad and will no doubt appeal to exploitation fans ; but it's not as great as similar seventies genre efforts such as The Last House on the Left and House on Straw Hill .
The plot of House by the Cemetery follows the story of a young family that move into an old house that used to be occupied by a mad doctor , Dr Freudstein . The only trouble is , that Freudstein hasn't moved out , and he's currently hiding in the basement in the house and committing grisly murders on whomever dares to stay there . . . House by the Cemetery is Lucio Fulci's take on the haunted house genre ; but obviously , since it's Fulci , this film is much more gory than your average haunted house horror . The film was actually praised by the BBFC for its restraint , but it still features beheading , throat ripping , a bat attack , impaling , a knife through the head and several other gory set pieces . However , despite this ; the film is rather slow to build up , in fact , after the initial gory opener ; the film doesn't really get going again for about an hour , and although once it does getting going it is pretty good , during the build up to it , it's not so good . And that's not good because the build up takes up the majority of the movie . House by the cemetery also features one of the most hideous children that I've ever seen in a movie ; Giovanni Frezza . He would later appear in the excellent Lamberto Bava films , " A Blade in the Dark " and " Demons " , but he's got a lot more screentime in this movie , and he is , therefore , much more annoying . It's a shame that his character is so hard to identify with due to him being so annoying because Fulci creates most of the tension in the movie from this kid , but because he's so irritating , I almost guarantee that you'll be cheering for Freudstein . The film also features Katherine MacColl , one of Fulci's favourite actresses , and a lady he also cast in two of his other gorefests ; The Beyond and City of the Living Dead . Katherine is most definitely the best actor of the movie , and she's also very beautiful , so it's not hard to see why Fulci would continue to cast her . The film also features Paolo Malco , who would later appear in The New York Ripper and Ania Pieroni , whom horror fans will recognise from the Dario Argento masterpieces " Tenebrae " and " Inferno " . The acting is not great in this movie , but Italian horror films aren't known for their great exhibitions of acting , so it doesn't matter . The villain of the piece ; Dr Freudstein is said to be one of Fulci's most famous zombies , but this is probably more down to the fact that the others are mostly the same as each other , whereas Freudstein is different . The creature itself is very disgusting and makes for a great baddie though , so I'll give Fulci credit for that . My only criticism of it would be that the monster doesn't get a lot of screentime , which is a shame . Overall , House by the Cemetery is not Fulci's best work , but it's an interesting film with a few redeeming features . Fulci fans should like it .
This film is yet another example of the annoying alternative title trend that plagued Italian cinema in the sixties and seventies - the film goes by the name ' Perversion Story ' , which is also an alternate title for Lucio Fulci's masterpiece ' One on Top of the Other ' , as well as Fulci's period drama ' Beatrice Cenci ' - and all three films were released in 1969 ! This gets even more annoying when you consider that this particular film actually has an excellent title as one of it's alternates in ' Trumpets of the Apocalypse ' , yet it most commonly takes the title given to two other movies from the same year ( which doesn't make sense by the way ) . Madness ! Anyway , what we have here is a little known Giallo , and I'm not really surprised about that as the film doesn't stand up too well against other genre entries . The film starts with a sequence that sees someone fall out of a window screaming , right in front of a copper . It turns out to be a music professor . The death is ruled as suicide and soon another follows . From there , we follow an investigation into the murder carried out by the brother and roommate of one of the victims . The film is set in London and the style of it could be summed up as ' sixties swing ' . Director Julio Buchs , more experienced as a director of westerns , also implements a psychedelic feel into the movie which isn't badly done in itself , but doesn't add much to the story . The film features most of the Giallo trademarks , such as murder , an investigation red herrings etc although the plot doesn't flow very well which does the film no favours . There's not a lot of tension or suspense in the film and it does get boring on more than just a couple of occasions . The plot is very surreal even for a Giallo but whatever point it was trying to make doesn't come through very well . The plot focuses on a musical score , ' The Trumpets of the Apocalypse ' and the film has a musical feel all the way through ; although Umberto Lenzi did the musical Giallo ( slightly ) better in 1969 with Orgasmo ( a . k . a . Paranoia ) . The ending comes as something of a surprise - though in truth I wasn't all that bothered who the murderer was by the end , but at least it mostly makes sense . I wouldn't recommend anyone goes out of their way to get a copy of this film . . . but it's a decent enough watch if you can find it .
A thriller doesn't necessarily need a great plot in order to be thrilling ; the execution tends to be more important , but when your lead villain is a two digit number , the film in question is likely to have some big problems on its hands . Rated purely on its structure and thriller elements , The Number 23 is actually not a bad film ; but every time I stopped to think about what it is actually happening , it was impossible not to think about how ridiculous this film is . The plot focuses on Walter Sparrow , a man who finds himself being dragged into a nightmare after coming across a book called ' The Number 23 ' . The book , written by the enigmatic ' Topsy Krets ' , soon has Walter believing that it's all about his own life . It's not long before he realises that the number 23 is actually all over the place ; his name adds to 23 , his birth date includes the number 23 , his house number is 23 . . . etc etc . We then follow Walter as he develops his obsession and tries to get to the bottom of the mysterious book . I can only speak for myself , but personally I wouldn't be too concerned if I noticed that a few things in my life added up to the same number . The silly plot could have been forgiven more easily if there was some underlying point to it all ; and while it's somewhat explained at the end , overall I have to say that this film is both silly and pointless . That being said , the film is therefore unintentionally very funny , and despite the fact that it's very silly ; The Number 23 is at least rather entertaining . Jim Carrey was great in The Truman Show and good in Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind , despite the film being rubbish and he's not bad in this ; but the actor is clearly more suited to comedy , and I was a bigger fan of him before he started taking on ' serious ' roles . The rest of the is very much secondary to Carrey , but I always enjoy seeing Virginia Madsen and Danny Huston is solid as usual . The much needed ' wrap up ' ending doesn't really come ; though we do get some explanation for it all . It doesn't make a lot of sense , which isn't a big surprise but in spite of all the problems ; I can't hate this silly film too much .
Amando de Ossorio is definitely more famous for his excellent ' Blind Dead ' series , and while this film is nowhere as good as that series ( overall ) , The Lorelei's Grasp certainly has its moments and the film is mostly fun to watch , although it has to be said that it's a rather long way away from brilliant . The film is very much in the Eurohorror style ; although the plot seems to take more influence from classic monster films of the UK and USA ( Hammer Horror's The Reptile sprang to mind for me ) . The story is actually quite a good basis for a horror film and follows the idea of a beautiful woman that turns into a horrible monster known as ' The Lorelei ' when the moon is full . She has been living under the Rhine in Germany for centuries , and hunting for human blood at night . However , when The Lorelei decides to kill one too many young girls at the local boarding house , the authorities decide to hire a hunter named Sirgurd to track down and kill the monster . It's obvious that this film was made with a low budget , but even so ; the director manages to create a fabulous Eurohorror atmosphere , and not even the special effects are all that bad . There's a fair amount of gore , and while the monster itself looks silly - that is both to be expected , and kind of fun in its own way . The plot itself is a little choppy , and the film definitely isn't very well paced . Certain plot points seem forced , while others seem more than just a little bit silly - the section with the scientist , for example . I have to say that this film could have been better ; I'd have preferred something more along the lines of a Giallo style monster movie . It's odd , considering the nature of the plot , that the film appears to be pretty much humourless ; but its serious tone only really comes off as being inappropriate when it comes to actually showing the monster . Overall , The Lorelei's Grasp is a good cheesy little horror film , and comes recommended to Eurohorror fans . . . just don't go in expecting too much .
I'm a big fan of French director François Ozon , and every film he releases automatically becomes a must see for me . 5x2 is the story of a relationship told backwards in five stages , from the divorce proceedings to the initial meeting between a couple . Given the way that this story plays out , it's clear that 5x2 isn't exactly a romantic film ; as we always know that the relationship is leading into oblivion . The main talking point of this movie is the fact that the story plays out backwards . This type of plot has been used with great success in films like Memento , but despite being seen before ; Ozon makes good use of his plotting , and it provides a refreshing take on the common romantic film . There isn't really a plot to speak of , and the focus is kept on the central relationship between the husband and wife . This ensures that Ozon is allowed to develop his characters without being bogged down by plot details , and it ultimately benefits the film as it's potency all rests with the characters of Marion and Giles , both of which are played to perfection by Valeria Bruni Tedeschi and Stéphane Freiss . A film like this asks a lot of the performers , and as he's done several times before ; Ozon ensures that both are up to the task , and he manages to pull great performances out of both the lead stars . The pair goes through a range of emotions , from happiness to hope and down to despair as the relationship falls apart . These days , it's more common for couples to split up ; and this ensures that 5x2 is almost like Casablanca for the modern age . It's a very cynical film , but Ozon is not wrong in his depiction of a doomed relationship . The film is made more complicated by the inclusion of a child between the couple , but as each of the five sections of the film is relatively short in length , not everything is able to be explored and this is the film's main flaw . 5x2 is very French in its style and execution , and it's obvious that the director loves his home country . François Ozon is obviously gay ( looking at the rest of his filmography ) , and even though this film is about a heterosexual relationship , the way that a gay couple is incorporated into the proceedings is very ham-fisted , and doesn't really fit . Still , this is a good film about the destruction of a relationship and overall , a success for the talented director .
I cant remember much about the original ' Anaconda ' , save for the fact that I didn't like it much ; but even so , I knew going into this silly jungle adventure that I was going to enjoy myself . The Anaconda sequel goes the same way as Aliens , in that it adds an ' s ' to the end of the original title instead of having a number 2 there . Unlike Aliens , however , this film isn't all that good . But then again . . . nobody expects it to be , and in terms of the ' fun factor ' , Anacondas definitely does it's job . Many criticise this flick for the fact that it's not brilliant - but that's just stupid if you ask me . If you're expecting brilliance going into a sequel to a low-key nineties horror thriller ; it's YOU who should be criticised . Anyway , Anacondas spends about two minutes spread over one scene setting it's plot up , and then we're off into the jungle . The plot revolves around , as the sub-title suggests , a hunt for a rare flower that supposedly has life-giving qualities . But the real point of the film is people getting eaten by over-sized snakes . . . The huge snakes are brought to life by computer-generated effects . For CGI , the effects aren't too bad ; but as usual , they completely fail to be impressive . The snakes look good while they're meandering through the water , but when we get to see them properly ; they just look mundane . The film is , of course , set in the Amazon jungle ; and that is one of this film's main assets . The jungle always provides a great setting for thrillers , because there's just so much wonder within it . Aside from snakes , we also get spiders , crocodiles and various other grisly beasts for out heroes to contend with . The cast is typically made up of unknowns , and none of them really impress . Johnny Messner is the best of them , and he takes the lead role as the rugged captain of the boat that takes the team of researchers through the jungle . On the whole , Anacondas pretty much delivers what you would expect it to deliver . There's plenty of action , plenty of snakes and not a lot in the way of plot or characters . Of course , it doesn't matter ; and I can recommend this film to anyone that simply wants ninety minutes of easy viewing .
Well , you can't go into a film called ' Snakes on a Plane ' expecting anything other than a fast paced fun romp , and while the film isn't quite as exciting as I'd have liked it to be , it has to be said that it pretty much delivers on it's promise . The film harks back to the B-movie features that were so popular back in the eighties , and that is respectable ; although modern influences and a need to make the film appeal to a younger audience ensure that Snakes on a Plane isn't as effective as it could have been . Obviously , a film with a plot line as thin as this one needs a whole lot of filling out ; and this is done through the passengers on the plane , which are all clichéd and paper thin . . . but hey , we're here for the snakes . The film begins with a murder being committed by a vicious gangster named Eddie Kim . The murder has a witness , and of course the police plan to protect him so that he can testify . Copper Neville Flynn boards a plane going to LAX with this witness and everything seems to be going well until it turns out that Kim has hatched a plan to bring the plane down . No , it's not a bomb - he's filled the plane with poisonous snakes ! The only ' name ' actor in the film is Samuel L . Jackson , and as you would expect ; he's the centre of attention at all times . Jackson is a definite asset to the film , and it has to be said that if he wasn't on board ; Snakes on a Plane wouldn't have been nearly as much fun . The snakes are mostly , if not all CGI , and for me this really ruined the effect as the way they move in this film doesn't really seem threatening because it's so overdone , and the film doesn't even implement them very well as aside from one scene that sees a man constricted by a giant snake , the snakes mostly just bite . I'm guessing that the snakes in this film don't reflect those in real life , as while I'm not an expert on snakes , I highly doubt that this sort of situation is even possible , pheromones or not . Of course , you have to suspend your disbelief while watching a film like this . . . but in my opinion , the film doesn't give the audience quite enough distraction from analysing the actual situation . However , I suppose it's a good thing that a film as silly as this was able to be made as it gives me hope that more silly and over the top ideas will be given cinematic treatment , and eventually we might be blessed with a good one . Undemanding film fans will certainly enjoy this ; but it's merely OK if you ask me .
Assault is apparently a British attempt at emulating the popular Italian Giallo sub-genre . If that is indeed what the filmmakers were aiming for , it has to be said that they've done a rather good job , as Assault incorporates many of the common Giallo trademarks . We've got a killer on the loose , a number of victims , a police investigation , an eyewitness , lots of red herrings and an unknown assailant , among other things . I'd even go as far as to say that if I didn't know better , I might have thought this was an Italian production , set in the UK . It's unfortunate , then , that director Sidney Hayers wasn't able to take the script and craft an exciting mystery out of it , as the film features far too much talking and not enough action , leaving it caught up in boredom for most of the running time . The plot follows the murder of a young girl in the woods outside of her school . When another is found dead in the same way shortly after , the police are brought in . Their only witness is a young teacher , who says the killer looks like the devil and puts herself on the line to catch the psychopath . One common element of the Italian Giallo is a silly plot , and that has been copied for this film also . The idea regarding the capture of the killer is preposterous , and the murderer would have to be a complete and utter fool to fall for it . The film doesn't seem too keen on keeping itself away from complete farce either , as the climax is very silly and it's often hard to keep a straight face while watching the film unfold , and that's not what you want from a thriller that handles themes of murder and rape . The cast is distinctly British , and Derbyshire-born Giallo star Suzy Kendall , who has also worked with the likes of Dario Argento , Sergio Martino and Umberto Lenzi on Giallo thrillers , takes the lead role and is joined by a host of tea-drinking co-stars . Sidney Hayers ' direction is a little turgid at times , although scenes such as the one in which we get an early glimpse of the murderer are well shot . The conclusion to the mystery is disappointing , as the identity of the killer just sort of comes out of nowhere . Overall , this film isn't all that good ; but it may appeal to Giallo fans for the fact that it's a Giallo , but it's not Italian .
This isn't the first movie to be made recently despite the fact that it utilises classic silent movie methods . Dracula : Pages From a Virgin's Diary is the only other one I've seen , but I'm sure there's more besides . This adaptation of H . P . Lovecraft's classic story , The Call of Cthulhu is more faithful to the original works of the great writer than the likes of films such as Re-Animator and From Beyond ; but cinematically , it just doesn't work as well . Don't get me wrong , I love many classic silent movies ; but Lovecraft's work is too inventive to really be given a good adaptation in this style . The film follows the story of a man searching for a diabolical cult that worships the god ' Cthulhu ' . The majority of the film , therefore , follows a man reading up on the cult , and it isn't until the end , when the god finally turns up , that the film really becomes exciting . I respect The H . P . Lovecraft Historical Society immensely for having the drive to put this film together , as any kind of innovation in the modern horror genre is to be welcomed with open arms , but it's clear that the filmmakers didn't have enough budget , and the silent movie gimmick isn't enough to keep the entire film interesting - even if it is only 47 minutes long . This story would be better served with a modern adaptation , and I'm pleased to say that it's getting one in 2006 . On the whole , this silent version is worth watching due to the fact that it's tried to do something different and adapt the master's work ' faithfully ' - but it's not a great film .
I'm a big fan of Sergio Martino , but it's quite clear that his main strength is in making Giallo's , not crime flicks . This genre is famous for high action sequences such as car chases and shootouts ; but this film doesn't deliver that , preferring a more political standpoint and the results are disappointing . There's not a great deal of action in this film ; despite some decent murder scenes early on , Silent Action soon becomes rather tedious as the story leans towards the central character uncovering a mystery and the mystery isn't all that exciting . The film starts by depicting the mysterious murders of various Government officials . The film then shows the central copper as he delves into the mystery , starting with finding a prostitute who is believed to be involved in the murder of an innocent man . However , the further he searches , the more it becomes apparent that the murders are all linked to a conspiracy that goes deeper than he first thought . . . The film stars Luc Merenda , who gives a decent performance despite the film's shortcomings . Merenda is one of my favourite Polizi regulars , having seen him in a number of these films , you can always count on him to do a good job , and at least the film doesn't disappoint in that respect . However , Martino doesn't do a very good job when it comes the atmosphere or storytelling . For a film to move at this pace , the story really has be interesting , but it doesn't really manage to hold the audience's attention . We never really get a good feel for the " corruption " element of the story either , and when we start to realise how ' deep ' it all goes , I just got the impression that it didn't really matter . Don't get me wrong , the film isn't all bad and it certainly has its moments ; but I've come to expect more exciting films from this genre , and Silent Action just didn't live up to that . The best part of the film is the ending , though it's debatable as to whether or not it's actually worth waiting for , and again don't be expecting any action ! Overall , I can't completely condemn this film ; but I didn't like it much , and there are much better Italian crime flicks out there !
Luis Buñuel's short film , " Un Chien Andalou " is basically a series of surreal and shocking images , set to a great musical score , that don't appear to have any meaning or even any relevance to each other . The scenes themselves are shocking and at times even hard to watch . The best of these scenes , and the one that best fits what I've just said is the first one ; a sequence that appears to see a man slice a girl's eyeball in half with a razorblade . The scene is amazingly unrestrained , especially for a movie made at the time this was . It's also a classic example of how to show something , without actually showing it by mixing it in with other imagery . Other strange and dreamlike sequences include a man dragging two pianos across the floor with a dead donkey on top of them , ants emerging from a hole in a man's hand , a young man poking a severed hand in the street with a rod and a couple of others . After seeing this , you will wonder what it is you've just seen and whether or not you've just wasted fifteen minutes of your life , but I assure the answer is not . Although this film doesn't appear to mean anything , doesn't make any sense and by all accounts isn't really ' good ' , what it is that you've just witnessed is the film that has influenced just about every surrealistic picture made since . I don't recommend seeking this out ( unless you're a Buñuel completist ) , but if you ever get the chance to catch it ; make sure you do .
Dolores Claiborne is a very solid adaptation of a book by a man who is probably the king of modern horror literature : Stephen King ( I haven't read that many books , so I can't say for sure ) . I haven't read the original source material , but judging by this film it is safe to say that it wasn't meant to be horror-per say , as the film follows more of a psychological thriller pattern when it comes to plotting ; despite some blatant horror influences . The style of plotting is relatively exciting , and it shows both the current events , which it then intertwines with flashbacks of the past . This sort of film can easily get muddled , but you have to give credit to Dolores Claiborne as it successfully manages to keep itself on the straight and narrow with regards to plotting . The film follows the story of a housekeeper who has allegedly murdered her employer by throwing her down the stairs . The plot thickens when her daughter , who still blames her mother for the mysterious death of her father , comes to town to see what's going on with her parent . Kathy Bates , who impressed in the 1990 Stephen King adaptation of ' Misery ' , overacts here , it has to be said , but in spite of that she still brings believability and a relative degree of sympathy to her character , and it's very easy to see why director Taylor Hackford would have cast her in the title role . She is joined on screen by a woman who is one of today's most underrated performers ; Jennifer Jason Leigh . Leigh impresses throughout the film and although her character is definitely second to Bates ' in the film's hierarchy , Leigh still delivers the best performance in the movie . While the film is always good enough to be called interesting , it is overlong and had the action have been compacted , the resulting movie would have been far more thrilling and as it is a thrillers ' main aim to be thrilling ; shortening the movie down would definitely have been a good idea . While this movie isn't exactly a fine example of the genre , it's a solid thriller and if you find yourself with nothing better to do one night while this film is on television ; you could do a lot worse than watch it .
I wasn't really sure what to expect going into this one ; my experience of Peter Walker extends only to his horror movies , some of which are excellent ( House of Whipcord ) while others are terrible ( Die Screaming Marianne ) . School for Sex is an early Walker film ( actually , his first according to IMDb ) and it's his attempt at a sex comedy . The film doesn't exactly have a great reputation among the few who have seen it , and that's not really surprising - but all the same , I actually rather liked this silly little film . Naturally , everything in it is rather tame these days , and compared to other films like this from the late sixties - not all that lurid for the time it was released in . The film was obviously intended to be more of a comedy than a sex film , and doesn't go much further than showing it's female cast topless . The plot focuses on a man convicted for fraud . He decides to start up his own ' school for sex ' with the help of a local Duchess . There he teaches girls how to seduce men and get them to part with their cash . . . The plot was clearly not the main thing on Peter Walker's mind . The film is only short , running about seventy five minutes and the story neither goes anywhere nor has any real point . Obviously the main aim of the film was to show a bit of skin and make his audience laugh , and Walker just about achieved both of those aims . The comedy isn't really very funny , but it's all very light-hearted and the film has a sort of British charm to it which is nice . I can certainly see why the film doesn't have a great deal of fans ; aside from the reasons mentioned , this is never going to be a film that will appeal to everyone ; porn fans are likely to be disappointed at the lack of sex and nudity , while non-porn fans probably wont enjoy it much either . The central idea certainly could have lead to a much better movie too ; I have to admit that I enjoy movies about people being conned anyway , and showing young girls doing it to ' men who should know better ' could have been much more fun . On the whole , this is not exactly Peter Walker's best work , but for what is I enjoyed it , although I wouldn't recommend anyone going to great lengths to track it down !
Supposedly based on actual events that took place in Texarkana shortly after the end of the First World War . The film takes on a documentary style , which is shown through the rather corny voice-over and is mixed with footage of a man in a hood bumping various youngsters off . Given that the film is based on a true story , this actually turned out to be a good way to film it ; although those who are going into this film expecting a slasher along the lines of Halloween or Black Christmas are likely to be disappointed . The film plays out more like a profile of the serial killer , although since not much is known about the actual hooded maniac that terrorised Texas back in the forties , the film doesn't go too deep either . The film focuses more on the police and the local residents rather than the actual killer , and we follow the effect that the murder spree has had on the town , through both the residents ' actions and the baffled police investigation into the crimes . The main strongpoint of this movie definitely lies in its atmosphere , and director Charles B . Pierce does well at ensuring that the fear of the locals always shines through . These is shown by having the local people board up their windows and buy all the weapons from the local gun shops , which in turn ensures that the audience is aware of both the killer's actions and their implications on the local townspeople . The director also does well at presenting the southern style to the film , as all the people speak with thick accents and it gives the film an element of realism . However , all this is well and good ; but there's not enough action , and while this film stands out among real-life serial killer films thanks to the way that it shows the murders and their implications ; there's not enough action , and at times the film can feel rather flat . The film could definitely do with a decent release also , as the copy that I saw was too dark during the night scenes and at times it was difficult to see what was going on . There's an element of slapstick comedy in the film as well , which makes it more entertaining . . . but I can't help but think it's rather inappropriate . Overall , this film is definitely worth seeing for the cult horror fan ; but personally , I don't rate it as a classic .
Zombi 2 saw Lucio Fulci deliver a film that took huge influence from George Romero's zombie masterpiece Dawn of the Dead ( even though the great horror director claims to have been influenced by Jacques Tourneur ) , and Zombi Holocaust in turn takes influence from Fulci's Zombi 2 . Zombi Holocaust is more than just a simple rip-off , however , as prolific director Marino Girolami finds time to implement other horror themes such as cannibal tribes and mad scientists into the plot . The film takes place in the same location as Fulci's zombie flick , and sees the undead eating people on a Caribbean island . This film very much fits into the Italian zombie sub-genre , with such treats as bad acting , worse dubbing , a rather absurd plot line and plenty of blood and guts making it into the finished product . The plot sees a mad scientist on a tropical island experimenting with life and death and ending up turning a number of the locals into zombies . We follow an expeditionary group who land on the island as they come face to face with the zombies and cannibals that live there . If you're a fan of blood and guts , you're in the right movie . The gore is mostly comical , but it works due to the fact that it's so massively over the top . Scenes that see a zombie have its face mashed by a propeller , numerous slit throats and several sequences that see the living being eaten offer a gory treat for the horror fan . The fact that this is so much like Zombi 2 put me off a little , however , as it really does feel like you're watching a follow up rather than a supposedly original zombie film . Saying that , this film would have made a far better follow up than Fulci's own Zombi sequel . The atmosphere is well done , as the setting gives the piece an element of mystery that comes part and parcel with a lot of the Italian cannibal films . The zombie make-up is suitably disgusting and a lot of the monsters really do look like they haven't been among the living for some time . Interestingly , the central roles are taken up by Fulci collaborators Ian McCulloch ( Zombi 2 ) and Alexandra Delli Colli ( The New York Ripper ) , which seems quite fitting . Overall , I can't say that this is one of my favourite zombie films ; but its decent enough entertainment , and there's definitely something here for zombie fans .
This film begins with a split-screen title sequence that features the catchy ' Windmills of Your Mind ' . We then move fairly swiftly into a bank heist , that is both thrilling and inventive . . . but unfortunately , the film never betters this opening twenty minutes . After those have elapsed , the film moves into a dull , sixties-set , pseudo romance / character study that is neither thrilling nor inventive . It's a massive shame that this film isn't great as it could have been a lovingly crafted tribute to the decade where it was socially acceptable to wear garish clothes and listen to hippy music , but instead it's just another Steve McQueen vehicle . The man himself plays Thomas Crown ; a millionaire bank robber that does bank heists for the fun of it . He is joined by Faye Dunaway , who is the police detective sent to investigate Thomas Crown . What then follows is the most boring game of cat and mouse ever filmed . . . The film falls down on the story side mainly because it's two leads have no chemistry together . Their romance comes off as forced , and some of their scenes together are excruciating for the viewer . Take the chess scene for example ; supposedly ' one of the sexiest scenes ever film ' , is actually incredibly boring . It's massively overlong , and this isn't helped by the fact that the two don't bode well together on screen at all . Individually , this isn't a good day at the office for either star . Steve McQueen has proved himself as a suave screen persona in many films , and you would think that this role would fit him like a glove ; but his performance is too understated and he looks bored . I've never rated Faye Dunaway anyway , and this film doesn't do anything to change that . The film seems all too keen to pile on the style as well , and with numerous split screen sequences , that are cool at first but quickly become annoying , this isn't a good thing as it comes at the expense of the story . As mentioned earlier , this could have been an interesting portrait of the sixties , but it fails . See Charade if you want to see something like what this film could have been .
The great Lucio Fulci made some great films in his career - Don't Torture a Duckling and Zombie Flesh Eaters to name but two ; but in his twilight years , his career took a bit of a downfall with the likes of The Door to Silence and Voices from Beyond ; but he did at least manage one decent effort towards the end of his career - and that is this film . The cover may suggest Demonia to be an attempted revival of the nunsploitation sub-genre , but in fact this is much more like the Fulci who earned himself the ' Godfather of Gore ' title and the film is more along the lines of The Beyond . The back-story focuses on a nunnery in which all the inhabitants were murdered . We pick up the story five hundred years later when an archaeological team decides to go digging , much to the dismay of the local townspeople that seem to have something to hide . The team decides to go through with their research anyway , but it's not long before strange things start to happen and Liza Harris - one of the team - starts to suffer from macabre visions . The film gets off to a rather slow start , but once things get going ; the film really picks up . Even though the film was made very close to the director's death ; he seems to have lost none of his enthusiasm for a gory death scene and indeed the film features some real nasty sequences which include a decapitation , a meat hook in the neck , some eyeball violence ( naturally ) and someone literally getting torn in half right down the middle ! It has to be said that most of the effects do look rather fake ; but it's also clear that a lot of effort went into bringing them to the screen , and Fulci delights his fans by ensuring that as much blood is shed as possible . The plot itself is rather decent and although the idea of a supernatural force coming back for vengeance has been used many times before ; Fulci does well in doing it again . It has to be said that the gore scenes are the main attraction , but at least the plot serves some relevance to the proceedings , Demonia is not one of the Fulci's finest achievements ; but it's a rather decent little gore flick and Fulci fans will surely find something to like .
If you don't like zombie movies , you'd be best off making sure that you never see The Dead Next Door . . . but if you do like zombie flicks , this might provide some amusement . While the film is never exceptional ( even in the low budget zombie sub-genre ) , it does have some positive aspects , which pull it out of the truly abysmal . Despite it's more than obvious low budget , it's clear that the producers of this flick wanted to do some things with the genre that haven't been done before . Of course , by 1988 ; zombie films had pretty much been explored to the max , but fairly original ideas such as the religious cult that want the zombies protected and the thing with half-human , half-zombie give this film some things to call it's own . The plot is a straight Romero-rip off , and it sees the world being plagued by zombies . We follow a team of government agents calling themselves ' Zombie Squad ' , whose task it is to , basically , kill zombies . Their job is made more difficult by a cult of religious weirdo's , who strangely think that the zombie is worth saving . . . On the technical side , everything about this film is rubbish . The script is ridiculous , and little gems like " I'm a zombie now " show this . The acting matches the script , and once again is a load of rubbish . Someone called Pete Ferry takes the lead role , and does his best impression of Bruce Campbell . He's not the king of B-movies , but his performance does ensure that it's obvious that this movie isn't to be taken seriously . The closing credit of ' you have just witnessed the awesome talents of : ' is a nice touch , and shows that the crew were only having a laugh while making this film . The special effects are gory and disgusting , but also very stupid and impossible to take seriously . Still , they beat lazy effects like those of Resident Evil ( the movie ) hands down . The way that a lot of the characters have been given horror director names , such as Raimi , shows that the makers are fans of this sort of film , and that fact might even be inspiring if this production wasn't so unprofessional . On the whole , there's no denying that this isn't very good ; but on the other hand , it's a decent waste of time and there's definitely something here for zombie fans .
Convoy Busters may not be the best Polizi movie ever to come out of Italy , but it's certainly an above average crime romp with a great cast and more action packed stunt sequences than you can shake a stick at ! The film is set up a little differently to most of the Polizi movies that I've seen , as it's a movie of two halves and a lot of it takes place in settings unlike the thick urban atmosphere I've come to associate with this sort of movie ; namely , a quiet seaside town and the rural countryside . Most of these films take influence from Dirty Harry , and Convoy Buster is no different as Maurizio Merli's maverick copper has a definite Clint Eastwood vibe about him ; but the fact that it's a little different gives Convoy Busters a lot of credibility in my opinion . The story starts when the dead body of a young girl is found with her throat cut . Commissioner Olmi takes the case , but when his violent methods leave an innocent man dead ; he gets transferred to a quiet coastal town . However , the fact that it's quiet doesn't mean there isn't any organised crime . . . This is the first Polizi I've seen from director Stelvio Massi , and while it doesn't rival the likes of Umberto Lenzi and Enzo G . Castellari , I'm definitely interested in checking out more from him . Massi's handling is generally very good , and while the plot does have a few problems ; certain sequences - the one in which the inspector shoots a few crooks from a helicopter in particular - are real standouts . There's plenty of action to keep the audience entertained throughout and it comes through in a steady stream . The stunts range from a very well done bar room brawl to a great sequence that sees Merli smash through a school window . The leading man puts in an excellent performance . He can look a little silly at times , but generally he fits the role very well and this was more than enough to keep this Eurocrime fan happy . It has to be said that Convoy Busters doesn't work from the most imaginative of scripts , but this isn't too important as Massi is more than equal to the task of making sure that what he has to work with is always entertaining as a film like this should be . Overall , Convoy Busters is well worth seeing and I certainly recommend it .
The Beast Within is a delightfully trashy eighties B-movie based on a book by Edward Levy and taking obvious influence from the werewolf genre . The film has been sadly forgotten over the years ; partly the reason for that might be down to the fact that it is rather cheap and forgettable , but it's also possible that it was lost under the eighties ' two most popular werewolf films ; An American Werewolf in London and The Howling , as while this is not essentially a werewolf film ; it does feature a trashy looking change scene . The film begins with a sequence that sees a young woman mauled and raped by some strange and largely unseen creature . We then move forward seventeen years and the child resulting from the rape has grown into a seventeen year old boy , and is lying ill in hospital ; apparently due to an overactive pituitary gland . The doctors notice several strange things about the boy and the mother and father decide to try and find out more about the man who raped her in order to ascertain the problem with their kid . . . The film does have plenty of problems ; mostly owing to the story as huge chunks of it don't make a lick of sense . The film builds up slowly and we are given small pieces of information at a time ; which at least ensures that it's always interesting . Young actor Paul Clemens is good in the lead role and actually manages to make it believable ; which is quite a feat considering the likeliness of the plot . The mythology and reasoning behind the events of the film is good enough and as the film is not typical for a ' change ' movie , the reason behind our lead character's affliction isn't either . The reason doesn't make a great deal of sense like the rest of the film - but at least it tried to be a bit original ! There's a fair amount of death scenes and gore in the movie which is nice and the standout sequence is obviously the change scene that comes towards the end . It's over the top and gruesome , and wont be forgotten in a hurry ; but unfortunately it's also ended prematurely and we don't get to see a great deal of the changed character . Still , while this is a film with problems ; there's a lot to like about it also and I'd say it's a film worth seeing .
Yes , in most cases ; fish don't eat people , people eat fish ; but the auteur of that quote clearly forgot about man eating fish , such as piranha ; and that reflects even worse on his brain power when you consider that , at the time of speaking , he was actually in a film called " Piranha " , which also happens to be about man eating fish ! Lots of ' em ! It's little delights like the one just mentioned that make Piranha what is - the script doesn't take itself seriously , and that blends with the shameless ripping off of many a creature feature , and both of those in turn provide the audience with a very camp movie experience indeed . Creature features have a long history of being camp , and Joe Dante's film will no doubt be a highlight for fans of the classic movies in this field . Joe Dante has made a lot of cheap , but good films , and while The Howling remains the best of his oeuvre and the ' best director ' awards certainly won't be winging his way soon , he's an underrated talent in the horror film industry and Piranha is certainly one of his better films . Joe Dante has put a good cast together for this movie , which equally weighs out the camp and action sequences in the movie in the same proportions that the movie itself gives out . Bradford Dillman takes the lead role , and while he clearly knows that he's appearing in a camp and very much ' B ' standard horror ; he still gives it his all and makes for a fine protagonist . The highlights among the ensemble are Barbara Steele , a regular in horror films , with performances in the likes of ' The Pit and the Pendulum ' and ' Black Sunday ' , and Dick Miller ; a cult star that Dante would go on to use regularly , but found his cult stardom in the Corman classic ' A Bucket of Blood ' . The pace of the film is good , and while the script shows some holes , the plot usually lasts out . It gets a bit hectic towards the end and Dante would have been better served with less carnage and more tension to give the movie a better finale . The effects are pretty much non-existent , as the movie just uses cuts of fish swimming and a bit of fake blood for most of it's shocks . Still , this is a very fun movie and one that people who enjoy a good time will enjoy .
Sweet Hostage is another excellent example of a seventies made for TV movie . There were a lot of great TV movies made during what is probably the richest decade for great movies , although this one stands out a little from many as it is both feature length and feels every bit like a ' proper ' movie , not a made for TV one . The plot focuses on the idea of ' Stockholm Syndrome ' and we follow a young girl who is kidnapped by an escaped mental patient but ends up falling in love with him along the way . The film doesn't really appear to have any real point to make , but the way that everything plays out is always interesting and that is mostly thanks to the two lead performances which are excellent throughout . Martin Sheen gives a lively performance as the escaped mental patient and actually manages to make his character realistic in spite of the over the top script . Linda Blair is also very good as the kidnapped young girl and has a good chemistry with Sheen . The film is a little under ambitious and that's a shame as it does feel like more could have been made out of this plot ; but what we do end up with is an undoubtedly successful drama and I enjoyed this movie on the whole .
Well , it has to be said that Monster Man is a huge mess of a film , but somehow multiple different genres and a clichéd plot come together to make one of the most enjoyable modern horror films I've seen in ages ! The two biggest styles that the film mixes are a ' Road Trip ' style teenage comedy and a ' Texas Chainsaw Massacre ' style redneck horror vibe , and while one gets in the way of the other quite often ; director Michael Davis manages to keep things moving thanks to the fact that the constant shift in tone means that we're never quite sure where the film is going to be taken next . Things start out worryingly as we're introduced to two characters , both irritating in different ways . Adam is a wussy virgin , while Harley is a fat big-mouthed " A-hole " . They're both driving across the desert to attend the wedding of some chick they both liked in high school . After a couple of strange events , they pick up a hitch-hiker , and then find themselves being chased by some maniac in a monster truck for reasons unknown . . . The idea of someone being chased by someone else in a bigger vehicle is hardly original , but the way the monster truck is used here is one of the film's biggest assets . The truck itself looks spooky because it's so haggard and rusty , and the fact that it bounces around the screen makes the unfolding action exciting and suspenseful . After a while , you begin to get used to the characters and once Aimee Brooks enters the fray , things start to look up . The teen comedy side of the movie actually works pretty well , as Justin Ulrich is always on hand to deliver some entertaining lines of dialogue and the scenes between the dorky virgin and the hot female hitch-hiker are interesting enough . Just when you think the film couldn't possibly get any messier , things take a turn for the weird in the final third . Without spoiling things , it has to be said that Monster Man features the sort of ending that couldn't possibly be seen coming , and along with the twist , is a big surprise . Some people may feel ripped off by the sudden turn at the end - but I actually thought it worked quite well as it fits the film in that nothing here really fits . . . Overall , this isn't a ' great ' film by any means - but if you're looking for some silly entertainment , Monster Man should hit the spot !
Obviously , this sequel is nowhere near as good as the original 1958 film ' The Fly ' , but despite obviously being a cheap follow-up and working from a story that basically just rips off the first film , there are some good ideas here and the film is definitely worth watching . The only actor to return from the original movie is Vincent Price , but the story does lead directly on as in true horror sequel style , in this film we follow the fortunes of the original scientist's son , who naturally decides to follow on his father's experiments . Price isn't the only thing that was recycled for this film , however , as the film was apparently written to incorporate sets from the original , although this does make sense considering how the story follows on . The hapless scientist this time is Philippe Delambre , son of Andre Delambre , and a man who has decided to rebuild the transportation device . Along with his friend Alan Hinds and uncle Francois Delambre , they conduct a series of experiments in the hope of succeeding where Andre failed . . . but naturally , as nothing runs smoothly in a horror film , events take a turn for the macabre . . . I'm guessing that black and white film was cheap around 1959 as despite the fact that the original film was shot in colour , this one is in black and white . However , I actually prefer films like this in black and white , so this wasn't a problem for me . Vincent Price took a backseat in the original film , but as his star was rising by the release of this follow-up ; he gets a more central role , although he still doesn't appear enough if you ask me . His role here isn't one of his strongest , but anything that features a performance from the great Mr Price is well worth seeing if you ask me . It has to be said that most of the performances ( and dialogue ) in this film are pretty ridiculous , but among the rest of the cast Brett Halsey , an actor who would go on to make Italian films along with this likes of Mario Bava and Lucio Fulci , stands out as the unlucky scientist . The film obviously isn't very graphic ; although it's slightly more violent than the first film , and the transporter machine is put to much better use here . The special effects are inventive too , and work well despite obviously not costing much . Overall , this is at least a worthy follow-up , which while not as great as the original ; has its moments and is worth seeing .
There is no shortage of films based on London's most notorious serial killer , Jack the Ripper , but in spite of this fact : Man in the Attic is a welcome addition to the list of films concerning The Ripper . It can't be said that Man in the Attic is a great film , but it's certainly a good one and did everything I had hoped it would do . The plot here is basically the same one featured in Hitchcock's silent classic ' The Lodger ' , as well as a whole host of other films . We follow the plot as a mysterious man moves into a house owned by an elderly coupled and co-habited by their actress niece . The Jack the Ripper murders are happening around the same time , and it's not long before the lodger's strange nature leads the lady of the couple to believe that they may be renting their spare room to a serial killer ! Director Hugo Fregonese gives the film a great atmosphere ; the smoky streets of London look superb and really give this story a good place to take place in . There's also a great score that helps to add to the atmosphere . The film focuses more on Jack the Ripper himself and his situation , and there are very little details of the actual killings , and certainly no gore . . . which is something of a shame , but the way that the film sets its focus and sticks to it is to its advantage . The plot moves fairly slowly and the mystery is never overly exciting ; but it's not too much of a problem because the characters are interesting and Jack Palance is spot on as the reclusive killer . Overall , Man in the Attic is a wholly satisfying yarn that entertains despite not being brilliant .
Killer Nun is a crossover between two of sleaze cinema's most popular subgenres ; the graphically titled ' nunsploitation ' and the more popular Italian thriller known as Giallo . I can't say I'm very experienced with the former , but I'm a big fan of the latter ; and the fact that this film was a part of the Video Nasty list back in the eighties ensured that I had enough reason to see it . As a Video Nasty , this film isn't all that good and is unfortunately one of the more tame entries on the list , and to be honest ; I can't see a good reason for banning it , other than the obvious implications of a nun taking it upon herself to begin killing people . As a Giallo , this film isn't all that good either - as there isn't a lot of mystery going on , and the murders aren't too imaginative . However , as a slice of sleaze ; this film works a treat ! The plot follows a nun who finds herself addicted to morphine after having an operation on a brain tumour . However , this isn't the most dangerous element of her psyche ; as the patients at the hospital she works at believe that she is behind a series of murders ! The film clearly knows what its main strengths are , and director Giulio Berruti delights in showing things such as lesbianism and torture to his audience . The idea of one of God's disciples going around murdering people isn't the most original idea ever conceived , but it's well worked as the film always appears to be completely serious and manages to stay away from the comic book styling's of many Giallo , which would ultimately have harmed the film . Cult actress Anita Ekberg takes the lead role and delivers a strong performance , which despite not winning her any plaudits ; works well in the context of the movie , and she does carry off the nun look well . Joe Dallesandro joins in the fun , and the rest of the unknown cast are good enough for this sort of film . The lesbian scenes in the movie are well done and actually rather erotic , thereby guaranteed to delight the movie's target audience . The plot is always secondary to the sleaze , and therefore isn't too interesting ; but it plays out nicely , and while the ending isn't particularly strong ; this is a good example of sleaze cinema and is recommended to the relevant people .
Terence Fisher and Peter Cushing have made some great horror films together , most of them for the brilliant Hammer studios . This film wasn't produced by the studio , but it could well have been as it has all the makings of a Hammer Horror film . Silly monsters , daft dialogue , a campy style and , as mentioned , Peter Cushing all feature ; all of which were favourites of Hammer films . Island of Terror follows the story of a doctor who unwittingly creates a barrage of seemingly indestructible monsters while trying to find a cure for cancer . Enter Peter Cushing and co . - a team of scientists that are on hand to fight back against the monsters and uncover the mystery behind them . Island of Terror is a monster film made very much within the common monster movie mould . One could maybe even go as far as to say that this is the quintessential classic monster B-movie from the sixties as all the clichés and staples of the style of film are featured heavily . Some of the dialogue in this film is ridiculous to such a high standard that I would call it ' priceless ' . See , for example , the instance when Peter Cushing is told about the discovery of a boneless corpse , to which he replies , " that's unbelievable " . It's moments like these that make B-movie so much fun , and nobody delivers silly lines like Peter Cushing - Hammer Horror has made him a master at it , and he shows us that in this film . Cushing's performance on the whole in this movie isn't up there with his best - but it's hard to keep up to the high standard that Cushing had set for himself with performances the likes of Baron Frankenstein and Van Helsing , so as his character in this movie has much less depth , you cant expect as great a performance . The real stars of the show are the creatures , which are as fascinating as they are ridiculously silly . The creatures look quite a lot like those old vacuum cleaners you used to ( and probably still do ) get before Dyson took over . In fact , I wouldn't be surprised if they actually ARE just painted vacuum cleaners . The moments when these things fall out of the trees makes watching the whole thing worthwhile , and if it's a silly monster movie you're after - you've just found it .
Door into Darkness is Italy's answer to Alfred Hitchcock Presents and is delivered by Italy's answer to Hitchcock ; Dario Argento . This first instalment of the series , titled ' The Neighbour ' is directed by Dario Argento aficionado Luigi Cozzi and handles the idea of a madman taking his insanity out on innocent people . We follow a young couple and their baby as they move into a new apartment block . Strangely , this is done at night ; and the story really picks up when , while watching Frankenstein , the pair discover a leak in the ceiling , apparently coming from the upstairs neighbour's flat . Seeing as this short film is made for TV , it's hardly surprising that it doesn't offer as much as films that Argento has been involved in usually do . There's barely a drop of blood , the story is very concise and the production values aren't exactly high ; but this is made up for by excellent directing , some nice acting and a great sense of tension that runs throughout . Director Luigi Cozzi has clearly taken influence from the Italian Master , and this is felt as he directs the action through a number of different angles and draws suspense from the very basic plot line . On the whole , The Neighbour can't be considered as one of the best things to come out of Italy during the seventies ; but for what it is ( a made for TV short film ) , this isn't bad at all . Not to mention the fact that the entire Door into Darkness series has huge cult value , and is therefore a must see for any fan of Italian horror !
' Pecker ' is one of those films that you watch when you've got nothing better to do . However , unlike many of those films , Pecker is one that almost makes you glad that you had nothing better to do as if you had , you wouldn't have seen it . Don't get me wrong , I'd rather have been at lottery HQ collecting my winnings , on the phone to a representative from my local pub telling me that I've won free beer for life or even simply enjoying a night in with several top supermodels ; but on the whole , I rate the eighty five minutes I spent watching this as time well spent . The film is called ' Pecker ' because that's the name of it's central character , but something tells me that Mr John Waters named the film so for other , more innuendo related , reasons . Anyway , Pecker is a rather odd young man who lives in a rather odd small town somewhere in America . Pecker's hobby is to take photos of anything and everything , and claim that it's art . This hobby , one day , attracts the attention of a New York art dealer and Pecker is transported into super-stardom , much to the dismay of his Laundromat obsessed girlfriend and the rest of his small town . Director John Waters directs the film in a very surreal style , which gives it a very unique edge , and instantly grabs your attention . Waters evidently doesn't care about the integrity of film-making , and so sees fit to meld together something that can easily be seen as a mess . The leads carry Waters ' mess with vigour and gusto , but never really impress or deliver great performances . Edward Furlong gives his character a naive edge , which bodes well with his small town roots . He does look more than a little bit embarrassed at times , but sort of adds to the kitsch appeal of the movie . Christina Ricci does her usual ' bitch ' thing , but it doesn't work in this film as her character is supposed to be a more down to earth and snob hating , so to have her as a snob herself ensures that the film loses yet more credibility and makes it even more of a mess . The film will offend some viewers for it's rather graphic lesbian strip club scene ; not to mention it's central , gay club , location , and that adds weight to the idea that this is very much a ' love it or hate it ' sort of film , and I'm sure that's how Waters wants it . I , however , do not add weight to that claim as I merely thought it was ' pretty good ' . Take that John !
The origins of the slasher flick can be traced all the way back to Hitchcock's masterpiece , Psycho , but the modern slasher is a different animal entirely . Some still believe that John Carpenter's overrated Halloween began the craze , but that was predated by Black Christmas , and that in turn was predated by this British flick from 1971 . Fair enough , this isn't exactly a template for the modern slasher film , but many of the staples of the genre - a young woman in peril , a killer fresh out of the loony bin , the babysitter theme etc - feature , and to the best of my knowledge ; this was one of the first films to feature these themes together . The film can be described as the film that ' When a Stranger Calls ' should have been , as it takes the theme of a babysitter being stalked by a lunatic , except everything is fit into one night ; and so doesn't suffer from the sprawling middle section of the aforementioned film . Amanda is a young babysitter who arrives at the residence of the Lloyds to look after their three year old son while they go out to a party . What she doesn't realise is that the father's biological father has broken out of a mental home , and has decided to go and see his won . . . By keeping the focus on just one situation over one period of time , director Peter Collinson ( Straight on Till Morning , The Italian Job ) creates a tense atmosphere , which benefits from the dark and gloomy feeling that the night setting gives to the story . The film isn't all that gory , but this doesn't really matter as the focus is always on the atmosphere , and this is enough to pull it through . The film benefits from two great performances . First and most importantly , we have Susan George , who lights up the screen throughout with her stunning good looks . Also appearing is Pussy Galore herself Honor Blackman , who is good in the time that she appears . The plot moves well throughout , and the fact that the film doesn't really have a great deal of story is excellently masked by the tense atmosphere , which is enough to keep things moving . There's only one real twist in the story , and that concerns the meeting of the lunatic father . His appearance isn't all that shocking since the hints that he will turn up come thick and fast early on . This is where Fright falls down , but even so ; this is a nice little exercise in suspense , and is well worth seeing .
Director Massimo Dallamano is undoubtedly best known among cult film fans for his excellent Giallo ' What Have They Done to Solange ' and considering the brilliance of that film , it would seem on first glance that he made this little sex comedy merely as an excuse to work with the beautiful and talented Edwige Fenech . While that may well be true ( and who could possibly blame him ? ) , this film is actually a little more than merely a vehicle for the stunning actress and has some hidden depths beneath its often goofy exterior . The film focuses on a young man named Tonino Niscemi . He wants to pursue a career as a priest and as such has never had sex with a woman , nor does he have any desire to . However , upon returning home to his father ( who supports his son in becoming a priest ) and his grandfather ( who does not ) , Tonino finds himself at odds after meeting his father's new wife Carmela ; a teasing wench who keeps him fawning after her . The film is billed as a sex comedy ; and indeed several antics reinforce that fact ( mostly stemming from the randy grandfather ) but much of the film undertakes a serious tone and its clear that the director was keen to explore the sexual awakening of his central character ; and it is that which gives the film most of its depth . It has to be said that Roberto Cenci does not exactly cut a likable figure in the central role ; he looks a bit too ' green ' for my liking and is often unconvincing in the role . This , however , is made up for by the presence of Edwige Fenech who despite not giving her best performance provides a regular distraction whether clothed , unclothed or somewhere between the two . Edwige is at her sultry best while teasing her co-star , as happens often . There's more than enough to keep the proceedings interesting and the side show of over the top characters helps to ensure that . The ending can be seen coming a mile away and provides no surprises ; but it wraps things up nicely and while this isn't a ' great ' film by any stretch of the imagination , it's certainly well worth a look for Edwige Fenech fans or collectors of Italian sex comedies .
Terror of the Tongs is a largely unknown Hammer film and , as such , isn't one the great studio's best films . It is , however , a more than decent entry in Hammer's oeuvre , and is well worth seeking out for Hammer fans . The film takes place in Hong Kong , and director Anthony Bushell does a fairly good job of capitalising on the mystery of the eastern culture . The most prominent thing about this film is no doubt the fact that it stars the great Christopher Lee - as the Chinese head of ' The Tongs ' ! It's a hilarious performance , and while Lee doesn't exactly convince the audience that he's Chinese , it brilliantly shows off his charisma and ability to hold the audience's attention . The plot focuses on a secret Hong Kong society known as ' The Red Dragon Tong ' . They kidnap the captain of a ship in Hong Kong harbour while he's trying to restrain the people who kidnapped his daughter . We then follow the attempt to free him from the Tong ; but this isn't a group of amateurs , as the society is big and powerful and freeing the captain isn't easy . The film actually isn't a lot like what I've come to expect from Hammer , as it's all played out rather seriously and there's not a hint of anything even resembling supernatural activity . The film doesn't reflect particularly well on the Chinese people - as despite being set in Hong Kong , there's hardly any natives on the cast list and the Chinese characters don't get to much that has any bearing on the plot . The atmosphere is nothing to write home about , although director Anthony Bushell manages to create just about enough tension to keep things ticking over . The acting is generally below average , with only Christopher Lee coming out of the film with any credibility - which is amazing considering the nature of his role . The film doesn't have a great deal of bite - in spite of a torture sequence and numerous scenes of drug use - although it mostly isn't boring . Overall , I can't say that The Terror of the Tongs is even near to being Hammer's finest hour , but it's a decent little rarity and worth tracking down for Hammer fans .
Interrabang is , superficially , a very beautiful film . The location used is serene and picturesque , and when you add a trio of lovely and often half naked ladies into the mix ; you have a film that was probably a lot of fun to make . It's also not a bad film to watch as while things do get a bit silly at times ; there's plenty of twists and turns in the plot and director Giuliano Biagetti manages to keep things interesting with only his small cast to rely on . The film is often considered a part of the Giallo genre ; although I wouldn't go as far as to call it one myself ; the film is more of a precursor to the genre . The plot focuses on a photographer named Fabricio . He has taken a boat with three beautiful women out to sea for a fashion shoot . It's long before the boat has a problem with the carburettor and Fabrizio hitches a lift to land in order to get a new one . While he's gone , a strange man named Mario approaches the boat and begins getting it on with the ladies ; however , he might just be the maniac on the loose in the area . One of the most noteworthy things about this film is the title , and it's noteworthy because most people will wonder exactly what an " Interrabang " is . Well the film is good enough to explain and apparently it's a cross between a question mark and an exclamation mark ; and the film uses this to try and make some sort of social commentary . . . which completely gets lost under the superficial nature of the rest of the film . The film is rather talky and that's actually the main attraction . I wouldn't be surprised to find that this film was re-cut with a load of hardcore porn added for a seventies release since there's room for it ; but the version I saw was very clean and there wasn't so much as a naked breast on display ( which while slightly disappointing , is a lot better than having this turn into a hardcore porn affair ) . There's no blood either , and clearly the director wanted the film to stay on point ; and this does actually benefit it quite well . The twists come thick and fast towards the end and that keeps things exciting ; but the actual ending itself is completely bizarre . Overall , this is a very rare thriller and thus not easy to come by . . . but I'd certainly recommend it if you can find a copy .
After the return of the infamous Hannibal Lecter to our screens in 2001 with Ridley Scott's film version of the best novel in Thomas Harris's Lecter trilogy , it's not surprising that a new version of the first novel in the series got an update a year later considering that it's previous screen version , Michael Mann's Manhunter , doesn't fit in with the other two films in the series . I do have to say that this version is both more true to Harris ' novel and an overall better film than Manhunter ; though it does have numerous shortfalls and has nothing on the masterpiece ' Silence of the Lambs ' . The plot is quite similar to the one in Silence of the Lambs , and features a cop on the hunt of a serial killer and receiving help from the incarcerated Hannibal Lecter . FBI Agent Will Graham , the captor of Hannibal Lecter , is called out of retirement to help catch a serial killer dubbed " The Tooth Fairy " by the media . The killer has already slaughtered two families and the FBI believes that another one is soon to join them ; meaning that Will Graham has no choice but to ask Hannibal Lecter for help with the case . The casting is one of the things that many critics pick up on , and that's not surprising . Anthony Hopkins effortlessly slips back into the role that he will always be associated with ; although he's far more comical here than in previous Lecter films . As anyone who has read the book will tell you , Edward Norton is completely wrong for the role of Will Graham as the role needed a grittier actor . Harvey Keitel is a great actor , but Scott Glenn from Silence of the Lambs fit the role of Jack Crawford much better . There's nothing wrong with the rest of the supporting cast , however , with Ralph Fiennes , Emily Watson and Philip Seymour Hoffman all fit into their respective roles well . There's not a great deal wrong with the plot pacing , although the film is a little slow at times and the book is much more exciting on the whole . Certain parts of the plot could have been cut out to streamline the film for the screen , although Ted Tally's screenplay is good in that it does encompass most of the important parts of the book . Obviously this film is always going to come under criticism for not being as great as Silence of the Lambs and it does have nothing on the book , but overall Red Dragon is a decent enough thriller in it's own right and I cant say I dislike it .
Wicked Schoolgirls is from the same production company that brought us the hardcore ' classic ' The Taming of Rebecca . I wasn't really expecting much out of it ; but to my surprise , this film is at least on par with the aforementioned title ; although largely for different reasons . The plot focuses on some school ' kids ' who are all sleeping around . One of the girls sleeps with a teacher and unfortunately for her ; someone photographs it and starts blackmailing her ! However , she decides to get her brother Jock to sort things out for her . The film is touted to be hardcore porn ; and there certainly is some hardcore porn to be found in it , but it's not nearly as dirty and sleazy as some other genre efforts . That's not really a bad thing , however , as while it might not please all fans of this sort of stuff ; the film does have enough to fall back on . Wicked Schoolgirls is an immensely cheap production and this is obvious at all times ; be it through the bad picture quality , awful acting and / or the tacky script , and this is really what makes the film so fun to watch . It pretty much becomes an unintentional comedy after so long and while it's not really a turn on - it is rather funny . I'd actually recommend this more to bad movie fans than hardcore porn admirers ; but I would imagine that both groups of film fans will find something to like here .
Go Gorilla Go is probably most notable for its strange title , and this carries over into the film ; as while it takes obvious inspiration from some big genre classics ; the film features some strange plotting and a storyline that is a bit unusual on genre terms . Director Tonino Valerii previously directed the excellent but complicated Giallo My Dear Killer and clearly has a talent for delivering convoluted story lines as Go Gorilla Go features one too ! The film focuses on Marco ; an undercover police officer who is also working as a body guard for a shady underworld figure . He's also got a brother who is not exactly squeaky clean and has contacts with a few other ' Gorillas ' who are in the same line as he is . It's not long before our hero gets involved in a kidnap plot along with his brother and his underworld boss and this plot is ran parallel with a load of others and the whole thing gets rather complicated . Luckily , however , it's all spun together with a whole load of action scenes ; many of which are really well done . We've got the usual compliment of car chases and fist fights , but the main standout is a sequence that sees the lead character trapped in an elevator with the bottom taken out . The final car chase , which involves a train a la The French Connection , is also very well executed . The lead role is taken by Fabio Testi and the actor looks the part and plays it well . The rest of the cast is filled out mostly by lesser known Italian actors , but they get on well as an ensemble and bad dubbing aside , the film is above average in the acting department . The way that the story flows does get a bit too confusing at times as we constantly switch from one thing to another , but at least the proceedings are kept entertaining for most of the duration , before exploding in the final third . This film is not very well known and as such has become rather hard to come by . In the grand spectrum of Italian police films ; this one is not one of the more important ones or one of the best , but for anyone that considers themselves a fan of this genre ; Go Gorilla Go is certainly worth a look and comes recommended .
I can't say I'm a fan of James Bond films - I've seen them all ( except the original spoof ' Casino Royale ' ) , and Goldfinger is the only film that I rate highly ; but I was interested in seeing this one for the fact that there's a new Bond , and he's so different from all those who have gone before . Director Martin Campbell is no stranger to making Bond films with a new lead as he was the man that helmed the well-received Pierce Brosnan debut Goldeneye back in 1995 . This one , however , is wildly different from the rest for reasons other than just the new Bond - as we have an unfortunate lack of gadgets , as well as an overall darker and more serious tone . The plot line isn't the most megalomaniacal of the series , and simply focuses on Le Chiffre ; a terrorist accountant with a talent for playing poker . He decides to set up a high stakes poker game in Montenegro after his other plan was thwarted by MI6's newest agent , James Bond . Coincidentally , Bond happens to be the best poker player in the organisation and so the government funds his ten million dollar entrance fee . . . but he has to win , otherwise Britain will be directly funding terrorism ! Being a talented poker player myself , I was a little worried that the film may focus on the turgid ' stud ' form of poker ; but fortunately , it's the more exciting Texas Hold'Em that takes centre stage . The film doesn't focus too much on poker , but what we do get is completely overblown ; along with the rest of the film . Of course , I'd be complaining more if it wasn't ; and Martin Campbell provides a good mix of big stunts and smaller one on one fights . The real star of the show is , of course , the new Bond ; and Daniel Craig does a really good job in the central role . The James Bond series really needed some new life injected into it , and Craig adequately provides that . He is joined by the stunningly sexy Eva Green who takes the ' Bond Girl ' role , while Mads Mikkelsen is a distinctive baddie and the film is rounded off by Judy Dench and Italian actor Giancarlo Giannini , who starred in the classic Giallo ' Black Belly of the Tarantula ' with no less than three Bond girls ! Overall , Casino Royale is certainly an enjoyable slice of celluloid , but despite its overblown emotional scenes - that's all it is . But even so , it would be difficult to get bored during this film , and it gets a thumbs up for that reason .
Bluebeard is probably most notable for the fact that its lead star , John Carradine , famously named his role here as his favourite across his lengthy list of film credits . It's easy to see why the man himself enjoyed playing this part so much too - Carradine's role in Bluebeard allows him to act at his most sinister , and the film really depends on him as this is very much a one-man story . Carradine has just the right look for this sort of role also , and all these elements combine nicely to ensure that Carradine's part in this film is a success . The base for the plot is one of cinema's most common and most prolific , but this film is notable for being one of the earlier films to use it . We follow a deranged madman who likes to paint girl's pictures before he strangles them to death . The man himself is famous for two completely different lives ; in one , he is the notorious serial killer ' Bluebeard ' , who prays on beautiful young women - and in the other he's Gaston Morrell , a dapper up and coming young painter . This film's major problem is certainly not with the plot , stars , or style ; it's with the plotting . Bluebeard falls down primarily because it moves at snail pace . The plot is intriguing , but the way it presents itself is the opposite , and it's a shame because , if handled with care , this film could have been really good instead of just being good . Director Edgar G . Ulmer is most famous for his directing credit on classic film ' The Black Cat ' , and is lesser known for his set design on films such as Fritz Lang's Die Nibelungen , M and Metropolis ; as well as silent classics ; Sunrise and Der Golem . Ulmer's previous experience helps him with Bluebeard , as the film is constantly atmospheric , and the director makes best use of his simple sets by way of his use of the camera and the murky black and white cinematography . The film is very bleak throughout , and this massively helps the plot as it gives the film just the right amount of foreboding . Plots like this have been turned into better films since the release of this film over sixty years ago ; but Bluebeard is still well worth seeing . The film starts out slow , but it does pick up and not even an extremely overlong puppet sequence can fully degenerate the film into the realms of absolute boredom . It's not must see ; but worth seeing if the chance presents itself .
Stephen King's repertoire of books turned into films isn't all that good on the whole , but the list does have a few solid entries ; and Salem's Lot is one of them . The cut that I saw was the cinema version , which has been cut down from the three hour TV version . Because of this , the film is overlong in places and incoherent in others ; but if you ignore that little fact , what you have here is a nice little vampire flick . The story takes place in the small town of ' Salem's Lot ' . If I were to name a town , I wouldn't call it ' Salem's Lot ' because with that name , something evil is bound to happen . It's like calling your town ' Werewolf Creek ' or ' Demonic Possession Falls ' - you just wouldn't do it ! Anyway , Salem's Lot becomes a town of vampires after the local weirdo orders a strange package from somewhere . The plot follows a writer that has gone back to Salem's Lot to finish his book . Once murders start occurring , the inept police sergeant suspects the local weirdo , but the writer has more imaginative ideas about what's going on . . . and sees that it may be down to vampires ! The special effects in Salem's Lot are very cheesy - so cheesy , in fact , that I got the impression that they were like that on purpose . The way that the small town is presented is good , and it gives director Tobe Hooper lots of chances to create an atmosphere around the story . He handles the atmosphere side of the film with great skill , and that makes up one of the film's best assets . There's a reason why many fans consider this Hooper's only good movie besides The Texas Chain Saw Massacre , and the atmosphere is probably it . The story does take a while to get going , but the way that it introduces the characters is good and through it's atmosphere and the way that the story moves ; the film never gets boring . I haven't read the book of ' Salem's Lot ' , so I cant comment on how the film relates to the writing ; but I can say that it's nice to see the man that is probably the best contender to the crown of ' modern master of horror ' handling a story about vampires in a traditional way . I loved the way that King didn't try to distance the story from the genre clichés , and it's nice to see a ' true ' vampire film . Overall - good stuff and highly recommended !
Full Moon seem to have a rather poor reputation arising from the fact that many of their films are low budget and not exactly masterpieces , but the company certainly does well when it comes to H . P . Lovecraft , and while this film isn't up to the standard that Stuart Gordon went on to set with Castle Freak , Lurking Fear is still a good example of low budget horror . I've not read the Lovecraft short story that the film is based on , so I can't say how faithful to the original material it is ; but the film features a number of Lovecraft's trademarks , and the central theme of a town overrun by strange otherworldly creatures is pure Lovecraft . The plot centres on the town of Leffert's Corners , which as mentioned , has a problem with strange otherworldly creatures . A man named John Martense also has a problem also as his criminal father happened to bury a corpse in Leffert's Corners , which is filled with money ; and he isn't the only one that wants it . We then follow John Martense and a group of three would-be robbers who arrive at the town just as the locals are preparing a spectacular fight back . The main problem with this film really is that not enough happens . We focus on a claustrophobic church where the locals have holed up , and while the atmosphere is good and every now and then someone gets killed , the characters aren't interesting enough to pull it through as well as possible , and the creatures never take centre stage . But even so , I enjoyed this film as its PURE horror ; we don't get mixed up in any needless subplots , and director C . Courtney Joyner ( who has directed a slew of trashy horror flicks ) keeps the focus on the central theme well . The acting isn't up to much , but the cast just about pull it through . Jeffrey Combs is never far from H . P . Lovecraft , and I always enjoy seeing him in films . Hellraiser's Ashley Laurence makes a welcome appearance and is actually very sexy , while Allison Mackie does well as her opposite number . The film gets better as it goes along , and the director just about succeeds in building tension on the way to the ending , which wraps everything up nicely . Overall , this is not a great film and I wouldn't recommend going out of your way to see it ; but its fun enough and definitely worth watching .
Episodes of The Twilight Zone are always based on intriguing ideas that make you think , and this one takes its plot from the idea of superstitions . Nick of Time was the follow up to the stunning ' Eye of the Beholder ' , and as you might expect ; it can't live up to that episode . However , this tale benefits from its good natured humour and intriguing premise . We follow a honeymooning couple , who have to stop in a small town after their car breaks down . They go for a bite to eat in the local café , and soon become obsessed with the gimmicky napkin dispenser that will predict your future for a penny . When several of its predictions come true . . . they come to believe that there may be more to this item that its gimmicky exterior suggests . This tale is very dialogue based , and most of the plot stems from the chatter between the couple . This dialogue is well written , and the tale constantly pulls you into their plight . Nick of Time then climaxes nicely with a stimulating finale that is typical of Rod Serling's TV show . Sure , it's not the best episode of the series ; but as usual , this tale is well worth 25 minutes of your life .
What we have here is a film that sort of bridges the gap between suburbanite drama and extremely dark science fiction . The story is massively famous by now and has obvious implications about gender roles and each sex's thoughts towards their spouse . However , at its heart , The Stepford Wives is a brilliant mystery thriller that has as much in the way of intrigue as it does in social commentary . The film is based on a book by Ira Levin , who previously wrote feminist horror novel ' Rosemary's Baby ' . The two films are somewhat similar in theme as both focus around what is usually seen as women's work - childbirth in Rosemary's Baby and keeping house in this film . The plot focuses around the town of Stepford and the Eberhart family who are new in town . It would seem that something is up with the place immediately as the women seem completely detached and only interested in house work . The wife , Joanna , soon meets up with fellow new arrival Bobbie Markowe and the two begin to believe that something has happened to the other women , and decide to investigate . The atmosphere is a key element in this film , and director Bryan Forbes capitalises on that by giving Stepford a welcoming atmosphere that always borders on being mysterious and somehow not quite right . The story can be a little slow at times , and as most people will know the twist before going into the film , it can sometimes feel like its taking ages to get where it's going . However , the film keeps the audience interested by constantly hinting at the problem with Stepford and feeding us only small pieces of the puzzle at a time . It has to be said that the plot doesn't completely make sense - there are a few plot holes , and the reason for the men in Stepford wanting a " Stepford wife " doesn't really stand up to scrutiny - but I feel that The Stepford Wives finds making it's point to be more important than minor plot details , and it does that well . It all boils down to a nice conclusion , which wraps up the story well and provides a nice little shock for the audience to digest . Overall , The Stepford Wives isn't quite a masterpiece - but it's certainly a very good film and I definitely recommend it !
Gerard Damiano directed two hardcore porn classics before directing this film - those being the influential Deep Throat and The Devil in Miss Jones , but for my money ; The Story of Joanna blows them both out of the water and is the best and most erotic of the three . The film apparently takes influence from the classic French tale of sadomasochism ' The Story of O ' and focuses on a strange relationship between two people . There isn't really a story to speak of as it's more just a premise from which the director springs all the sadomasochism and sex scenes . Basically , what we have is a rich aristocrat named Jason and his maid ? a submissive woman named Joanna . Their relationship begins in the aftermath of a meal in which Joanna proclaims that everybody needs to be loved , and Jason responds by bending her over a table and having his way with her . Jason then informs Joanna that despite her love for him , he will never love her back but still exposes her to all sorts of cruelty including bondage and sex with other lovers . The film has a classical setting and it's almost like the director was spoofing the classic romance pictures as the mood , music and performances all adhere to a higher level than what is usually expected from a porn film . This is one of my favourite things about The Story of Joanna ; it does feel very high quality and it bodes really well with the sadomasochistic sex scenes . Both the leads approach the film well and put in good performances . Terri Hall is absolutely beautiful and fits into the title role well and convinces as the submissive side of the central relationship . In contrast , Jamie Gillis is mysterious and brooding as the dominant partner which bodes well later on when the twist in the tale is revealed . The sex scenes are of course what most people will see the film for and the director clearly knows how to film something erotically as the sex in this movie is very good . It's also not overused and actually feels like the director is holding back on it at times ; which is actually refreshing as porn with wall to wall sex can be a bit dull . Overall , this is a fantastic porn film and comes highly recommend ; I'd rate it the second best S & M themed porn after the masterpiece The Punishment of Anne .
Based on a stage play by John Hopkins and directed by Sidney Lumet , The Offence is a dark and dismal tale of police brutality . I am not at all surprised to learn that this film did not do well at the box office upon its release in the summer of 1972 ; and the reason for that is simply that it is not a film for everyone . The uncompromisingly bleak tone as well as the unpleasant subject matter will be too much for some , but if you can get past that ; what we have here is a very intense and interesting character study , as well as a film that sees the great Sean Connery give one of the best performances of his impressive career . The plot focuses on a series of brutal attacks on young girls . Experienced Detective Johnson has brought in a suspect whom he believes may be the one who carried out the attacks and begins to interview him . During the interview , Johnson comes to believe more and more that the man he is speaking to is the man behind the attacks and after discussing with him , the detective finally loses his rag and takes it out on the suspect . Sidney Lumet is a great director who often doesn't get the respect he deserves . The director has had hits with films such as Dog Day Afternoon and 12 Angry Men ; but films such as this one and Equus often don't get the respect they deserve and that's a shame . While this film is not perfect and parts of it are more interesting than others ; the director ensures that the tension is bubbling all the time and every exchange between the central character and whoever he is talking to ( e . g . the suspect , his wife , his boss ) is very intense and we are often allowed to get inside the character's head . This is also thanks to the great Sean Connery who is absolute powerhouse in the lead role and constantly impresses throughout the film . The story asks a lot of questions and doesn't give out all the answers ; which serves in making the film more interesting as the viewer is forced to come to their own conclusions . The final half hour of the film is truly brilliant and this part alone justifies the entire story . The Offence may not have the best reputation ; but it's a film well worth seeing and I highly recommend it .
Obviously the big fear with this film was that it wasn't going to be as good as the TV shows ; and while I wouldn't say that this movie is The Simpsons at their very best , the movie does give many of the episodes a run for their money and it certainly is very funny overall . Another fear for this film was that it might not make the transition from small screen to big screen in a way that feels right ; and while this is hard for the movie to get over since we're all so used to seeing them on the small screen , and I cant really say that it particularly ' feels ' like a movie ; I cant make that too much of a criticism since I enjoyed the movie on the whole . Given more of a running time , you would expect a plot that is ' bigger ' than the average episode's plot and it is . There's the usual Simpsons trick of first featuring a seemingly irrelevant plot , but soon it becomes clear that the plot is focused on Lake Springfield , which gets cleaned up before Homer decides to dump a load of waste in there ; leading the Government to take the drastic action of having Springfield encased in a giant dome , and having the locals take it out on the Simpson family . . . As is often the case with the show , the jokes here are varied and so personally I wasn't laughing all the way through , though the movie does feature something for everyone , which is a plus . There's no real point in talking about the voices or the animation ; all of which are just what everyone is used to . The film maybe does try to be a little too expansive ; obviously the Simpsons creators wanted to go for a big blockbuster sort of feel , but personally I would have preferred a ' smaller ' story such as the one featured in the classic dual episode ' Who Shot Mr Burns ' . I can remember the moment I really decided I wanted to see this film ; it was shortly after seeing the trailer , which featured the supremely silly ' Spiderpig ' song as sung by Homer . This is a brilliant little gag , and definitely the funniest thing in the film for me . The film does try and bring all of the Simpson family into the plot ; though as it often the case with the episodes , it's really Homer and Bart that are the main stars ( being the most interesting characters ) and that is OK with me . Overall , I wouldn't rank this as a big favourite were it an episode ; but The Simpsons Movie certainly works well as a comedy and I'm glad the yellow-skinned family have finally reached the big screen .
Dead Man is a unique piece of film . As this is my first taste of Jim Jarmusch , I had no idea of what to expect , but even if I had ; I reckon that this film wouldn't have conformed to them . Dead Man is a surreal and trippy western that peels itself away from the staples of the genre and succeeds in creating something truly one-off and self-styled . Lead by a score written by Neil Young , Dead Man is continually satisfying and powerful ; and you get the impression that every scene has been fully thought through , and is perfectly realised as the auteur intended . For this reason , Dead Man captivates it's viewer from the moment it starts until the moment it ends , and as it descends into full blown trippy weirdness , you can do nothing but stare in admiration of this strange gem of cult cinema . The plot is thin on the ground and it largely lacks meaning , but it doesn't matter because Dead Man is a purely aesthetic experience . Still , it follows William Blake ( Johnny Depp ) , an accountant from Cleveland that arrives in a town to take a job offer , only to find that the vacancy has already been filled ? Dead Man is filmed in very stark black and white , which only adds to the surrealism of the story . Had this film have been done in colour , it would not have captured the same atmosphere that the black and white gives it ; and so this decision was an inspired one indeed . One staple of the western genre that Jarmusch is keen to retain is the use of close-ups . The director spends a lot of time caressing Depp's facial features with his camera and , at times , even focuses on his lead actor when the action doesn't concern him . Aside from keeping in with the western tradition , this also allows Jarmusch to keep the focus on the main character , which keeps the viewer focused on his plight . For this film , Jarmusch has put together a cast of B-movie icons that will have B-movie fans foaming at the mouth . Crispin Glover , Robert Mitchum , Billy Bob Thornton , Lance Henriksen , Gabriel Byrne , John Hurt , Alfred Molina and even Iggy Pop feature and it's great to see so many faces in the same movie . The cast is , of course , lead by a man who is perhaps today's best actor ; Johnny Depp . Depp's name on a credit list speaks for itself , and I don't need to tell you that his performance is great ; nor do I need to point out the effortless cool that this movie exudes , largely thanks to the great man's presence . My only advice is see it . . . see it now .
From the talented team of Roger Corman , Vincent Price and , of course , Edgar Allen Poe comes this lively and inventive trio of horror stories ; Tales of Terror . I've got to tell you straight off ; it's a shame that this film was made . It's not that it isn't a good film , I enjoyed it very much but it's a shame because all three of the stories featured here could have made stand alone films , and it's a bit of a waste in that respect , as I'm sure I aren't the only one that would rather have three Corman-Poe films than just one . Still , it was made so we might as well make the best of it . The first story is a lot like Corman's excellent earlier film , ' The Fall of the House of Usher ' and stars Vincent Price as the father of the girl whose mother believes murdered her . The father has gone insane since his wife left him and her corpse remains rotting within the walls of his house . This tale is very short , and we don't get a lot of time for the important things such as atmosphere building or character development due to it being short ; but it's a nice little tale non the less and gets the audience in the mood for Poe's style of story telling . The second and longest tale is based on one of Poe's most famous stories , ' The Black Cat ' and stars Peter Lorre as the drunk who discovers his wife is having an affair and proceeds to take revenge . This tale has been covered many times and from many different angles , from the 1934 classic to Fulci's version , all the way to Argento's take on it in Two Evil Eyes ; but not one of them has ever truly done the story justice in my opinion ; and in spite of this starring Peter Lorre and featuring a performance from Vincent Price , this one doesn't quite do it either . Peter Lorre , however , is fantastic and it's always a treat to see him on screen . His performance here has definite comedy elements in it , and seeing scenes such as the part where Price and Lorre taste wine are delightfully , if absurdly , funny . The black cat itself doesn't really get enough screen time in this tale , and that's what I think keeps it from being the definitive version . The third , final and best tale of the trilogy again stars Vincent Price and covers another tale that was covered in 1990's Two Evil Eyes ; The Case of Mr . Valdemar . George Romero helmed the Two Evil Eyes version and caught a lot of flack for it , and for good reason as it was rubbish ; this version , however , certainly isn't . The story is ingenious , but that's elementary since Edgar Allen Poe wrote it . Vincent Price gives a great performance ( albeit one that is mostly done in voice over ) and the tale is actually quite frightening . All of the tales in the story deal with something death related , but this one does it best and the story actually comes across as being feasible . . . spooky .
Antonio Bido's previous foray into the Giallo sub genre , The Cat's Victims , was a rather messy and highly derivative affair , so I'm pleased to report that he's improved greatly for this follow-up . Typically for Giallo , The Blood-Stained Shadow features a convoluted plot , and unfortunately Bido's plot pacing can be a little off at times , as the film is painfully slow at some points , and then whimsically clever at others . Luckily , the director uses the atmosphere from the Venetian Island upon which the film is set well , and even during the ' down time ' , there is enough about the film to keep it ticking over in a pleasant manner . The plot starts with a shot of a dead body ; a young girl whose murderer was never discovered . We pick up the plot some time later when a young man has returned to his home , which also happens to be the place where his brother , the local priest , lives . After having being told by his brother of all the immoral people in the town , a group which includes gamblers , perverts and con artists , the dead bodies begin to pile up . Is there a connection with the murder years earlier ? The Cat's Victims was clearly very derivative of the great Dario Argento , and this film is too . The film isn't as well put together as the likes of Deep Red and Tenebrae , but Bido does a good job of imitating the superior director . The murder scenes are very well orchestrated and really quite nasty also ; as we've got a man getting an axe through the heart , a woman having her head forced into a fire and other such gory highlights . The score by Stelvio Cipriani is a particular highlight , as the heavy tones suit the movie excellently and provide it with one of its strongest elements . Naturally with this kind of plot , it can be a little difficult to follow at times as random events occur at regular intervals ; but Bido makes good of it by the end , as everything comes together in a way that makes sense and manages a genuine surprise for the audience . Overall , while The Blood-Stained Shadow isn't one of the heavyweight ' must see ' films of the Giallo cycle , it has enough strongpoint's to ensure that it will be a point of interest for Giallo fans , and while the director has borrowed , perhaps even a little too much , seeing all the common Giallo elements in a film together is a treat . Recommended !
Irreversible is a thoroughly unpleasant cinematic experience . It clearly knows this , and is keen to revel in it as the disorientating camera angles and monotonous tones of the soundtrack in the early moments of the film show . In fact , Irreversible appears to be on a mission to be as horrible and as nasty as it can possibly be and the result is a truly powerful film experience . After a lovely little epilogue to Gaspar Noé's earlier film , I Stand Alone , we are taken on a thriller ride through gay clubs and the underworld of France as our hero sets out for retribution after his girlfriend was raped and beaten by an unknown assailant . This isn't all , however , as the film professes that " time destroys everything " and to portray that , the events are shown in reverse order . This is clearly a result of Memento's influence on modern cinema , and it bodes really well in this film as the fact that the events are ' irreversible ' would not have been able to be shown so destructively if the film followed the usual storytelling methods . Some people will come out of Irreversible asking themselves what it is that they've seen , why they watched it and why they feel guilty about watching it - and this is why Irreversible is so powerful . Cinema can have a profound effect on it's viewer , and Irreversible is one of the most adept films at showing this . During the film , we witness a man having his head caved in ( literally ) with a fire extinguisher , various perverted acts and , of course , the infamous rape scene involving Monica Bellucci . This scene is not a scene to be enjoyed , but at the same time it's utterly captivating ? and despite the fact that it lasts over ten minutes and is thoroughly unpleasant , we don't notice and what Gaspar Noé has created is , in essence a train wreck - it's horrible , but at the same time we cant take our eyes away from it . This shows what a visual talent Noé is , as , for one , few filmmakers would dare to implement a sequence such as this in their film , and many wouldn't have the talent to portray it as horribly and intriguingly as he does here . Make no mistake , this film is not one for the faint hearted - but at the same time , it stays with you and it's not an experience you are likely to forget . Which makes it must see .
I didn't go into this film with massively high hopes - but I don't know why , as Midnight Express is surely one of the best ' hidden gems ' that I've seen ! The film is almost three decades old now , making it strange that it hasn't turned up in this decade with a better reputation . Starring Brad Davis and directed by Alan Parker , this British production follows the frightening idea of being trapped in a foreign prison . Adding to that is the fact that it's actually based a true story . The real life Billy Hayes ( Davis ' character in this film ) wrote the book ' Midnight Express ' , from which this film takes it's inspiration . The idea of being caught breaking the law in another country is handled well in this film , and Alan Parker always ensures that the prison environment is dark and claustrophobic , with the focus being on the state of mind of the main character at all times . It's very easy to get into this film , and the linear plot helps this massively . These days it's customary to mess around with plotting in an attempt to be as original as possible ; but Midnight Express proves how a straight story can allow the audience to connect with the characters . Midnight Express benefits from an array of great actors in the central roles . Brad Davis , as mentioned , takes the lead role and manages to capture just the right amount of naivety and self-preservation to make the role believable . He is joined by big name actors Randy Quaid and John Hurt , while smaller name actors such as Bo Hopkins , Paolo Bonacelli and Mike Kellin give it their all in their respective parts . For justice to work the crime must fit the punishment ; and this is something that makes this film obviously based on a book by the prisoner himself . We never seen the main character admit that he's done anything wrong , and the focus is always put on him wanting to get out of jail . This is wrong in a way , as if people were allowed to get away with crime ; there would be no law - but on the other hand , it allows us to get into the accused's head a little more , and this ultimately makes the final payoff far more rewarding . Overall , I'm not saying this film is without problems ; but it's definitely well worth seeing . The acting and directing are fabulous , and this film also benefits from being based on a great true story . I'd maybe even label it ' must see ' .
Lamberto Bava's films may not have the cutting edge that many of his father's did , but the good thing about it is that you can always count on a decent thrill ride , and while You'll Die at Midnight doesn't set the genre on fire ; it's a more than decent Giallo and I'm pretty certain that regular viewers will get a lot out of it . Being released in 1986 , this one comes very late in the Giallo cycle although it recaptures that mysterious feel of the classic Giallo's well and the cinematography is good despite the fact that this obviously wasn't an A-class production . The plot is pure Giallo , and focuses on a murderer . We start by focusing on Nicola ; a man who spots his wife buying lingerie and notices she has an affair . After arguing and almost killing her , he visits his colleague Anna , but shortly after he leaves the house ; someone breaks in and murders his wife ! Naturally , Nicola is the main suspect , but Anna , a psychologist , sees signs that the murder may have been committed by the so-called " Midnight Ripper " . The only problem is that The Midnight Ripper has been dead for several years . . . The film features lots of scenes reminiscent of classic Giallo's , and many of the murders are memorable . The kitchen scene is probably my favourite , but the murder scene inside a lingerie store has a more nasty edge . There isn't a great deal of variety with the weapons , but at least Lamberto ensures that the imagery is good and the film is always at least interesting . You'll Die at Midnight is pretty short , running at around 85 minutes and this is a good thing as it means that there is little filler and the film doesn't really have time to become boring . You'll Die at Midnight has more of a range of central victim characters than many other Giallo's too , and this makes the film more interesting as the killer appears to be after each one for different reasons . Naturally , it all builds into a final twist ; which although somewhat silly ( as the climaxes in these films often are ) , it's interesting enough and somehow ( almost ) makes sense in the context of the film . Overall , I can't say that this is a classic example of the genre ; but like Lamberto's other Giallo attempts ; it's certainly worth watching !
To be honest , I'm not a massive fan of James Bond films . I do , however , tend to enjoy the ones starring Sean Connery ; and while it doesn't touch the masterpiece ' Goldfinger ' , From Russia With Love is definitely one of Bond's better adventures . It's also one of the few films that has managed to keep a solid reputation after it's release . While many of Bond's adventures are strictly cult flicks , or just not very well liked ; this one is often cited as great film by critics from all corners , and there's a reason for that . This is the Bond film that set the staples of the series , including the theme music and many of the regular characters . The story is typical of the sixties and fires James Bond straight into the thick of the Cold War . We follow the maverick secret agent as he attempts to foil a plot by the evil corporation S . P . E . C . T . R . E . to steal a Lektor ( Russian decoding device ) . As James Bond walks straight into their trap , he must thwart both their agents and the Russians , as the East faces the West a la the Cold War . My main problem with this plot is that it's not on a big enough scale . The only thing at stake is a decoding device which , while still not a bad prize , makes the film feel like a big song and dance for a very small payoff . Still , the plot is handled with great skill and while the film doesn't feature any stunts that rival some of the more recent Bond offerings ; the ones that do feature definitely work and succeed in getting the adrenaline flowing . The film is definitely a lot better as we get past the hour mark . The first hour features rather a lot of talking and not much action ; and while I don't really have a problem with this , most people tune into Bond flicks for smart wit and action sequences . The second hour makes up for the slow first , as we are treated to a climax that takes place on rail , road and water . Sean Connery is , without a doubt , the best man to ever play James Bond . His persona and mannerism fits the character brilliantly and , in my opinion , was never properly replaced . On the whole , this isn't as great as Goldfinger ; but it is a very good film . From Russia With Love is one of the few that will appeal to Bond and Non-Bond fans alike !
This movie is often described as ' When Sally met Sally . . . ' , and that is an accurate portrayal of what this movie is . It's a love story like any other , but this story is different . We have the normal ' two people meet and fall in love ' scenario , but the difference here is that these two characters are the same sex , and that's what sets the film apart from it's counterparts . The central character is the lady from the title ; Jessica Stein . Jessica is caught in a New York metropolis ; populated by shallow people , people that are more interested in setting dates up with their friends and learning the dictionary cover to cover than they are in forming proper relations with people . This is the reason that Jessica can't find herself a man , she isn't happy to settle for second best and she wants more from a relationship than any man she knows can give her . So , after being told why she can't find herself a man by her big-headed colleague , Josh Myers ; Jessica decides to step outside of her box a little and answers an ad in the ' women seeking women ' section of the newspaper . Enter Helen Cooper ; the lady that placed the ad , and seasoned bi-sexual . She's sexy , quirky , funny and all together lovable ; as Jessica says at one point ; " Who wouldn't want to have sex with you ? " , and that is my thoughts entirely . At first , Jessica is cautious , she is predominantly straight at the end of the day and she's in over her head at first . However , the two hit it off almost immediately , and we get to watch their romance blossom . The fact that lesbianism ( or homosexuality in general ) is taboo is always apparent throughout this film . Helen is more of a free spirit , and the only friends of hers that we see are gay anyway , so she is always open about it . It's not the same story for Jessica , however ; she's always been straight , so being open about such a relationship isn't so easy for her . That's the second half of this story ; not only is it a comedy ; it's also a social commentary , and it rings true not just for this subject ; but just about anything that people do that isn't of the norm . The two leads are played very well by Jennifer Westfeldt ( Jessica ) and Heather Juergensen ( Helen ) . These two not only do the acting , but they also wrote the film . It is evident that women wrote it , as it has a very feminine feel throughout . There is no sex in the movie , which might disappoint some viewers and instead the movie focuses on the relationship between the women and the impact that it has on their lives . This is a very good thing , as what could have been lost in a myriad of nudity and sexual innuendo , actually comes off as a very personal study of a taboo relationship . The film is also very funny . The humour on offer isn't overly blatant , and is mostly very dry ; but it's definitely there and certain moments of the film literally had me in stitches . Despite all that I've so far , however ; this movie isn't perfect . The character of Jessica , although obviously born of the social-conscious New York atmosphere , and therefore it is to be expected , sometimes goes over the top and can come across as being very annoying . Aside from that , the film features far too much music . It's practically saturated in it , and it's always that sad women's elevator music that I hate . The film also loses steam in it's third act , and never regains the humour and pace of the first two . Like ( too ) many romance films , Kissing Jessica Stein features an ambiguous ending . Call me old fashioned , but I like a film to end properly and therefore I don't like ambiguous endings , so that was a turn-off for me . However , Kissing Jessica Stein is an underrated gem and is most definitely romantic comedy at the top of it's game . See it , you won't regret it .
I had relatively high hopes for ' The Descent ' before going into it . Neil Marshall proved that he has a good understanding of the horror genre with his debut , ' Dog Soldiers ' , which is also a film that I like very much and don't hesitate to name as one of the best horror films of the new millennium . This follow up to that film works on the same terms ; with tension and atmosphere being more important than characters and substance , and I'm pleased to say that Marshall has created another worthy modern horror flick . It's clear that he wanted to be more original this time round , as the monsters here are of his own creation rather than being classic horror icons , like the werewolves in Dog Soldiers . The plot follows an all girl group of cavers who descend down into a cave somewhere in the UK . Things quickly go awry for our team , when , in a surprisingly tense scene , part of the cave collapses and seals them inside . Things get worse still when it turns out that they're not the only ones down there ; and what is down there with them isn't exactly friendly . . . Through a gritty and realistic plot pacing , Marshall has managed to take a simple premise and turn it into a slick and extremely suspenseful horror thrill ride . The film is slow to start , with only one exciting event in the first half hour , but once the movie starts properly ; the thrills come thick and fast , and even when the plotting slows down ; you can always count on there being another moment to drag you back into the action . I'm not usually a person that jumps during the ' jumpy ' movie scenes ; but this movie actually did the trick ! Marshall obviously knows what makes horror movies work too , as he spends much of the film building a foreboding atmosphere , which is complimented by the isolated setting of the cave , which is two miles underground . He keeps the atmosphere going with a plethora of different tricks , including ' Argento-style ' lighting , which he realistically blends into the movie by way of the lights that the girls take down into the cave with them . The film always breaths a sense of the horror of journeying into the unknown too , and this along with the tension filled atmosphere and realistic way that the horror is presented ensures that the film always sticks firmly to it's horror style . It's clear that Neil Marshall is more interesting in creating a film that shocks more than anything else , and this is shown by the complete lack of characterisation . Marshall does give his girls something of a story , but it's never the focal point of the film and , in fact , it's hard to really care about it . This does bring the film down , as the girls are clearly in the movie just as an excuse to show the horror , and this makes sure that the film is as empty as it is stylish . This isn't all bad though , as the style is consistent ; and the way that monsters have been designed reflects that . Much like the werewolves in Dog Soldiers , the fiends here look great and despite the fact that they're a work of fiction ; they even have some sort of reality about them . The scenes with the monsters in , however , bring the film down . For some reason , Marshall has opted to fast edit the sequences , and while this succeeds in being disorientating and true to dark surroundings of the film's environment ; it also makes it very difficult to see what's going on - which is never a good thing . The Descent isn't a great film , or even a great genre film , but it's style , effects and fair amount of gore will ensure that horror fans will be pleased ; and if that doesn't grab you , the vast amount of tension in the film certainly will . It definitely is nice , however , to see a modern film that isn't afraid that show blood and gore , along with a bit of imagination . It's even better to see , due to the wave of Japanese and American remakes getting unjust high praise , that the film is home-grown right here in the UK ! Overall , The Descent isn't ' must see ' , but it's well worth seeing and I recommend it .
GoldenEye is often reputed to be the best of Pierce Brosnan's outings as Bond , and one of the best of the series period . There is a reason for this . Brosnan and director Martin Campbell had a big job on their hands - reinventing Bond for the nineties while still retaining that classic Bond atmosphere can't be easy , but it's safe to say that they achieved this aim admirably . Brosnan would actually go on to become one of my least favourite Bonds with subsequent outings , but here he fits the lead role like a glove . The plot is typically overblown , but I'm sure nobody would want it any other way . The plot focuses on a rumoured nuclear weapon named ' GoldenEye ' , and , as always , it is up to James Bond to sort it out . He teams up with a female survivor of an attack on a Russian research centre by Russian agent Xenia Onatopp , under the orders of General Ourumov . Together Bond and the girl discover the location of the nuclear device , but it soon becomes apparent that there's more than just a terrorist plot at work as the man behind the plot wants revenge on Great Britain . The thing that sets GoldenEye apart from later Brosnan Bonds is that it features a plot line that is interesting throughout , and one that doesn't ever become silly . Director Martin Campbell excellently fuses this plot with a barrage of special effect sequences , the majority of which are spectacular and engaging . The support characters on display are strong this time round , with Alan Cumming providing entertainment as a Russian researcher , while fellow Brits Sean Bean , Judi Dench and Robbie Coltrane jump on the Bond bandwagon with gusto . The female talent comes in the form of the lovelies Famke Janssen and Izabella Scorupco , both of which provide enough in the way of eye-candy . The way that most of the Russian roles have been cast with British actors works better than you would think too , as all the talented performers do well in their respective roles . The plot of GoldenEye may not hold much weight in terms of substance or emotion , but the Bond series isn't meant to - and Martin Campbell has successfully captured that fun , over the top and entertaining style that James Bond needs , and made it work for a nineties audience .
I don't profess to know anything more about ' the McCarthy era ' than any other non-American that wasn't around in the fifties , but this film serves as both a great slice of entertainment ; and something of a history lesson . The film is said to be a comedy , although it would seem to be played out more for the drama side as aside from Woody Allen's usual neurotic quips ; there aren't actually any jokes in the film . That certainly doesn't harm it , however , as Martin Ritt's film has more than enough in reserve , as the story is interesting enough on it's own ; and themes of ' the witch-hunt ' , as well as the idea of being guilty until proved innocent shine through . The story follows Howard Prince ( Woody Allen ) a cashier who , when asked by his friend who is on the ' blacklist ' , poses as a TV writer so the blacklisted writer can still work . The film takes place in the time when paranoia over communism was rife in America , and anyone that is suspected of associating with communists was no longer allowed to work . The scam goes on , but the more Prince is dragged into it , the harder it is for him to get out . Like I say , I didn't know much about the era before going into the film ; but I'm sure it's an important part of American history ; if only for the fact that it's inspired a lot of great films , including the great original version of ' Invasion of the Body Snatchers ' . I've been a big fan of Woody Allen ever since I first saw one of his films , and his performance here takes in all the best elements of his persona . The character ; a talentless man garnering praise for someone else's work , suits Allen's personality like a glove , as the paranoid actor gets to show us how neurotic he can be . Support comes by way of the likes of Zero Mostel , Michael Murphy and Andrea Marcovicci ; and all give nice supporting performances . Director Michael Ritt ensures that the themes of the story are always rife , as the film presents a great sense of foreboding , and scenes such as the one that see an innocent writer told that he can't be got off the hook because he hasn't done anything help to ensure this . On the whole , The Front is a great classic film , and sees Allen in one of his best roles .
As many people know , George Lucas is most famous for the fact that he wrote a certain series of fantasy films . Most of those films certainly were a great achievement , but one thing that many Star Wars fans overlook is the other entries in Lucas ' list of directorial credits ; one of which is this film , American Graffiti . The movie tells the story of the last night in town for a bunch of school kids about to leave to go to college . Now , this might not seem like a great base for a classic movie to work from ; and it isn't , it's the handling that makes it great . In spite of his latest batch of movies , Lucas has shown with this movie that he has the talent to create an innovative and groundbreaking movie in spite of the plot . It's this fact that made Star Wars work so well , and it's nice to see the same effort transplanted into an earlier film that doesn't have the special effects and grandiose that Star Wars had . The energy and vitality that Lucas gives his multiple stories makes for a great ride , and American Graffiti is a lot of fun throughout . The film is most notable for the way that it captures the American youth of the sixties . It benefits from a great soundtrack that adequately helps to achieve this , and includes the likes of Buddy Holly and The Beach Boys . The film takes place in one night , and makes use of a number of different characters and story lines ; all of which are interesting and unique . A lot of which are also really funny , and this is where my favourite part of American Graffiti comes in . The film works because it's such a good time , and the way that Lucas shows us that ensures that we have just as good a time as the characters on screen are having . The events that befall the characters in the movie will no doubt touch a nerve with anyone that has gone through childhood - things such as splitting up with your girlfriend , to being forced into doing things that could get you into trouble . . . all the way to asking an adult to go into a store to buy alcohol for you are shown with great care , and show that Lucas obviously knew what he was doing when he took on this movie . On the whole . . . it's very good stuff indeed .
Some films are heavy on style and lack substance somewhat , other films have a lot of substance but lose out in the style department . Ying Xiong , however , doesn't lose out in either ; it is the perfect fusion of style and substance . The story of the film , is most definitely secondary to the amazing visuals and stunning direction , but it is not incidental ; the plot of the movie is also very important . The film is set in ancient China , which at that time was divided into seven kingdoms . The ruler of one of the kingdoms , Qin , has found himself under threat from assassins ; the three greatest of which are named Sky , Broken Sword and Falling Snow ; stupid names ? Indeed . When a young man claims to have defeated all three of these martial art masters , he is summoned to the palace in order to tell the king his story . The way that the plot pans out very much resembles the classic Japanese film , Rashômon ; in that several people end up giving their versions of events . The film switches back and fourth from past to present effortlessly , and manages to do it without being convoluted or confusing . The narrative of the film is very well structured in that way , and despite the relative complexity of the plot ; the film never becomes challenging for the viewer ; but that's not to say it isn't thought provoking either . If someone was to ask me what Ying Xiong was about , I would predominantly say sacrifice . All of the characters in the film sacrifice something , whether it be their love for another character , or their life for the cause that they believe in . Their actions are always explained , and nothing seems out of place or like it's happened by accident , which makes the story flow well and allows the film to be strong in the story department . The thing that will stick out in the viewer's mind once the credits role is without doubt the vibrant use of colour that Zhang Yimou delights in portraying . The fight scenes are spectacularly beautiful ; they're well choreographed and extremely aesthetically pleasing . I'm not a fan of the use of slow motion in fight sequences as it detracts attention away from the action , but Ying Xiong manages to use slow motion in a way that it ends up being of benefit to the movie . Most of the time it looks fake , and like the movie is trying to be overly arty ; but here it adds to the beauty . Ying Xiong is one a few films released so far this decade that is set to achieve classic status in years to come , and it demands that you see it , if only for that reason . This film is not one that you will want to miss .
Horror maestro , Mario Bava directs this intriguing and ingenious horror highlight nightmare that delves deep into the mind of a madman . Stephen Forsyth is John Harrington , the aforementioned madman . Unlike most lunatics ; John knows that he is insane . He confesses this to audience right near the start of the movie . The sequence in which he confesses is one of the creepiest and most surreal moments in the film . John confesses this to us like it is the most normal thing in the world . This confession also gives this film it's own unique edge over most giallo's ; normally , we spend the film trying to work out who the killer is , but here Mario Bava not only lets us know who it is ; but allows us to explore the murders with him ; giving us the other side of the common mystery film . Aside from being mental , John is also the owner of a wedding dress shop . He murders women on their wedding night , and every time he kills someone ; a little more of the murder of his mother is revealed . John also has a wife ; a callous lady , who says she'll " never leave him " , and a lady whom he despises . As usual with Bava ; the film is stunningly directed . Mario Bava is a man that is on top of his craft with every movie . Even when he only has a weak script or a dull story to work with ; Mario Bava's films can always be given credit on the directorial side . His influence and importance to cinema far exceeds what he is credited for . Hatchet for the Honeymoon features several memorable and electrifying sequences . See the skilful way that Mario directs the sequence in which our protagonist is talking to the police , while the hand of his freshest victim slinks silently through the rails of the banister . Few directors could direct with such skill and precision to build up tension for a character that we don't actually like ; but Mario Bava manages it admirably . The film also features hardly any blood at all ; which is much to the film's credit . Bava concentrates on the mood and the atmosphere of the film , and therefore he simply doesn't need buckets of gore . Where other directors might have put some in to help sell their film ; Bava just concentrates on what's important . Also worthy of note , as usual with Italian horror , is the music . Music helps this film massively ; it is striking and unforgettable and it establishes a foreboding mood , of which the film makes best use . The character of John Harrington , aside from being insane , is given a place in reality thanks to a brilliant performance by Stephen Forsyth . The film conveys the message that looks can be deceiving , and Stephen Forsyth is the perfect man to show that . On the outside , he is handsome and likable , but behind this facade ; he is completely insane . Stephen Forsyth manages to capture both elements of the character ; he somehow manages to do both things , despite them being complete opposites of each other . Hatchet for the Honeymoon is just another highlight in a long list of highlights from master director Mario Bava .
In a Glass Cage isn't an easy film to get on with , as despite the fact that it doesn't contain a lot of blood and gore , the film is horrifying thanks to the power of suggestion and the implications of its characters actions . The film takes in themes of the horrors of war as well the implications of child molestation , and puts these two heinous ideas into one character ; Klaus . Klaus is a former Nazi doctor turned paedophile who has found himself paralysed from the neck down after attempting to commit suicide . He now lives in a house with his wife and daughter , but must reside at all times inside a glass tube , which is referred to as his ' glass cage ' . After breaking into the house , a young man named Angelo blackmails Klaus into taking him on as a nurse , despite the wishes of Klaus ' wife who doesn't warm to the young man . However , it soon transpires that Angelo harbours a wish to become like Klaus , and begins to torture the former Nazi by instigating events to reflect what he used to enjoy , and by reading him passages from a diary detailing the man's obsession . While In a Glass Cage may not be a very enjoyable film , it has to be said that it does give its viewer a lot to think about , and writer-director Agustí Villaronga ensures that his film packs a lot of emotional weight . The way that the director keeps everything bathed in darkness helps to ensure that the look of the film is dark as its subject matter , and this helps to convey the horrific themes on display . The relationship between the doctor and his nurse always makes up the backbone of the movie , and it's also the most interesting aspect as subplots involving the wife and the daughter never reach the same dark highs . The tone of the movie is very serious , and this helped by excellent performances from all concerned . Günter Meisner's performance takes in both evil and regret , as while he doesn't get to do much physical acting ; he plays his part well . The main acting plaudits go to David Sust , however , who continually impresses with his role as the nurse ; also the meatiest role in the film . It has to be said that this isn't a movie for the feint of heart , as scenes involving young boys are not nice to watch and the nihilistic tone of the movie doesn't make it much fun . Still , if you can stomach unpleasantness ; this movie is a treat .
Larry Cohen has made a name for himself for producing offbeat horror movies , and this story of a killer deformed baby certainly belongs in his filmography . It's Alive is a huge highlight of the horror genre , and one that doesn't get the praise that it deserves . The film is notable amongst other films of similar plotting because of the way that it fully explores it's premise . Rather than focusing on the monster and the murders , Cohen sees fit to show the audience the effect that the birth of a murderous monster has on the family at the centre of the story , the government , the family friends and various other entities ; all of which helps to aid the film in it's bid to be a complete horror thriller . Of course , the film is too silly to be truly touching , but the idea of trying to get the audience to empathise with the characters in this sort of movie is nice , and it adds to kitsch campness of the movie , which does it no end of favours in this kitsch fan's opinion . The acting adheres to the typical , and much loved , B-movie styling and that is another plus point to add to this movie's resume . John P . Ryan in particular is superb as the upset father , and we see him go through a range of emotions in response to the birth of his ' son ' , which is a treat indeed . The script isn't the greatest work of art ever to be brought to the screen , but it's always inventive enough to ensure that the action stays interesting and It's Alive hardly suffers from becoming trite and boring . The creature effects aren't the best ever seen , but Larry Cohen hides this fact by never completely showing the creature . This hampers the movie in a way , as it will no doubt get on many viewers ' nerves as seeing the monster is normally a highlight of this type of movie ; but on the other hand , seeing the monster usually results in disappointment - so at least Cohen's film stays away from that ! On the whole , while this film will do nothing for fans of serious art movies ; horror fans , particularly very B-horror fans , will be in heaven . Highly recommended !
Umberto Lenzi tried his hand at just about every popular type of film in Italy during the sixties , seventies and eighties , and while he has some very nice entries on his list of directorial credits ; it has to be said that he isn't the best director to try his hand at the likes of Giallo , zombie and cannibal movies . However , when it comes to crime films ; Lenzi comes into his own , and just like Almost Human a couple of years earlier , Violent Naples is an entertaining and nasty little crime thriller . Like every film in this sub-genre , the major influence comes from the masterpiece American film ' Dirty Harry ' , and here we follow a copper not too far removed from Clint Eastwood's famous character . Commissario Betti is your typical disgruntled cop that favours violence over proper police procedure . He's fed up with the way that Naples is being run by the criminals , and so sets his sights on The Commandante . However , this man isn't easy to bring down , and since Betti is receiving no help from his fellow townsmen , the task of ending crime in Naples is left to our leading man . The title of the film leads the viewer to expect lots of violence , and Lenzi certainly doesn't disappoint in this respect . We've got bowling balls to the head , a young woman having her face scraped off on a moving train , a man impaled on a sharp fence and many other such delights . Overall , it has to be said that this film isn't very original , but Lenzi injects some freshness into it with a barrage of exciting chase scenes ( the best of which take a point of view shot from the front of a motorbike ) and violent shootouts . The good thing about these Polizia movies is that they are played out for pure entertainment value , meaning that Lenzi is free from trying to be arty , and can pack in as much violence as he likes ; a fact which is often capitalised on . The film benefits from a strong Italian cast , including Maurizio Merli ; who may be no Clint Eastwood , but still delivers a strong and entertaining lead performance . John Saxon gets to join in the fun also , and there's also a place for fellow American actor Barry Sullivan , in the role of the villain . Overall , if you're into Italian cop movies ; this isn't one to miss !
I've got to admit that I didn't have very high hopes going into this film , but to my surprise ; Running Scared turned out to be one of the most inventive and most entertaining modern thrillers that I've seen in YEARS . While the plot is highly unlikely and relies on coincidences at just about every turn , it's great fun to watch simply because you never know what's coming next , and writer-director Wayne Kramer has an obvious talent both for imagination and creating tension and suspense . Every situation in the film is extremely well handled , and it's easy to fully get behind all the right characters at every turn . Running Scared gets off to a rather generic start as we witness a bunch of thugs murder some fellow gangsters , one of which turns out to be a cop . They give the gun used for the murder to Joey Gazelle and instruct him to get rid of it . However , he doesn't count on the next door neighbour's kid taking the gun and using it to shoot his abusive step father . Now our hero has a problem , as the cops are on to the fact that the gun used by the kid is the same one that the gangsters used to murder the cop ; and he's got to find the gun before his friends find him ! One of the main reasons why I wasn't expecting much from this film was the fact that it stars Paul Walker . Not that I have anything against the guy , but the last film I saw from him was the rubbish thriller ' The Fast and the Furious ' . However , Walker is a definite asset to the film and he both looks and acts the part that he's playing . Walker is joined by talented child actor Cameron Bright , who previously put in a good performance alongside Nicole Kidman in the odd film ' Birth ' , and does well here . Fans of blood and guts will be glad to know that director Wayne Kramer doesn't cop out on that front , and succeeds in showing it as often as possible . Some of the scenes that see people being shot are extremely gritty and visceral , well over and above what I've come to expect from modern thrillers . The way that the plot moves is superb , as the director manages to tie in a number of different characters , all of which move the plot on in their own way . The fact that a lot of the film is unlikely isn't a problem either , as you can't expect too much realism from a film like this , and Kramer capitalises on that fact throughout . He even manages to throw in a surprising twist towards the end ! Overall , while this film may not break too many traditions , the fact that it fully succeeds in being entertaining and rather nasty throughout easily compensates for this . HIGHLY recommended !
Alan Parker's Mississippi Burning is a surprisingly good police thriller that mixes the intrigue and mystery of a police investigation with a commentary on American culture in the 1960's , and said people's attitudes towards racism . It's rare for a film to combine these elements properly , and many have failed at it , but through it's efficient pace and competent piecing together , Mississippi Burning achieves it's aim admirably . Mississippi Burning is a very professionally handled film and credit for that has to go to the director , who has a habit of putting together very professionally made films . The influence that this film has had on later crime investigation films such as the magnificent ' LA Confidential ' is evident throughout , and that adds yet more credibility to the proceedings . In spite of it's turbulent plot , Alan Parker never sets out directly to shock the audience , and despite several scenes of violence , it's always the film's plot that takes centre stage and Alan Parker doesn't stray from that as many other directors have done . This film doesn't need to shock and offend to get it's message across . The plot follows the disappearance of three men - two of them white Jews and the other a young black man . We then follow the fortunes of two FBI men that come into town to investigate the disappearance . The acting in the movie is strong throughout , with William Dafoe and Gene Hackman heading a strong cast . The two stars do a great job of drawing the audience into the movie , and the two shine throughout . They are joined by a host of lesser-known stars , such as Frances McDormand , Brad Dourif , Stephen Tobolowsky and a great little turn from Michael Rooker as a racist KKK member . The themes that are implemented into the plot are impressively portrayed , with the social study being the most prominent of them . Mississippi Burning adequately denounces hatred , and does a great job of getting across the stupidity and pointlessness of it . The film is also notable for a great atmosphere throughout , which is matched by a great soundtrack that creates a very foreboding and tension filled feeling . My only real criticism of the movie is due to it's ending , which goes on a bit and kills the atmosphere that the film has done such a good job of creating . Still , this is a very good movie and one I don't hesitate to recommend !
Switchblade Sisters is an undoubtedly silly and unrealistic slice of Grindhouse exploitation , but it's also an absolute blast and a real must see for any fan of cult cinema ! The film will likely get compared with later but better known gang flick ' The Warriors ' and I suppose you could determine Switchblade Sisters to be the female version of Walter Hill's classic exploitation film . But just because it focuses on the fairer sex , don't let that fool you into thinking that Switchblade Sisters doesn't have its own nasty edge ; as while you cant really take this film seriously , there's certainly plenty to please exploitation fans . The plot actually has more layers to it than you might expect considering the type of film but the main focus is on a gang named ' The Dagger Debs ' . The Debs are controlled by Dominic ; the leader of ' The Silver Daggers ' . The plot kicks off properly upon the introduction of Maggie ; a new girl in town who makes a splash when she beats one of the senior Debs in a knife fight . However , Maggie also exposes jealousies within the gang and adding to the problem is the rival lead by a man named Crabs . . . The film is difficult to take seriously , mostly owing to the terrible acting and unfocused plot line . You never really know where the film is going , though that's more down to the fact that it just seems to do whatever it feels like without following a logical progression ; although to the film's credit , this does work rather well . I wasn't surprised to find that most of the main player's didn't make much else aside from this film ( Monica Gayle being the only exception ) and most of them fail to convince with their performances - though again , it's actually to the film's credit as it helps to instill the Grindhouse style . The film is mainly set around a school and this is hilarious as all the actors clearly left school years before the filming of this movie took place ! Despite the numerous problems ( which would only really be problems in a serious film ) , Switchblade Sisters is still an awesome trash flick as it's just so much fun to watch . There's always plenty going on in the film , most of the lead characters are very amusing and the liberal attitude to violence that is displayed makes for great entertainment . This film is an absolute must see for fans of this sort of stuff !
Russ Meyer sure did know how to deliver an amazingly good time , and Supervixens is without doubt one of his very finest hours ! Like all Russ Meyer films , this one is completely over the top and every bit an epic , as Meyer crams in a ton of sex , violence and ample chested girls into the sprawling and often hilarious plot line . The film is completely wayward and since the base of the plot is solely focused on one guy travelling without aim , it means that Russ Meyer can pretty much do whatever he likes - and that's clearly what he did do ! The lead character is Clint , a gas station worker married to ' Super Angel ' . Clint has a problem - women can't keep their hands off him , and this is not pleasing his wife who believes he is playing away and kicks him out after a fight . She then hooks up with the local policeman , whom she ends up winding up and later finds herself dead . Naturally , Clint is the number one suspect for the murder ; so he decides to skip town . He then sets out on an aimless odyssey , and meets numerous characters along the way , many of which happen to be big breasted ladies . . . Supervixens really is a dream film for anyone who loves over the top gratuity . The film is pure comic genius from start to finish and Meyer provides the audience with a constant stream of ridiculous goings on , and it's always great fun to watch . The lead ample chested vixen is Shari Eubank ; she only made two films in her career , and that's a shame as she has real charisma and , like the rest of the girls in this film , looks great too ! Charles Pitts is good enough as the leading man , but Charles Napier is the one that really stands out as the psychotic copper ! Napier is really at home in this role and clearly enjoys it too . Supervixens is great entertainment throughout and doesn't get boring for a second . There's a constant source of amusement and I'm sure that this film will please most viewers . Some of the scenes in this film ( particularly around the start of the film ) are absolutely stunning and it has to be said that Meyer has really done something special with this film . Overall , it's probably quite clear what I think of this film - it's seriously good stuff ! And everyone should give it a go !
To be honest , I absolutely love trash like this ! Maniac Cop is a film that clearly isn't too caught up with trying to establish itself alongside the more professional efforts of the horror genre , and instead simply revels in it's B-movie status . This gives the film free reign to do whatever it wants to do , as it doesn't have to worry about coherency or logic and this helps it massively as the final result shows . Actually , surprisingly enough ; this is a rather professionally handled B-movie and many of the reasons why it works are down to things like atmosphere and characters , which are the things that the film isn't supposed to be bothered about . The plot is well worked also , and the way that the mystery pans out is exciting in all the right places . The story follows a problem in New York . Innocent citizens are turning to the police for help as usual ; but one officer isn't bowing to the law , and has taken it upon himself to dish out justice his own way . This maniac cop is exterminating the local population , and it's up to framed copper Jack Forrest and his mistress Theresa Mallory to save the day ! The way that director William Lustig portrays the New York streets gives this film a lot of it's power . It's gritty , in the same way that many of the seventies cop thrillers were and this , when combined with the thick eighties trash crust , is what makes this film a winner . The scenes that see the maniac cop taking people out are fiendishly funny , but also quite shocking . The police are looked up to in most societies , and it would be a huge problem if one of them were to start dishing out the wrong kind of law themselves . Scriptwriter and B-movie god Larry Cohen seems keen to portray this too , with much of the action taking in the panic that previous events have caused . One of this film's main assets is definitely the presence of Evil Dead's Ash , Bruce Campbell . Campbell isn't quite as over the top as he was in Sam Raimi's classic trilogy - but he's playing a different character and just seeing him is a good reason to see this film . He is joined by fellow B-movie actor Tom Atkins , as well as Laurene Landon and Robert Z'Dar , who is perfectly cast in the title role . This isn't a film that will please fans of serious movies - but if you like your silly B-grade films , you'll definitely like this !
As a big fan of bizarre cult cinema , there's no way I could resist a film with a title like ' Attack of the Mushroom People ' and resisting this film is definitely not recommended to my fellow cult film fans as this is a highly original and fascinating slice of cinema ! The film obviously takes influence from the monster movie genre in the way that the plot is set up ; but director Ishirô Honda clearly didn't want to make just another monster film as the ' mushroom people ' of the title don't figure much and the real point of this movie stems from the isolation and claustrophobia felt by the central characters . The film gets off to a promising , albeit slow ; start as we see a group of people on a yacht get caught in a storm . Their boats sinks and they seek refuge on the closest island to where their boat sank ; a seemingly lush paradise . However , the situation soon starts to become awry when they happen upon an abandoned research vessel . There's very little to eat on the island , and even though the research crew noted that there was something wrong with the mushrooms that grow there . . . they soon become hard for the shipwrecked to resist . In spite of the title , this is not a ' joke ' film . The director takes the plot completely seriously and it really benefits the film . The ' monsters ' only feature rarely , and mostly towards the end , and the way that the director focuses on the characters and their situation is always interesting and gives the themes of the plot a lot of credibility . Clearly , this is not just a film about funny mushrooms . The radiation theme recalls the director's earlier film ' Godzilla ' , and in turn recalls the Second World War , which obviously had a big effect on Japan . The mushrooms represent a pleasurable escape to the character's situation , although it is one that will cost them their humanity . The atmosphere is one of the key elements of the film too . Ishirô Honda gives the film a unique dreamlike style and the way that the tropical island is presented is very mysterious . The film has also aged surprisingly well considering it over forty years old . This is a very weird film and I have never seen anything quite like it . I often find myself searching for films like this and while it is not what its title suggests it will be , Attack of the Mushroom People is a fascinating film that should not be missed . Highly recommended viewing !
Seventies exploitation is one of my favourite genres as despite generally poor production values and story lines , they're just so damn entertaining ! The Candy Snatchers is clearly one of the best examples of the genre - as despite featuring the common poor production values , the entertaining plot line is nicely fleshed out with a number of sub-plots and deliriously depraved characters ! The central plot isn't really all that important - it's the stuff surrounding it that makes this film what it is . Well . . . that and the completely sleazy atmosphere , which is achieved through the gritty cinematography , as well as the attention to depravity . The plot isn't exactly original , and basically follows a trio of would-be kidnappers who snatch Candy - the daughter of a man who handles diamonds at a bank , and naturally the kidnappers want a fistful of diamonds in exchange for the safe return of young Candy . However , the crime has a witness - but unfortunately for the young girl , the witness is a young autistic boy who can't talk ! The Candy Snatchers features a handful of violent set pieces that are sure to delight anyone with a mind to see the film . The Candy Snatchers doesn't feature wall to wall violence , but there are enough memorably violent moments to make the film worthy of its high acclaim . It's not the violence that is the most shocking thing about this film , however , as it's clear that director Guerdon Trueblood was keen to make the film as nasty as possible and this is achieved through the way that remains completely nihilistic throughout . Of course , most of what is seen here has been seen in many modern films since , and as a result ; The Candy Snatchers isn't as shocking these days as it no doubt was back in 1973 , but despite that ; the film does retain a lot of its shock value . The acting isn't the best , but the cast of unknowns come together well as an ensemble and most of them are memorable and entertaining in their respective roles . The plot moves quickly and there's never a dull moment - the ending is particularly strong as it manages to be exciting , nasty , and yet strangely funny in a sick sort of way all at the same time . Overall , The Candy Snatchers is a real seventies highlight and comes highly recommended !
This film is incredible . Polanski's best film behind Knife in the Water and Rosemary's Baby . The plot revolves around a gangster ( Lionel Stander ) and his partner that seek refuge in a castle on a small island in England . The couple that inhabit the castle are played by the sublime Donald Pleasance and the beautiful Françoise Dorléac . The movie plays out like a three way triangle of hatred ; we have the contempt between the couple and the gangster , who is invading their home ; the gangster's mean streak is inflicted on the couple and the lady obviously holds her husband in low regard when he takes on the role of a wimp in front of the gun toting criminal . However , it is not as simple as that as in several points in the movie , the characters let their guard down and start to communicate with each other in an almost friendly way . This is the real beauty of this film ; it is a character study , studying the relationship between a couple and a third party in their home . Three is a crowd , and the effects of that true to life phrase are felt by each of the three characters . The three main players in Cul-De-Sac are fantastic , Lional Stander in particular who was surely born to play his role in this movie . He has the voice and the persona of a not very bright gangster spot on ; his comic timing for some of his more obviously funny lines is also noteworthy . Donald Pleasance has never been better than he was here either ; his portrayal as the ' lord of the manor ' is both believable and intriguing . Last but not least , Françoise Dorléac , in undoubtedly the most overlooked role in the piece , although no less important than the other two , is also on time and believable in her role ; making up a perfect cast . From a relatively simple plot line and few characters , through excellent dialogue , restrained plotting and interesting scenarios , Roman Polanksi has managed to weave a story that is interesting and entertaining . Roman Polanski has a great flair for human relationships in his movies , the best example of this was in his best movie , Knife in the Water , and that element is abundant here too . The scenes in which all three characters are on screen interacting with each other are this movie's finest moments . Cul-De-Sac is an excellent black comedy thriller that fans of the genre and fans of the excellent Roman Polanski will not want to miss . Recommended viewing
Swimming Pool is a first rate film from French genius François Ozon . This thriller makes best use of everything that makes cinema great , and it is therefore a delight to view . Swimming Pool follows Sarah Morton , a British author that travels to her publisher's dream home in France in order to have a rest while she works on her new book . However , her tranquillity is soon disturbed when her publisher's daughter ; a sex-crazed , good time girl , turns up out of the blue and turns Morton's rest into something quite different . One criticism that could be , and has been , made of this film is that not a lot a lot happens . That , however , depends on your viewpoint ; the action is stretched , but the relaxed tone of the film blends magnificently with the beautiful French scenery , and Ozon's attention to detail with the characters ensures that , although slow , Swimming Pool never descends into boredom and there's always something on offer for it's audience to enjoy . I , personally , was completely entranced from start to finish . The casting of Charlotte Rampling as the uptight British novelist really was an inspired move . She's absolutely brilliant in the role , and you can't imagine anyone else playing that character to such a degree . Speaking of great casting choices , Ludivine Sagnier is similarly brilliant as Rampling's sexy co-star . She brings just the right amount of insecurity and lustfulness to her role , and it's not hard to see why Ozon continues to cast her in his movies . The film is very melodramatic , but never overacted ; and this is a testament to the quality of acting on display . Swimming Pool benefits implicitly from a haunting soundtrack , which perfectly accents the happenings on screen , and certain points in the movie where the soundtrack is used are truly electrifying . François Ozon is truly one of cinema's greatest assets at the moment . This is only my second taste of his work ( the hilariously fabulous ' Sitcom ' being the other ) , and if his backlog and future releases match the quality of the two films I've seen from him so far ; he may well become one of cinema's all time greats .
Cannibal Holocaust follows a film crew as they delve into the Amazonian jungle and end up discovering the true meaning of horror . This plot line sounds remarkably similar to the 1999 travesty ' The Blair Witch Project ' , but I'm pleased to say that's where the similarities end ; as the crew in The Worst Film Ever Made may well have found a true horror if that's what you consider a few sticks and stones to be ; but even so , it doesn't even nearly compare to actual horror , which is what the film crew in this film found . Cannibal Holocaust is a remarkable horror film because , unlike the majority of the rest of the genre , this film depicts events that actually do take place in the world . As the film claims towards the beginning , there's so much we don't know about our own planet , and the dense jungles of South America represent one of the greatest unknowns , and therefore makes for a great setting for a movie . It has to be said also that Ruggero Deodato makes best use of his location , and as the actors venture into the jungle , a constant foreboding atmosphere hangs over them , which does the film no end of favours in the tension department . One of the many things that this film is notorious for is the fact that the animal killings in the film are real . This is something that I definitely don't like , as I can honestly see no reason why animals should die just because Ruggero Deodato decided to make a movie . It's also shocking that the perpetrators of this animal cruelty weren't sent down . Of course , the animal deaths help the film because it adds to the atmosphere ; but really , special effects would have sufficed . The violence in the movie isn't all senseless , however , as the director does have a point to make . At several points during the film , comparisons are made with the cannibals and our society ; and the question that surfaces most often is ; " who are the real cannibals ? " . This is where this movie comes into it's own , as one the surface it's just a violent exploitation flick , but beneath that it's a rather potent comment on society . The gore in the film is brutal and very realistic , which is always nice for a horror fan such as myself to see . If you're not a horror fan , however , Cannibal Holocaust is a film that you should stay away from . But if you don't mind gore , you're in for a rare treat with this movie . It's controversial for a reason , and it really needs to be experienced .
Alfred Hitchcock made a lot of films , many of which are very good ; and a select group of which are out and out masterpieces . His 1959 spy thriller , North by Northwest is undoubtedly among the man's best work ; yet it stands out as something of a black sheep among the great director's other works . While the likes of Vertigo and Rear Window pull the viewer into the story by way of an intriguing and mysterious plot line ; North by Northwest goes completely the other way , and draws you in with simple , old-fashioned entertainment value . It's true that there isn't much substance here , but at the same time ; you can't doubt North by Northwest's credibility for a second , as Hitchcock has laid on the style and his story telling is as sharp as ever . The plot is typically Hitchcockian and sees a man kidnapped by a group of gangsters ; on the mistake the he is someone else . After narrowly escaping , our hero goes on the run ; from both the gangsters and the law . As he is drawn deeper and deeper into unfolding events , he finds himself more and more unable to stop them unfolding . By today's standards , North by Northwest could be seen as clichéd . Hitchcock has thrown in all the common spy thriller elements ; from femme fatales and a British villain , to car chases and even an overblown finale ; but Hitchcock implements all these elements in such a way that the film never feels old hat and , even now , nearly five decades on ; North by Northwest is still an entertaining thriller , and that is testament to Hitchcock's endearing talent , as many of the recent films that are entertaining now , probably wont be fifty years down the line . Every set piece in the movie is beautifully engineered , and as the plot is perfectly paced ; nothing ever seems like it shouldn't be there , and North by Northwest flows excellently . The film is best remembered for stand-out sequences including the famous bi-plane scene , but even those scenes , that have been seen separate from the movie many times , don't feel like they've been tacked on when viewing the movie in it's entirety . Many movies these days have instances that are there merely to be in the trailer and such ; but here , Hitchcock is as restrained as ever , yet he still manages to insert scenes like this into the film . To be honest , I think Cary Grant got the short end of the stick with Hitchcock's films . While James Stewart got Vertigo , The Man Who Knew Too Much and Rear Window , Grant only got gifted with Suspicion , To Catch a Thief , Notorious and this film ; and while this one is very good , the rest of the Grant-Hitchcock collaborations are not among either man's best work . However , fans of both of these cinema legends can be thankful for North by Northwest , as both are on top of their game and in that instance ; only a fine film can ensue . This isn't Cary Grant's best performance ; sometimes he looks a bit out of place , and he's definitely spent too long on the sun beds - but his charm and charisma lifts even his most disappointing performances , and the one here certainly isn't one of those . Hitchcock's direction is flawless , and the film never feels clumsy or gets boring at any stage . If I was going to nit-pick , I would perhaps say that the film could have been streamlined a little bit more ; but overall , North by Northwest is an entertaining classic that all fans of cinema need to see !
