OVERRATED " ART FILM " ALERT : The following film is adored by sophisticated and " with it " film fans . The fact that the average person may find the whole thing unfunny and bland is due to their just not being smart enough to understand and appreciate this masterpiece . Oh did I hate this movie ! It's artsy-fartsy crap like this that turns many people off from foreign films , and that's a great shame as there are so many French films better than this . In fact , I challenge you to come up with one worse ! The film is rife with weird editing and extended shots of waves crashing . This is meant to be " sophisticated " ; I think it looks very amateurish and overdone . The story itself is pretty meaningless and confusing . It's about some terrorists who like to get naked A LOT ( by the way , the female lead could really use a shave ) and whose emotions are up and down more than your average roller-coaster . What some say is artistic , I think is boring and banal . The only element that made me the least bit interested in the film is that the director himself plays , of all things , a " crazy director " . Wow - - that's some stretch . It's sort of like asking Cookie Monster to play someone who loves to eat ! Unless you LIKE pretentious movies that are 100 % boring , do NOT watch this film ! PS - - if you actually LIKE this sort of mess , then by all means look for Godard's other " masterpiece " , ALPHAVILLE . It's also a total piece of crap and a total waste of time .
This is a truly terrible sci-fi / horror film from 1957 . In fact , despite Ed Wood , Jr . and his dreadful films getting a lot of publicity , this turkey is every bit as bad as the worst of Wood . Now the acting is a bit better than you'd find in the Wood epics ( such as PLAN 9 and BRIDE OF THE MONSTER ) , but the special effects managed to be significantly worse than Wood's ! However , bad movie aficionados will be happy to hear that it's so bad that it's still excellent viewing . Like a Wood film , it's great to watch this crap-fest and laugh along with your friends . The film begins with a scientist flying about doing some testing in his jet . However , out of nowhere , a UFO streaks by and his report of this over the radio triggers a panic by the Air Force . However , later , they realized that the UFO didn't appear on the radio and they think the scientist is a nut ! But , when soon after this planes start disappearing all over , they realize there must be something to his sighting . So far , the film isn't great but it's watchable . However , by the time the horrible flying monster appears , you know you're watching a turkey . First , through horrid use of stock film and crappy models , airplanes keep changing mid-flight . Some may not be bothered by this , but with airplane lovers like me , seeing an F-80 turning into an F-86 to an F-102 fighter plane made me crazy - - especially since the planes look nothing like each other . Second , through " clever " cinematography , all you really see of the monster is a ball of fuzz for half the film ! This is frustrating and you hope that when you finally do see it clearly , it will be worth the wait . Well , no such luck ! ! The " monster " looks less realistic or scary than the duck from Groucho's " You Bet Your Life " TV show ! ! In fact , it's significantly less realistic than any of the Japanese giant monsters ! ! In fact , Big Bird from " Sesame Street " is even a bit scarier and realistic ! ! ! It's just god-awful in every way and might just be the dumbest movie monster in history - - about as bad ( or worse ) as the monsters in ROBOT MONSTER or TEENAGERS FROM OUTER SPACE ! ! ! The bottom line is that this is an absolutely dreadful film that sane people won't like . Bad film fans like me ( who are a crazy bunch ) will probably love it ! All others . . . be afraid , . . . . be VERY afraid ! ! FYI - - You might notice that some clips in this film are from other sci-fi movies ! ! I am positive the crashing Washington Monument scene was stolen from EARTH VS . THE FLYING SAUCERS but I also saw a couple other scenes that I swear are from other films . What a hack job !
First , I wish I could give this movie a zero , but one was the lowest score IMDb allows . It isn't possible to create a sequel more unlike the original and as repellent as this one . It was so bad , both my kids insisted we leave mid-way through the picture . So why is is SO bad ? ! Gone is all the originality and charm of the first movie . It's as if NONE of the people responsible for the first participated in this movie . Instead , the movie is dark and cruel . This is evident on many occasions but I will provide two examples : Babe's owner falling down a well and breaking almost every bone in his body in the opening sequence ( wow - - that's fun , kids ! ) and the inexplicable appearance of Mickey Rooney ( who I guess is some sort of mentally impaired sociopath - - I'm really not sure WHAT his cameo was all about anyway ) . So my advice is watch and savor the original and THEN go into denial . Tell yourself they never did make a sequel . If this does not work , repeat as needed !
In 1914 , Charlie Chaplin began making pictures . These were made for Mack Sennett ( also known as " Keystone Studios " ) and were literally churned out in very rapid succession . The short comedies had very little structure and were completely ad libbed . As a result , the films , though popular in their day , were just awful by today's standards . Many of them bear a strong similarity to home movies featuring obnoxious relatives mugging for the camera . Many others show the characters wander in front of the camera and do pretty much nothing . And , regardless of the outcome , Keystone sent them straight to theaters . My assumption is that all movies at this time must have been pretty bad , as the Keystone films with Chaplin were very successful . The Charlie Chaplin we know and love today only began to evolve later in Chaplin's career with Keystone . By 1915 , he signed a new lucrative contract with Essenay Studios and the films improved dramatically with Chaplin as director . However , at times these films were still very rough and not especially memorable . No , Chaplin as the cute Little Tramp was still evolving . In 1916 , when he switched to Mutual Studios , his films once again improved and he became the more recognizable nice guy - - in many of the previous films he was just a jerk ( either getting drunk a lot , beating up women , provoking fights with innocent people , etc . ) . The final evolution of his Little Tramp to classic status occurred in the 1920s as a result of his full-length films . Apart from one or two moments , this film has little to offer other than guys slugging each other and mistreating women . No laughs - - just amateurish crap by today's standards .
I love Asian films . However , after seeing this film , I have no desire to see any more films like this one . While the film generally has very positive reviews and a very good overall rating of 7 . 8 , this is probably very deceiving , as I ONLY think die-hard ultra-violent / ultra-action loving people would enjoy this type of film and they traditionally flock to John Woo films . The average non-violence junkie has probably never heard of Woo or if they have , have no interest in such extremely graphic and violent fare . The first twenty or so minutes of the film , I actually enjoyed , though , of course , the film WAS mega-violent . At least there was some style and some sense of purpose to the killing . However , after about 50 % of the movie was past , the rest of the film was one long , long , long extended scene of carnage . It was as if you took EVERY Rambo , Die-Hard , Death Wish and Steven Segal movie AS WELL AS THE KOREAN WAR AND WWII and combined them into one movie ! There is no possible way to keep count , but the number of good guys , bad guys and assorted innocent bystanders killed in the movie seems like it must top 1000 ( and this is NOT an exaggeration ) . Initially , this had a big impact on me , however , after a while it became downright boring . After all , how many dead people , fake blood and slow-motion death scenes can any NORMAL person take before they either turn off the film , get sick or become bored . The bottom line is this is a wonderful film if you really could care less about plot and just want 100 % carnage . Period . Oh , and the plot device of having all the babies in the middle of the firefight near the end just seemed like a cheap way to build excitement . I mean , think about it , one minute the hero is cuddling a baby and the next he blows away a few bad guys , then he nuzzles the little tyke . Is this meant to be tender or poignant ? ! Gimme a break . This movie is dumb and I really do wonder about the type of person who wants a steady diet of this . Okay , now feel free to hit me with all your " NOT HELPFUL " comments - - I am STILL right about this film ! By the way , although I hated the movie , I really want to get a gun like the heroes had . You know , the semiautomatic pistol that can fire 10 , 20 or even 30 times without needing to be reloaded ! ! And I want to find out where they got the hand grenades that when they blow up , they only injure bad guys - - even though the heroes might only be a couple feet away from the blast ! !
This is a horrid little film from P . R . C . Studios and I have to assume the P . R . C . stands for " Producing Real Crap " . By no sane person's standards should anyone have given this turkey a 10 , though somehow this has happened . P . R . C . is one of the lowest-budget film studios of its day and its best movies were below the quality of rival Monogram Studios ( and that's saying a lot ! ) . There films are known for having rotten sets , poor scripts and second-rate acting - - they were for many in the movie industry the " purgatory " of Hollywood ! ! As usual , this film shows all the usual earmarks of a P . R . C . production , though its stars are a tad better than usual - - as Sidney Toler and John Carradine ( both veterans of the low-budget Bs ) were on hand to give this movie a little bit of clout - - but only just a bit . That's because Toler had just finished the Charlie Chan series at Fox Studios and hadn't yet signed with Monogram to finish the series - - so he was free and in need of cash . Carradine , never really an established actor but a familiar face in low-budget films added a bit of color . Sadly , despite the low budget , the story wasn't very good either . The film is set on a tropic isle , though the natives look like extras from California and have , for the most part , American accents and hairdos . However , they are supposed to be seductive dancing girls working at a dive frequented by sailors . Two of them ( Toler and his partner ) are responsible for " losing " some treasure on a recent cruise . The truth is that they deliberately wrecked their boat so they could later claim the treasure . Oddly , they arrive just after there is a HUGE bar fight . So , what would you expect at this time ? Yep , one of them plays Beethoven on the piano in this dive ( ! ) . Two other guys ( Carradine and his sometimes friend ) spend most of the time imitating Popeye and Bluto , as they fight and fight for no reason in particular . Later , though , Carradine gets the idea of trying to steal Toler's treasure . My favorite part of this ( because it was so bad ) was the world's longest close-range gun battle . Shot after shot after shot are fired at pointblank range - - talk about lousy shooting ! ! In the end , it's one twist after another but thankfully the action is all ended when a monsoon hits and wipes out this god-awful island . The bottom line is that the print looks lousy , the plot stinks , the acting is generally grade-Z and the special effects are really , really bad . What's to recommend this film ? Nothing . So why did it earn a 10 ? !
The film begins with a newspaper reporter lamenting that they don't make crimes like they used to . He then begins to tell the story of " Roxie Hart " - - a woman accused of murder who was one of the last great murder stories in Chicago . Then , the story begins in earnest as the setting is now 1927 . Roxie is a very low-class dame and whether or not she or her husband or a third party committed the crime is uncertain . But , since Roxie is apparently a total idiot , the newspaper reporters convince her to take the rap because it would make an interesting story ( is anyone THAT dumb ? ! ) . Throughout the film , the men all act almost like the wolf in a Tex Avery cartoon - - and apparently the fact that she may have killed someone is irrelevant . The guys just want to ogle her gams ( that's " legs " in gangster lingo ) ! And , when the case comes to court , once again all the men in court are fixated on her extreme sex appeal ( though I didn't get it - - she wasn't THAT hot - - just kind of low-class and slutty ) . While I understand that this comedy was the basis for the very popular play and film , CHICAGO , I couldn't understand what people saw in the movie that led them to want to remake it - - especially since it had very few laughs . Much of this is due to the very grating and over-the-top performance by Ginger Rogers . This routine was supposed to be funny , but I just wanted her to stop talking as well as constantly chewing gum with a wide open mouth ! The bottom line is that very , very , very broad acting and writing made this film look like distorted and one-dimensional caricatures , not people . A dreadful example of the " humor " in the film is the fight scene between Roxie and another prisoner - - all accompanied with sound effects of cats fighting and hissing . Uggh ! The bottom line is that I really hated this film since it was so annoying and ridiculous . If you want subtlety , believability or laughs , then I suggest you try some other film - - ANY other film .
For a short film , this short seems even shorter than usual on content . In fact , the film can be very easily summed up as follows : a guy in Nebraska is plowing the fields and is imagining surfing in paradise . That's it ! For seven minutes , you see alternating shots of him plowing or surfing - - all set to music consisting of a base guitar . That's it . Considering that the film's creator , Jason Matthew Moore had only made one other short film , I'll cut him a little slack . As a student project , this is okay . As a film to be seen in other venues , it definitely lacks purpose - - anyone can say " I'd rather be in Hawaii than here in the middle of America " . I want something more - - something compelling .
Bill Murray plays a famous actor named Bob who goes to Japan to do an ad campaign for big bucks . The problem is , he's experiencing a bit of a crisis before he arrived ( a sense of disconnection with his wife and kids ) , and being in a totally alien culture , he is even more lost and alone . Some of the observations about the way that the Japanese do business and behave are pretty interesting , but there aren't enough of them after the first twenty minutes or so . Having a Westerner come to Japan and feel lost and overwhelmed is an interesting starting point for a film . Unfortunately , the film never really seemed to go anywhere after this interesting start . Plus , the characters ( especially Bill Murray's ) ultimately turned out to be rather selfish , so I really didn't care about them . The main theme of this movie is a sense of disconnectedness . Unfortunately , in making the two leads ( Bill Murray and Scarlett Johansson ) feel alone and disconnected in Japan , the audience , too , feels pretty much the same way about these leads as well as the movie as a whole . As a result , the movie is extremely somber , sterile and moves at a snail's pace . Both Johansson and especially Murray seem to almost sleepwalk through their roles - - showing very little energy or emotion . Overall , it's a sometimes interesting but sleep-inducing experiment that failed . After seeing this and THE LIFE AQUATIC WITH STEVE ZISSOU , it seems Murray's career is stagnating . While critics might enjoy these films , they are NOT what the average person would enjoy . As for me , I much prefer the funny Bill Murray of WHAT ABOUT BOB ? and THE MAN WHO KNEW TOO LITTLE . By the way , if you DO like seeing Murray play a zombie-like character like he did in this film , then I suggest you also watch BROKEN FLOWERS - - another recent film where he gives an identical performance with absolutely no emotional range .
This is a bad movie that purports to be an educational film designed to warn America about the menace of teenagers running amok thanks to uninvolved parents . However , like almost all the so-called " educational " films of the 30s and 40s , it was really a shabby little film designed to be snuck past the censors of the Hays Office . In 1934 , the major studios all agreed to abide by the dictates of a stronger Production Code - - eliminating sex , nudity , cursing and " inappropriate " plots in films ( these had actually been relatively common in films in the early 30s ) . However , in an effort to sneak in smut , small studios created films to shock adults when they learn about terrible social ills , though they were REALLY intended to titillate and slip adult themes past the censors ! Such films as MARIJUANA , MAD YOUTH , REEFER MADNESS and SEX MADNESS were all schlocky trash that skirted past the boards because they were supposedly educational . Even though they were laughably bad , they also made money due to low production costs and because they often offered nudity , violence and sordid story lines - - all in the name of education ! Unlike many of these films , DELINQUENT DAUGHTERS didn't have nudity , but it sure had lots of sleazy story elements that were sure to titillate . In this film , teens drank , used drugs , committed pointless robberies and assaults and drove like maniacs - - all apparently the result of poor parental guidance . And as a result , kids died in this movie - - and in the most spectacular ways ! The acting and writing were almost universally bad , though the sequence where the judge tells off the parents of these punks actually was amazingly good - - too bad everything else was pretty lousy . In fact , one character was so bad , so annoying and so gosh-darn awful , I nominate the ditsy blonde as the most annoying character of the 1940s - - she was THAT bad ! ! Her voice was more grating than Olive Oyl's and she was practically sub-human in her stupidity !
This is definitely a " lesser known " comedy short from the 1920s . The only reason I saw it was because it was on a DVD by Kino Films featuring non-Laurel and Hardy shorts featuring Ollie . They are interesting and historically important , but also generally average to below average for the style film . Compared to shorts by Chaplin , Keaton , Arbuckle and Lloyd , they are definitely a step below them in quality and humor . Also , the accompanying music was pretty poor by the standards of other silent DVDs . I ended up turning OFF the sound due to the inappropriateness of the music to set the proper mood . But , despite this , they are still worth seeing . Interestingly enough , the Kino DVD box said that Stan Laurel played a robber who was in drag . This character was NOT Laurel , but he was the guy in the end of the film who was sleeping when everyone suddenly barged in and began hitting each other . And , unfortunately , this is about the tone of the whole film - - people hitting each other . It's a good example of slapstick with no regard whatsoever for plot . Despite the direction the film INITIALLY TAKES ( about a rip to Hollywood ) , this is quickly forgotten and it's just mindless slapping and pratfalls . You can certainly find better shorts from this era .
This is one of 10 films that are included in the two DVD set " The Buster Keaton Collection " . It's a sad set of films Keaton did later in his career with Columbia Pictures and the films bore more resemblance to Three Stooges films than Keaton's classic silents . Of the 10 , eight were directed by Jules White - - a man who had absolutely no understanding or appreciation of Keaton's subtle humor . As a lady said in the documentary included with the set ( " Buster Keaton : From Silents to Shorts " ) , White's idea of funny was dropping anvils on people's heads ! His totally unsubtle and dopey humor made all the films he directed with Keaton a chore to watch at times - - especially with the silly Stooge sound effects and timing . In addition , this film also co-starred Keaton with Elsie Ames - - a completely obnoxious and untalented lady in every film she did with Keaton . Her overly exaggerated facial expressions , mannerisms and yelling made Patsy Kelly look subtle in her shorts for Hal Roach ! ! So already from the start , Keaton had two major disadvantages in the film , so you certainly cannot expect magic . This film is sort of like a haunted house comedy , but this time the house is more like a carnival fun house . It's owned by a magician who hired Keaton and Ames to watch the house and protect his tricks from theft by his competitors . They are clearly told to guard the house and let no one in , so only moments after the magician leaves , they invite a couple inside . While it turns out the couple are harmless , two thieves enter the house and use a variety of tricks built into the house to scare everyone . None are all that funny and the film is pretty dull , but there is a cute penguin in the film as well , so I'll at least give it a point for the bird ! Overall , a pretty dull time-passer with a very weak ending .
The film begins with a rich guy hiring Boris Karloff to get to the bottom of a zombie-like trance one of his employees is experiencing . Karloff is apparently a world-famous occult debunker and he assures everyone that the man is NOT a zombie and the island this man recently visited it NOT endowed with evil powers . So , Karloff and a motley crew arrive on the island - - only to find that the place is even worse than Newark . In fact , it's filled with man-eating plants and voodoo . Oddly , in the midst of all this silly carnage and occult , two characters fall in love and share some passionate moments . I don't know about you , but being stranded on a homicidal island and seeing my associates eaten or killed is NOT an aphrodisiac and this is the definite low-point of this silly and rather pointless film . Technically , this isn't a horrible film like PLAN 9 or THEY SAVED HITLER'S BRAIN . The acting is just tolerable enough that the film manages to eke out a score of 3 - - though the terribly dull and silly script was just too much to allow the film to achieve a rating higher than 3 . Imagine the work it took to put Boris Karloff in a film and STILL make it dull and tedious ! Unless you are a die-hard fan of Karloff or like watching bad films , then I'd avoid this one . Sadly , it's bad but just not silly enough to make it fun to watch and make fun of it .
This is almost like two films - - one literate and engaging , the other stupid and clichéd . It's really a shame all the problems weren't worked out with the writing , but considering how quickly most B-movies were written and produced , this isn't too unusual . It's a real shame , though , as this could have been a very good film . First the good . The movie is original and involves WWII code-breakers . This is pretty fascinating and I liked watching the leading man ( Lee Bowman ) go through his paces as a master code-breaker . In fact , the first two-thirds of the film was very good . But now for the bad , the film just went on way too long and lost steam at about 50 minutes . Additionally , Jean Rogers ' role as the " kooky girlfriend " must rank as one of the worst-written and distracting roles in film history ! ! For every smart move made by Bowman , the idiot Rogers then stepped in to screw things up as some sort of misguided " comedy relief " . If her role had been intelligently written , the overall film would have improved immensely ! Instead , watching her , it's hard to understand how we actually won WWII ! !
I've got to assume that many people have scored this movie a 10 simply because it's one of those movies that is SO bad it's fun to watch , though I really don't think it ever approaches the PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE level of rottenness that it is a ' must see ' for bad movie aficionados . Or , maybe the die-hard Bela Lugosi fans are at work here , pumping up the ratings in an effort to immortalized their hero . All I know is that the Bowery Boys ( also known as " the Dead End Kids " ) were an annoying and grade-C level group that NEVER could come close to even approaching mediocrity . So why the 10 ? Who knows - - maybe it's all a big joke . It must be because this movie at best deserves a score of 4 - - and that's being mighty generous . Huntz Hall's sister , Ava Gardner ( she MUST have been adopted - - there was no way she could have been related to this Neanderthal ) is getting married . She and her husband are moving to a new home - - unaware that a group of Nazis are using the basement of the house next door to produce anti-American propaganda ! ! Well , the boys come to the wrong house ( the Nazi one ) and get tangled up with the baddies . While I am a fan of Bela Lugosi , he was largely wasted in the film - - having very few lines and being hardly convincing as the leader of a group of Nazis . It's really a shame - - as he could be pretty funny in supporting roles . As for Huntz Hall , Leo Gorcey and the rest , they are the usual lovable idiots - - nothing more . As far as I am concerned , after you've seen a couple of their post-Warner Brothers films , you've seen them all . By the way , there were no ghosts - - sorry to say .
Okay , from the outset you gotta know that this is not a " politically correct " film . The main theme appears to be a confirmation of the age-old distrust and dislike of Gypsies . In this film , they are shown as liars and violent people , the portrayal is one-dimensional and a bit trite . The film begins with Mary Pickford plucking petals from a flower saying the old " he loves me / he loves me not " refrain . Then , she meets a Gypsy that tells her the future . What he actually is doing is setting her up to be seduced by him ! Well , her sister also sees the same man a bit later and he tries the same routine with her . However , when BOTH ladies show up and realize the scheme , the Gypsy beats up their father and is chased through the countryside by the locals . In the end , they tell him and the other Gypsies to leave town and the movie ends - - once again confirming that " we hate Gypsies " . For a film made in 1910 , the length of the film and depth of the plot are about average - - maybe a bit above average . Plus , the version seen in the Milestone Video ( as a short following the feature DADDY LONG LEGS ) is exceptional in regard to the print quality .
This was a mildly enjoyable film , but despite Teddington Studio trying hard to make a nice little farce , the human often seemed a tad forced and not especially funny . Not a bad film , though not one that you'll long remember . The film begins with a ridiculous plot device - - a man and woman are on their honeymoon and the man is so busy with his business that he actually brings along his secretary and works the entire time ! This is funny but also so ridiculous because it was completely impossible unless you just assume the man was gay . The understandably angry wife is beside herself and decides to try and make her indifferent husband jealous . However , despite having a good plan , her plan goes awry when a real stranger ( in the form of a gentleman bandit ) comes into her life for real . This bandit was by far the best aspect of the film - - as he was quite charming and funny despite being a crook ! After they meet during a robbery , the film slows down and becomes a tad tedious - - especially during a dinner party when the stolen jewels keep getting lost and switched . This got old quickly and I found myself getting bored and wanting the film to wrap up quickly . Too bad the momentum was lost and it all ended up so mediocre - - the film had some promise .
This short film was written , directed and produced by James Patrick and is a supposedly true story about the generosity of Felix Mendelssohn as well as the inspiration for his famous " wedding march " . While I am certainly NOT an expert on the man , the entire piece strongly sounded like a complete work of fiction . Despite this , the film is reasonably entertaining and worth a peek , as it's a relatively early piece of Technicolor film AND the film is rather pretty to look at , as the color saturation is good and the people looked rather real . Oddly , just before I saw this film , I saw Hollywood PARTY ( 1937 ) - - another early MGM Technicolor short . However , unlike MENDELSSOHN'S WEDDING MARCH , the color was just grotesque - - with over-saturated film and colors so vivid it made my eyes bleed . Thankfully , the process was perfected in the two years between the films .
Despite not having an especially good script , the movie earns a 5 just because director Robson and producer Lewton did a great job in creating a spooky and tense atmosphere . Unfortunately , the film never delivered - - allowing the tension to build but ultimately fizzle due to a very poor script - - at least when compared to other Val Lewton films . In fact , when you hear Lewton is involved with a film , you assume it will be a top-notch B film which will make the most of its low budget - - this one certainly didn't . The film is essentially about young Kim Hunter leaving her school to look for her missing sister . This was done very poorly , as the sister popped into an early scene for a few seconds , so you KNEW she wasn't dead - - taking away much of the mystery . Then , when you discover she isn't involved with an evil devil cult , you are never titillated or scared , as these devil-lovers NEVER do anything to kill anyone ! ! They ask and beg people to do things , but these super-polite folks never get around to doing anything menacing ! ! It was almost like making the film THE OMEN and having it written by Pat Boone ! Where is the payoff ? ! Additionally , some story elements simply make no sense at all - - such as Hugh Beaumont never mentioning to Hunter when they meet or for some time after that he is married to Hunter's sister ! And , when totally out of left field , it is announced that Beaumont is now in love with Hunter ! ! Where did THIS plot element come from anyway ? ! And , to top it off , right after he declares his love to Hunter , in a separate part of town , the sister is seen killing herself - - thus freeing Hunter and Beaumont to marry ! Talk about a contrived script ! So overall , the lighting , music and mood were very effective . Too bad there was absolutely no payoff and as a result this is a sub-par Val Lewton film . How , with all its logical errors and a poor payoff in the end , could ANYONE score this film a 10 is beyond me , though several have . This is definitely a case of style over substance .
Technically speaking , this is a wonderful film . It was one of the first films with a synchronized score created to accompany it ( on a separate disk ) and the cinematography and sets were amazing for 1926 . As a result , it's quite beautiful to watch . Unfortunately , when it comes to the script and acting , the film leaves a lot to be desired . While it is not true that all silents featured overacting , this one featured many awful performances by today's standards - - with overly melodramatic scene again and again . Subtle this film sure ain't ! From a historical standpoint , the film is of dubious value . It's true that the Borgia family was indeed quite awful . The patriarch of the family , Pope Alexander VI fathered several illegitimate children , gave his sons high positions in the Church and was quite the amoral schemer . However , while these " pecadillos " are many and widely accepted as were the awful schemes of his son , Caesar , the real-life Lucretia may not have been the evil poisoning slut you saw in the film - - this is open to much debate among historians . But I suppose that it does make for some entertaining moments - - too bad Alexander VI never was seen in the film - - he would have provided the film some much needed excitement . As for Don Juan , he was unfortunately a fictional character . Oddly , while this film is set in one of the Italian states in the late 15th century , the film THE ADVENTURES OF DON JUAN ( with Errol Flynn ) was set over a hundred years later ! However , considering that Flynn and the star of this film , John Barrymore , were best friends , womanizers and serious alcoholics , it seems very fitting that both took on this same role .
This film , with some editing and a slight re-write could have been a fantastic film . I wonder if Truffaut's declining health ( he died of cancer right after this was completed ) perhaps had something to do with the roughness of the plot - - there were too many plot holes to keep me engaged . Over and over throughout the film , the characters reacted WRONGLY to a given situation - - often in VERY illogical ways . Let me point out a few examples : 1 . When the main character confronts his wife about her adulteries , she admits it and treats him like dirt ( I mean , she is REALLY obnoxious about it ) . Then , seconds later the police arrive and she asks him to tell the police she is not home . Fine . But then he DOES EXACTLY WHAT SHE SAIeven though any normal person wouldn't have given a rat's behind for her based on the previous scene AND because his lying to the police only served to implicate him for murder ! 2 . When the accused man's secretary returns after going to Nice to find clues , the man responds by slapping her - - when she is trying to save his sorry butt ! Then , she doesn't even get angry or yell at him for physically abusing her ! This whole scene made no sense . Perhaps the French treat their women like that , but I seriously doubt it . 3 . A romance suddenly materializes just before the film ends . Where it came from and why it occurs makes no sense at all . For more info , see # 2 above ! So , in summary the movie has an excellent overall plot but is just too full of holes and logical errors to make it anything better than an average film . That's a shame because I'm sure Truffaut was capable of better . FYI - - One little thing I really DID like about the film is the priest who gets decked towards the middle of the film . When he reappears , I had to laugh out loud !
While I have watched a lot of Charlie Chan movies and I have enjoyed them , they are no doubt very formulaic and the Monogram series is definitely inferior to the original 20th Century-Fox ones . So , how is it that some people gave these B-movies a score of 10 ? ! Sure , they might be entertaining , but aesthetically they are far from high art . Think about it - - some people scored this as high ( or higher ) as many might score GONE WITH THE WIND , THE BEST YEARS OF OUR LIVES or ORDINARY PEOPLE ! ! ! ! Come on , . . . this is just a B-movie , . . . and a very ordinary entry into the series at that . Plus , while I am not the most politically correct person out there , I can't believe a movie with Mantan Moreland's antics could ever merit a 10 - - or even an 8 or 9 . First , let's back up a bit . The original series was pretty entertaining , but like all the Chan films it featured a White guy playing a Chinese man - - not unusual for its day , but certainly something that prevent the films from being better - - especially with the silly use of the English language by Charlie . While Chinese in ethnic origin , he is supposedly from Hawaii and I assumed most Hawaiians of his day did not talk like morons . Plus , this makes little sense because he is so darn smart a detective . But , most fans are able to look past this and accept that this isn't " high art " but still is quite entertaining . Fine . This is where I see myself . After all , even though he talks silly and spouts a lot of so-called " Chinese Wisdom " , he is a decent , brave and intelligent guy - - not exactly a negative stereotype . But , after the success of the initial films , Warner Oland ( the first famous Chan ) had the nerve to up and die and the series started to slip a bit when he was replaced by Sidney Toler . I don't really blame Toler , as he proved in other films he was a good actor . It's just that the original chemistry seemed " different " and Fox soon dropped the series . Enter Monogram Studios to continue the series ( known as a " poverty row " studio due to its low production values ) . Now , the movies featured unknowns doing much of the supporting acting and Mantan Moreland was introduced to the series for new comic relief . Mantand's performances and the writing for his character was highly reminiscent of a smarter and less lazy version of Steppin Fetchit . As a kid , I laughed when he said lines like " feets don't fail me now " when he was scared ( something he always seemed to be in the films ) . Now that I am older , I cringe a bit and know that there are Black people out there who are understandably furious about the stereotype he portrayed - - especially because this type role was about the only one you'd see Black men portraying in mainstream films of the era . So on to the film itself . It's a pretty ordinary Chan film with little to distinguish it . However , occasionally it had some serious plot holes and problems that were ignored - - probably due to the low budgets and a lack of concern for quality - - a Monogram Studios trademark . For instance , after tying up Chan and his # 3 son , the bad guys leave the room with several guns sitting on the table ! DUH ! ! ! These sort of oversights and inconsistencies really prevent this movie from being scored any higher . If you like the series ( like I actually do ) , you'll still have a good time watching this fast-paced film . But , if you don't , this film will do NOTHING to improve your opinion or win you over to Charlie Chan films .
This was a very slow and meandering silent comedy about mouse-like Harry Langdon and his attempts to assert himself . In so many ways this film is nothing like contemporary comedies because it does not rely on chases or slapstick , but on story and the slower style of Langdon . At times , I enjoy Langdon's films very much - - such as with HIS MARRIAGE WOW , but in general I should point out that I am really not a fan of his work . If I want a more " cerebral " silent comedian , I prefer Charlie Chase or the early Laurel and Hardy films - - so keep this in mind when you read my review . I just think that too often , Langdon relied too much on his cute little boy look and less on laughs . The film begins with Harry's wife telling a friend that the way to a good marriage is to keep your husband under your thumb at all times . Harry is so hen-pecked that he's aching to be a bad boy ( though just how bad can he be ? ) . Throughout the film , he schemes with his buddy to chase women and have a good time , but never actually gets around to doing anything THAT bad . In the end , the wife sees him stepping out and decides maybe it's her fault for being so tough on him . While mildly entertaining , the laughs were few and far between in the film . There were a few good moments here and there ( such as the running board scene ) , but generally this film looks more like a drama with some comedy than a silent comedy . Not exactly my cup of tea .
Tyler Brooke is the son of a newspaper owner . His father is angry because the other local rags are finding better scandals than paper and demands the son dig up some dirt on a vamp who is in town . Now this begs the viewer to wonder if the newspaper has any reporters other than Brooke . You'd think they would but you never see any and all this pressure is placed on Brooke to get the scoop . So Brooke decides the best thing to do is arrange for a scandal himself , so he gets his dopey butler ( played by Stan Laurel ) to pose as a rich man and make love to the vamp while Brooke is nearby with his camera . While Stan Laurel is in the film , he really isn't the lead and this was made in the pre-Laurel and Hardy days . Oddly , while Brooke is clearly the lead , the film gives the vamp , Lillian Rich , top billing - - though she is on hand mostly like a decoration . The plot itself could have been very funny , but there honestly aren't all that many good laughs in the film . So it's not a particularly distinguished film and mostly only of interest to Laurel and Hardy die-hards who want to see all of their films ( both before and after their pairing ) or perhaps silent movie die-hards . Either way , the average person probably won't be particularly impressed by the relatively tame antics . By the way , I agree with " wmorrow59 " - - you gotta love the art deco outfits and apartment of Ms . Rich - - particularly the spiderweb curtains .
There must have been 62 , 344 movies or television shows that have talked about this gunfight - - and most , if not all , of them are so WRONG ! This true story has morphed into complete fiction over the years AND this relatively unimportant historical event has been overblown into importance it never deserved . I'm a history teacher , so I am right . Trust me on this . ( for those who have read my other reviews , I also teach Psychology ) . How and why such an event can be twisted and contorted like this is beyond me but it just represents bad history and sloppy film making . Despite the generally decent acting in this film , it's departures from reality make it not much better than the incredibly stupid episode of the original Star Trek series where they , too , were transported back to Tombstone to fight this little battle ! I have heard that the newer film Tombstone is a good film but considering everything it's almost 100 % sure I'll never see this film . Gunfight At The OK Corral and My Darling Clementine are enough - - let's stop beating a dead horse , OK ?
This film is definite evidence that the films in the latter portion of Kay Francis ' career were pretty ordinary . This film , while competent , is only passable entertainment and certainly won't keep your undivided attention . Kay plays a high-living gold digger . The problem is that she never got married and settled down and now she's broke and her prospects are few . So , on a lark , she finds a young protégé and grooms her to be a gold digger as well - - but also to marry and keep a rich guy . The problem is that the young lady has scruples and she just can't bring herself to do this to such a nice guy . So , Kay decides to pull out all the stops and try to get the guy herself - - even though she's older than the young man's mother ! Oddly , one of the beaus that the protégé has in the film is Nigel Bruce . While his age is fine for the film ( after all , she was looking for a " sugar daddy " ) , saying he was from Chicago made me laugh . After all , Bruce has a very , very English accent and seeing the guy who later played Dr . Watson in the Sherlock Holmes films as an American from Chicago made me laugh . Otherwise , there's not much in this film that seems new or particularly interesting . Even the noble ending seems all too familiar . Watchable , but that's about it .
I know I'll ruffle many feathers for saying this , but this banned video shouldn't be banned for being politically incorrect or insensitive . First , I am loathe to ever pull things from the market because they might offend . Second , while the Chinese stereotypes abound , the Asians in this cartoon are not shown as being stupid , sub-human or bad - - just stereotypical . For example , Porky Pig plays a Charlie Chan-style character ( named " Charlie Chan " ) and yet he isn't stupid , evil or bad - - so what harm exactly is being done by this cartoon ? Plus anyone with half a brain should be able to figure out that these are only silly stereotypes and should be able to handle it . Now if you can manage to ignore all the Chinese images , what are you left with in this cartoon ? Well , the quality of the animation is pretty poor for Warner Brothers because it was made in 1959 - - when the studio began cost-cutting by using inferior production values . Plus , it isn't really that funny or memorable . THIS should be the reason people don't watch this - - not because of heightened sensibilities .
TORPEDO RUN is a decent film and much of the film is pretty exciting . However , it suffers from a serious glut in the genre - - there are just so many really , REALLY good submarine films . Just off the top of my head , DESTINATION TOKYO , OPERATION PACIFIC , RUN SILENT RUN DEEP , CRASH DIVE , THE ENEMY BELOW and the amazing DAS BOOT all come to mind as great sub films - - all of which clearly surpass TORPEDO RUN . However , if you haven't had too much of all this sort of film , then by all means give this film a look . The film stars Glenn Ford and Ernest Borgnine . Ford's character and performance are very quiet and intense - - almost reminiscent of Captain Ahab but in a more subdued way . Borgnine , on the other hand , while not the official star of the film seemed to have a better and more interesting role as the second in command who is friends with Ford but a bit worried about his boss ' mental state . The reason this is a concern is that apparently Ford's wife and daughter are aboard a Japanese prisoner ship that their sub accidentally sinks ( this is WAY too coincidental a plot device - - I mean , what are the chances ? ! ? ) . However , despite the ridiculousness of the plot , the battle sequences are taut , well executed and the special effects are very good . You can't see the sides of the pool in which they filmed the underwater scenes ( something you can see in many other sub films - - even some of the ones listed above ) and only once did I clearly notice a string pulling one of the torpedoes through the water ( again , it's unfortunately common to see this in other sub films ) . So what we have is a fairly good and typical film of the genre that is impeded a bit by a hard to believe plot twist . However , decent performances ( particularly by Borgnine ) still make this reasonably good entertainment .
It takes a special sort of person to watch these older Hong Kong martial arts films , as the average person will no doubt watch them and laugh themselves silly at the stupid physics , silly plots and hapless dubbing . But if you are like me , you'll consider the cheesiness as all part of the film's charm and understand that this is all part of the genre . In this light , this is a slightly better than average film . Just try to ignore the silly special effects with involve flying heroes , explosions , exploding golden Frisbees , people catching arrows in flight and throwing them back and killing the shooters and many other impossible tasks . The film is about a fight within a family clan . One member is evil but claims that he is seeking a man with a whip to get revenge - - while what he REALLY wants is to murder him and steal a government gold shipment . A fellow clan member , Lei Peng , urges him to abandon his revenge - - and he later realizes that it isn't about revenge after all . When this happens , he takes the gold himself and plans on returning it to the government . In the meantime , the evil dude and his toadies attack and murder all of Lei Peng's family . Later , the guy with the whip's children seek to kill Lei Peng - - thinking he was the one who murdered their father and stole the gold . But , since they want the gold , they pretend to want to help Li Po to find out where it's hidden . In addition , a lady in white joins their merry gang . The four of them eventually have a major showdown ( after they realize Li Po is a good guy ) and the action and silly special effects reach a very strange and odd conclusion when Li Po seemingly arises from the dead to beat the baddie and his evil henchmen . Despite the silliness of the plot , this is a pretty good film with decent fight scenes - - it won't lose your interest if you are a fan of these fantasy films . Plus , there are some really dopey moments that are so unintentionally funny that I loved them , such as when one man said " If I lose , I will cut off my own head " - - huh ? !
While I was not nearly as taken with this film as Leonard Maltin ( who lists it among his 50 films you may have missed at the beginning of his latest guide ) , it is a pretty decent little film . There are some wonderful performances ( particularly the man who played Uncle Paco - - Chalo González ) . However , with topics such as teen pregnancy and homosexuality , this is a film you might want to think twice about before letting your teen watch it . I'm sure many will also be offended by the subject matter , so think about this before renting it . Magdalena's Quinceañera is soon approaching . This is sort of like a Mexican rite of passage - - much like a Sweet 16 Party . However , she is mysteriously pregnant and her family's plans for the celebration are thrown into chaos . While this is a starting off point for the film , there are several interesting plot element running parallel to this - - such as the life of her sweet uncle and her gay cousin , Carlos ( who is ostracized by much of the family ) . I read one review that was critical of the gay couple and the affair one of these gay men had with Carlos . They were offended because the couple was NOT monogamous and they were worried this film might feed into the negative stereotype that ALL gay men are promiscuous . While I could understand their concern , this plot element in the film certainly was unique and was worth exploring . And , it's not good to ALWAYS show all gay people as noble - - a stereotype which has been promoted heavily in recent years and which is also very unreal . Why can't they just be good or bad or a bit of both like any other person ? What I found particularly interesting about Carlos was that although in some ways he was a bit of a thug , he was also very vulnerable and was amazingly self-controlled when he had every reason to want to kill these gay men . Despite this , he was able to let go - - and provided some balance ( i . e . , not all gay men in the film were bad - - just this couple ) . As for Tió Paco , he was a beautiful and charming character - - you'll just have to see him and the rest of the family to understand . Magdalena , actually , was the weakest point ( despite her Quinceañera being the subject of the film ) , as her character seemed a bit one dimensional and her predicament amazingly bizarre and tough to believe . Once again , this is a very adult film though it seems to be marketed , somewhat , towards teens . If you do let your teen watch it , watch it with them and discuss the film - - this could be a nice chance to discuss the many topics this film raises during its 90 minutes . It's a decent film with some nice performances as well as a nice opportunity to see what this celebration is . But , it also is a bit of a disappointment - - it just didn't seem as special or magical as Maltin led me to believe . It was good , but not that good .
This is a very self-selecting film . Those who love Luis Buñuel and adore his Surrealism will no doubt think this an an absolutely marvelous and absurd piece of art . Many of those who don't will probably be amused by some of the silliness , but could probably not be convinced it is either great art or something they'd like to see again . And I am also sure that a many of the run-of-the-mill film viewers would probably hate it . I just can't see most teens watching this type of film . In many ways , this movie reminds me of the paintings of Dali , and that is certainly not a surprise considering that the director and Dali had worked together in the past and BOTH adored nonsensical work that both confused and enraged audiences . This film was a deliberate attempt at both - - especially as far as being confusing . Many of the vignettes just seem very random and go nowhere , while others are pretty revolting and others are pretty funny - - it's a very odd mix . I think the one I liked best was the very first vignette with the " dirty old man in the park " who gives little girls " bad pictures " - - it's not as bad as it sounds and was actually pretty funny . I can't say I necessarily hated the film , but I sure wouldn't want a steady diet of these films . It was certainly an unusual experience ( much like eating haggis or hang gliding naked ) . If you liked this film , try seeing BUFFET FROID ( another French film ) - - it is even more absurd and bizarre than this one .
I did not love this movie , but it was better than average - - particularly because of its originality . However , to an American audience , it may be difficult to relate to the French justice system circa 1974 . At first , the star of the movie , Philippe Noiret , is a rather apolitical man who seems quite ordinary . When the police inform them that his son has murdered someone , he initially does pretty much what the police ask . When the investigating officer tries to get close to Philippe ( sort of " buddy buddy " - like ) , he allows him . However , through the course of the film , Philippe begins to see the police as the enemy and he rebuffs these attempts by the police to be friendly . The problem for me is WHO is right ? Were the police at this point of time quick to violate human rights or manipulate the families of the accused ? I really didn't know if Philippe was having his eyes opened to the truth or if he just learned to identify with and excuse evil . This would NOT pose a problem to a French audience but for those not familiar with the French legal system it seemed confusing - - was Philippe a good man or a good man going bad ? As far as the acting and pacing is concerned , this is a good flick .
This is an independent short that I assume was made by on of Elsa's children or grandchildren . She was an immigrant from Germany to the US at the end of WWII and she very , very briefly talks about this . Most of the film , however , is not spent reminiscing about Germany , the war or adapting to life in America . Instead , Elsa talks through how to make an American dish ( apple pie ) step by step . While I found her very engaging and it looked like a nice pie ( though I like mine without raisins ) , I also felt frustrated because this lady had so much knowledge and important memories and instead of imparting them , it looked more like a cooking show . My advice to the film's maker , Tim Duquette , is to make more films with her - - but please let her just talk about her life . Sure , I understand that the pie is a metaphor for her life , but since she is in her 70s it certainly would be interesting to chronicle her life for posterity . Just my two cents worth .
This movie was a minor picture with relatively low aspirations . Seen in this light , it's a fairly good picture but definitely one you'll probably forget soon after seeing it . Most of this is due to the difficult to believe chemistry between John Wayne and Jean Arthur and the rest is due to the pretty ordinariness of the plot . Jean is besought by suitors back East . She needs a break and meets up with rodeo star Wayne and is almost instantly smitten . However , despite a good start , things run amiss and it appears that nice girl Jean won't get her man . But , this being a Hollywood picture of the 1940s , then you KNOW it's a cinch it will all work out in the end . This picture probably did nothing to either help or hinder either actors ' career , but it lacked believably chemistry and plausibility . Absolutely no surprises but a pleasant diversion nonetheless . By the way , a very similar movie is THE COWBOY AND THE LADY starring Gary Cooper and Merle Oberon . It also earns a 6 but I must admit that this John Wayne and Jean Arthur film is just a tad better , so if you MUST see one , see LADY TAKES A CHANCE .
While I am a huge fan of Japanese films , I don't care for giant monster films . While Godzilla and the like have huge followings , seeing a guy running around in a rubber monster suit does nothing for me . Because of this AND the fact that the film was made by Toho Studios ( home of ' Zilla ) AND the director of many of these films ( Ishirô Honda ) , my expectations were very low . Fortunately , my fears were unfounded and H-MAN turned out to be a decent film - - with an interesting plot and decent dubbing ( though I would have preferred it to be subtitled ) . The film begins with some drug dealers stealing some drugs . However , unexpectedly , one of the men suddenly vanishes and all that is left of him is his clothes ! ! What happened and where he went was a mystery and so far the film reminded me of THE ANDROMEDA STRAIN , where in the town the people were missing and all that was left were their clothes and some powder . However , the similarities to this Michael Crichton film / novel seem to end there and it really seems more like a variation on the film THE BLOB ( also 1958 ) . The police go on the assumption that the criminal is alive ( and naked ) somewhere and refuse to consider anything else . So , when a young scientist insists that he knows what happens , they naturally ignore him completely ( even though they have no leads ) . He insists that nuclear testing ( THE 1950s cause of all evil in horror films ) created a monster that could dissolve people almost instantly but is forced to work on his own . Along the way , he falls for the missing gangster's lady friend and together they both set out to prove it . Eventually , after several folks are dissolved by this evil slime , the cops FINALLY admit that the scientist might just be right ! And , in a very radical departure from what they'd been doing , they order the sewers of Tokyo to be flooded with gasoline and ignited to kill the beasts ( which , apparently , isn't all that hard to kill - - unlike most nuclear mutants ) . But , the girl is kidnapped and carried into the sewers , so it's up to the studly scientist to come to her rescue and save the city - - at the same time ( what a guy ! ! ) . While a lot of the film is the standard " nuclear slime dissolves the masses " film , it manages to do a good job thanks to better than normal dubbing , a decent story and a monster that isn't nearly as laughable as Godzilla , Rodan or Mothra ! ! Good old 50s horror entertainment for all .
The Falcon is approached by a college girl at the beginning of the film . A professor died recently and she knows it's a murder even though they say it was a natural death . Before he has a chance to investigate , the impulsive and annoying girl steals his car - - forcing him to go to the school to retrieve it ( and thus get pulled into the investigation ) . As the film unfolds in a rather unremarkable and far-fetched plot , we meet a set of characters who all could have killed the professor - - who , it turns out , did NOT die due to natural causes . When one of the suspects is then clearly murdered , the police become involved as well - - and as usual , they are about as much help as a pilot's license to a fish ! In the end , through some spurious reasoning , the Falcon figures out the murderer - - leading to a very cool scene at the edge of a cliff . While this is not a bad detective film , it did seem that since the earlier Falcon films ( with George Sanders , actor Tom Conway's real-life brother ) that the series went into a bit of a decline . Part of it might be because I miss Sanders in the lead role , though Conway looks and especially sounds so much like him I doubt this is the main reason . I think the problem is that the original formula is gone . There is no great sidekick ( such as Allen Jenkins ) , no fiancée and no glib remarks by the Falcon . In fact , it's the glibness that I think sets the earlier films apart from the later ones , as the earlier films had lots of wonderful lines - - full of sarcasm and zip . This was especially noticeable since I had watched Sanders ' second Falcon film and then this one just a few hours later . Still , despite its deficiencies , it is a worthwhile B-detective series film - - just don't expect any spark to set it apart from the many rival series at the other studios . By the way , the psychology professor says of himself " I am a medical doctor and a psychologist " . Actually , if he were an MD , then this would make him a psychiatrist - - a distinction that should have been noted by the script writer . Psychiatrists don't like to be referred to as psychologists and vice-versa , plus their jobs are often quite different ( psychiatrists generally use medication to treat mental illnesses , psychologists cannot legally do this and use counseling to treat problems ) . Oh , and one last thing . While the Falcon was sorely missing his usual sidekick and flustered fiancée , I did like the three young triplets . They were pretty amusing in a " huey , Dewey and Louie " sort of way , plus their brief song was a nice and enjoyable piece - - certainly much more so than the other needless songs placed into the film . Competent overall but still somewhat lacking . Perhaps this was due to their being three Falcon films in 1943 and three more in 1944 , and so with all these films a bit less care was being taken in production .
This is a decent Three Stooges featuring Moe , Curly and Larry . Unlike their other shorts , this one has the team working for a charity show for workers at a defense plant and so they can do many of their old and familiar vaudeville routines - - particularly the " Niagara Falls " bit ( also done in 1944 by Abbott and Costello in one of their films ) . The problem is that the Niagara Falls bit is awfully familiar stuff and the ladies who appear in the show with them are a major distraction . Sure , they are included as love interests for the boys but having them do a majorly lame and dull dance routine in the show was a very flat moment in an otherwise decent short . It's watchable to fans and non-fans alike , but it's not one of their best outings . Still , it beats any of the stuff they did with Joe Besser and Joe DeRita !
This animated film from Canada is very well made but it's also a film that probably most viewers would probably dislike . As an art film , you have to respect the time and energy it went into it but commercially it just isn't very satisfying . The film consists of images scratched onto a black background . The film consists of a variety of odd shapes and designs with no anthropomorphic images at all . The images appear and disappear and seem to move to the music . In fact , this is the part that impressed me so much - - the animation and music did film perfectly together . However , after initially being impressed , I soon grew tired of this . Even though the film was short , it wasn't short enough for me and a little of this seems to go a very long way . Overall , interesting and you have to respect the effort but also not a particularly enjoyable film to watch .
The music , the directing and acting are just fine in the movie . The only problem for me ( and others may NOT care about this ) is the basic relationship problem . Robert Redford is stunningly handsome , rather quiet , rich and conservative in the movie . So WHY would he be interested in Barbra Streisand's character ? She is loud , exceptionally opinionated , liberal and not attractive ( this is a BIG acting stretch for her , I know ) - - at least in a conventional sense . We have all heard the old saying " opposites attract " , but it is only an old saying and really isn't true . If it were , then believing this relationship would be a lot easier . The problem is , they just don't seem to have ANY common ground . If they were incompatible but had SOME mutual interests or similarities , I could buy the conflict . Fans of " Babs " no doubt think I'm a moron for not understanding or appreciating her greatness . While I may be a moron ( the jury's still out ) , most Americans either adore her or can't stand her films . I'm one of the latter ones .
This is one of those sci-fi movies of the 50s that obviously did not take itself too seriously . Sure , the typical invasion from outer space was the theme of the film , but the bug-eyed aliens are so gosh-darn cute and the costumes so cool you can't help but smile instead of becoming afraid . And , the script also takes a less than serious look at the invasion . Sure , it is a dopey martian invasion movie but it makes no attempt to be otherwise and that is why I liked the movie so much - - for what it was , it was sure fun . So , if you do watch the film , view it more as comedy and don't be too hard on this old film ! If you do , you'll find it's a delightful little time passer .
This movie hasn't aged very well , but when it debuted it was a heck of a film - - sparking many sequels as well as an entirely new genre of films , such as 42ND STREET , FOOTLIGHT PARADE and DANCING LADY . Because of this , even in spite of its many shortcomings , it's an important film historically speaking . The film may at times look like a bunch of clichés , but you should remember that although many of the plot elements would become clichéd over time , here they were quite original . It was also the first all singing / all talking musical ( winning the Oscar for Best Picture ) , so it deserves to be remembered . Hank and Queenie are sisters who have come to Broadway to make it big . Hank knows they will become stars as a team and doesn't seem willing to consider any other option . Frankly , as I watched their act , I couldn't help but think that these two women had practically no chemistry as a team - - they couldn't sing or dance all that well together . Well , despite Hank's confidence , Mr . Zanfield ( a takeoff on Flo Ziegfeld ) wasn't interested in the team - - just Queenie . Queenie was not only much prettier but she also wasn't a giant pain in the neck and would take direction ! Hank was too self-confident as well as pushy and obnoxious . Her only experience had been dancing in small venues but she tried to lecture the great Zanfield on how to put on a show ! Despite Hank's general unlikability ( to some she had " pluck and determination " , to me she needed a rap in the mouth ) , she was still given a small part thanks to Queenie and Eddie's intervention . Hank , by the way , was the show's star and Hank's fiancé - - that does sound a bit weird , huh ? The problem is that after a while , Eddie starts to realize that Hank's little sister , Queenie , is prettier and a nicer person . It's obvious that he is falling in love with her and vice-versa . However , both Eddie and Queenie love Hank and can't hurt her , so Queenie begins dating Jock - - a rich guy . Now up until the very end , we really DON'T know Jock is no-good , but the instant Queenie shows interest in Jock , Hank interferes and tries to split them up . This isn't a good idea , as Queenie is only dating Jock in order to get Eddie out of her system . However , the longer the film goes , the more Hank rides Queenie for dating Jock . Eventually , Queenie can't take Hank's bullying any more and runs off to the arms of Jock . Fortunately , at that moment Hank figures out the score and tells Eddie their engagement is over and encourages him to marry Queenie . Eddie confronts Jock and gets punched in the kisser . Queenie runs to him and pledges her undying love , as he was willing to stand up and fight to protect her honor . Now at this point , you assume the film is over but it goes on needlessly for about 15 more minutes . The film had a lot of energy and was unique - - a truly innovative film . There were a few cute supporting characters I liked , such as the extremely flamboyant costumer as well as the three " yes-men " . They added some nice color to the film . Oh , and speaking of color , while the color has vanished over time ( a common problem with Two-Color Technicolor ) , many of the big production numbers were shot in a primitive form of color . Also , the title song ( " Broadway Melody " ) was pretty good , but they sang it about six times during the film and four times in a row ! I chalk this up not to lousy production values but to the fact this was the first musical extravaganza . Another minor problem that for me was not really a problem was the extensive use of inter-title cards . Considering this was such an early talkie , it's not surprising that they relied a bit too much on these cards to connect scenes . Let's address rest of the people in the film . The character " Uncle Jed " was annoying and insensitive . His schtick was stuttering like Porky Pig and this got old very quickly . Also , if you haven't guessed from my above comments , Hank was just too darn unlikable and you wanted Eddie to dump her . Had she been softened up a bit ( less pushy , controlling and rude ) , then the audience would have cared more for her plight . Also , when she and Queenie have their showdown , it's one of the shrillest scenes in movie history and should have been toned down a bit . Now there are also many technical problems with the film . Many of the edits are very sloppy - - either being edited too soon or allowing pointless footage to remain that should have been shortened . Frankly , it's editing is just awful - - especially in one very long and protracted scene where Queenie just stares off in space towards the end . Also , while " Melody of Broadway " is pretty good , the rest of the songs aren't . In fact , during one song that was being sung by a guy dressed as a Roman soldier , the sound and singing was so bad I couldn't understand any of the song . This wasn't just me , either , as the film featured excellent Closed Captioning when shown on Turner Classic Movies but when it came to this song , the captioning stopped - - obviously they couldn't figure it out as well ! Also , while for 1929 the dance numbers were big and impressive , but about 1932 or 1933 , these numbers looked amazingly small , poorly choreographed and flat - - needing a strong injection of the Busby Berkely touch . An important but flawed film .
There is something disarming about John C . Reilly's screen persona that makes you want to like him . In silly films such as TALLADEGA NIGHTS and WALK HARD , even if I didn't love the film ( such as with WALK HARD ) , I found myself liking the character played by Reilly - - even with his many foibles . Here , Reilly stars in a black and white short where he simply asks people " Are you the favorite person of anybody ? " . I assume the people were all actors , but the film has the look of reality about it . What was interesting is that the film got you to think about this for yourself - - a potentially sad and lonely or affirming question indeed . While nothing dramatic or life-changing , this was a likable and interesting little film .
I've seen a decent number of films by D . W . Griffith and one thing I noticed is that he rarely was subtle and some of his shorts were pretty heavy-handed and preachy . This film is one of these films that is is a morality tale meant to instill the values of honesty and hard work . The film shows two parallel marriages - - one of two rich people , the other two very poor . The poor guy can't get work and ultimately resorts to stealing , while the rich guy doesn't need the money but accepts a bribe purely out of greed . When they meet , the rich guy's wife knows that both men are pretty shady characters . She gives them a talking to , and they both go back on the straight and narrow road . Familiar stuff for the 1910s and familiar stuff from the director as well .
The problem for me is that I did NOT like THE RABBIT OF SEVILLE very much . Both that and this short are opera-based Bugs Bunny cartoons that are scored extremely high on IMDb despite the fact that most kids probably hate these toons . When I was a kid watching the Bugs Bunny Show , I often went to the bathroom or got something to eat when they came on . They are definitely marketed for a more adult and opera-loving audience . And , as an adult I still don't particularly like these cartoons . The basic problem is that these cartoons so fundamentally mess with the Bugs Bunny formula . Yes , Elmer Fudd is here trying to " kill the wabbit " , but putting all this violence to opera and then having Bugs seemingly die at the end is just plain wrong ! To me , this seems like a cartoon geared towards Niles and Frasier Crane , not the average bloke !
This is a strange little absurdist short film that can be found on the website for PBS . The reason I describe it as " absurdist " is because the reactions by the man in the dry cleaning store as well as his bizarre customers makes no sense - - they don't behave at all like sane people would . This makes the film rather funny and clever but I could also see it turning off some viewers . The film begins with a couple entering the dry cleaning store . They are covered in blood and ask the guy behind the counter if he can get them clean now . Without blinking an eye , he never asks a question but helps out - - and you next see the couple wearing towels and conversing with the guy as if nothing had happened - - no blood or bloody cleaver ! ! They talk about life , the weather , etc . and pass the time as if nothing was unusual about their request or the fact they appear to have killed someone ! I liked the film because unlike a full-length absurdist film , this style fits a shorter format better - - it doesn't get too old too quickly . I also thought the acting was exceptional considering how weird the situation was . Good stuff - - I hope to see more from these folks .
The writing , acting and direction are wonderful in this film . I simply can't find fault with the quality of the film . However , like a few other comments here on IMDb , I found this film depressing and difficult to watch . However , that isn't all bad - - such a film can also get you to think . After all , nearly half of all marriages end in divorce so it's good to see someone attempting to broach the topic of a failed marriage ! But , I am afraid that many who view the film could easily take the attitude that infidelity is inevitable ( especially since the featured couple is so " civilized " about adultery ) . Of course , it also is very possible that the movie COULD be a warning that advises us not to be stuck in sick roles within a marriage but deal more openly and truthfully . Who knows . at least it made me think .
A PIECE OF WOOD is an interesting little low budget sci-fi film lasting only about 15 minutes . There are only two actors in the film and the set is very simple , yet considering the plot this works out quite well . As the film opens , a soldier enters his commanding officer's office about his next assignment . He is being the choice of serving on the Western or the Northern fronts in a war that has apparently been going on for 16 years . However , instead of making this decision , the young soldier talks about this strange delusion - - that he has actually come up with a way to make all weapons disintegrate into piles of rust and thus ending this war . The officer , naturally , thinks the guy is crazy and when the recruit leaves , he calls the base hospital to report that the man has lost his mind . . . and then things get really weird ! Kudos for making the most of a simple story . It is an interesting film and brings up some interesting ramifications . The only negative , and it's relatively small , is that the acting seemed a bit stiff . It wasn't bad - - just not great . Still , an unusual idea well executed - - this one's worth a look .
This is a very good film , but certainly NOT as great as some of the hype would indicate . One IMDb reviewer went so far as to say it was " better than Kane ( CITIZEN KANE ) " ! In fact , over the years a sort of " mystical " adoration of this film has arisen that is completely ridiculous and way out of proportion . In fact , Orson Welles HIMSELF said that the film we all know as THE MAGNIFICENT AMBERSONS was terribly edited and he disowned his film - - so WHY all the hype ? ! Let's first review the history of the film . The ORIGINAL Orson Welles version of the film no longer exists - - or at least no one has found it . When the original and significantly longer version of the film was previewed , the audiences found it depressing and too long - - and possibly this was due to WWII just starting and people wanted a happy an uplifting film . So , when Welles wasn't looking , RKO reedited the film severely and gave it an upbeat ending ! ! So , if the film is only a bastardized version of the original , it just doesn't make sense to declare it a masterpiece as so many have done . In fact , when I watched it for the third time , I noticed many places where the film seemed to skip about and MANY times there was narration instead of action - - as if they'd delete major scenes and then just describe what you missed in a few sentences ! This is NOT great film making ! So what do we have left ? Well , the acting is exceptional throughout and there is often the trademark excellent Orson Welles black and white shadowy cinematography . The total package is pleasant enough , but way too sketchy and disjoint . Good , but certainly NOT great . If only someone would find the original film hiding somewhere in a vault !
For an early film , this one is actually pretty good . In this silent movie , the crew re-creates a fire and shows the firemen doing their job - - starting with leaving the firehouse all the way through rescuing all the victims . It's sort of like a documentary of their job that is done by re-staging what looks an awful lot like a real fire . Unlike some similar films , this one looks authentic enough that it both entertains and gives us insight into the profession in 1901 . I particularly liked seeing the horse-drawn fire wagon as well as the people jumping out the window into the trampoline-like device the firemen use . Pretty good stuff and a pretty good historical record to boot !
In the 1940s , Universal Studios made a short series of films dubbed " The Inner Sanctum " movies . They all apparently starred Lon Chaney , Jr . and were B-movies . In other words , they were lower budget and ran at only a little over one hour , as they were intended to be the second ( and lesser ) film during a double-feature . In general , Bs were not great films , though compared to other films of the style , Inner Sanctum films are definitely a notch above the rest . In this installment , Chaney plays a Neurosurgeon who also does hypnosis ( an odd combination by the way ) . He seems like a nice guy and you have to feel sorry for him since he's apparently married a horrible woman who treats him like dirt . When this lady is killed , you'd think that would be the end of his problems , however , police think he might be the killer and Chaney isn't sure himself since his memories of that weekend are missing ! Using hypnosis , he gets to the heart of the problem . By the way , the hypnotic portions of the film were wrong in that hypnosis works very little like they showed it . However , as most people watching the film are NOT trained hypnotists ( I am ) , they really won't notice or care that this aspect of the movie is mostly mumbo-jumbo . Aside from that , the acting , writing and direction are all pretty good - - and the film is a nice diverting little mystery . By the way , this film is one of six that have been released on DVwith three episodes on each DVD . This is from Disk 1 and also includes DEAD MAN'S EYES and WEIRD WOMAN - - both of which are of comparable quality . I strongly recommend you see the series and if you like it , also try Columbia Pictures ' WHISTLER series - - as it's very similar in style .
This is the story of a long-time New Orleans resident , Louis Harding , and his recollections of the Black community long before Hurricane Katrina as well as his feelings about the state of the community today . He actually feels that they were much better off in the early 20th century during the years of the UNIA ( an organization created by civil rights leader , Marcus Garvey ) , as Black ownership of businesses and pride was much stronger long ago . Now , the sense of pride is diminished but Harding refuses to give up and has been working to help his community . Even after Katrina destroyed much of the city , including his properties he's worked a lifetime to own , he is determined to see the city rise again . I enjoyed this little portrait , but I would have loved more background information about New Orleans in the 1920s . I am very familiar with the UNIA and Garveyism , but nowadays , the importance of this organization and its push for Black entrepreneurs to create inner city businesses has been forgotten . Showing this connection along with Harding's insights would have made for a much more interesting film , though it is still well worth seeing .
Years ago , there was a " Twilight Zone " episode involving magical shoes . When a person put them on , they assumed the identity of the dead man who used to wear the shoes . While they still looked like their old selves , they knew everything the murdered man knew ! Well , this short film takes this idea and twists it into a funny knot ! In this case , a hobo puts on a power tie that he finds ( or perhaps it finds him ! ) . Immediately , the tie takes over and pulls him into the corporate world ( literally ) . Oddly , everyone seems to know the bum - - even though he's still dressed in his old rags and all he really cares about is finding more alcohol ! Still , with this tie , he can apparently do no wrong and he is a huge hit at work . That is , until he fights the tie to get a drink - - when disaster strikes . This leads to a clever finale . Now I am sure than many won't think that this film is funny , as it seems to make fun of hobos . Plus , my using words like " bum " and " hobo " aren't exactly politically correct , so I guess they'll feel much the same way about the review ! Still , it's very funny and weird and if you aren't a thin-skinned person , you'll probably have a laugh or two watching POWER TIE .
This is a sweet little film that a grandson made about his grandfather after his death . The old man's life is recounted through his correspondence - - which , oddly , always seems to be about cars . Perhaps this was done to show how the man was emotionally constricted or he was just obsessed with cars . Either way , as the film progresses , the man's freedom dwindles away and he can no longer drive the car he loves . Following these odd letters , the film ends with a little epilogue by his grandson . While none of this seemed super-profound , the film was a nice gentle short film and it was accentuated by excellent emotive music and a nice use of archival footage and letters . Style-wise , this was a lovely film and a nice tribute to a man most would never have heard about otherwise .
Beatrice Lillie plays a somewhat dim but likable lady who works for a traveling repertory company . She does all the grunt work and occasionally fills in for small roles . Although she envisions playing the lead ( the " vamp " ) , in truth she's not very competent and has a hard enough time with her own job . A bit later , a nice young man ( Jack Pickford ) joins the company and Beatrice is smitten . He likes her as well , but for her it's " love at first sight " . The reason Jack joined them is that he was framed - - accused of embezzling money from the bank in which he worked . Later , when the company goes to the town where Jack was from , he hides because he doesn't want to get caught . And Beatrice gives it her all to prove Jack's innocence . The film is a light comedy-romance , though it is much more a comedy - - with Beatrice sometimes hamming it up and other times doing a good job of playing this ditsy character . It's pretty likable but also rather insignificant - - worth seeing , but not a film you should rush to see . A few observations about several of the actors . This is Franklin Pangborn's first movie and he plays a very effeminate wimp who also happens to play the rugged hero in the company . The film was shown as part of Turner Classic Movie's salute to gay images in film . He's pretty good in this role and I doubt if gay people would be particularly offended by his role . Also , this is Jack Pickford's second to last film . This ill-fated screw-up was the brother of Mary Pickford and by the early 30s and had a significant career in acting , although a combination of hard living , alcohol and STDs brought his life to an early end . What a shame . Also , while Beatrice Lillie had a long and remarkable career on stage , she made very , very few films so this is a rare opportunity to see her in action .
This is a cute little comedy that is much more plot-driven than most silent comedies of the era - - relying more on a story than on gags . Now by 1926 , slapstick style humor was rather passé , but there still were usually more laughs in the average comedy . Now this isn't to say FLIRTY FOUR-FLUSHERS is bad - - it just isn't a belly-laugh type comedy . The film begins with a young lady receiving a check for $500 . She decides to quit her job as a waitress and invest the money in creating a new persona - - and using that persona to land a millionaire husband . Unfortunately for her plans , the millionaire that she meets and falls for is also a fake and she ends up declining a genuine proposal from a genuine millionaire to get him . What I particularly liked was how this plot did not end as the cliché usually would indicate - - that the poor guy was so nice that they decided to get married anyway and live happily ever after . This is NOT what happens and this helped the short to get a slightly higher score as a result . A decent little comedy that won't change your life but is worth a look .
The Three Stooges ( Moe , Larry and Curly ) are defense workers who have just come home after a long day at the plant . Oddly , the fact that they are working for the war effort is NOT explored in this film - - it sure looked like it would be when the film started . I guess they just had this element in the story to make the film more patriotic and timely due to WWII . Soon , the real plot of the film is evident - - Curly has a bad toothache and needs his tooth pulled . Considering that this is ALL the plot the film has and that about 80 % of the film takes place in their house , the overall effect is amazingly claustrophobic and simple . Some on IMDb have said this is among their best . While I would agree that the gags work pretty well and it's enjoyable enough , the plot and locale prevent this from being a truly memorable film . Still , it does feature Curly , and this is always a big plus .
Jack Benny did a few really good films - - such as THE MEANEST MAN IN THE WORLD and TO BE OR NOT TO BE . Despite that he often made fun of his film career , he was pretty good when he played something other than " Jack Benny " . And , in this version of TO BE OR NOT TO BE , Mel Brooks , instead , plays the lead . And , he does a competent job . The problem is , Jack Benny did such a good job in the original , why remake the film in the first place ? I would have been a lot happier if they had just re-released the original to the theaters once again . Although , I must admit that Brooks is unusually restrained and does show respect for the material . So my advice : watch this film and then see the VERY SIMILAR original .
This was originally a made for TV miniseries in France . And , while it was exceptionally well-acted and pretty faithful to the life of Balzac , it was way too long and I agree with the reviewer Missy C who said that it was hard to really like the characters - - as Balzac was really screwed up and the women in his life were enablers . It was true that Balzac spent money WAY out of proportion to his income but had rich mistresses or his family to bail him out time and again . Actually , while this aspect of the film was pretty tedious on one level , psychologically speaking it is quite interesting . That's because his nasty and cold mother and he had a real love / hate relationship - - she bailed him out again and again but there seemed to be little , if any , affection between them . THEN , in a symbolic way ( at least as seen by Freudian therapists ) , Balzac tried to replicate this horrid relationship with his lovers - - all who were older women and seemed reminiscent of his mother . So , on one hand he hated his mother and on another , at least psychologically , he wanted her sexually . A very interesting aspect to the film , indeed , though something mostly of interest to psychology students and therapists . Now , as far as the film being too long , the most obvious example is the last hour of the movie . It focuses on the last three to six months or so of his life - - when he was very sickly and on the verge of death . This easily could have been summed up in 5-10 minutes but instead went on and on and on . However , at the same time WHAT Balzac wrote and what made him famous really was never explored . Perhaps the average Frenchman would know , but for non-French and non-literature majors , this is a glaring omission . A good , though flawed biography - - worth seeing , but perhaps too long and dull for many viewers .
This is a film featuring a Hawaiian woman's recollection of her teenage years of physical and sexual abuse . In light of this , it's a very hard film to watch and is certainly not fun by any sane standard . However , considering the sad subject matter , it is a good film and offers insight into the impact of this on a young girl's life . According to the Atom Films website , this film is about Hawaiian author Lois-Ann Yamanaka who apparently wrote poems about these experiences . The way the film is made is a tad disconcerting at first because all the dialog and narration are done by the same person and they are in Hawaiian Pidgen English . Once you are used to the style of the language , it is very compelling . There are a few obscenities and violent situations , though you'd expect them in a film like this and it didn't seem gratuitous .
Back in 1979 , a rather smutty film called DREAM DOLL was nominated for the Oscar for Best Animated Short Film . Well , talk about being surprised when I found out tonight that a few years later , another film ( SECOND CLASS MAIL ) was nominated in this same category and was also about an inflatable mate - - though fortunately in this case the film was not smutty and it was actually rather charming . Instead of the sex angle , the character in this film wants an inflatable man for companionship . It's actually rather cute , as instead of being naked , when inflated he looks like a middle-aged couch potato ! The ending , while not totally unexpected , is also quite funny and this is a lovely little cartoon - - though I can see why it ultimately didn't win since it was up against two amazing cartoons , ANNA & BELLA ( which won ) and THE BIG SNIT - - a wonderful comedy .
Stan and Ollie have tough wives . No only are these women meaner looking than those you usually see in a Laurel and Hardy domestic comedy , but they are incredibly over-bearing and keep practically every dime the boys make . It didn't seem all that surprising then when they boys wanted to stash away a few bucks and go for a night on the town . The problem is that Stan's wife finds the stash and substitutes it for coupons . The other problem is that the boys run up a huge tab and chase after girls . Hmm . . . . perhaps the wives DID have the right idea after all ! I was very surprised when I looked at all the reviews on IMDb for this early Laurel and Hardy film because the ratings were so darn low . I can't understand this as this is a pretty typical Laurel and Hardy short - - certainly NOT among their worst . Another thing that surprised me is that IMDb mentions a lost segment with midgets , but there were quite a few scenes in this film with midgets performing at a nightclub ( the ubiquitous " Pink Pup " ) . The film has more than its share of laughs and is highly reminiscent of many of the team's better efforts such as SONS OF THE DESERT and BLOTTO . Sure , it's familiar - - but it's also quite funny . By the way , I mentioned The Pink Pup because I recently noticed that it also appears in at least two other Laurel and Hardy films made about this same time - - THE BATTLE OF THE CENTURY and THAT'S MY WIFE .
This movie has been remade several times and I doubt if in this day and age the old fashioned plot would succeed . This is because the plot is full of lots of melodrama and situations that today just seem too unbelievable . However , being a fan of older films , I was able to suspend disbelief and just watch the movie and accept it for what it was . Ms . Leigh is a struggling ballerina in love with a rich guy about to go off to WWI . They are desperately in love and she ultimately gives up her career for him . Unfortunately , he goes off to war and is assumed to be lost and she has no income . His family is far from welcoming and so she is forced to sell her body to support herself ! Now , most people today would think " yeah , she COULD just scream and yell and demand support from his family or why doesn't she just go out and get a job ? " and this is the main problem with the film . Also , it's hard to reconcile the fine romance and romantic cinematography and music with her becoming a hooker . They just don't go together . These plot holes , it turns out , are a result of a massive re-writing of the script from the 1931 film of the same name - - where the character Ms . Leigh plays is already a prostitute when she meets her love AND she never was a ballerina ! ! However , in spite of this , it's still an excellent film and is worth seeing .
GOPHER BROKE was nominated for the Oscar for Best Animated Short and while it is a cute four minutes of film , it also seems a bit ordinary . Now this isn't to say that it's bad . It's just that in the last decade there have been so many similar looking films that it just doesn't seem very special . With Pixar , Dreamworks , Fox and many , many independents making films of about comparable graphic quality , GOPHER BROKE isn't exactly innovative . Now the main character is pretty cute and the story engaging , but I also wished the film had been longer than just four minutes . With this style of animation getting better and better , the bar is being raised and GOPHER BROKE seems like yet another CGI film and that's really it . By the way , if you'd like to see a smaller studio that did an exceptional job with similar graphics , try watching the Welsh film FETCH . While only about a minute and a half long , it seems to pack in more laughs and is a delight .
This film is about a deadly poison that is contained in small glass globes that is used to kill . This is apparently done to hide an espionage ring intent on stealing plans for a new American bomber . Now much of this plot was repeated in other Chan films , THE JADE MASK and THE DOCKS OF NEW ORLEANS . Additionally , it was first used in MR . WONG , DETECTIVall had the exploding glass globes - - a plot element that obviously has been overused . It was interesting in MURDER OVER NEW YORK , but by these later films it was rather passé . Fortunately , the rest of the film was fresh and the plot worked out very well - - with a nifty conclusion where , of course , the culprit reveals himself . However , no plane could fly the way this one did - - especially in 1940 . Such extreme dives and rapid ascents were pretty silly out of this already obsolete plane . By the way , in a small role as a porter you'll see Frank Coghlan Jr . - - the same actor who played Billy Batson in the CAPTAIN MARVEL serial . According to IMDb , Mr . Coughlan is 93 years old and retired from the film industry .
While I love Japanese versions of Western stories ( such as Kurosawa's version of Macbeth - - THRONE OF BLOOD ) , I guess I've just never been the biggest fan of the story of Cyrano . I have seen the José Ferrer and Gérard Depardieu versions and this film is at least as good - - perhaps a little better due to its wonderful sense of artistry and the acting of Toshiro Mifune ( though the other two did great jobs as well ) . The cinematography is exquisite and the poetic nature of the dialog is wonderful as well . But , because I knew exactly how the story would go , there was no suspense and this prevented the movie from receiving a higher score . THRONE OF BLOOD did receive a higher score because it was so unique in how it approached the material that it was almost a completely different story , but this one never veered far enough off course to make it more watchable . Excellent , but familiar .
This film is included on a DVD entitled " Shorts : Volume Three " . Oddly , I have seen volume One already and Three is definitely much better - - though both are worth finding for lovers of short films like myself . This is not a short film for everyone , as the film is very strange and surreal and is not particularly pretty . It's filmed in a somewhat grainy black and white and looks much like it was made during the 1960s . Also , there really is a lot that isn't explained which might irritate some viewers , but it did have a lot to say about alienation and depersonalization . The film begins with someone approaching the main character and handing him a business card that said " Good Life " on it . Apparently , this was for a job interview , though it's all so very deliberately vague . Later , when the guy goes to the address on the card , things get very weird and the viewer is deliberately confused . My advice is to stick with it - - the film ends on a haunting and interesting note - - one that no doubt will spark many heated discussions . Creative and utterly bizarre . It's nice to see the makers of this French film took some risks .
This is a totally silly silent comedy . Is it sophisticated or cerebral ? NO WAY ! ! But , despite being just totally silly , it made me laugh repeatedly and my wife kept laughing at me because I couldn't stop laughing at the antics of Andy Clyde and Billy Bevan . The film starts with the duo complaining because they are hungry and have no money . They try a variety of ways to steal a meal , but keep getting caught . Billy sees a cop walking his beat and taking a few liberties along the way - - taking some " free " fruit from a local grocer . Billy reasons that if he has a police uniform , free food would naturally come his way . Andy wants to get in on the act and jumps in a baby carriage that Billy pushes along his supposed beat . When they enter a restaurant , Billy just assumes he can eat whatever he wants for free . Andy's solution is to cover himself up completely with a blanket and keep reaching around stealing other diners ' food . I particularly liked when Andy started smoking under the blanket and customers were shocked to see that the " baby " was a smoker ! It is interesting to note that the movie was directed by Del Lord . Lord later directed many of the Three Stooges shorts and you can see some of the Stooges ' bits here being done a decade earlier by different people ( so apparently they weren't Stooge bits after all ) . In particular , the oyster soup with the oyster that is very alive and very annoying - - Curly Howard did this same bit at least three or four times on film . All-in-all , a very silly and unbelievable film that is just plain funny . And if you are the type of person that can laugh at silly and stupid things , then this movie is for you !
I watched this with my daughter and wife and based on our reactions , I really think this is NOT a cartoon for everyone . I loved it and it made me laugh , my daughter chuckled and my wife thought we were both crazy ! ! The short film begins with , of all things , a young lady on a date with a zombie . TRY NOT TO THINK THIS OUT - - OF COURSE THE IDEA MAKES NO SENSE . My wife had a hard time with the concept - - I say just turn off your brain and watch . I'd like to say more about what exactly happens , but I can't as the film is only 3 minutes long and I am sure I'd spoil the film . The bottom line is that the film is very dry but has a great punchline . If you are weird , you'll probably like it . If not , then you might just want to skip it . If you DO like this , also try to watch another excellent zombie short ( ZOMBIE-AMERICAN ) .
This film is highly reminiscent of the Edison film " Execution of Czolgosz " - - a recreation of the execution of the man that murdered President McKinley . The Czolgosz execution was re-staged and many people believed it was the real thing , though today's audiences would easily be able to figure out it was faked . This is much like this French film from the exact same year . In fact , it was not uncommon for companies to " borrow " ideas from other ones and I'm not sure which of the studios ( Edison or Pathe ) really made their film first . The first portion of the movie is a relatively dull story about a guy who murders another , is apprehended and sent to prison . While there are real sets and plot ( making it better than MOST films from 1901 ) , the thing looks pretty cheesy . That is , until the very end . Then , to my utter surprise and initial horror , they do a pretty realistic guillotining of the prisoner and you see the head pop off ! ! If your kids want to see a very , very old film , show them this one - - it's creepy but cool and guaranteed to make them laugh !
Okay , many of you are about to become offended , but I've gotta say it . The movie version of " How the Grinch Stole Christmas " ( THE GRINCH ) was a horrible movie in practically every way . The worst problem with it is that the entire moral lesson of the original story is lost and in fact the movie states the exact opposite of what the author intended ! ! In the book and Chuck Jones special , the Whos were nice folks that didn't need all the presents as they were sincere in their reverence for the holidays . In the Jim Carey remake , the Whos were all selfish and materialistic ! ! What a horrible way to ruin Dr . Seuss ' vision ! It's like translating the Bible and making Satan the good guy ! In light of how far THE GRINCH strayed , I especially loved HORTON HEARS A WHO because it didn't wander far from the source material or convolute the moral of the story . Sure , the story was changed a bit and several subplots were added , but I could accept this - - after all , they had about 88 minutes to fill and there had to be SOME padding . However , the original story can still easily be distinguished and perhaps after this film , Seuss can finally stop spinning in his grave ! ! So , apart from the faithfulness to the original story , what did I like ? Well , I was once again thrilled to see Fox making CGI films . Their ICE AGE films were pretty good and HORTON is even prettier and more entertaining . Quality-wise , this is about on-par with a Pixar or Dreamworks production . I particularly loved Whoville - - as with powerful computers , they were able to animate hundreds , if not thousands , of wonderful Whos . And it was cute all the little tiny touches - - so much so that the film holds up well to repeated viewing in order to catch all the action and details . Plus the town looked very Seuss-ian - - like the pages of the books come to life . It was a real joy to watch . Was there anything I didn't like ? Well , the song at the end by REO Speedwagon was simply terrible way to wrap up the film . It was schmaltzy and pointless and looked as if the producers were stuck finding a decent way to tie everything together . However , considering this is my only gripe , then this is still a heck of a film - - one the kids AND parents can enjoy . Kids will love it and parents will actually not be bored - - a rare achievement in a film .
This movie had incredible production values - - with amazing and creepy cinematography and an excellent musical score in the latest restored version . They did so much to set the mood and make this a genuinely scary film . The story concerns a rich old guy who has written a strange will . It is only to be read after 20 years and remains sealed until that time . His surviving relatives all return like vultures to pick at the fortune but instead of dividing it among them , he leaves it to one of them with another to receive the fortune if anything happens to the sole inheritor . Naturally , bad things start to happen and the film becomes a whodunit . At times it's really good - - with lots of trap doors and suspense , but it also suffers from predictability . The actual conclusion isn't all that surprising . Considering how few potential murderers there are among them and how the one guy sneaks away early in the film with a flimsy excuse , it isn't too surprising who is doing all the bad things in the old dark home . It's very entertaining and fun - - just not exactly the best conclusion I have ever seen .
This was an exceptional film - - one that nearly earned a 9 and the deciding factor for me were the musical numbers which actually seemed to sometimes get in the way of the exceptional plot and acting . While this film was quite the coup for a young Joan Leslie , the real star of this film was Ida Lupino and this might just be her best performance . She plays an amoral and conniving woman who will do just about anything to make her younger sister ( Leslie ) a star - - even use nice people like Jack Carson and Dennis Morgan to make it big . The fact that the script is so unrelenting in its way that it shows the depths to which Lupino would go made this a real standout film . Many other films of the day would have tried to soften her character more or give her a shot at redemption towards the end - - a big mistake had they chosen to follow the typical formula of the day . Aside from Lupino , the other standout actor in the film seemed to be Jack Carson , as his character had much more depth and was much more sympathetic than the usual brash character he played . Also , while their acting wasn't a huge standout , Morgan really belted out some excellent songs and I was surprised to see Leslie dance as well as she did ( though I wonder if it really was her doing all the flips - - you CAN'T see her face and it could have been a double ) . Good , gritty entertainment - - it's well worth a look .
Despite this Hal Roach short being in a collection of Laurel and Hardy films , it's not really one of the boys ' films . Instead , they are tiny bit players along with some other famous Roach stars ( such as James Finlayson and Charley Chase ) who play lunatics in only a few very brief scenes . The real star is Max Davidson who plays his very funny " Papa Gimplewart " character - - a man he played in three films for Roach . I've seen two of them ( this film and Jewish PRUDENCE ) and they were very , very funny comedies - - at least as funny or perhaps funnier than the average silent Laurel and Hardy film . Sadly , however , today he's pretty much forgotten and his Jewish ethnic humor probably would be seen as politically incorrect as well - - even though it's very funny . The film begins with the Gimplewart family trying to sell their home . That's because they live next to a bunch of lunatics who really ham it up in the film . You're not sure if they live in some asylum or perhaps the crazies are just roommates - - either way , they're driving the Gimplewarts crazy ! Because of this , Papa quickly accepts the first offer he gets without even questioning why the guy wanted to trade houses sight unseen ! Well , when the Gimplewarts arrive to inspect their lovely new home , you soon see why it was such a " bargain " - - and much of the next 10 minutes is made up of some very imaginative and clever gags . You just have to see the home to believe it . To top it all off , the film ends on a very funny note . The bottom line is that this film has aged very well and is still very enjoyable today . Plus , it's a rare chance to see Max Davidson in all his glory . In fact , when you see this film , you'll probably see more of his than you'd expected . FYI - - Since the last Gimplewart film , Papa seems to have lost or misplaced two of his kids , as here in CALL OF THE CUCKOO he seems to only have two while in Jewish PRUDENCE he had three !
While this is often billed as a " Laurel and Hardy film " , it really isn't . A more correct description might be a " Laurel and James Finlayson film with a small bit part by Oliver Hardy " . And as long as your heart is not 100 % set on seeing a Laurel and Hardy film , you'll probably enjoy this film a lot , as the film does compare very well to the other comedy shorts released at the latter portion of the silent era . James and Stanley are involved in a situation that would later be repeated in several Laurel and Hardy shorts - - a woman from James ' past is trying to blackmail him into paying her for silence . James did nothing wrong , as he dated this woman years earlier , but this evil vixen threatens to tell the wife and swear James has been seeing her AFTER he got married ! So , desperate and unwilling to risk telling the wife the truth , he gets his employee , Stanley , to run interference by taking the vixen out for a good time until James can slip away and make the payoff . Unfortunately , Stan is ALSO married and the bad woman makes his life pretty tough as well . Much of the film is spent on this dilemma . However , the film ends very well with an exceptional sight gag , as Stan tries to nonchalantly walk out the door with , . . . well , I guess you just need to see this final scene yourself . Despite not truly being a Laurel and Hardy film , the short is very well-made and entertaining . Give it a shot - - it's much better than you'd expect from a film without the later Laurel and Hardy formula .
Although most Americans have little knowledge of his work other than Star Wars , Alec Guinness produced an amazing body of work - - particularly in the 1940s-1950s - - ranging from dramas to quirky comedies . I particularly love his comedies , as they are so well-done and seem so natural and real on the screen - - far different from the usual fare from Hollywood . I liked this movie a lot - - the acting and direction were superb . The only downside is that the movie uses a rather tired old movie cliché - - that of identical strangers who switch parts . It's been done with The Prince and the Pauper as well as The Prisoner of Zenda . So to get into the movie , you really need to first suspend your sense of disbelief . Once you've done this and do not question the basic premise , you are rewarded with an excellent little film well worth your time .
By the way , although the release date is given as 2007 on IMDb , this is definitely an error , as ONE-TRACK MIND was released in a 2006 compilation DVD of short films called " The Short Stack : Volume 1 " . In general , this DVD is rather poor , though ONE-TRACK MIND and THE PAUL DECCA STORY make it worth watching . ONE-TRACK MIND is a film that would probably appeal more to married guys with kids , as you can really relate to this poor schmoe ! It seems that since he and his wife have had kids , their sex life has taken a turn for the worse ( his wife is too tired and the kids keep interrupting ) . To make things worse , since his vasectomy , the poor guy never seems to be able to get even the slightest amount of nookie AND the doctor has told him he must still use a condom because his sperm are still in his system . So , when one night his wife is actually in the mood AND the kids have left them alone , wouldn't you know it but they run out of condoms ! So , much of the movie is spent running around a store at 2am to buy the condoms and get home before she's asleep , not in the mood or the kids have invaded their " love den " ! It's all rather cute and is well worth watching . However , given the subject matter , only an idiot would have their kids watch this one . Do yourself a favor - - watch it with your partner and have a good laugh .
Okay , I must admit that this is a " guilty pleasure " - - a film that while offensive and crude , is also very , very funny and makes you laugh . So try watching it when you are alone so others don't realize the sick sort of stuff that makes you laugh ! The film begins with a school counselor preparing for a visit from a parent . It seems that a child has been bad at school . Unfortunately , his troubles are far , far deeper than the parent suspects ! I can't say more because it would spoil the film , but the punchline is funny and the film especially made me laugh because I am a teacher and would occasionally LOVE to say what the counselor says ! One minor complaint was the anti-George W . Bush comment . While I would agree with the film's assessment , frankly the same could be said for practically all politicians . Watch the film and see what I mean .
This was the first pairing of Spencer Tracy and Katherine Hepburn and it's one of their better films together . Hepburn is a sort of Claire Booth Luce-type woman who has traveled the world and conquered pretty much everything she's tried . However , when it comes to love , she is a novice and her relationship with sports writer , Tracy , does not come easy - - about the only thing in her life that doesn't . Tracy is forced by her frequent travels to try to be both husband and housewife but is too old fashioned to take to it . Eventually , their very different and complex lives take a toll on their marriage . Will it survive ? Will love triumph after all ? Well , this is a Hollywood film of the 1940s , so it's not hard to guess how it all ends . However , the acting and writing is so good , you'll have a great time watching their journey .
To many , this film will seem pretty silly and insignificant . I admit it . But , for what it was , it was one of the best . This film was meant to be a silly escapist film - - not a " big " movie but a B-movie meant to entertain the kids and adults alike . And , it was a major step up from the average B-western ( which , after seeing a few , looked the same ) . And the audiences loved these silly , yet magical films . This happens to be one of my favorites . Before I even saw it , I saw a publicity photo of the very sultry Maria Montez as the Cobra Woman - - dressed in a turban , evening gown and lounging across a giant cobra statue . Considering I was about 13 or so , I think I fell in love ! I HAD to see this hot lady in the film ! Well , when I finally located a video of it years later , I finally had my chance ( though by then , I had found my own " Cobra Woman " and didn't have quite the same pressing need as when I was a teen ) . It was silly but intensely exciting - - with lots of action , campiness and Jon Hall as the only man virile enough to tame this " she-beast " ! I loved it and wanted to see it again - - it was magical and just plain fun ! See it and enjoy unless you are a super-sophisticated person . I love foreign films and art films but sometimes I just gotta have some mindless B-movie fun !
Wow was I confused when I saw this movie from 1911 . I didn't recall having seen THE LONEDALE OPERATOR when I started the film , but soon after it started it was like a case of déjà vu . I KNEW I had seen the film before and even reviewed it on IMDb but I didn't remember it as being called ' THE LONEDALE OPERATOR ' . After a little checking , I found that the film I had seen was THE GIRL AND HER TRUST ( 1912 ) and the films were virtually identical . And , oddly enough , both are 17 minutes long ( though the speed at which the films are cranked may make this slightly longer or shorter ) . This really isn't too surprising , though , as when the film was made back in 1911 , outright plagiarism was common and pretty much condoned and many times the same production company would remake their films only a year or so later ! Often , the same film would be made by two or three or even more production companies - - sometimes even with the same movie title ! So it's very easy to understand the confusion . Now as for the film itself , it's a very good early full-length movie . Believe it or not , 17 minutes make this a very long film for 1911 - - as most films were less than five minutes long ! ! Because of its " great length " , the film has a good plot and is quite entertaining . Compared to other films of the age , it is a standout picture in practically every way .
I had never heard of " The Twelve Tribes " - - a fundamentalist Christian group that in some ways is reminiscent of the Quakers . Like Quakers , the sect lives very simply off the land and there is a huge difference in how they and the outside world lives . In many ways , there seems to be a lot to admire about them - - their love of the simple , their close connections and their devotion to God . However , there are some that can't take these rigid lives and there have also been some allegations of child abuse . Because there is so much left unanswered , I was intrigued by this documentary but also felt it was way , way too short . I would have loved to hear more about the possible abuse , the actual doctrine of the group as well as learn more about their day to day lives . Fascinating and well made but also woefully incomplete . How about a sequel ? !
Just a year before SUNDAE IN NEW YORK won the Oscar for Best Animated Short Film , another claymation short was nominated ( THE GREAT COGNITO ) . And while I hated THE GREAT COGNITO though respected it artistically , I felt much more satisfied when I watched SUNDAE IN NEW YORK . You see , it isn't that I hate all claymation - - just the horribly fast pace and " in your face manner " of the previous film . So what was better about SUNDAE ? Well , the speed was slower and more leisurely - - encouraging the viewer to take in all the cute backgrounds and characters ( such as Alfred E . Newman standing in a group of New Yorkers ) . The gentleness of this film was pretty infectious and was significantly more interesting that the standard style of animation that dominated in the early 80s ( which was usually very cheap - - with a very low cel count ) . The only negative wasn't even related to the animation and that was the sound of the guy singing " New York , New York " - - his voice wasn't close enough to Ed Koch's ( who he was obviously imitating ) and it was also pretty hard on the ears ! Still , a nice effort and a film that is a standout in quality .
John Ford's version of the book , THE LAST HURRAH , is a behind the scenes look at one last election campaign for an aging mayor ( Skeffington ) of a town whose name is never mentioned in the film . In many ways , the film is a bit cynical as it showed the way that politicians wheel and deal and manipulate - - but in this case , always for a good cause . While Skeffington is definitely not above using these questionable tactics , at the same time , he is shown as fundamentally decent and very , very sentimental - - with a true love for his constituents . This is a very difficult balancing act for the film - - combining gritty realism with sentimentality , but it manages to do so . In many ways , this is highly reminiscent of the real life Ford , as he was by many accounts a highly manipulative son of a , . . . . . well , you know what I was going to say . Yet , at the same time , sentimentality abounds in his films like no other film maker . You can see it here in his liberal use of old and almost forgotten supporting stars - - such as Eddie Brophy , Frank McHugh and Jane Darwell . Overall , the film is very interesting and manipulative ( in a good way ) , as you find yourself pulling for Skeffington and feeling his pain as well - - even though he is a fictional character AND a politician ! The film is well worth seeing and the film is extremely well-acted and directed .
Fortunately , this documentary was included on the DVD of the movie , Warriors of Heaven and Earth . That's because , unlike many DVD extras , it greatly enhanced the film and helped to explain some of the historical background behind the plot . A little MORE of this information would have been appreciated , though . In addition , it was really interesting to see the trouble they went to to create the film - - going on location and often filming in the dead of winter ( including the belly dancing scenes and the final battle - - shot at 20 below zero Celcius ) . The care and dedication of the director and cast was exciting to see and gave me a greater appreciation for the movie .
This Zatiochi movie stands out from most of the others because of his relationship with the adorable , but bratty little boy . This is the same little boy who gives Ichi a hand full of pebbles and tells him it's candy ! Despite his brattiness , a strong bond of friendship develops between them and it is with much hesitation that Ichi leaves the boy at the end of the movie . The boy chases him through the crowd , with Ichi quickly tries to lose him . This was NOT done because the kid was annoying but because a kind monk helped him realize that keeping the boy with him was not good , as the violent lifestyle Ichi leads is NOT a good influence . Once again , Ichi chooses to abandon someone who loves him at the end of the movie - - for their own good , but with a lot of heartbreak for both .
This is a very entertaining picture created to expose the plight of some truckers who are overworked and under-appreciated by evil fat cats . Despite this , it really isn't a preachy film or becomes too bogged down with the message that the rest of the film takes a back seat . The action and suspense work really well as does the pairing of George Raft and Humphrey Bogart . This film is typical of the quality product being churned out by Warner Brothers during this ear . By the way , as this film came out before Bogart became a breakout star , Raft gets top billing and the lion's share of screen time and he is essentially the " main hero " .
This is a short by D . W . Griffith that stars both Mary Pickford and Lionel Barrymore ( though , like other Biograph shorts , there are no credits listed on the film ) . It's worth seeing just for these stars so early in their careers . A lady dies and makes the nice preacher ( Barrymore ) to promise to carry out her wish that he buy something nice for her daughter out of some money she has saved from her no-good husband . The nice daughter sees a really awful and gaudy hat in the window of a shop and wants it ( the hat was actually " tasteful " for 1911 - - it looks AWFUL today and very tacky ) . So , to fulfill his trust , the preacher buys her the hat anonymously . However , some dried up old prunes see it and begin spreading malicious rumors . But , by the end of the film , the old biddies get theirs ! ! By the way , on the wall of the home is the American Biograph logo ( the studio making the film ) . This occasionally appears on some other Biograph shorts and must be some sort of inside joke - - after all , who has this " AB " logo on their walls as part of their decorating scheme ? !
This video was just recently featured on IMDb , though I notice the list of featured short films is constantly changing and may not be available for viewing in all countries due to copyright issues . Of all the many videos I have so far watched on IMDb , this must be the very shortest - - at well under two minutes . However , despite its short duration , it's a very clever and engaging film that has a great point to make about relationships and technology in the 21st century . Two people sitting near each other leave their cell phones open on the bar . At this point , images of both people appear on the phones and start communicating with each other without their owners touching the phones . In other words , the phones fall in love THEN contact their owners to try to get them together . Very cute and well done - - well worth a look - - especially since you are only out 2 minutes of your life if I am wrong !
This is a well made short film about a man who makes bad choices . And , it seems that this film all takes place within a very small period of time as Joseph Henry day dreams about his life , his loves , his childhood and regrets . In many ways , the short reminded me of the Disney film , THE KIbut with a much edgier look and feel . Speaking of look and feel , the biggest star of the film is the music and excellent cinematography . It gave the film a very polished and poignant attitude that really created an effective mood . Now I am not saying that the story or acting are bad ( they certainly were not ) , but to me the mood was the most memorable part . I can see that the film's writer / director ( Phil Allocco ) has done several other films and I am not surprised , as the film shows great skill .
One reviewer referred to this film as " pathetic " but I am not sure that this is really fair . Sure , by the standards of 2006 , this is a pretty bad film . However , given when it was made , it's a truly exceptional film and should be compared to its contemporaries - - not today's films with our great special effects and film techniques . In 1902 , almost every film was less than five minutes long . Plus , sets were often pretty non-existent and the same could be said about writing . Often , actors just got up and gesticulated madly or seemed to have no idea what to do until the director yelled out instructions - - and it was pretty obvious at times . Films where everything was planned and scripted and told a good complex story were a real rarity . Because of all this , I am very charitable towards JACK AND THE BEANSTALK . Sure , the backgrounds look like painted backdrops ( which they were ) and some of the props were less than stellar , but for 1902 it was a real marvel ! The film told the story very well and was even better than such films as THE WONDERFUL WIZARD OF OZ or FRANKENSTEIN ( both from 1910 ) - - films which also had props , sets and were well-planned but were also made almost a decade later ! So , this wonderful curio is a great piece of history that might just make many of you laugh at its production values , but I still thought the film was quite charming and we owe a lot to such monumental films - - after all , the care and quality that went in to this film really encouraged other film makers to try harder .
This short independent film is exceptional and would be great to show a psychology class or to Al-A-Non attendees ( this is a support organization for people who have alcoholics in the family ) . It's the sad tale of a family that is being torn apart by a mother's alcoholism - - though her husband won't admit the problem is as serious as it is . While their child is not safe with her ( necessitating a nanny ) and the wife actually ends up stabbing her husband ( not seriously - - but serious enough ) , the man STILL won't acknowledge that it's time for him and his child to make the break or do something to force the wife into treatment . As a result of this denial , eventually tragedy strikes . The film gets very high marks for not telegraphing what will happen next and for not giving us the answers . So much of the film is left unsaid - - making it a great film to use to generate discussions with the viewers . In fact , the film ends with several plot points unanswered - - and for a film like this , that is a very good thing . Overall , an exceptional film . While the acting and technical merits aren't perfect , considering that it's an independent short featuring many inexperienced people , it actually is very , very good . In fact , the future for everyone concerned looks bright if they can produce a film this good with only limited resources . A must-see for anyone struggling with addiction in the family or with friends .
This is a dandy short film from the UK about a real-life carjacking . The film begins with a mother going in to pay for gas at the station . Her son and the keys are in the car when one carjacker steals the car while his partner distracts the mother . When the car goes , the mom panics and makes the partner ( who she doesn't realize is in on it ) chase the other vehicle . After a while , it's obvious that the guy in the chase vehicle isn't trying to catch the car and the mother bails out and runs after the stolen car on foot - - leading to one of the tensest moments I've seen in a very long time ! Exceptionally realistic acting , great direction and a wonderful sense of suspense make this a dynamic film . The only negative is that when the film ended , I was left with a lot of questions about the real robbery this was based upon and wish I could talk to the director about this - - but how ? Brilliant !
This was an excellent pirate movie and was better than many sound pirate films . However , it's really hard to rate the movie - - - compared to other silent pirate films , it might just be the best . But , compared to THE SEA HAWK , CAPTAIN BLOOD or THE BLACK SWAN ( all wonderful sound pirate films from the 30s and 40s ) , it isn't as good a film . So what does the movie do that worked so well for me ? First , being a Douglas Fairbanks film , it had wonderful stunts and impeccable production values - - something he was known for in his silent films . Second , this film had excellent sets and was the best film money could buy in its day . In fact , it was such a lavish production that it was supposedly the first full-length film made in 2-color Technicolor - - an early and somewhat crude way of producing a color movie . Because the film was dyed with green-blue and orange-red dyes , the film mostly looks reddish-green - - definitely NOT true color . But , it doesn't look that bad - - certainly much better than the horrid colorized films destroyed in the 1980s . Plus , if it hadn't been for films like this , the infinitely better 3-color system might never have been developed by Technicolor . And , finally , the plot is pretty good for a silent film - - not the most complex when compared to later films , it's not nearly as simplistic as most other silents . This video was produced by KINO FILMS . Some of their silent films in the past were less than wonderful ( especially some of their Buster Keaton videotapes ) , but this videotape is top quality and has nice extras at the end of the tape . Some cheaper prints apparently are only black and white , not color . Nice job for the restoration , KINO ! However , despite what the video box said , it was apparently NOT the first full-length two-color Technicolor film . I recently saw a restored print from TOLL OF THE SEA ( 1922 ) and it was in fact made using this process four years earlier than THE BLACK PIRATE .
This is a two Kleenex short film - - the sort that might make many out there cry . That's because the topic is child abuse and the film is about a boy in a coma who is on death's door after being beaten . While you see the boy lying in bed covered in bandages , you see the boy walking about the hospital with a little girl who seems to be acting as his guide . The boy can't recall exactly what has happened or why he is there and the little girl does her best to comfort him and reassure him that everything is now going to be fine . While much of the film is pretty obvious ( you'll probably quickly realize the boy in the coma is the boy wandering unseen about the hospital ) but despite this , it's an excellent film for many reasons . The use of Barber's Adagio is very effective , as this is probably one of the saddest musical pieces ever written , yet it is also soft and complements the film well . Likewise , the soft lighting and cinematography is exceptional . These combine to set an appropriately somber mood and do a lot to manipulate the viewer into an emotional reaction ( something tough to do but done well here ) . As a result , it makes a strong emotional connection with the viewer about child abuse and you can't help but be pulled into this finely crafted film .
Some who watch this film might think that they've seen some of the ideas in ROOM TO BREATHE before . Sure , there are aspects of the film that are reminiscent of Poe's " Cask of Amontillado " and I could also see parallels with such films as Charles Laughton's THE SUSPECT . However , how these somewhat familiar themes were combined was brilliant - - creating a truly original and rather horrifying film that actually might make you laugh . The film begins with mild-mannered Richard working around the house as his shrewish wife screams and screams for him . Very quickly you grow to hate Marilyn and hope and pray that something happens to shut her up . . . permanently ! At the same time , Richard starts getting phone calls from his brother warning him not to mix his medicine with his wife's - - it could be fatal ! However , where the film goes and how Richard finally gets some peace and quiet is something you really can't anticipate . Overall , a very entertaining and sick film - - but not one so sick or twisted that I can't recommend it . In fact , by the time all is said and done , you'll be rooting for poor Richard ! ! Well done all around - - with terrific acting by the two leads as well as kudos for first-time film maker Steven Leslie Johnson for making this short film .
This is one of Robert Young's best films and having Spencer Tracy and Walter Brennan ( both who have won something like a zillion Oscars among them ) along for support doesn't seem to hurt . The film is about the French-Indian War and in particular a group of Colonial volunteers who fight just like Indians . For some odd reason , this group chose not to wear bright red uniforms and march in straight columns while beating on drums to encourage the Indians to massacre them ( like the Brits ) . And , based on what we see in this film , it looks as if this group of tough guys nearly won the war for the British ! Well , while this isn't exactly true ( for further information , Google the phrase " battle of Quebec " ) , this is a rousing and well-made flick that is sure to please .
Most of Chaplin's most famous films are his full-length features . And , I assume most people have at most seen only a few clips of him from his pre-feature days when he starred in dozens and dozens of comedy shorts . This is really a shame , as some wonderful shorts are pretty much waiting to be discovered by the world in the 21st century . If someone watches this film they have an excellent chance to see some of Chaplin's better shorts because Chaplin himself chose these three shorts and strung them together with a bit of narration to make this 1959 feature film . This is great for several reasons . First , in Chaplin's earliest films from 1914-1915 , his character of the Little Tramp is still in its earliest incarnations or is absent altogether . Plus , even when he is there , he was often mean-spirited and self-centered - - something very alien from the Little Tramp we have grown to love . Second , because the shorts that were chosen were in great condition , if you watch this film you won't need to worry about watching scratchy film with gaps and lousy musical accompaniment that doesn't fit the action ( a common problem ) . So , for a great look at Chaplin's shorts at their finest , give this film a chance . It's sure to provide you some excellent laughs .
Before I start into the film , I should point out that there are two versions of this Finnish documentary about cinema addicts living in New York City . The first I saw was a little less than a hour long and there is a longer version that was for theatrical release . Having now seen both , I actually prefer the shorter TV version because the interviews work so much better because of the editing - - with less " dead time " and a tighter focus . Still , both are well worth seeking . My love for this documentary is for two main reasons . First , I teach psychology and have used this film to illustrate Obsessive-Compulsive behavior , various personality disorders and the recently identified phenomenon of " collectors " - - people who hoard items of practically no intrinsic value in a reaction against the shallowness of their lives . Second , with the third largest number of reviews on IMDb as of , I myself am a bit of a cinemaniac - - but not nearly to the degree of those featured on the films . While I do watch a huge number of films ( almost exclusively on VHS , DVD and cable TV ) , I also have a good job , healthy family life and don't think I'm THAT screwed up yet - - and the documentary is a great way to warn me against the dangers of compulsively watching films . This was especially brought to my attention when I noticed that almost all the odd art films they mention in the movie are ones I have seen and often loved . In particular , the one man who adores THE UMBRELLAS OF CHERBOURG said a lot of brilliant things about this masterpiece . Scary , huh ? ! I have a bit of a kindred spirit out there ! However , in the case of these rather sad individuals , enjoying the films in a traditional sense isn't possible . They are so obsessed with the details that often they don't stop to enjoy the film itself ! One man has memorized the running times of practically every film ( like a Savant ) and it tears him apart if the film is shortened by even a minute ! Another so obsessively saves every film ticket that she becomes violent if the ticket taker actually rips the ticket in half . And , even more sad , most have no lives or jobs because of this disability or mania . Some of this is because some of these people are indeed mentally ill , but most are not in a legal sense " crazy " - - just possessing very disturbed personalities ( meaning therapy or medication would probably do nothing to change their odd behaviors ) . This film opens up so many discussions for psychology students and sociologists . Much of it is because these people are all a bit different - - with different styles of their obsessions , different mental illnesses or personality disturbances . In a way , a psychology student taking a class on diagnosis could almost make a game of spotting the pathology . As for how this documentary was made , it was made by Finns but is completely in English . Plus , oddly , there is no narration - - the subjects and those who know them are just encouraged to speak for themselves . This was a wonderful choice since it was edited so well - - and narration often ruins a good documentary as it isn't always helpful or needed . Brilliant , shocking and a bit disturbing , this is not for everyone's tastes , but a wonderful film nonetheless . By the way , many who did NOT like this documentary had valid reasons but many did not - - not liking the subjects personality is NOT a valid reason nor that it wasn't a comedy nor was the knucklehead who was angry because the films the obsessed people liked ( mostly art films , foreign films and classics ) were not the same films they themselves liked ! ! ! Hello . . . . anyone out there . . . . . this was NOT the purpose of the documentary . Liking the people or their choices of films was certainly NOT the reason for this great film - - but the pathology and detrimental effects on their lives was ( as most of them did NOT work but were on the public dole due to someone considering this a true disability ) .
This is the sort of animation that would be best seen by artists and art history majors - - though anyone can easily enjoy it . The creators of this Academy award winning short ( Best Animated Short - - 1993 ) were able to recreate many great works of art and make them morph into other paintings again and again before morphing programs were available for computers . According to IMDb , believe it or not , this effect was achieved with clay and must have taken almost forever to complete ! While not a funny or cartoony short , this is a great work of art that can be appreciated by anyone with a little patience and an appreciation for art . Lovely and one of a kind . It deserved to win - - it was terrific .
This has to be the absolutely weirdest and screwiest comedy starring a big name leading man during the Golden Age of Hollywood . Cary Grant very ably plays Mortimer Brewster and he , and the entire movie , are so weird that they make the films HARVEY and BRINGING UP BABY seem normal ! ! And , for Cary Grant , it's hard to believe but true that he is even better in this film than he was in HIS GIRL Friday or BRINGING UP BABY . No other leading man of his time had that same wonderful touch for light comedy . Mortimer , once a confirmed bachelor , is marrying perky and beautiful Priscilla Lane and they are they plan on Honeymooning at Niagra Falls . But before the trip , Mortimer goes home to get his things and tell his sweet old aunts that he's married . And then , . . . everything gets VERY , VERY crazy to say the least ! Mortimer accidentally stumbles on a dead body when he opens up the window seat ! When Mortimer confronts them with the body he just found in the window seat , they don't seem the least bit concerned and tell him to forget about it and go to Niagra Falls ! He finally convinces them to stop what they are doing and explain WHY there's a corpse in the house . They explain that some time ago , one of their aging male borders had a heart attack and died in the house and for the first time his face appeared genuinely happy ! So , they reasoned that if they " assist " other lonely old men to an early grave they were actually doing a great kindness ! ! It seems they have spiked the Elderberry wine with a very toxic cocktail and once the victims die , crazy old " Uncle Teddy " ( who thinks he's Teddy Roosevelt ) just buries them in the basement - - where he's already digging the Panama Canal ! ! ! Now all this zaniness happens in just the first few minutes of the film ! From there , it just gets stranger and funnier - - and produces many of the funniest moments I have ever seen - - particularly in the performances of Cary Grant , his aunts and the dreaded Jonathan Brewster , the " black sheep " of the family who stops by for an uninvited " visit " . The movie , by the way , was based on a successful Broadway play . In fact , the movie actually was completed several years before it was released , as the play's writer got the studio to agree to hold off on the film's release until the play's run ended . Instead of the anticipated few months , the play ran for several years . In addition , one of the funniest lines from the movie was actually funnier on stage . When someone sees the ugly Jonathan Brewster , they comment that he looks like Boris Karloff . In the play , this IS who played Jonathan and it must have provided a heck of a laugh !
