Watching this film today I got the feeling this thing was missing about 10 to 15 minutes or so from the beginning of the story . John Wayne rides up on this trading post / saloon out in the middle of nowhere to meet with the owner about some robberies . All he sees is the signs of a massacre , some dead bodies , signs of a fight and no one alive in sight . That's because the owner's daughter is hidden in a secret room , the kind you find in old English murder mysteries . The reason you find those hidden rooms in those kind of stories is that they were formerly priestholes . Catholic families clinging to the old faith in 16th century England built these things to hide those on the run from royal authorities because of their faith . Not something you see in westerns , but a good gimmick . Unfortunately because of bad editing or writing or both we never know exactly what brought Wayne to this place exactly . But this was a B western and not even a good one at that . Gabby Hayes is in this and he's clean shaven and playing a mute part of the time . An unusual circumstance for the garrulous Gabby . If you want to bother and find out what happens and see a whiskerless Gabby Hayes then see this film .
Jane Russell and her bosoms got most of the publicity from this film and fortunately for her she got into other better pictures and had a career . The same could not be said for Mr . Beutel . But Jane and her cleavage is superfluous to the story . This is about two middle-aged gay men , Walter Huston and Thomas Mitchell , jealous over the young hunk . It's the only way the plot makes any sense . In Jane Russell's memoirs she recounts the difference in attitude of Thomas Mitchell and Walter Huston . Mitchell was moaning and groaning about how horrible the film was , why did he ever sign for it , the film would be his ruin , etc . etc . In contrast Walter Huston's attitude was I've taken Howard Hughes's money I'll say whatever kind of drivel he wants before the camera and laugh about it later . Also , I love Tchaikovsky themes , but I really think Howard Hughes should have hired Dimitri Tiomkin whose music really added something to a lot of great westerns to do an original score . Tchaikovsky was frighteningly out of place here . The Outlaw has to be seen to be believed .
Kaw is a film that is ripped off outrageously from Alfred Hitchcock's classic , The Birds and from the Lou Diamond Phillips science fiction theatrical release Bats from about 10 years ago . Whereas Hitchcock set his classic film on the Northern California coast and had all kinds of the avian creatures suddenly becoming hostile , here we have ravens becoming ravenous . The scavenger birds feed on Mennonite cattle who have mad cow disease and now we've got a bunch of loony ravens flying about . This whole cast including veteran Rod Taylor who if you'll remember was the star of The Birds look pretty embarrassed by the whole thing . The only question I have is will the Hitchcock estate sue ? Quoth this viewer , Nevermore .
Scorpio was a film Burt Lancaster didn't think too much of according to a recent biography and after viewing it I can certainly see why . On the plus side Lancaster got to work with former co-stars Alain Delon from The Leopard and with Paul Scofield from The Train , both films considerably better than Scorpio . Too bad he wasn't given something better than a warmed over espionage story . Lancaster is a CIA agent suspected of being a double agent . Word has come from on high to terminate his existence . Not an easy task by any means . Lancaster hasn't survived in the spy business by being a dummy for thirty years . From French intelligence the CIA borrows hit-man Alain Delon who has worked and trained with Lancaster . He's got the title role as one nicknamed Scorpio because of the way he strikes . Lancaster has an ace or two up his sleeve also . An old friend with the KGB , Paul Scofield , is willing to help up to a point . Here's where there is a real problem . Both Lancaster and Scofield are identified by the script as having served in Loyalist Spain with ' volunteer ' groups . Of course in the Soviet case I'm sure volunteering was strongly urged . In America however that would have been the Abraham Lincoln Brigade . And during the post World War II McCarthy era that was one of a group of organizations past and present that was considered a Communist front . I'm sorry , but there ain't NO WAY that Lancaster with that in his background would have ever gotten a job with the Central Intelligence Agency . And if he did , he would have been found out and dismissed back then and there . The whole story falls apart knowing this . There are some nice location shots of Vienna and of Washington , DC in Scorpio and acting honors if any go to Paul Scofield . But the film is one colossal waste of time .
If Ashanti had been a serious attempt at a film about the institution of slavery , still prevalent in third world countries the film might have been better received . Instead it turns into a star studded disaster of a movie where the stars came in , said their lines , and picked up their paychecks without much conviction . Michael Caine and his wife Beverly Johnson work for the United Nations World Health Organization and are busy doing their humanitarian thing in East Africa . Along comes Peter Ustinov who can barely summon enough ham in him to make a go of the part as a Moslem slave dealer . As Johnson is black he grabs her anyway along with a lot of children and a few adults as well . Of course Caine doesn't take kindly to the kidnapping and the rest of the film is spent in a rescue attempt . The rest of the cast has such folks as William Holden , Rex Harrison , Omar Sharif and Indian film star Kebir Bedi in parts and looking so incredibly bored with the whole thing . Usually in something like this talented people like those mentioned above will just overact outrageously and feast on a diet of scenery . But Ashanti doesn't even have that going for it . What an incredible waste of time . The aroma of tax write off is permeating the air .
Midnight was a film shot in New York by a whole bunch of Broadway players who had nothing else to do during afternoons when there were no matinees . By coincidence nearly the whole cast went on to Hollywood and appeared in productions better than this . O . P . Heggie plays the foreman of a jury that convicted a woman of first degree murder , thereby advancing the career of the District Attorney . On the night that the convicted woman is to die , in fact at the stroke of midnight , Heggie's daughter , Sidney Fox , kills her gangster boyfriend Humphrey Bogart who's running out on her . It's a crime of passion , just like the one that Heggie and the jury he led convicted that other woman for . I don't want to spoil the ending of this film if you're interested in seeing it . Let us just say that a District Attorney is a good friend to have . Fans of Humphrey Bogart will of course want to see this . Right after this Bogey appeared in The Petrified Forest on Broadway and came to Hollywood to do the film version . The rest is history , but if Bogey hadn't scored such a hit in The Petrified Forest , Midnight might well have been his screen epitaph . What a horrible thought .
This rather average western rode into the sunset after one season . As another reviewer said this was the height of the television western era and the airwaves were filled with them . Dick Powell's Four Star Production Company gave us Johnny Ringo . What I remember best was Don Durant as Johnny Ringo having a pistol that fired seven shots , a shotgun shell came from a barrel beneath the one where the six bullets in the revolving chamber came from . That was one handy gimmick especially to those who were counting Ringo's shots before facing him down . When I saw the first Dirty Harry movie where Clint Eastwood dares the punk to try his luck , I immediately thought back to the short lived Johnny Ringo series . I still do whenever I see Clint as Harry Callahan . Ringo got far better than he deserved in this series , in real life he was something of a punk himself in the outlaw trade . He was found shot to death at the age of 32 , probably done in by Wyatt Earp and / or Doc Holiday . Don Durant went nowhere after this series , but Mark Goddard played a young trick shot artist who became Ringo's deputy . He of course went on to Lost in Space if you consider that a step up . Still Johnny's seven shooter was quite something to see .
In Northern Pursuit , the brothers Warner tried to adapt the earlier Humphrey Bogart film , Across the Pacific to a story about our neighbors to the north . What I think they were trying for was a repeat of the critical and popular success the British film , the 49th Parallel enjoyed . I'm sure Errol Flynn's name above the title sold a few tickets back in the day , but as for drama Northern Pursuit is one of the more laughable examples of wartime propaganda zeal . Like in 49th Parallel a group of Nazis get over to Canada , but they're going to the great frozen north instead of away from it . And they nearly all get killed in an landslide , mistakenly called an avalanche in the script . All , but Helmut Dantine . Errol Flynn finds him and he's a Mountie of German ancestry , a fact that Dantine tries to exploit . Later on when Dantine escapes to try and complete his original mission , Flynn joins him and this is where the plot of the film looks just like Across the Pacific . If you've seen that film , you know exactly what happens here . If Flynn looks a little disinterested in the whole business , it's probably not just the story that's doing it . Errol was fresh from his acquittal in that rape trial so I'm sure he had other things on his mind . Seen today , Northern Pursuit is unintentionally funny in many spots , it's one of the low points of Flynn's career at Warner Brothers .
Roy apparently earns his title as King of the Cowboys by helping out Governor Russell Hicks of Texas track down a nest of Nazi saboteurs who are wreaking havoc across the Lone Star State . Did Congressman Lyndon B . Johnson know about this ? Herbert J . Yates put the best creative minds at Republic Pictures to work on this and they came up with a script that's a combination of The Thirty Nine Steps and This Is My Affair . Like the Robert Taylor MGM classic where he's a secret agent working directly and reporting to President McKinley because McKinley like Governor Hicks can't seem to trust anyone in his official capacity . And like The Thirty Nine Steps the key is Gerald Mohr with a carnival memory act . If you're going to borrow at least Yates felt you should borrow from the best . You can't do too much better than Alfred Hitchcock . Roy gets a nice group of songs and I particularly liked the fact that he gets to sing I'm An Old Cowhand which in fact he had a hand in introducing seven years earlier . When Roy was just one of the Sons of the Pioneers who also appear in King of the Cowboys he backed Bing Crosby when he introduced the Johnny Mercer classic in Rhythm on the Range . Now Roy's a star and does a nice solo turn accompanying himself on the guitar . While Republic's other big singing cowboy Gene Autry was off to war , Roy inherited for a while , Smiley Burnette who does his usual comedy bit . Sadly though the film that gives Roy the title he was forever known by is a badly dated war propaganda flick that simply doesn't wear well or age well . The King had been better served by his subjects at Republic before and after this film . They'd also done worse by him as well .
There's a split in that old gang of mine in Kid Dynamite . Some gamblers grab Leo Gorcey and take him for a ride to prevent him from fighting in an amateur boxing match that they've got bets down on . But Bobby Jordan pinch hits for Gorcey and wins . In the process though he alienates Gorcey who might wind up his future brother-in-law as Jordan is paying court to Gorcey's sister . Well he is the only one of the East Side Kids who might possibly pass for a romantic figure . Nothing terribly new in this East Side Kids film from Monogram . Since it's set in 1943 quite a bit was made about Bobby Jordan in real life joining the army which he does so here . In fact all the East Side gang went into the service and when they got out , in 1946 they started making films now as the rechristened Bowery Boys . It's a Monogram feature so don't expect too much here . There is a nice jitterbug contest sequence . But can you imagine Huntz Hall joining the Marines ? He'd make Gomer Pyle look like John Cena .
In between that glittering array of memorable roles Charles Laughton created like Henry VIII , Doctor Moreau . Moulton Barrett , Emperor Nero , Inspector Javert , and Captain Bligh is nestled in his credits White Woman . It will never make the top ten of any list of Charles Laughton's greatest films . Nor will Carole Lombard or Charles Bickford's fans be really pleased with this film . It's a jungle melodrama about a western woman whose husband committed suicide . The whispers about the reason and the scandal attached therein has left Lombard doing the only thing she can for a living , singing in a native café . The respectable white folks don't want to go near here . Except Charles Laughton who doesn't really worry about respectability . He's Horace Prin , formerly of London and self-styled ' King of the River ' on his south sea island . It's the only place where this cockney from the slums can feel like a king . And the chance for a beautiful trophy wife like Lombard isn't going to slip through Laughton's fingers . When she gets to his jungle retreat , Lombard finds distractions in Kent Taylor and Charles Bickford . She also learns what a monster she's married to . I'm sure Charles Laughton who was getting one great role after another at this point in his career knew very well this one did not rank up with the ones I mentioned before . Still he was under contract to Paramount and when you're in a turkey , gobble incessantly . Which Laughton does in an overacted performance to beat the band . But in his place he could do little else , but have some fun and collect a paycheck . The story is dumb , the other players look embarrassed , but Mr . Laughton is having one great old time . He's the only reason to watch this jungle turkey .
A common thread running through Cecil B . DeMille films is the leading lady having two men getting their hormones in an uproar over the leading lady . You've got Joel McCrea and Robert Preston rivals for Barbara Stanwyck in Union Pacific , Gary Cooper and Preston Foster over Madeline Carroll in Northwest Mounted Police , Charlton Heston and Cornel Wilde flipping for Betty Hutton in The Greatest Show On Earth , etc . But DeMille never did this theme better than in Reap The Wild Wind . Without Paulette Goddard coquetting both John Wayne and Ray Milland , you wouldn't have a plot for this film . Additionally John Wayne for what maybe the only time in his film career plays a knave . After appearing to lose Paulette Goddard to Milland , Wayne goes over to Raymond Massey and Massey plays him like a piccolo and wins him over to his nefarious schemes . Massey gives the best performance in the movie . There is a long trial sequence and Massey being an extremely shrewd lawyer almost turns the whole trial around and has court convinced that it's Ray Milland behind all the pirate wrecks in the Florida Keys . This after playing John Wayne for a fool . Massey is done in of course , but by something he really couldn't take into account . The action takes place in the Florida Keys where Paulette Goddard owns a salvage company . Yet she lives in grand plantation style that would put Tara to shame . Now Florida was a Confederate state , but the only part of Florida that had the plantation culture was the panhandle . You didn't have Tara style mansions in the Keys . But because the movie is set in the South you also have some really bad black stereotypes . DeMille was hardly the only director to use them though . But one incredible error slips through . One of the characters during the trial was a black actor named Oscar Polk who plays Saltmeat who is a crew member of John Wayne's ship and gives a key piece of testimony that ultimately proves to be Raymond Massey's downfall . Saltmeat is identified as a Barbadoes free Negro in the film . But Saltmeat doesn't talk like Harry Belafonte . He sounds like any ordinary black actor who would be playing a field hand on the old plantation . I can't believe DeMille didn't realize this error . But I guess it was easier to bow to the racial stereotypes than show a black character realistically in context . The movie made a lot of money in 1942 . It was filmed in great technicolor and it did win an Oscar for Special Effects because of the climatic fight with a giant squid that Milland and Wayne engage in . The effects look cheesy now , but back in 1942 they were something else . I think a lot of black people would be terribly offended if they watched this dated epic .
The film version of the best selling novel The Egg and I with Fred MacMurray and Claudette Colbert introduced America to the Kettle family . Marjorie Main and Percy Kilbride and their brood of 15 . They were the rural answer to Clifton Webb and Gene Tierney's Cheaper by the Dozen . Who says country folk can't do it better . In this film we have the arrival of the Kettles first grandchild who Percy mistakes as another blessed event of his own creation . A natural mistake given his track record . The baby however is Meg Randall's who married their oldest son Richard Long in a previous film . The Kettles also have to contend with Meg's parents , Ray Collins and Barbara Brown . Ms . Brown is one snooty old dowager , but I think you can gather that if anyone could adjust her attitude , Marjorie Main could . Due to a pair of radioactive overalls , the Kettles also think they've got uranium on the old homestead . So do a pair of crooks who try to steal the place from them . The Kettles were a really popular item in what would now be called red state America back in the day . The pictures made money consistently for Universal and if Percy Kilbride hadn't decided to retire , I'm sure more would have been made . There was one more made with Arthur Hunnicutt as an in-law , but it wasn't the same without Mr . Kilbride . Marjorie Main retired not long after that last film also . If you are any kind of fan of those CBS rural shows of the sixties like Beverly Hillbillies , Petticoat Junction , and Green Acres , the Kettles are your cup of tea .
This innocuous comedy that marked the farewell performance of Norma Shearer on the big screen has quite a history to it . It was a French play by Jacques Deval , adapted for the stage by P . G . Wodehouse among others . It ran for 152 performances in 1927 on Broadway and starred the legendary Jeanne Eagels with Leslie Howard . It then went to the silent screen the following year with Marion Davies and Nils Asther in the leads and scored a modicum of success there . But the most bizarre adaption was yet to come . In 1932 the story was reworked for Buster Keaton and Jimmy Durante in the The Passionate Plumber . Irene Purcell is the female lead . Which brings us to the last and least version of this story . I've a theory that Norma Shearer chose this vehicle to show Marion Davies that she could do one of her roles better . What other explanation could there be for turning down Mrs . Miniver as her farewell picture for this . And would you ever believe that Robert Taylor and Buster Keaton would play the same part on screen ? Shearer and Davies were a pair of feuding stars at MGM while Davies was there . Shearer was married to the boss , Irving Thalberg and Davies had her patron William Randolph Hearst who bought his way on to the lot . It's now conceded that Davies had a real flair for comedy , but that Hearst just could only see her as the heroine of many a drama . Shearer was a great dramatic actress who never quite scored in comedy . I'm betting for her final film she was going to show the retired Davies that she could do it better . Well she didn't . In fact if any of P . G . Wodehouse's wit survived in this film , I must have dozed off . What emerges is a pleasant innocuous comedy which would have been long forgotten had it not been Norma Shearer's last film . When we first meet Shearer she's trying to fend off the advances of an amorous Taylor who has fallen in love at first sight . But later on she thinks he might be useful in fending off George Sanders's advances . She's trying real hard to dump the cad , but he's one charming rogue . So Norma hires Bob as Her Cardboard Lover to pretend he's the new man in her life . I think you can guess where this is going . Shearer did not get quite the sendoff from the big screen that she thought she would have gotten , surely not anything like Mrs . Miniver would have been . For Taylor , he's pleasant enough , but if you want to see him and Shearer in much better form look at the 1940 film Escape .
Let's understand one thing before talking about Operator 13 . It is a Cosmopolitan Picture meaning it is a Marion Davies film first and foremost . And it's the kind of film that William Randolph Hearst wanted her to be seen it , as he saw her , the brave little heroine , in this case during the Civil War . Operator 13 is the kind of story that would have been popular on stage at the turn of the last century . It's also the kind of story that Cecil B . DeMille would have found appealing to do . I'm guessing that Hearst and DeMille would never have worked in tandem on any project given their egos . Marion is an actress and in the beginning of the story as the north is badly defeated at the second battle of Bull Run , Davies is appearing on stage in a play with one John Wilkes Booth . She's recruited by Union spy-master Allan Pinkerton played by Sidney Toler to accompany Katherine Alexander playing Union Spy Pauline Cushman as her octoroon maid . The term ' octoroon ' was used back in the day to describe a person who was black and has deservedly fallen out of fashion . Of course the various black stereotypes are present in force in Operator 13 , however in Marion's case it can be forgiven somewhat as she is a spy on a mission and disguising herself . You might remember that in Going Hollywood she did the same thing to avoid the attention of Fifi D'Orsay . One person she does attract the attention of is Confederate Major Gary Cooper who is intrigued by her . Later on not in disguise , Davies is sent on another mission and she meets up again with Cooper . Once again he's suspicious , but by that time they're in love . If some of this sounds familiar you might recognize certain plot elements from MGM's later success , the musical The Firefly which starred Allan Jones and Jeanette MacDonald . That story is also about two rival espionage agents during the Peninsular War . In fact Operator 13 almost qualifies for a musical . Between the songs that Walter Donaldson and Gus Kahn wrote , and the traditional Civil War era melodies sung by Davies , a campfire chorus and the Mills Brothers a lot of songs are packed into the 85 minute running time of the film . Operator 13 was old fashioned even in 1934 . However the battle scenes are done quite well and director Richard Boleslawski does make the characters somewhat interesting . And apparently managed to work within the parameters of W . R . Hearst .
Along The Great Divide marked Kirk Douglas's western debut . Fortunately he made several more and they were a whole lot better than this one . Douglas is a federal marshal who with his deputies John Agar and Ray Teal breaks up a lynching of Walter Brennan who is accused of rustling and killing the son of cattle baron Morris Ankrum . Douglas arrests Brennan and brings him back for trial . It's the journey back across the desert that's marked by ambush and betrayal with Brennan maintaining his innocence in the homicide . Along for the ride is Brennan's daughter , Virginia Mayo . Kirk Douglas proved to be a natural western star and he's cast well as the determined federal marshal . Unfortunately he's hampered by an extremely improbable script as is the rest of the cast . Some of the B westerns of Tim Holt or Roy Rogers make a lot more sense than this one . I won't give away the plot or the incidents involved , but Kirk should have died on the desert and Walter Brennan should have made it to Mexico .
Robert Mitchum plays the title role of The Ambassador and in this case he's the American Ambassador to Israel . He's got the notion in his head that if he can get the Arab and Israeli students dialoging , it might lead the way to eventual peace . Of course there are malevolent forces on all sides that don't want to see that happen . But that's not Mitchum's only problem . His wife Ellen Burstyn has embarked on a torrid love affair with an Arab , played by Fabio Testi , who turns out to be a big honcho in the Palentine Liberation Organization . And somebody's been taking some nasty home movies of them doing the horizontal mambo . Setting up Mitchum for blackmail and embarrassment whichever comes first . Playing the supporting role of Mitchum's Embassy security chief is Rock Hudson and this was to be his last feature film . As the film progresses the strain on Hudson's health is becoming apparent . It was not a happy shoot and the results show it . Mitchum and Hudson did not get along particularly . According to Lee Server's biography , Mitchum spent most of the time getting plastered more than normal . Ellen Burstyn supposedly took a sample of what he was drinking and was shocked to find it real booze . But Mitchum was legendary for holding his liquor . I can see why Mitchum wasn't particularly happy with the film . His role is essentially that of a well meaning fathead who thinks he has all the answers to the Middle-east . Hudson took his role strictly for the cash , because he was having increased medical expenses from what would kill him a year later . Being it's a Golan-Globus film the usual quota of violence is present . When you do a film about the Middle-east , that's almost a requirement for a picture . Still the location cinematography in Israel certainly helps . Too bad that Mitchum and Hudson could not find a nice western to do as a joint project .
When the original script of The Roots of Heaven was shown to John Huston , he had it in mind for William Holden to star in it . It seemed like a natural given Holden's interest in conservation . Errol Flynn remarked in his memoirs that he was looking forward to co-starring with Holden . But Bill Holden backed out of the project and not as big a movie name , Trevor Howard , was substituted . Flynn's part was then built up though clearly he's a supporting character . In any event all these guys were just there in support of Juliette Greco who was Darryl F . Zanuck's main squeeze at the time . Ms . Greco was a better actress than that other squeeze of Zanuck's Bella Darvi and she didn't come to a tragic end as poor Bella did . Huston maybe should have known better , after all he had done The African Queen on location in Africa already and knew the problems therein . The Roots of Heaven may have set some kind of record for illnesses among the cast , maybe rivaling The Conqueror . The most serious was Eddie Albert's nearly fatal case of sunstroke . It was reported that Errol Flynn kept the illness at bay by consuming large quantities of gin on location . He had the most to worry about as he had chronic malaria , acquired in his youth in the New Guinea jungles that kicked up on him every now and then . Of course right after the film , he was reported to suffer a major attack of it and was in hospital for weeks . The story never quite takes off . It's about Trevor Howard's efforts to save the elephant population and the lack of interest therein among most of the natives who depend on the ivory trade for a livelihood . Conservation is a noble cause , but it's usually talked about by those who've already plundered their area already for its resources and are now telling others what to do . Howard's cause never quite gets off the ground and sad to say , neither does the film . Maybe it could be made today with better results .
Randolph Scott tones it down a might , but he continues in the role he had in The Spoilers as a con man in Alaska . He's running a gambling establishment in Malamute and has taken great pains to establish his identity as HONEST John Calhoun . Up pops Gypsy Rose Lee an old girl friend who heads a group of chorus girls who support her act . She's rightly suspicious and Randy has a con working with the help of Bob Burns , Charles Winninger and especially Victor Killian . I'm not going to say more , except it's a beaut . The main problem with the film is Gypsy Rose Lee can't act . But with those two prominent weapons of mass destruction she's sporting , who cares . William Marshall who's the second lead also can't act worth anything and he doesn't have what Gypsy has for a distraction . Jimmy Van Heusen and Johnny Burke wrote two of their biggest songs from the 40s for this film and interestingly enough NOT introduced by Bing Crosby although he did record them . The introducer is Dinah Shore who plays Winninger's daughter in the film and she sings Sleigh Ride In July and Like Someone In Love and does them well . What she saw in William Marshall I can't figure out . If you like Randolph Scott and Gypsy Rose Lee's assets that's a good enough reason to watch this .
Meteor and When Time Ran Out marked the end of the decade of the disaster epic . I guess that Hollywood was just running out of ideas and that the formula of getting a bunch of big name players and put them in harm's way was wearing thin . You can see that just about everybody here is bored , they all say the lines without any real conviction . Except for Martin Landau . As an Air Force General and Cold Warrior of the first order , he's extremely upset that the USA and the USSR have buried their differences to work on a real immediate problem . He resents Russians Brian Keith and Natalie Wood in the war room and Landau overacts outrageously . A comet hurtling through the asteroid belt hit one of the big asteroids and sent one big chunk of rock and a whole bunch smaller ones as space calling cards speeding to Earth . That big guy if it hits spells the end of life on the planet . Some criticism has been made that the special effects were a bit cheesy . By today's standards of course they were . So are some of those of the great Cecil B . DeMille . That's progress for you . I'm not sure but this may have been the first time that Natalie Wood played someone of her own ancestry on film . Too bad she and Sean Connery as the NASA scientist didn't get to do something better before she passed away . All the stars got a good pay day out of this though Sean Connery said there were some real scary moments with the cast trying to escape through the subway system with all the mud . A few times some people came close to really being buried in it for art's sake . And this isn't a film to give your life for .
I don't think Paul Newman was ever at his best in the west . Certainly not in this film . But fans of his will like it . The Billy the Kid saga has been told so often at this point on film , I don't think it's possible to write a spoiler . The actual truth has never really been told because the participants in the Lincoln County War in New Mexico were not all good or all bad on either side . Just a couple of political factions jockeying for power with both legal and illegal means at their disposal . Paul Newman is usually at his best laconic and cynical . A Newman on dexadrine is not something I'm used to . He's rather hyper in The Left Handed Gun . We've seen every kind of version from matinée idol Robert Taylor whose film dispensed with all the real names except William Bonney that were in the story to the Two Young Guns Movies . Emilio Estevez was a juvenile delinquent gone west in those films and that's probably closer to the truth . Of course no version quite matches Howard Hughes's The Outlaw . That one has to be seen to be believed . The Left Handed Gun falls somewhere in the middle range of films about Billy the Kid neither the best or worst . I think John Dehner as Pat Garrett probably comes out the best in this film .
We're it not for the fact that Bette Davis won her first Academy Award in Dangerous , this film would hardly be remembered by anyone except the most ardent Bette Davis fans . There were a number of films that woman carried by sheer force of nature and this is probably the best example of one . Her character of Joyce Heath is rather obviously based on Jeanne Eagels who was only dead six years and who many had vivid memories of on stage and screen . In fact at one point in the film it's mentioned that a play that Franchot Tone is interested in being the financial backer of could only be played by Bette's character Joyce Heath and Jeanne Eagels . Franchot Tone is a dapper successful young architect to the rich and famous and he's got a few bucks himself and he's engaged to society débutante Margaret Lindsay . But one fateful night he meets up with Bette Davis who was once big , but is now down and out . She broke many a heart in her day and even she considers herself a jinx to any who get involved with her . That don't stop Tone who hears his hormones calling . You will not forget Bette as the hedonistic and reckless Joyce Heath , she really dominates this film . Because of that and because there was a big outcry about her not even being nominated the year before for Of Human Bondage , Davis got a nomination and to her surprise got the Oscar for Best Actress . If the criteria for winning an Oscar is carrying a mediocre film to glory than Bette deserved it . There have been a few times in Academy history that a performance of a star just totally dominates the film , the best examples I can think of besides this is Jose Ferrer is Cyrano DeBergerac and Susan Hayward in I Want To Live . But both Jose and Susan had a whole lot better material to work with . Even Davis while proud of the Oscar thought the film mediocre , the way Elizabeth Taylor felt about Butterfield 8 . Part of the reason is that the Code had come into being . If this film had been made a year or two earlier we would not have had the absolute cop out of a finish . Still Bette's fans will love it , no doubt .
In the book that Michael Freedland wrote about Gregory Peck , Only the Valiant is described as the worst film Gregory Peck ever made . During those beginning years of his stardom it seems like just about every film became a classic of some kind . Only the Valiant was shot on the cheap and it shows . The book says that Gregory Peck's cavalry uniform was an old costume worn by Rod Cameron in one of his B westerns . It was an independent production by James Cagney and as part of the deal Peck got Barbara Payton who had a contract with Cagney himself and was used in Kiss Tomorrow Goodbye which he produced and also starred in . According to Michael Freedland's book , Peck who was still tied to David O . Selznick got $60 , 000 . 00 for the part of cavalry captain Richard Lance . Selznick got $150 . 000 . 00 and Peck was not a happy camper . Still being the professional he was , Peck did the film . In truth Only the Valiant is a far better film than MGM's big budget The Great Sinner which Peck also starred in . Mainly because of a very competent crew of players that James Cagney gathered for this film . And an interesting script which contains elements of Beau Geste , The Lost Patrol , The Dirty Dozen and David and Bathsheba which Peck had starred in . Peck and Gig Young are rivals for Barbara Payton and Peck is ordered to send Young on a patrol to take hostile Apache chief Michael Ansara to a better staffed army fort . Young gets killed and Ansara escapes and the old Uriah the Hittite story starts circulating at Peck's post . Later he gets an assignment to man an abandoned fort that sits across a narrow mountain pass that the Apaches can't even charge through on horseback . He takes a select group of army misfits , some of whom would like to kill him worse than the Apaches . Even with Ward Bond as an alcoholic corporal , any resemblance between these soldiers and those John Ford cavalry pictures is coincidental . The ones who he takes with him , Sergeant Neville Brand , Lieutenant Dan Riss , Bond , Troopers Terry Kilburn , Steve Brodie , and Lon Chaney , Jr . are a collection that Lee Marvin would gladly have taken on a mission . Chaney has the strangest role . He's named Kabushyan and he's Armenian though the men refer to him as A-rab . He's got one big old gay crush on Gig Young though it's not spelled out due to Code restrictions and he hates Peck worse than the others . It's the best performance in the film . Only the Valiant has an A list cast with B production values , I wish it had been done with a bigger budget .
Howard Keel says in his posthumously published memoirs that he grabbed the part of Simon Peter in The Big Fisherman to prove his versatility as an actor . Musicals were pretty much done by that time and he was free of his MGM contract . He got the role after John Wayne turned the part down . That one was an eye opener I have to say . My conception of St . Peter has always been that of a big hale and hearty man used to working in the outdoors . We see an older Peter in Quo Vadis with Finlay Currie and now we have a younger one in Keel . Still I can't believe that Frank Borzage wanted John Wayne . After coming off that disaster in The Barbarian and the Geisha , the Duke wisely turned this one down . Keel does give a good performance as Peter . Other than Keel the player best remembered for this film is Ray Stricklyn as the evil young Arab prince . It's good to remember that this is a fictional story about a biblical figure though some scenes of events described in the Bible are in the film . Nevertheless there are some plot flaws . Peter goes among the Arabs here and this was six centuries before Mohammed came on the scene . If you were to follow the logic of the film , the Arab people would have been converted to Christianity . Now maybe it would have saved us all a lot of bloodshed over the centuries had they , still even in a work of fiction that's a bit much to swallow . Keel liked making the film and had high hopes for it . Unfortunately it ran up against Ben-Hur another filmed biblically based novel this time with the protagonist being a fictional character . Additionally The Big Fisherman got lost somewhere in the corporate doings of Buena Vista Films and the Walt Disney studio . Back in the Fifties , Buena Vista did distribute films not necessarily with the Walt Disney brand on them . It's been seen on television a few times , I saw it again about 12 years ago . It should be seen in theaters though . Like Ben-Hur something is lost even with a letter box version . But can you imagine John Wayne as St . Peter ? Turn that one over in your minds .
I'm sure that Cary Grant was dangled the prospect of a nice all expenses paid for location shooting in Tokyo for his final film , Walk Don't Run . It's the reason he did the film I'm sure . It's not a bad film to go out on , not near as good as say The Shootist was for John Wayne , but no Cuban Rebel Girl like Errol Flynn had . It's a remake of an earlier Columbia Pictures hit , The More the Merrier that starred Joel McCrea , Jean Arthur , and Charles Coburn . Coburn got a best supporting Actor Oscar for his performance and Grant has his part . The original film dealt with a tremendous housing shortage in Washington , DC during the World War II , a crisis of four year duration as opposed to a few weeks in Tokyo where because of the Olympics of 1964 there are no hotel rooms to be had . On a whim , visiting industrialist Cary Grant answers an ad for a room mate posted at the British Embassy by Samantha Eggar . She gets the full court Cary Grant charm and after a bit of reluctance , allows him to stay . Then Grant lends half of his half to American Olympic athlete Jim Hutton . Eggar has a fiancé , but foxy Cary works his wiles on both Samantha and Jim . The results are obvious . Walk Don't Run has a few funny moments , Cary Grant style , especially when Grant strips down to his underwear to talk to Hutton during Hutton's event which is the long distance walk . He also has to pry Eggar's fiancé away to get Eggar and Hutton together . John Standing is Eggar's fiancé and he puts in a droll performance as a dull predictable British civil servant . Cary managed to mine a few more laughs out of his last screen role , but you decide if the trip was worth it .
I'm really amazed at some of the reviews I've read on this film . It's not the greatest boxing film ever made , still it portrays both the good and the seamier side of the sport . It's a low level Rocky with a touch of an old James Cagney-Pat O'Brien film , The Irish In Us . The idea that even a top amateur can step into the ring with a ranked professional contender in his division and beat him is nonsense . What The Irish In Us had was James Cagney as the MANAGER stepping into the ring when his fighter is injured and beating the welterweight champion for the title . Next to that Split Decisions is positively realistic . What's nice here is the relationship of the three generations of boxers in the McGuinn family . Grandfather John McLiam , Father Gene Hackman , and sons Craig Sheffer and Jeff Fahey . When Fahey stands up to mobster James Tolkan and refuses to throw a fight to his boy Eddie Velez , he's worked over and then accidentally killed . Sheffer steps in for his slain brother . Though the McGuinns fight with each other a bit , they do stick together in a crisis . In its way Split Decisions is a boxing fantasy , much like the highly acclaimed Rocky . Not bad entertainment either . This review is dedicated to McKennon Wimberly of the Professional Bull Riders who did some amateur boxing himself and shows the same heart riding bulls as Craig Sheffer did in this film .
Consider the time this film came out . It is one of the first feature films about the cinema's new rival , television . More specifically it is based on the renaissance of Hopalong Cassidy as an early television star . This film takes me back to when I was a lad in the early days of television when there was a need for programming . The first films that were shown on early television were grade B product from the studios which were not about to be re-released for the big screen . And of course those B westerns were in plentiful supply . In fact I have a theory that John Wayne's rapid rise to number one at the box office may have been in large part to the showing of his pre-Stagecoach westerns giving him valuable publicity for the A product he was currently working on . But the guy who had the biggest benefit was William Boyd who made his last Hopalong Cassidy picture in 1948 . He had scraped together every bit of cash he could to buy all the rights to the Hopalong Cassidy films and character from producer Harry Sherman and author Clarence Mulford . So when those Cassidy films became a big hit on early television Boyd's career revived and he became a tycoon with all the Hoppy merchandise . And the craze was big , the film accurately depicts the merchandising bonanza that Hoppy was in real life and Smokey Callaway in this film . Like the Cassidy films in real life , the old films of B picture western star Smokey Callaway become a big hit on TV . They'd like to make more of them , but where's Smokey . TV programmers Fred MacMurray and Dorothy McGuire would sure like to find him . Smokey's just dropped off the planet . MacMurray and McGuire dispatch former agent Jesse White to locate Callaway who was quite a boozer back in the day and nothing like his screen image . In the meantime they locate a cowboy from Colorado who is a Callaway doppelganger . Howard Keel plays both parts and plays them well . The two scheming TV programmers hire Keel on to impersonate his lookalike . But they get quite a bit more than they bargain for . Callaway Went Thataway is an enjoyable film about a forgotten era in our social history . Cowboys don't have quite the image they once did in America and I'm not sure how today's audience relates to a film about early television which we pretty much take for granted . Still it's a piece of nostalgia for me .
Though it was a nice play on words the character Sky King did not get his moniker from his reliance on air travel , it was simply short for Schuyler . Nevertheless it's a great handle and suggestive of all kinds of romantic fantasies about air travel . The last name King was also an interesting choice . One of the largest , if not the largest cattle ranches ever was the King Ranch of Texas . If people thought Sky was one of those Kings , so much the better . And I don't think the King Ranch minded the free publicity . The title role in this modern western was played by Kirby Grant who also had played him on radio . He was the owner of a considerable spread , but the main thing with Grant was that he was up to date with the times . He had a private plane that he named the Songbird which he used to both oversee his ranch and help deal with bad guys who couldn't ride horses fast enough to get away from Sky King and the Songbird . As you can imagine , the law had need of Sky and his plane and Sky was only too willing to help out a sheriff in need . Sky lived on the ranch with niece Penny { Gloria Winters } and nephew Clipper { Ron Haggerty } . These two headstrong youths got themselves in jams and half the plots of the shows were Uncle Sky using the Songbird to get them out of a jackpot . Kirby Grant who broke into film as a singer and not a bad one found his niche on radio playing heroic Sky King . The show transitioned smoothly to television and was a big hit with the kids including this kid . Ironically enough Kirby Grant's death was a postscript to the Challenger disaster . Long retired and living in Florida he saw the Challenger blow up and then died in a car accident on the way home . Probably the horror of what he saw unnerved as it did everyone else who witnessed it live or on television . So a man whose fame was as a fictional air hero died after witnessing one of the great air disasters of the last century . Sky King was a nice family show and I'm surprised no one has thought to revive it .
I'm not sure but that Song of the Islands was had been done before December 7 , 1941 and definitely before US servicemen started bleeding and dying in the South Seas . There certainly is no mention of World War II at all in this escapist Betty Grable film where she's poaching on Dorothy Lamour's south sea territory . I'm sure that Darryl Zanuck must have saw the kind of money that Paramount was raking in with those Dorothy Lamour sarong pictures . So why not put the woman who had risen to be their top musical star in the tropics . They gave Betty a hula grass skirt instead of a sarong , the better to show her legs with . Zanuck was also smart enough not to pass the blond Grable as a native Hawaiian . She's come home to teach school on the island where her father , Thomas Mitchell , has a small place , but also where George Barbier is the absentee owner of a cattle ranch . Barbier's place is run by Hal Spencer , but Victor Mature and Jack Oakie sail over from America to see if they can buy out Mitchell . Mature is Barbier's son and of course when he and Grable meet , the inevitable sparks do fly . Zanuck also put an official Hawaiian imprimatur on Song of the Islands by using Harry Owens to write the music with Mack Gordon's lyrics . Owens was the musical interpreter of Hawaii to the world , his most famous song being Sweet Leilani . And a Hawaiian national treasure named Hilo Hattie also appears in the film , singing in her inimitable style and setting her marriage cap for Jack Oakie . It's all light and pleasant escapist entertainment and Song of the Islands is a good indication of why Betty Grable was the number one pin-up of GIs all over the globe . Except for Rita Hayworth .
Poor Elvis Presley . Had he realized he could have done his military obligation and not have to put a career on hold , he might very well have become a British subject . Elvis's being drafted into the army was world wide news back in the day and the British sought to take advantage of it with this film , Idle On Parade . It casts Anthony Newley as a young British rock and roller who has to do his national service and even being a teen idol won't get him out of it . His status causes no end of grief to Captain Lionel Jeffries and the drill sergeant William Bendix . Around this time Bendix went over across the pond and made a few features for the British film industry . He mastered an Irish accent quite well for the part . I wouldn't have thought anyone as American urban as Bill Bendix could have carried it off , but he did . The interesting I found was that I had just finished reading Tommy Steele's memoirs , Bermondsey Boy , where Steele goes into some detail about his national service . He eschewed military service for the sea , serving as a steward on one of her Majesty's ocean liners . Actually some of what Tommy had to say would make an interesting film . Newley fits the role well as a teen idol and the lovely Anne Aubrey who is Jeffries's daughter in the film is his romantic interest . That's part , but only part of the story of Idle On Parade .
Any excuse like Meet Danny Wilson you can get to hear Frank Sinatra sing some great old standards is something to take advantage of . Problem with Meet Danny Wilson is that when Sinatra stops singing , he's really one obnoxious boor in this film . Singer Frank Sinatra and his accompanist piano player Alex Nicol are making a meager living in a whole lot of dives until top singer Shelley Winters hears them and gets them hired by her gangster boss Raymond Burr . Burr's got eyes for her , Sinatra has eyes for her , but she only sees Nicol . That leads to a whole lot of complications . What further leads to complications is Raymond Burr's verbal contract to get 50 % of Sinatra's earnings . Burr doesn't like things in writing just fork over the money and he has 32 caliber lawyer if needed . Some have said this is a thinly veiled Sinatra autobiographical film . If so it's a picture of Frank no one could take . I'm still trying to figure out why Nicol puts up with him . They're old army buddies , but that only takes you so far . Danny Wilson is one of the least attractive characters Sinatra ever brought to the screen . But when he's singing , my oh my .
Bronco was a western television series that got rushed to market when Clint Walker walked out on Cheyenne during a contract dispute with Warner Brothers . It's star was one Orville Whipple Hungerford , III , better known to us kids as Ty Hardin . Hardin certainly didn't have the looming presence of 6'6 " Clint Walker as Cheyenne , but he was a more than adequate western hero . Bronco Lane was a wanderer and in the course of this Confederate veteran's western wanderings he ran into a whole lot of famous true western legends . Warner Brothers was doing something that all the studios did with their westerns back in the day , mixed their cowboy heroes with stories real western personalities . When Clint Walker came back and Cheyenne resumed production , Bronco was sort of like a spare tire that became a fifth wheel in the Warner Brothers western shows . It was on for a few seasons and dropped . It's star got a few good movie roles and then dropped out of sight . Years ago I read that Hardin got involved in some really far right wing politics . I mean John Birch Society style right wing . I'm not sure if that drove casting directors to pass him by or did he get involved in that blaming his fading career on the Communists . Either way it's kind of a sad story . But I still remember that theme song , " Bronco , Bronco , Tearing Across The Texas Plains , Bronco , Bronco , Bronco Lane . "
Star Trek : Nemesis is to date the last of the Star Trek films based on one of the Gene Roddenberry series . It's open to speculation whether we'll see another one . It would be disappointing indeed if more did not come out to satisfy the legion of fans out there . Nemesis finds Captain Jean Luc Picard and his crew sent by Admiral Janeway who made it back from that odyssey in the Delta Quadrant to a promotion . Kate Mulgrew has a mission for Patrick Stewart and the Enterprise , it's a diplomatic one . His assignment is to go to Romulus itself and assess the new leadership there . A race that's been enslaved by the Romulans has overthrown the empire and there's a new Praetor running things . And what a surprise the Enterprise and its crew gets when they do get to Romulus . The new Praetor is human and bred from the DNA of Patrick Stewart which the Romulans acquired way back when and is played by Tom Hardy . Without any asking , Hardy provides a few drops of blood for the Star Trek crew and Dr . Gates McFadden gives us the answer about the ancestry . Hardy's got quite a scheme to set himself as conqueror of the Universe in fact . It's up to the Enterprise to stop him , not easy with a new weapon and an enhanced Romulan cloaking device . Stewart's not the only member of the Enterprise crew to come up against a relative of sorts . Data finds an early model of himself on a desolated planet and pieces him together . That sets up an interesting subplot for Nemesis . When Star Trek : The Next Generation completed its television run , I fully expected that Wesley Crusher's character would return in one of the films . Especially the way he was written out of the series , it set up all kinds of intriguing plot possibilities . Hopefully Paramount will keep that in mind and get a grown up Wil Wheaton to repeat his role of the future's model kid . I didn't quite understand what hardy had against the human races , especially when it was the Romulans who created and then enslaved him . It's a fatal plot hole and prevents this film from being a real science fiction classic . Still for fans of Star Trek it should satisfy them .
Manhattan Melodrama is a trivial pursuit game all in itself . Consider the number of things it's known for . 1 . The only teaming of Clark Gable and William Powell . 2 . The first teaming of William Powell and Myrna Loy . 3 . A popular song that didn't get popular from this film . 4 . A famous gangster being shot to death because he wanted to see this . 5 . William Powell's first film under the MGM banner . And I'm sure I might think of a few more later on . It's a very dated piece , but made enjoyable because of the skill of its three leads . Two kids , Mickey Rooney and Jimmy Butler who later become Clark Gable and William Powell , are left orphaned as a result of the famous General Slocum disaster in the first years of the 20th century . One works hard , studies hard , and becomes a successful lawyer and prosecutor . The other works hard becoming the kind of man the first one makes a living prosecuting . Gable's the gambler and his girl friend is Myrna Loy . Gable is his usual charming self , but with a streak of toughness and nobody crosses him . He runs into Powell at the famous Dempsey-Firpo fight and later Powell runs into Loy . She gets a taste of respectability through him and she likes it . Gable would probably be sore about losing her to anyone , but Powell . Powell rises to become governor of the state and Gable gets to the top of his profession , the death house at Sing Sing . This is where the film truly turns into melodrama . Powell is a person of exacting moral standards a bit too exacting for my taste . I can't see how today's audience could accept the course of action he pursues , for just being TEMPTED to commute Gable's sentence . Manhattan Melodrama features a song sung by Shirley Ross , The Bad in Every Man . It's a familiar tune , but didn't do anything for the film . Composer Richard Rodgers had faith in his melody however and persuaded his partner Lorenz Hart to try another lyric . He did and Connee Boswell recorded it and made Blue Moon a big hit . Of course the legend of the film is that John Dillinger wanted so much to see the film that he came out of hiding . As soon as it was over he got betrayed by one of the women accompanying him and the FBI gunned him down in the streets of Chicago . Manhattan Melodrama entered into American folklore after that . I'm not sure today's audience would feel this film was worth even John Dillinger's life . If he wanted to see Gable , Powell , and Loy so badly , he should have waited later in the year for It Happened One Night or The Thin Man .
Disney Studios new teen comedy Hatching Pete is about two high school kids who both are their team's Chicken Mascot . Only one claims credit for it while the other does the work . I suppose that Cyrano De Bergerac is well in the public domain so no one will be suing the Magic Kingdom any time soon . But I suspect that Rostand would not be too unhappy with this updating of his classic set in 21st Century America . In fact things work out a whole lot better for these kids than for Cyrano and Christian . Teen Disney Television stars Jason Dolley , Mitchell Musso , and Tiffany Thornton star in Hatching Pete . Musso is the school's chicken mascot , a family tradition as his father was one also . The problem is that Musso's developed an allergy to the costume and just can't go on . So he has good friend and wallflower transfer student Jason Dolley put on the suit for a game . But Dolley discovers he's got a real flair for those outfits and soon he becomes the reason the crowds come out . It certainly isn't for the team and its coach Brian Stepanek . In fact there's a lot of jealousy developing between Stepanek and his players with the chicken no matter who it is . In fact both Dolley and Musso would like to win Homecoming Queen Tiffany Thornton even though cheerleader Josie Lopez is a whole lot nicer . Trust me , it all works out in the end . Hatching Pete is a nice product from the Magic Kingdom and who knows in some English Literature class in some high school in the USA someone may realize where this plot comes from and develop an appreciation for the classics .
There's one well organized ring of gold smugglers operating out of the gold strike camp of Cripple Creek , Colorado . There's so much gold being smuggled out of the place that the Secret Service is concerned . Remember the USA was on the gold standard back then . So the Secret Service assigns agents George Montgomery , Richard Egan , and Jerome Courtland to go undercover and apprehend this gang . Courtland is young and impulsive , but both Montgomery and Egan think pretty fast on their feet as you'll see as the story unfolds . Just about everybody of any importance in Cripple Creek is involved in the smuggling which is why the government hasn't been able to get a handle on it so far . That's why our agents really have their work cut out for them in this fast paced western . Cripple Creek is a competently made B western with a real twist at the end . Two twists in fact , especially when you find out who the head of the smuggling ring is and what's the purpose behind all the gold smuggling . Cripple Creek is one western not just for the kid trade .
Street Kings is another film from director / writer Don Ayer who brought us Training Day . Unlike Training Day the central protagonist of this film is the honest cop who's in a corrupt unit . Corruption and the Los Angeles Police Department seem to go hand in hand in the real world and the cinema world . Street Kings is the latest in a line of films about LAPD corruption . Keanu Reeves is our honest cop here and his character is a whole lot like Russell Crowe's in LA Confidential . The guy who just goes in no questions asked , and not too squeamish about his methods . Miranda is just a Latino surname for him . When another member of his unit is killed in a bodega holdup where he's also on the scene , rumors start flying that Keanu greased him to prevent the dead guy from dropping a dime on him with the Internal Affairs folks . Unit commander Forest Whitaker tries to protect Reeves , internal affairs officer Chris Evans works with him to find out the real story . When it's all sorted out it's quite a twisted tale . I would have expected a bit more from the creator of Training Day which boasted the mesmerizing Academy Award winning performance of Denzel Washington . Street Kings hasn't any performances that good . It's a routine police action drama , none of the cast need be embarrassed by their participation though .
Assignment : Paris is another of those films with a faraway location that never got past the Columbia back lot . Still it's a decent enough Cold War noir thriller . Dana Andrews is a hotshot reporter for the New York Herald Tribune assigned to its prestige international division in Paris which is headed by editor George Sanders . Andrews is covering the capture and trial of an American for espionage by the Hungarian hardline regime . Of course when he's sent to Budapest in pursuit of the story , Andrews becomes the story himself and Sanders works like a demon to get him free . Sanders is aided and abetted by the lovely Marta Toren who gets in a bit of hot water herself in the effort . Audrey Totter , the fashion editor , provides moral support all around . Hard to believe that in five years Toren would be gone , dying of leukemia at a young age . That was one extraordinarily beautiful woman , what a career she should have had . Though Andrews is first billed , the film is really carried by Sanders in one of his few roles as a good guy . The man with the built in sneer carries the part off well . The Cold War atmosphere was just right for these shadowy noir films of intrigue . Assignment : Paris is a good representation of the times .
It's probably a mistake to say that this is Frank Sinatra's only effort at directing . Truth be told , starting with Ocean's 11 , he directed about half the films he was in , whoever's name is in the credits was just a puppet . Frank was also producing as well , probably though he didn't want the public to get the idea he was Orson Welles . Maybe it would have taken an Orson Welles to have made None But the Brave a classic film , but Sinatra in his only formal effort at directing doesn't do a bad job except for his then son-in-law Tommy Sands . In fact he anticipates Clint Eastwood's Iwo Jima films by 40 years . This isn't Iwo Jima exactly , it's a small backwater island in the Pacific where a squad of Japanese soldiers have been cut off and are living off the land so to speak . A Navy transport plane is shot down with a squad of U . S . Marines on board . Pilot Clint Walker crash lands safely on that selfsame island and saves most of them , but they are also cut off . After a lot skirmishing mostly between Walker and Sands with Walker trying to prevent newly commissioned second lieutenant Sands from doing something stupid like charging the Japanese headlong , the two groups agree to opt out of World War II . An interesting thing happens , both find that they have a lot in common . We already know that in seeing the film from the Japanese point also with subtitles . The Japanese players are unknown to we occidentals for the most part , but I looked and found several like , Tatsuya Mihashi as the Japanese commander , Takeshi Kato as their sergeant , and Homere Suguro as the corporal who has his leg amputated by Frank Sinatra had substantial careers in Japanese cinema . The player on that side I liked most however was Ryucho Shunputei as the simple Japanese private who fishes and quite frankly is the key to their survival . I'm betting he wasn't exactly in the Samurai tradition in combat , but his skill at the profession he left behind is keeping his whole group alive . For himself Frank Sinatra took the part of a Navy Corpsman who is the only non-Marine beside Walker on the American side . The part fits him quite well indeed . This was the film where Brad Dexter who's the Marine sergeant in the film saved Frank Sinatra from drowning when old Blue Eyes was swimming and was nearly swept out to sea by the undertow . Bing Crosby's son Phil had a small role as one of the Marines , no doubt a favor from Old Blue Eyes to the Old Groaner . Frank Sinatra could be vindictive however and I had never thought about it before , but another reviewer's comments about Tommy Sands made me reconsider his performance . Maybe Frank was actually trying to mess his career up . Sands as the green second lieutenant is almost a caricature of one . He's so bad in the role , maybe it was lousy directing for him only . Other than that , Frank did not do a half bad job . It's not a great film , but it's not bad either and it does raise some interesting questions about people in combat situations .
Frankie Avalon off doing his Naval Reserve training in those innocent days before Vietnam is wondering whether Annette is being true to him back at the beach with all those other hunks around . He's stationed on a tropical Pacific Isle with lots of other curvaceous cuties around . He asks one of them to bring him to the local witch doctor for help . The witch doctor sends a pelican out to spy on Annette back at the beach . So help me this is the beginning of the story . But it's not a half bad film , in fact it gets down right satirical at times . In addition to Frankie , Annette and the rest of the beach crew , some Hollywood old timers got some work in this film and they get a chance to overact outrageously . They include Brian Donlevy and Mickey Rooney as a pair of scheming advertising executives along with Dwayne Hickman who's their schemer in training , Harvey Lembeck as a Marlon Brando type motorcycle gang leader and Buster Keaton as the witch doctor . I'd try to see How to Stuff a Wild Bikini if for no other reason than to see all these players ham it up . Though in some spots the pelican gives the best performance in the film .
Viennese surgeon Charles Coburn and daughter Sigrid Gurie arrive in America and are placed in a rural area of Oklahoma . They stay in a large old house with John Wayne and Spencer Charters . Pretty soon , despite Gurie's homesickness , they are involved in the social and political life in the area . This is the famous Oklahoma dust bowl era when drought and poor cultivation practices brought about a drying up of once fertile farm land . Wayne and the other farmers do their best to save the land , but in the end except a government offer to homestead new farm land created by a dam built in Oregon , I presume on the Columbia River or one of its tributaries . Gurie of course falls big time for the Duke . But she hears that Roland Varno who saved them from the Nazis and who she thought dead is still alive . Wayne of course leads a modern day wagon train to Oregon with automobiles instead of Conestoga wagons . He's got his own problems with Trevor Bardette , another farmer who's constantly trying to undermine his leadership . 23 years later John Wayne made McLintock which is more a serious statement of his conservative political and economic philosophy than one realizes . In Three Faces West we have him accepting a government program's help , albeit a self help type program . The film though is couched in terms good enough to satisfy any free marketeer . One thing I could not understand . Roland Varno purportedly risked his life to save Gurie and Coburn from the Nazis . But when both of them meet up with Varno in San Francisco , he's now a big time Nazi supporter and wants to take them back to Vienna to aid in his new cause . They are taken aback and walk right out on him . I'm somewhat taken aback myself . For the life of me I don't understand Varno's about face . The script gives us no explanation . It's a big hole in the plot . Three Faces West also labors under the handicap of coming out in the same year as The Grapes of Wrath . A much better film about the dust bowl and its economic effects .
Sorrowful Jones is both the first time Bob Hope teamed up with Lucille Ball as a leading lady and it's his first try at a Damon Runyon character . It succeeded , but it's not as good as some of the other of Bob Hope's Forties comedies . This is a remake of Little Miss Marker where Adolphe Menjou played the role of Sorrowful Jones . The problem with this version is that in the first one the main character is the little girl left as a human marker for bookie Sorrowful Jones . The little girl back then was Shirley Temple and it was a Shirley Temple picture . No child was going to steal the spotlight from Bob Hope and this one has the emphasis on Hope's character which is all wrong . Little Mary Jane Saunders is not Shirley Temple , but who is . Anyway she does not steal the film from Hope and that's wrong . On the plus side Hope and Lucille Ball show some really good chemistry and they did far better in their next film together Fancy Pants . Also look for good performances from Bruce Cabot as the gambling kingpin and from William Demarest as Hope's sidekick . But if you want to see Hope and Ball at their best I recommend Fancy Pants .
The creative talents of George S . Kaufman , Irving Berlin , and the Brothers Marx went into the production of the Broadway musical The Cocoanuts which ran for 216 shows in the 1925-1926 season . Of the talent involved it was the Marx Brothers who came out the winners . George S . Kaufman was one of the great wits of the last century , but so were the Marx Brothers . They ad-libbed and eliminated much of Kaufman's well turned prose and things were pretty tense between him and the brothers on Broadway . He also did not like a certain song that Berlin wanted to use in The Cocoanuts and Berlin took it from the show after Kaufman ragged on him . The song was Always . The Cocoanuts was the first book musical that Irving Berlin ever wrote , he did mostly reviews before The Cocoanuts . It also is the only one without a single hit song from it . But as a Marx Brothers comedy it made the Brothers reputations . The plot such as it is concerns the boom in Florida real estate in which a lot of people got wealthy and a lot lost their shirts , though not quite in the way Basil Ruysdael does when Harpo and Chico take it off his back while he's trying to frisk them in his duties as the house detective . The Cocoanuts was shot at the Paramount Astoria studio in Queens and used a lot of Broadway performers in the roles . Besides the Brothers , only Margaret Dumont and Basil Ruysdael came over from the Broadway cast . But Oscar Shaw and Mary Eaton had well established reputations on Broadway . Kay Francis is in the cast as the bad girl and she certainly went on to a substantial Hollywood career . The main thing The Cocoanuts has going for it besides the Marx Brothers is the fact it is a filmed record of a Twenties era Broadway musical . Paramount made very few concessions in adapting The Cocoanuts to the screen . What we see is filmed play . Historic , but I fear not as entertaining as the later work of the Marx Brothers .
Look For the Silver Lining is a particular song favorite of mine and it was the theme song of one of Broadway's brightest stars , Marilyn Miller . Her own life , sad to say did not have too many sunny days in it after that fateful night where she lost her first husband . She died young from complications of a sinus operation in 1936 in the year when her producer / benefactor Florenz Ziegfeld had a biographical film about him . There was no mention of Marilyn's name in the film at all . June Haver plays a winning Marilyn whom we see as a girl like Judy Garland , born in a trunk . Remember that Judy played Marilyn in Look for the Silver Lining . She was a child performer in a family of performers like the Gumm sisters . She met and fell in love with Frank Carter , a song and dance man who was killed in a car crash in New Jersey as the film shows . Carter in this film is played by Gordon MacRae in one of his earliest film roles . Marilyn spent an extraordinary amount of money for a tomb for the late Mr . Carter who by all rights on his own would never deserve such a monument . It's one of the grandest in Woodlawn Cemetery in the Bronx where Marilyn eventually joined him . It dwarfs such folks as former Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes and Irving Berlin who wrote Easter Parade for her and Clifton Webb in As Thousands Cheer . In this film Marilyn has one other husband , Jack Donohue played by Ray Bolger who has some terrific dance numbers . That and two other marriages in real life didn't work out for her . One of her other husbands was Jack Pickford , brother of Mary Pickford who led quite a life of drink and debauchery and died young . What's not shown is how hearty Marilyn partied in the Roaring Twenties . She was one wild child between marriages indulging in uncountable one night stands . It was said that in shows with her frequent co-star Clifton Webb , they'd split up the chorus boys , she'd take the straight ones and he'd go after the gay ones , many times their paths would cross . One thing Marilyn never did was record . She adamantly refused record contracts , would not consider going to a recording studio to record the songs identified with her like Look For the Silver Lining , Who , and Easter Parade . She felt that sound alone could not capture the magic of a live performance , the dancing as well as the singing . Only those early sound films are the only record of her performing . Marilyn Miller had an R , even an X rated life and Look for the Silver Lining does not remotely do justice to it . Still it's a tastefully done tribute to a very tragic star who found happiness in this world a most elusive thing .
One of Jane Powell's best musicals for MGM is Rich , Young and Pretty and Ms . Powell winds up all three and married to boot . She and father Wendell Corey and housekeeper Una Merkel are in Paris where Wendell is on business for the United Nations where he works . But he wasn't always a high powered diplomat . After the first World War he took a French bride , Danielle Darrieux , back to Texas . Texas didn't agree with Danielle and she left Wendell and her infant daughter . Wendell has told Jane her mother had passed away . Of course all this deception by Corey leaves room for more deception by Danielle upon Jane's arrival in Paris . With a little subterfuge Darrieux and Powell meet . And Powell's also got eyes for a young French official , Vic Damone and she's forgetting about the boy she's seeing back home . The story line of Rich , Young , and Pretty gets a little too cute , but there are some talented players here to smooth out the rough spots . And Nicholas Brodzsky and Sammy Cahn wrote some nice songs . One of them , Wonder Why , was nominated for Best Song , but lost to In the Cool Cool Cool of the Evening . Still Wonder Why is a very pretty ballad , sung by both Damone and Powell . My favorite song however is Paris , a city that certainly has inspired some of our best songwriters . Here it's done by Fernando Lamas and sung well . Fans of this talented cast will want to see their stars perform even though the story is a bit silly .
Both the novel by Meyer Levin and the movie came out at the time that Nathan Leopold was granted parole after serving over 30 years of a life sentence for killing Bobby Franks . The film itself is a B picture with an out of place , fiftyish jazz score that is distracting . Other than some antique vehicles and kids dancing the Charleston , the film does little to capture the atmosphere of the 1920s when the Loeb-Leopold case took place . The acting by the cast is competent . What lifts Compulsion from the ranks of the ordinary is Orson Welles . Compulsion is arguably the finest work he ever did outside the films he directed himself , maybe The Third Man is the only competition . Welles's speech to the jury is absolutely mesmerizing , how he didn't get into the Oscar sweepstakes is a mystery for the ages . Welles's Jonathan Wilks captures the real Clarence Darrow far more than Spencer Tracy as Henry Drummond in Inherit the Wind . For you Orson Welles fans this is a must .
Day Of The Outlaw casts Robert Ryan as a tough westerner who resents the homesteaders like Alan Marshal fencing off the open range . But in Marshal's case , he's got other resents going as well since he's married to Tina Louise who once had a fling with him . He has every intention of doing something about it legally or illegally and who's to question in this remote rugged high country in a town that's barely twenty or so people . But when Burl Ives and a murderous pack of outlaws ride into town and take it over to provision up because the US Cavalry is chasing them , Ryan , Marshal , Louise and everyone else is in the same boat . Imagine if you will Ives's Rufus Hannessy from The Big Country leading a gang of outlaws and you see what the town is up against . The only one not a killer is young David Nelson of the group . Ives has an additional problem , a bullet in his chest and the only doctor around is a veterinarian , Dabbs Greer . He gets the bullet out , but Ives would need proper medical care in a hospital to recover and to guard against internal bleeding . That's what slowly killing him , despite the morphine Greer is loading him up with . That part of the story is absolutely the true . Around this same period President William McKinley was shot in Buffalo and was thought to be recovering at first . But even he did not get adequate medical care and took a turn for the worse and a week later , died . Andre DeToth who did many good and rugged westerns did this grim tale set in the west during the winter . It looks like good skiing country , but this ain't no winter paradise for anyone concerned .
The Best of Everything is a high gloss large screen soap opera which follows the careers of four career women , Hope Lange , Suzy Parker , Diane Baker , and Martha Hyer at a New York publishing firm . What's the best for some women is not necessarily the best for all . Presiding over this group of young fillies is wise old mare Joan Crawford who's been around the track a few times on screen and in real life . She looks right at home as the boss lady as well she should have at this point . Around the time she was making The Best of Everything Joan Crawford became a widow when her fourth husband , Alfred Steele died . It was a particularly traumatic event for her , she woke up one morning and found him dead in bed next to her . She inherited all of his stock in Pepsi Cola where he was the board chairman and during the same period as The Best of Everything was being made , she wound up the queen bee at Pepsi Cola . Life does sometimes imitate art . So that authority as she barks out dictation and coffee orders to Hope Lange rings real true . In fact all the women here with the exception of Lange are in for some rough sledding . It's rough for Lange too , but she literally makes the best of everything . What a collection of stinkers the men are in this film . The best of them , Stephen Boyd , is a heavy drinker . The others Louis Jourdan , Robert Evans , and Brett Halsey , are as slimy a collection of rodents as ever gathered for one film . I can't forget Brian Aherne either who's the fanny pinching head of this publishing firm . Half that office would have sexual harassment suits going today . Some nice location shots of New York in the fifties make the film a real treat . Catch it by all means .
In China Seas , Clark Gable and Jean Harlow essentially take their characters from Red Dust off the rubber plantation and transplant them to the high seas . What's wild about this film is that both Gable and Harlow are supposed to be English , but do not even attempt to adopt an accent . In Gable's case he figured the public accepted him in Mutiny on the Bounty so why not . In any case the part called for a rough and tough adventurer and that certainly did fit Gable . Harlow's a girl who's been around the block a few times and she's crazy about Gable . But Gable takes her for granted and he's now pursuing a cultured widow of a friend in Rosalind Russell . That doesn't sit too well with Harlow so she goes after China trader Wallace Beery who's always had a yen for her . The problem is that Beery is hooked up with Malay pirates , a nasty bunch if there ever was . They're looking to steal some gold bullion that Gable's transporting on this voyage . What happens is the rest of the story . This was one of Rosalind Russell's earliest roles and once again there's little trace of the fine comedic actress she became . She worked with Gable again in They Met in Bombay and the results there were excellent . Here she's being a mannered version of Myrna Loy . MGM did that a lot , had back up players in case stars became hard to handle . In this case that's what they envisioned Russell as at this time . She does well in a part , gets more out of the role than I'm sure was originally intended . Actually my favorite in China Seas is Lewis Stone . He's a former captain himself who was beached for cowardice . Gable signs him on as a third officer and Stone makes himself a human bomb and martyrs himself to save the ship . It's a touching and tragic performance . Russell in her memoirs says that at this time she was not terribly friendly with the MGM star roster while she was an up and coming player in the ranks . One exception she did mention was Jean Harlow who she describes as warm , friendly , and helpful . Not that the two would have been up for the same kind of parts , but I got the feeling Russell felt Harlow was a genuinely nice person . The stars and the supporting cast fill out the roles they are normally type cast in . China Seas is still rugged action adventure entertainment .
In the made for television film Legalese you will find for the only time in his career James Garner playing a villain . His Norman Keane is who they had in mind when they make all the lawyer jokes . Not that he isn't good . He's worth every penny of what a client , especially a guilty one can pay him . Garner's good although in this film he does his best lawyering without setting foot in the courtroom . Gina Gershon plays this sexpot actress who shoots and kills her brother - in-law with whom she's been having a torrid affair . When she's arrested Gershon claims that she did it to protect her sister from a violent and brutal husband . But can she make this stick ? In the meantime Gershon goes to Garner the lawyer to the stars . But as Garner sees the problem , he's just come off a controversial OJ Simpson like case where he got off a client most people thought was guilty as sin . Point being that the public that makes up the jury pool might just take it out on his next client . What to do ? What Garner decides to do is put in a ringer , an idealistic fresh faced young attorney , someone like Matt Damon in The Rainmaker with Garner coaching from the sidelines . He even gives his stooge , Edward Kerr , an earpiece transmitter so he can put the words right in his mouth . Just how manipulative Garner is the audience has no idea , but the full scope of it will be revealed by the end of the film . If Legalese has a weakness it's in Kerr . Not that the man didn't do a good job , he did as good a job as he could with a character I can't believe was all that naive . Both he and Mary Louise Parker from Garner's office really get hung out to dry when show business reporter Kathleen Turner breaks into Garner's office and films them doing the horizontal mambo . Turner has a juicy role she makes the most of . But the film belongs to Garner . He was nominated for an Emmy for Best Actor in a TV movie and too bad he didn't win it . Kudos should also go to Gina Gershon , this is not a lady to cross . Legalese is why they make lawyer jokes , but when you need one Garner's the guy to get .
Annie Oakley ( 1860-1926 ) born in dire poverty and without spending one day in a school room , became one of the great feminist icons of all time . Talk about taking a man on in his game and beating him . It was not press agent ballyhoo about her prowess as a rifle shot . This romanticized biographical film captures the essence of her character and her love for the guy she dethroned as shooting champion . In some spots of the film you can practically drop the songs that Irving Berlin was later to write for his hit show about Annie . But we get a different picture of Frank Butler than in Annie Get Your Gun . Butler is not even Butler , he's Toby Wheeler as played by Preston Foster . He's a kid from the mean streets of New York City who learned his sharpshooting in the shooting galleries on the Bowery . He doesn't near and endear himself to the westerners working at Buffalo Bill's Wild West Show . In fact they hate Foster so much that whatever qualms they had about Annie being a member of the female sex the crew gets over real fast . Barbara Stanwyck captures the real Annie if not in height in spirit . The real Ms . Oakley was barely five feet tall , but by all accounts she was a modest retiring type who never forgot where she came from . She was not as raucous as Ethel Merman on stage and later Betty Hutton on screen portrayed her . She let her shooting speak for her . Melvyn Douglas has the third lead as William F . Cody's business partner Jeff Hogarth . Melvyn usually lost the girl to bigger name players though he was always a gentleman as he is here . Personally I wish he had done better in this film especially . Annie Oakley is a nice film , not as well known as the musical later derived from her life , but still easy to take with good players at their best .
Whistling in Dixie finds Red Skelton as radio detective the Fox and gal pal Ann Rutherford away in Georgia where Red's kind of faked an illness so he and Rutherford can get away and maybe get married down there . Rutherford has another agenda as well . Her old sorority sister Diana Lewis has sent her a pre-arranged signal that the sisters have in one needs help . Finding out that there is a five day waiting period in Georgia , the two of them get involved in a mystery where Lewis has witnessed a murder , but no body can be found . It all leads to some buried Confederate treasure in an old arsenal guarded by Civil War veteran Lucien Littlefield who's a might addled . Rags Ragland appears here as twins , both are convicts , one quite a bit nastier than the other . This film marked the farewell performance of George Bancroft as the sheriff who retired right after Whistling In Dixie was in the can . And of course unless you got Raymond Walburn , no film like this would be complete without Guy Kibbee as an expansive , mint julep drinking , son of the South colonel . With that kind of cast , this film can't miss being funny and the comedy is eternal .
Perry Mason : The Case of the Lady in the Lake finds America's most formidable defense attorney taking on David Hasselhoff as a client who is being accused of the murder of his wife . Hasselhoff is a retired tennis player now just hanging on in the tennis circles and is thought to have just married wife Doran Clark for her money . Everyone that is but family attorney John Ireland who retains Perry on behalf of Hasselhoff . There's another part to this story , when they were teenagers Clark and her sister were kidnapped and thrown in the lake by the suspect just before a shootout with the local sheriff and his posse . The suspect was killed , the sister drowned and her body never recovered , and Clark was traumatized . It took her years to resume a normal life . And now her body is thought to be in the same lake . The cases are indeed connected in a complicated scheme worked out by the murderer and an accomplice . The ending is a bit of a variation on the Perry Mason format . But Mason fans can rest assured that Hasselhoff didn't kill his wife . Perry just doesn't defend the guilty . With an intricate twist in the plot and outcome , The Case of the Lady in the Lake is one of the better Mason films . Good , but don't expect Raymond Chandler either .
Sunset Serenade finds Roy Rogers and the Sons of the Pioneers lending a hand to Helen Parrish who is the guardian of an infant who inherits a ranch . Joan Woodbury was the housekeeper in the Gale Sondergaard tradition to the previous owner and she's disappointed that she got left out of the will . Onslow Stevens is a neighbor who had designs on the place and he conspires with Woodbury to get the place by fair means or foul . Roy gets quite a few cowboy ballads to warble and in one sequence after a saloon brawl with Stevens and his chief henchman Roy Barcroft , Gabby Hayes takes the lead as the Sons of the Pioneers accompany him in that delightful western ballad Mavourneen O'Shea . Since Gabby got his start in vaudeville , this was probably something he did back in the day . Rule of thumb , kids watching cowboy matinées can always tell who the bad girl is if she lights up a cigarette . Since Woodbury does it in the first five minutes , we already know all we need . Sunset Serenade has some good action moments in it , especially when Roy and Trigger save cattle buyer Frank M . Thomas from a flash flood . Add to that an avalanche that starts a cattle stampede , you can be sure the kids loved it back in the day . So did a few grownups , I'm sure .
Never Wave At A WAC is the apparently weird combination of Buck Privates and Woman of the Year . The odd thing about it is that it actually works and still will get a few laughs from today's audience . This might have been a script offered to Katharine Hepburn , but Hepburn never really got as physical in her comedy films as Rosalind Russell does here . Still the part of socialite daughter of a United States Senator would normally have been something Hepburn might have done . Yet Russell makes the part all her own . Russell's a bit of a snob and her father Charles Dingle well knows it . During a party where her ex-husband , Paul Douglas , crashes she meets another socialite friend who has just got a commission in the Woman's Army Corps . Russell's current boyfriend is another commissioned officer from public relations , William Ching , borrowed from an Ad agency . He's been assigned to NATO headquarters in Paris . Of course dear old dad will pull some strings and make her an officer and a lady . Except Charles Dingle doesn't want to do it . He says let her in as a buck private and it takes a bit of getting used to before Russell realizes she's not a VIP on the base . And when Douglas who is a scientist doing work for the army arrives on her base the fun really starts . Roz has some good physical scenes , check out the one where she and other WACS are part of a Douglas experiment in arctic conditions . They're not as physical as the ones in Private Benjamin , still Russell gets ample opportunity to display her comic timing . There's also a nice subplot involving Marie Wilson , a stripper who joins the WACs and falls for Sergeant Leif Erickson . Charles Dingle is always one of my favorite character actors and it was really nice to see him as a good guy for a change . He's either a nasty villain like in Edge of Darkness or he's a pompous horse's rear like in Welcome Stranger . He's neither in this film , just a nice down to earth man who happens to be a United States Senator and not pleased with the snobbish ways of his daughter . Obviously because he believed in getting more women in the Armed Services , the then Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Omar N . Bradley made a guest appearance as himself . He has a moment when calls about Russell's status reach his ears and he refers them to his good friend Senator Dingle who's on a fishing trip . Never Wave At A WAC though eclipsed somewhat for the current past two generations by Private Benjamin still has a lot of laughs . And it's a great introduction to one of the best and most versatile stars from the age of studio Hollywood , Rosalind Russell .
I'll Take Vanilla refers to young Tommy Bond's preference for ice cream flavor and the spoiled young man is driving his aunt Betty Mack to her wit's end trying to please him while she's babysitting . Into their lives drives Charley Chase with his ice cream truck and while the tow of them hit it off , the hapless Charley gets sucked into their lives as another babysitter while Mack goes off to get a prescription filled . While Charley is babysitting Tommy he happens to swallow a whistle which gives his voice a rather peculiar quality that's good for several laughs . When Mack doesn't come back , they go off in Charley's truck looking for her . But when she does come back , she panics when she finds Chase and Tommy not home and calls the cop . The cop she gets is Harry Bowen who must have graduated from The Police Academy back in the day and might have been David Graf's great grandfather . Bowen gets almost as many laughs as Chase does in their scenes together . It was not a good day for Charley Chase on his ice cream route that day , but it was a great day for the Hal Roach studio when they turned out a very good comedy short .
My vote has always been that of all the great stars identified as western heroes , none was more upright than Joel McCrea . In fact whenever he tried to vary that character , the results usually weren't that good . Even in comedy parts like his films with Preston Sturges , he's still an honorable man , albeit caught up in some lunacy . McCrea never crossed the line into making himself look ridiculous like Dudley Doo-Right and The Gunfight at Dodge City is a case in point . Here he's playing Bat Masterson who has come into Dodge City after a killing in another town and buys an interest in the Lady Gay Saloon owned by widow Nancy Gates . Brother Ed Masterson , played by Harry Lauter is the town marshal and he's keeping company with preacher's daughter played by Julie Adams . Brother Ed is shot in the back during a cowboy hurrahing of Dodge City and Bat steps in to take his place . He brings some law and order back to Dodge City and makes both friends and enemies in the process . And he's got both the women mentioned before interested in him . Fate would have it , a friend from another town comes back in his life . He wants him to bust his brother , who's mentally retarded , out of custody . The brother has killed a man who was making fun of him . He owes this guy big time and he has a responsibility to his badge in Dodge City . I won't say anything , but Joel McCrea never took the less honorable route in his cinematic career . And as for which woman he winds up with ? See the film . Also look for an unusual performance against type from Richard Anderson . Anderson usually plays nice guys and he's best known for being Lee Majors boss in the Six Million Dollar Man . He's a serpentine villain here and a good one . I saw this when I was 12 years old when it was the second feature of a double bill . That's what McCrea westerns were relegated to at that time . But Joel McCrea was a real cowboy hero to this 12 year old . Still is .
This is the second of two films Bing Crosby partnered with Jane Wyman after their stunning success in Here Comes The Groom . This time Paramount gave them color and Ethel Barrymore and the results are a treat . Bing's a successful stage actor who's about to marry his leading lady , Jane Wyman , when he discovers he's got a communication problem with his two kids . Daughter Natalie Wood wants to get into an exclusive girl's school and son Robert Arthur misreads some signals and starts crushing big time on Wyman . Ethel Barrymore is headmistress of the school and she helps Crosby solve his daughter's problems . His son , after writing a love ballad for Wyman , is rebuffed and joins the Air Force . All is righted in the end and in the usual Crosby charming way . Paramount gave Bing some good production numbers out of the Harry Warren-Leo Robin score . Bing sings I'll Si Si You In Bahia as a number from the show he's rehearsing and later sings The Live Oak Tree with the girls from the St . Hilary's School at their picnic . He also does a nice vaudeville patter number with character actor Ben Lessy called On the 10-10 from Ten-Ten-Tennessee . The big hit is a duet with Crosby and Wyman called Zing a Little Zong which is a complete ripoff of the number he and Wyman did for Frank Capra in Here Comes The Groom . Well if they can't ripoff from themselves who can Bing and Jane ripoff from ? The song was nominated for an Oscar , but lost to Do Not Forsake Me from High Noon . Just For You is the title song and it's the one that Arthur writes for Wyman . A couple of numbers that Crosby recorded failed to make the cut , Spring Fever and A Flight of Fancy . The latter is heard as an instrumental background . It's one of my favorite Crosby songs and I wish it had been done in the film .
Producer Stanley Kramer and Director Edward Dmytryk deliberately chose a cast of unknowns who later did move on to varying degrees of success in the film industry , most notably Lee Marvin , for the cast of Eight Iron Men . It's a tense situation for this squad in some small town on the Italian front in World War II . One of their number is pinned down by a machine gun and it's wearing on the nerves of the other seven . Especially when they get orders to pull back and leave him until replacements come . The film shows the tension on all of them . Lee Marvin with his war experience in the Pacific Theater is a natural as the concerned sergeant . Other good performances are from Arthur Franz , Richard Kiley , Nick Dennis , and most of all Bonar Colleano whose career was mostly in the United Kingdom . This was one of the few American made films for the New York City expatriate . Eight Iron Men is based on a flop play on Broadway by Harry Brown which ran only 23 performances in 1945 and featured Sam Levene and a most unknown Burt Lancaster . Obviously someone named Harry Cohn didn't want to pay Lancaster's going rate in 1952 to get him for the screen version . Even without Burt , Eight Iron Men is a well made war drama and should not be missed .
The actual development of the atomic bomb was documented in films like The Beginning or the End and in Fat Man and Little Boy . Above and Beyond concentrates on the pilot of the B-29 that actually did the deed . Robert Taylor and Eleanor Parker play Colonel and Mrs . Paul Tibbetts who's marriage was put under an incredible strain due to the security surrounding his assignment . Taylor was between his marriages to Barbara Stanwyck and Ursula Thiess and was involved with Parker at the time Above and Beyond was being filmed . Probably that helped a lot during the romantic interludes in the film . Because this film sticks to the personal story of the Tibbetts marriage and avoids all the debate about the use of the atomic bomb , it still holds up well for today's audience . In the supporting cast I would have to single out James Whitmore who plays the security head at Wendover field where Tibbetts is training the potential crew for the mission as the most outstanding . He's virtually the only one Taylor can bare his stoic soul to with the assignment he has . Even with the debate over Hiroshima still raging I would still recommend viewing this film .
In any other year Shirley MacLaine would have walked off with the Best Actress Oscar , but NO ONE was going to take it from Susan Hayward in 1958 . In fact the film is filled with nominations , Arthur Kennedy for Best Supporting Actor , Martha Hyer for Best Supporting Actress and these were great performances . Dean Martin does a great follow-up to The Young Lions in playing Bama Dillert here . This was no stretch for Dino however . This is exactly the kind of background he came from , so the part fit him like a comfortable old shoe . The flaw is Sinatra . To his credit , he really tries hard and succeeds in spots . But he's miscast in a part that either Paul Newman or Montgomery Clift might have taken an Oscar home for . But the acting honors go to MacLaine . The high point of the movie is her scene with Martha Hyer in Martha's classroom at the college . This poor pathetic Ginny Moorehead trying to assess her situation vis a vis Dave Hirsch pulls all the stops out . You have to be made of stone not to be moved by her pleas to Martha Hyer and Hyer's reactions in this scene probably got her , her nomination . If you can get past a miscast Frank Sinatra , then this film is a gem .
After viewing Colors you have got to wonder about what our Founding Fathers had in mind when that Second Bill of Rights was passed to amend the Constitution . I don't think this is what they had in mind concerning the right to bear arms . Colors is a film about gang wars in Los Angeles and it's seen through the eyes of two police officers on the gang task force . Older officer Robert Duvall and his young new partner Sean Penn . Penn's a young man in a big hurry looking to make an impression . Duvall is just trying to live through the day and make retirement . Penn gets quite a lesson in police work and in life from Duvall and from his days on the gang task force . His involvement with Maria Conchita Alonso who's seeing it from both sides helps a bit too for Sean , though not how he'd have liked it . Don Cheadle and Trinidad Silva lead a good supporting cast of gang bangers . If you don't recognize him because he hasn't bulked up yet , see Mario Lopez in a small role as a kid who Sean Penn sprays with a can of spray paint to give him an object lesson on the evils of tagging . Duvall and Penn do a fine job each . I doubt this film is on the National Rifle Association recommended list .
Standby For Action finds the two co-stars of Billy the Kid , Robert Taylor and Brian Donlevy thrown together due to wartime circumstances as executive officer and captain of the recommissioned U . S . S . Warren . Apparently the Warren was one of the old vintage World War I destroyers that didn't get traded to the United Kingdom in the Destroyers for Naval Bases Deal that we did with them . She's a worn out old tub as her caretaker , retired Chief Yeoman Walter Brennan will tell you , but she has plenty of heart and a lot of fight left in her . It's a lesson Taylor has to learn . Had Standby For Action been filmed at 20th Century Fox , Tyrone Power would have had the role , in fact he did have a similar part in Crash Dive . Taylor's a rich kid whose family connections got him a commission and a job with Admiral Charles Laughton . Donlevy's a career Navy man who rose through the ranks to become a captain , also similar to the role Dana Andrews had in Crash Dive . The crusty , but wise Admiral Laughton decides that his junior aide could use a bit of real sea duty and assigns him to the Warren to serve under Donlevy . It turns out to be a learning experience for both men . Taylor and Donlevy give strong and capable performances . Taylor looks the part and in fact the following year he was wearing the uniform of Uncle Sam's Navy and seeing action in the real Pacific Theater . But both these guys had to fight against a pair of veteran scene stealers in Charles Laughton and Walter Brennan . Laughton dominates every scene he's in and uses every trick in his considerable command to capture and hold the audience's attention . This is not Captain Bligh by any means , yet Bligh was as much a seaman as he was a sadist . This admiral is no such thing , but he knows and loves the Navy he serves with . No more so than Walter Brennan and the high point of the film is Brennan telling Taylor and Donlevy how much the Navy means to him and how much he wants to serve his country in her hour of peril . At least it's my favorite scene . The Warren runs into all kinds of problems from rescuing a lifeboat filled with infants to action against a Japanese battleship . Taylor and Donlevy and the crew meet all challenges . Standby For Action is a good wartime action adventure . Robert Taylor would soon enough be dealing with the real thing .
By the time the 1940s were rolling around , Cecil B . DeMille was doing a lot less work , but the work was getting more expensive . DeMille took off a couple of years now between films to create the opulent splendor that typifies his work . Well Samson and Delilah abounds in opulence . The color cinematography is first rate and reason enough to see the film . Of course it has the usual stilted dialog that is common in DeMille's costume work . But one has to remember that DeMille made his show business bones with David Belasco in the Edwardian era . And that's how folks talked in those Belasco plays . Acting honors in this go to George Sanders as the Saran of Gaza , Philistine ruler and sophisticated cad . This was the height of Sanders career , he received a Best Supporting Actor Oscar for All About Eve the same year . I think the Saran and Addison DeWitt would have understood each other very well . Angela Lansbury is the original object of Samson's lust and she does okay , but personally if you had the choice between Jessica Fletcher and Tondelayo , who would you choose ? Is that ever a no-brainer . DeMille got a couple of loan-outs to play the leads . Hedy Lamarr could easily lay claim to be the most beautiful woman in the cinema . She never had much acting skill , but all she has to do is be seductive and that no one could do better . And Victor Mature away from his home studio of 20th Century Fox where he was languishing , Samson and Delilah provided a whole new vista for him with roles in spectacle pictures where he could truly be that beautiful hunk of man . Fay Holden is good as Samson's mother . In modern times I can just hear her telling him about settling down with a good Jewish girl .
The recent demise of Jack Warden put me in mind of this good , but forgotten show . I well remember it from the late sixties . It was a tough and rather realistic look at the life in the precinct squad of the NYPD . All three of the regulars here went on to have good careers and other television series . Frank Converse and Robert Hooks as the two detectives and their supervisor Jack Warden belong on anyone's A list of players . NYPD ran for two seasons , got so-so ratings and got the axe . My guess is that it was a generation ahead of its time . It also suffered from the half an hour format . When shows like Hill Street Blues and NYPD Blue came on the scene , they were an hour length and there was more time to develop the characters . But those shows and many others owe a debt to NYPD . Hopefully some cable channel will pick it for reruns .
James Garner makes a dashing young entrepreneur of the business world in Cash McCall , the second of two films made from Cameron Hawley's business world novels , the other being the acclaimed Executive Suite . Hawley certainly knew how to capture the business world well and put a proper face on it . Usually it's not a real good idea to mix business with pleasure , but in Cash McCall , Garner succeeds quite well . I now know where some of the plot of Grease came from . If you'll remember John Travolta and Olivia Newton-John have a summer fling which ends , but then find themselves in the same school in different social circles . Cash McCall begins with Garner already having had that fling with Natalie Wood on vacation in Maine and he discovers she's the daughter of Dean Jagger , president of a plastics firm he's looking to acquire . When he discovers who she is it does complicate matters , but Garner is a most resourceful man . In the end it all works out to everyone's satisfaction , but there are a few bumps in the road . Those bumps are what the film is all about . James Garner has played so many con men on the big and small screen it would have been an easy matter for him to slip into that familiar characterization for him . But he plays this one absolutely straight and does quite well with the part . Of course if he had been anything less than up front he wouldn't have gotten Wood . Natalie was just radiant in her role as the Philadelphia Main Line princess , a bit more human than Tracy Samantha Lord of The Philadelphia Story . Besides Dean Jagger , the leads are backed by an established group of players portraying various business types as Edward Platt , E . G . Marshall , Otto Kruger , Parley Baer , and Roland Winters . Two performances that are really outstanding are Nina Foch as the hotel chief housekeeper at the place where Garner resides occupying an entire floor and part of another and Henry Jones as an efficiency expert who Garner recruits . I'm surprised that Cash McCall was not taken up as material for a prime time soap opera in the Eighties , the decade of such . It certainly has all the ingredients . Still it remains as one of James Garner's best early film performances and usually on the top 10 list for his fans .
Stan and Ollie travel all the way to Bonnie Scotland to collect on an inheritance left by Stan MacLaurel's late grandfather . Both he and his cousin June Lang are provided , but she's not of age and she's under the firm guardianship of Colonel Vernon Steele and his scheming Mrs . , Anne Grey . William Janney , the clerk in lawyer David Torrence's office is in love with June Lang , but she's spirited off to India during the British Raj . Never mind , Stan and Ollie and poor young Janney also find their way there as the scene of the plot shifts from Bonnie Scotland to India with the Highlanders . It's all a pretty thin plot , but good enough to hang some of Stan and Ollie's best screen moments on . One of my all time favorites is when Ollie has an encounter with a snuff box which was half of Laurel's inheritance the other half being a set of bagpipes . Another is when Stan and Ollie try to use the bedsprings in their hotel to grill some fish and nearly burn poor Mary Gordon's establishment down . After the boys go into the Indian Army they become the bane of the existence of their old nemesis , Sergeant James Finlayson . In the end Janney , Finlayson , and the boys provide a hilarious ending to a tribal rebellion . Films like Lives of a Bengal Lancer and Charge of the Light Brigade about the British Raj take one good beating from producer Hal Roach and his intrepid and incomparable stars . For fans of Stan and Ollie the world over .
If Mike Mignola isn't careful he's going to have a whole cottage industry devoted to his comic strip creation Hellboy . Having just come from Hellboy II : The Golden Army and seeing his credits at this website makes me think about what a gold mine Mignola has found . I saw the original Hellboy and I was struck by the fact at the time I could enjoy this film as an action / adventure and the tongue in cheek humor that is prevalent throughout . A lot of that is due to the fact that Mignola was apparently given a free hand to bring his comic book creation to life on the big screen . A lot is also due to Ron Perlman and the marvelous character he creates beneath all that demon makeup . Hellboy is brought to life by the son of Rasputin the Mad Monk in the final days of World War II . Rasputin being the good royalist he is , finds work with the Nazis who are now down to using black magic to pull out a victory . Adolph Hitler was known in fact to delve into the occult . Anyway their experiments produce an infant demon plucked from the spirit world , but he's rescued by John Hurt who raises him like a son and he grows up to be butt-kicking demon Ron Perlman who's grown to like such earthly pleasures as beer and cigars . Hurt functions as the Obi Won Kenobe of this piece and when he's killed , there ain't no stopping Perlman . Hellboy is rollicking good fun , Hellboy II is even better and I'm sure we've got a Hellboy , III in our future .
Now that musicals were unfortunately fading away , Doris Day was slowly finding a new niche in screen comedy . She was busy being leading lady to some of Hollywood's biggest male stars and they didn't come bigger than the king , Clark Gable . Also her new hit songs were the title tunes of her films and very few sold as big as Teacher's Pet . It's one of her million selling singles and it definitely contributed mightily to the box office for this film . In the story line it's whole lot like some of the films she'd be doing in the future with Rock Hudson . Doris is a professor of journalism who arouses the ire of Walter Burns like city editor Clark Gable . He writes her a nasty letter and then when he's ordered to apologize to her he goes to one of her night school classes where she reads the letter out loud and trashes him in front of the class . Not taking this lying down , Clark enrolls in her class under an alias and if you don't know where this one is going you haven't seen any of her films with Rock Hudson . Gable does very well in the city editor's role . In fact in mentioning Walter Burns , I'm surprised Gable was never cast in The Front Page . He would have been perfect casting either as Burns or Hildy Johnson the reporter . Doris is an idealistic professor who's the daughter of a William Allen White type figure as a previous reviewer mentioned . She's got a lot to learn from Gable as well with his practical approach to journalism and romance . Gig Young is in a Gig Young part . Gig plays a psychologist boy friend of Doris's and his rivalry with Gable is pretty funny . He got an Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actor for having one of the great screen hangovers of all time . He lost to Burl Ives however for It's A Big Country . My favorite scene in the film is with Gable and Vivian Nathan who plays Nick Adams's mother . Adams is a young high school dropout who idolizes Gable as a guy who made it the hard way . When Gable fires Adams after being exposed to Doris's ideas , Nathan's scene with Gable thanking him is for me the best in the film . Teacher's Pet is sadly dated because of the way the media has evolved . Just as Broadcast News updated The Front Page , Teacher's Pet would be a great film involving the internet now for someone like Julia Roberts to do . Till then though , this one is entertaining enough .
Unfortunately for the career of Russ Tamblyn he came along just as musicals were being phased out along with the big studio system . But MGM did have Russ under long term contract and there was the fact he had to be used . Tamblyn went to the United Kingdom in 1958 to film tom thumb , one of the Brothers Grimm more interesting fairy tales . As desired by Jessie Matthews after she and husband Bernard Miles waste three wishes granted by the forest fairy June Thorburn , she would love any child sent though the child be a wee one . Of course Tamblyn becomes the joy of their lives and his best scenes are dancing with those animated George Pal Puppetoons . Twenty years earlier , Russ Tamblyn would have been a great musical star , he didn't do half bad coming along when he did . The Puppetoon scenes won for tom thumb an Oscar for Special Effects in 1958 . I remember accompanying my younger siblings to see the film when it opened . Believe it or not the thing I remember best is that scene where Miles races home to tell Matthews about the three wishes . He casually remarks he'd like a sausage and then it appears . And then she just as casually wishes it would grow on his nose and poof there it is . Seeing it today on TCM brought that memory back of the sausage growing on Bernard Miles's nose . Fortunately the kind fairy gave her a heartfelt fourth wish . Alan Young is an earnest if diffident hero who performs a heroic deed and wins mortality and the heart for and of June Thorburn . And Peter Sellers and Terry-Thomas make a wonderful pair of villains who trick Tamblyn into using his small size to rob the king's treasury . And in the Grimm Brothers world of happily ever after , young tom gets a bride of his size . They might have been the ancestors of the gnomes from the Gnomemobile
For James Cagney's second costume picture and first in a 19th century setting , Warner Brothers took him to San Francisco's Barbary Coast for the Frisco Kid . Cagney's first costume role was in the all star production of A Midsummer Night's Dream . Unfortunately in production values it was lost in the acclaim for the more expensive Sam Goldwyn production The Barbary Coast . Personally though I think this film is better . Cagney is fresh off a sealing ship in for his first visit to San Francisco and nearly gets shanghaied for another long voyage . Kindly Jewish tailor George E . Stone rescues him and when Cagney kills Fred Kohler , the man who is in charge of the San Francisco shanghai racket , in a bar room brawl he gains a certain celebrity status . But no matter how far he rises in power on the Barbary Coast , Cagney can't get the woman of his dreams , society gal Margaret Lindsay . And the battle lines are getting drawn in San Francisco , isolated as it is from the rest of America pre-occupied with slavery and the Civil War . Director Lloyd Bacon had a sure feel for the mood and look of Gold Rush San Francisco . Besides those mentioned , you'll see some good performances from Donald Woods , Lili Damita , Barton MacLane , and most of all Ricardo Cortez . His death scene and attitude towards the vigilante mob is may be the highlight of the film . Warner Brothers more than most of the other major studios liked to recycle plots and situations . I think if one watches Frisco Kid , one will see elements of The Oklahoma Kid and The Roaring Twenties . And those are two pretty good Cagney films also .
The first impression you might have is that there is no way that John Osbourne , the creator of the frustrated Jimmy Porter in Look Back In Anger , could possibly have reached back five centuries for the subject matter of another play . Osborne's best work Look Back In Anger is firmly rooted in the 20th century , dealing with the post empire Great Britain that he knew and was part of . Luther of course is about the founder of one large sect of Protestantism , Martin Luther of 16th century Germany which was a geographical expression , not a country at that time . Luther was an angry young man like Jimmy Porter who revolutionized theology in his time and issued the bluntest , most direct challenge to the supremacy of the Catholic Church and the Pope . He founded his church which became supreme in Northern Germany and the Scandinavian countries . But when the peasants started to revolt , Luther betrayed the revolution he started and urged that they be put down as severely as possible which they were . It's for this that John Osborne indicts him in his work . It is the biggest tragedy of Luther's career and the one in which the Catholics never stop heaping scorn on him , a lot of it justified . The film Martin Luther from the Fifties that starred Niall McGinniss and the recent Luther that starred Joseph Fiennes from this decade do not deal with part of the Luther story . We see a very flawed human being , torn by a most exquisite conscience and frightened about the forces he has unloosed . One of the church elders who admonishes him says that the peasants want the gold and silver of the church , not a new kind of faith and he's not completely wrong . Stacy Keach takes Albert Finney's place who originally created the role on Broadway where the play ran for 211 performances in 1963 . Keach does a fine job in the part as does Judy Dench as Mrs . Luther , Patrick Magee as Luther's father and Hugh Griffith as one of his church superiors who lays the law down to him , unsuccessfully . No doubt we've not seen the last interpretation of this man's life . Martin Luther will be reinterpreted by historians and dramatists for centuries .
In Old California finds John Wayne in the highly unusual casting of an eastern dude from Boston going west to California to seek fame and fortune as California becomes American territory due to the Mexican cession . He might be an easterner , but you wouldn't expect John Wayne to be any kind of cream puff . He'd better not be because he's starting to interest Binnie Barnes who is the gal pal of Albert Dekker , the local boss of Sacramento and the surrounding area . Wayne likes Barnes , but he's got his heart set on Helen Parrish who the daughter of a local Spanish don . You wouldn't expect pharmacy to be such a rough business , but it sure turns out that way In Old California . Out of jealousy , Dekker conceives a plot to rid himself of his rival . Ultimately however it's Dekker who gets caught in the web of his on intrigue . Edgar Kennedy and Patsy Kelly make their one and only appearances in a John Wayne film and they make a real nice pair for the comic relief in the film . Also look for a good performance by Dick Purcell as Dekker's far slimier and deadlier brother . The California Gold Rush saves the Duke from one of Dekker's nefarious schemes . The Gold Rush also brings in the typhoid epidemic where Wayne's pharmaceutical knowledge and supplies are needed to fight the disease . The epidemic also brings on a blazing gun battle as well as the Duke leads a wagon train through to the gold camps . Binnie Barnes has a nice role herself as a wise cracking saloon girl with the proverbial golden heart . Their are plot elements here of other John Wayne films like The Spoilers and Reap the Wild Wind . In this one it's John Wayne who has the role Ray Milland had against him in Reap the Wild Wind . In Old California is one of Herbert J . Yates's better films featuring his meal ticket . Between loaning him out to the bigger studios and centering Republic's big budget features around the Duke , Yates and Wayne did a masterful job in making him a movie legend .
About 350 years earlier Henry of Navarre had captured just about all of France , but Paris and had been ruling as Henry IV for about five years but he decided he wasn't really king without his capital . He converted to the Catholic religion and Paris became united with the rest of the country . Henry decided that Paris was indeed worth a mass . Fast forward to 1944 . Maybe militarily Paris wasn't worth that much in defeating Hitler , but for the morale of a people being liberated from a brutal conqueror it was invaluable . When the forces of the Resistance in its many branches could no longer be contained with Allied armies only days from Paris , battle plans got changed and a Free French Division under General Phillippe Leclerc went in and helped the Resistance take the city . Paris brule-t-il is the French cinema's answer to The Longest Day . It is dotted with cameos from French , German , and American film players and makes very effective use of newsreel footage blended into the finished product . You really do think you are watching an actual filmed record of the events as they happened . The lead in this film is German actor Gert Frobe , better known to audiences as James Bond nemesis Goldfinger . The film opens with him being given command of the city by Hitler himself and given very specific orders to destroy the city before it was recaptured . Frobe knows it and finally admits that the war is lost . He's concerned about what history will think of him should he do this terrible thing . He gets a direct order from Hannes Messemer playing Alfred Jodl and a reminder of what Hitler does to those who disobey him . Frobe's character General Von Choltitz died shortly after this film debuted and Jodl was executed after being tried at Nuremberg . Jean-Paul Belmondo , Alain Delon , Jean-Pierre Cassel , Yves Montand are all playing roles of Resistance members . Leslie Caron has a poignant small part as a woman trying unsuccessfully to get her husband freed before the Nazis ship him off to Germany before retreating . Americans in this film are Kirk Douglas as General Patton , Glenn Ford , as General Bradley and Robert Stack as General Siebert . Those three were put in briefly to insure some American box office in a French story . Funny no one thought of Douglas for the Patton biographical film classic four years later . Orson Welles has a much bigger part as the Swedish consul general in Paris who negotiates between the Nazis and the Resistance before the Free French Division arrives . Another one of those brilliantly executed parts by Welles he did to get money for his own projects . Director Rene Clement really made the people of Paris the star of this film . It is their tribute picture and a terrible reminder to people in every nation what it is like to live under a tyranny .
I suspect that Tennessee Williams probably agreed to change the title of his classically sounding play Orpheus Descending to The Fugitive Kind in order to insure box office . Possibly some of Marlon Brando's fans garnered from The Wild One might pay their admissions thinking they were seeing something like that . I can think of worst ways to be exposed to one of America's most respected playwrights . This was Brando's second time doing Williams for the screen , the first time being A Streetcar Named Desire . Curiously enough this was Anna Magnani's second time doing Tennessee Williams for the screen as well , she won an Oscar in 1955 for The Rose Tattoo . So the combination of Brando and Magnani seemed a natural for the screen . I don't think The Fugitive Kind is as good as Streetcar or The Rose Tattoo , but the parts are meaty enough roles for both these honored players . Characters seem to drift in to The Fugitive Kind from other Williams work . Brando's Val Xavier is quite like Chance Wayne in Sweet Bird of Youth , in fact in the review's title is the illusion Brando himself makes of his character . He's an early 30 something drifter with a talent for sex and music , the former probably more than the latter . Unlike Chance , Xavier doesn't have a female keeper , but he'd like to find one . He passes up liaison with the town trollop played by a third Oscar winner in the cast , Joanne Woodward for the older and married Anna Magnani . Magnani is trapped in a loveless marriage to a dying Victor Jory , a petty tyrant who runs the town general store . Like Big Daddy in Cat on a Hot Tin Roof , Jory is dying of cancer at a much more advanced stage of the disease than Burl Ives had . Picture Big Mama from that play hot to trot for Chance Wayne and you've got the essence of The Fugitive Kind . Joanne Woodward has an interesting part . Part of her loose behavior is in rebellion against the time honored tradition of institutional racism that is the south that Tennessee Williams grew up in . I'm not an expert on Tennessee Williams , but of the works I've seen that are revived frequently , this is the only one where Williams directly brings up racism . Orpheus Descending on Broadway only ran 68 performances in 1957 . Two members from the Broadway cast made it to the screen , R . G . Armstrong as the sheriff repeating his role and Maureen Stapleton who had Joanne Woodward's part on stage , essays the part of the sheriff's wife who also is married to another middle aged tyrant . Considered a lesser work of Williams at first , Orpheus Descending is now revived frequently by stock theater companies everywhere . A critically acclaimed revival on Broadway in 1989 with Vanessa Redgrave and Tammy Grimes and Kevin Anderson helped bring Orpheus Descending into its proper place in the sun . Maybe if a remake is ever done , it will even be done under its proper original title . Till then we can be well satisfied with this version .
With the success that Mario Lanza and Kathryn Grayson had in That Midnight Kiss , MGM knew it had a box office team of appeal . The following year the two of them moved from contemporary Philadelphia to pre-World War I , New Orleans . People paid their money to hear Mario sing and really didn't care about the plots of his films . Lanza was cast as an opera singing truck driver in That Midnight Kiss , as an opera singer drafted into the army in Because You're Mine , and the greatest opera singer of all in The Great Caruso . I think we can see a pattern forming here . In The Toast of New Orleans Lanza plays a shrimp fisherman who works on the boat with his uncle J . Carrol Naish . When opera singer Kathryn Grayson comes to town , Lanza boisterously and impulsively joins her in a duet of Be My Love . Her manager and New Orleans opera kingpin , David Niven is as impressed as everyone else was in 1950 with Mario's voice . He's even willing to overlook to some extent the fact he's moving in on Grayson . Acting wise The Toast of New Orleans is no strain on anybody . Mario and Kathryn play a pair of singers and Mario as in all of his films , just played himself . It's interesting that the only times he attempted to play a role from classic operetta , The Student Prince and The Vagabond King it didn't work out for him . As for David Niven , he's as debonair and charming as he always was . Niven carried more films on the strength of his charm than any other star in the sound era . But no one worried about acting and a plot in this film . Like That Midnight Kiss , The Toast of New Orleans has a nice mixture of classical opera and some good songs by Nicholas Brodzsky and Sammy Cahn to round out a very full score . One of the songs , Be My Love , became Mario Lanza's signature song , his biggest selling record on RCA Victor Red Seal label . You could not go ANYWHERE in 1950 without hearing Be My Love coming out of some radio . Be My Love was nominated for Best Song in 1950 , but lost to Mona Lisa . Norman Taurog directed Mario in this film , he had previously won an Oscar for Skippy and had directed Spencer Tracy to his second Academy Award in Boy's Town . Taurog was an interesting choice for a director to pilot a picture with a personality like Lanza . Later on Taurog would end his career directing nine of Elvis Presley's feature films , another instance of him directing a mega-pop personality successfully . The Toast of New Orleans is for Mario Lanza fans everywhere and this review is dedicated to my father who was a big fan .
For those who've never seen Carole Lombard , but have heard about her genius for screwball comedy , go check out We're Not Dressing . Simple plot , Bing's a sailor on the Lombard yacht and he , Lombard , her uncle Leon Errol , her friend Ethel Merman and two princes / gigolos , Ray Milland and Jay Henry are shipwrecked after a drunken Leon Errol runs the yacht up on a reef . In order that they survive the sailor has to take charge and does . Oh , and also surviving is Lombard's pet bear , a creature named Droopy . Droopy comes pretty close to stealing the picture , especially after Leon Errol persuades Crosby to put roller-skates on him while they're still on the ship . He also has another trick , he won't hear any other song but Goodnight , Lovely Little Lady one of the songs written for this film by Mack Gordon and Harry Revel . Gordon and Revel's best known numbers from this are May I and Love Thy Neighbor which sold a few platters for Bing back in 1934 . Soon after writing a score for another Crosby picture Two For Tonight , they moved over to 20th Century Fox where they scored some of Alice Faye's films . Ray Milland in his autobiography Wide-eyed in Babylon recounts a tragic story during the filming of We're Not Dressing . The bear trainer gave specific instructions that any women whose time of the month it was were not to be on the set that day . One of them lied and the trainer was badly injured and later died of those injuries sustained at the paws of a super hormonally charged bear . He also said that Paramount signed him to a long term contract on the strength of that film . The six castaways were not quite alone on the island . Burns and Allen were there also with their brand of surreal comedy . Hollywood never knew quite what to do with them . God knows they were funny as all get out , but rarely were asked to carry a whole film . Ethel Merman was another problem . Like her famous Broadway rival Mary Martin , she never quite made it in Hollywood . Her biggest success was always on Broadway . During the 1930s she would support , Crosby , Eddie Cantor , and most memorably Ty Power and Alice Faye and Don Ameche in Alexander's Ragtime Band . Her number It's The Animal In Me was cut from the picture , although it's briefly sung at the end . Paramount saved it and put it intact into their Big Broadcast of 1936 the following year . At the time We're Not Dressing was shooting , Carole Lombard was romantically involved with Bing Crosby's singing rival crooner Russ Columbo . Columbo visited the set often and he and Crosby were friendly rivals and were known to do some impromptu singing during breaks . If only some sound man had left the microphone on . Columbo later died that year of a gunshot wound from an antique dueling pistol , a case that a lot of people felt was never satisfactorily solved . So with Crosby , Lombard , Burns and Allen , Ethel Merman , Leon Errol just the sound of that casts spells some wacky wonderful fun .
When Imitation Of Life came out in 1934 , Fannie Hurst was at the height of her literary reputation having had her two best works this one and Back Street , come out back to back as both novels and movies . Both stories are about a women's sacrifice . One day before World War I , Louise Beavers comes looking for domestic work and gets the wrong address and comes knocking on Claudette Colbert's door . Colbert is a recent widow with a child and Louise has a child the same age . Colbert can't afford any salary , but Louise is willing to work cheap , just for room and board for herself and her child . This starts an unusual partnership both personal and business because Claudette's late husband was a seller of a cooking syrup and Louise makes a melt in your mouth type of pancake . When passing stranger Ned Sparks tells her one day to package the flour , this makes both Colbert and Beavers millionaires overnight . Beavers can't see it however and passes up her own household to stay with Claudette . A lot of people today look at Beavers's character and say this is a racial stereotype that Hurst was perpetrating . Taking the racial component out of it , I've seen several people who are just like Beavers in their own way . Clark Gable had a father who could have lived quite well off his son , but couldn't deal with the Hollywood lifestyle and actually told his son they ought to resume their previous occupations as oil roughnecks . Stan Musial when he was making big money as a baseball star had a mother who took in washing back in the little steel mill town of Donora , Pennsylvania where he came from and not because he wasn't willing to provide . And I had an uncle who worked hard at Kodak and also built up a milk delivery business of his own and at an age where he could have just relaxed and taken it easy , he was out working at close to 80 at a tool and die plant . There are folks out there who shy away from the outward trappings of success like Beavers . And there are those stubbornly over-committed to a work ethic when they don't have to be . Both Colbert and Beavers are just moms with problem daughters on their hands . Daughter Rochelle Hudson is crushing out on Warren William who has his eyes on Colbert . But Beavers has bigger problems . Remember these girls were literally raised together with their mothers in business . Fredi Washington sees the white world , she's light skinned enough to pass , she wants what's over in that world . But her denial of heritage hurts Beavers more than my words can describe . But Hurst's words in the novel and the screenplay betray a rare understanding of racism during her time . Imitation of Life got three Oscar nominations including Best Picture . It's a dated film , but that fact alone makes it worth watching as a glimpse of the racial picture in America in the Thirties .
Although Marlene Dietrich was a far more glamorous Catherine the Great , closer to the real one was definitely Elizabeth Bergner in this British production from Alexander Korda . The former Princess Sophia of Anhalt-Zerbst , one of many small pieces of turf in Germany before that country became a country instead of a geographical expression , pulled off something unique in history . She came as a promised bride to the tsarevitch who in this case was Peter , nephew of the Empress Elizabeth of Russia . Through her own will and genius for intrigue , this Queen Consort , without a drop of royal blood of Russia in her , got to rule Russia and well for over 30 years after deposing her husband . Woman must have done something right . The film here like the one in Hollywood ends with the deposition and death of the Czar and Catherine taking over . We don't see the regal , confident , and promiscuous empress Catherine was to become . We see her as a shy and overwhelmed German Princess who grows in her role as her husband won't in his . Catherine grows in her character as Elizabeth Bergner does in this part . Sam Jaffe as Peter is far closer to the mark of the real character of that unfortunate soul than Douglas Fairbanks , Jr . is in this film . Yet Fairbanks gives an extraordinary performance , far from the swashbuckling parts that his father patented on the silent screen . In fact both the Fairbanks were in the UK at the same time . Fairbanks senior gave his farewell screen performance in the Private Life of Don Juan and his son did about seven films for four years of which this is probably his best effort . The pleasure loving Empress Elizabeth as done by Flora Robson is light years different from Queen Elizabeth in Fire Over England and The Sea Hawk that Robson did later , but still very nicely done . Alexander Korda perfectly captured the mood and feel of old Romanov Russia as taken over by a usurper , a popular one , but still a usurper .
Man of the West is a fine gritty western with Gary Cooper stepping into the James Stewart parts in those 50s Anthony Mann westerns . Mann and Stewart during the 50s did eight films , five of them westerns . and some of the best westerns ever made . They were on the set of a sixth , Night Passage , when they quarreled and Mann walked out . I'm sure that both The Tin Star and Man of the West were properties that he originally developed with James Stewart in mind . But at least in this one Gary Cooper pinch hits admirably . The key here is incest . Gary Cooper is former outlaw Link Jones trying to live his past down . He's on the way with his town's savings for a schoolteacher . The train is held up by the Doc Tobin gang and while he eludes them in the holdup , he runs into them later on when he's left behind by the train . These aren't just former outlaw compatriots , they're his family . And what a family , the most frightening group of inbreds ever put on screen until Deliverance . From Lee J . Cobb on down , a lovely group of twisted psychos . Cooper is not just running from his past , but from his lineage . The rest of the gang is Robert J . Wilke , Royal Dano , Jack Lord , and John Dehner . Lee J . Cobb is Doc Tobin and though he's 10 years younger than Cooper , he plays his uncle . Along for the ride are fellow train passengers Julie London and Arthur O'Connell . It's an admirable cast . A real downer of a western , but a great classic .
John Ford certainly does capture the spirit of how James Michael Curley would like to have been remembered . It's how he wrote his memoirs and how Edwin O'Connor wrote that brilliant piece of fiction . Curley was a demagogue par excellence . He played ethnic politics to the hilt . He served one term as governor of Massachusetts and that term was noted for an outrageous scandal in which pardons were sold to prisoners who could cough up the money . And he was always the victim of those nasty Yankee patriarchs . Spencer Tracy does a great job in cleaning up the Curley image and the rest of the cast is fine . I would like to call attention to two actors who typified the cultural divide that James Michael Curley never attempted to bridge in his lifetime , unlike in this film . Willis Bouchey playing Roger Sugrue , disparagingly referred to as the Papal Knight , is this rabidly bigoted Roman Catholic who is forever finding fault with the rest of humanity and criticizing those of his fellow Catholics who are not as good as he . He nearly has a stroke after seeing a Monsignor played by Ken Curtis on TV playing golf with a rabbi . No wonder Donald Crisp playing the Cardinal refers to him as " that horrible man , Roger Sugrue . " And the other side of the coin is John Carradine playing Amos Force the descendant of old line Puritans who is as bigoted in his way as Roger Sugrue is in his . It's alluded to that back in the 1920s Carradine was in the Ku Klux Klan and you can believe it from Carradine's portrayal . Bouchey and Carradine are the two best in a cast that is saturated with John Ford favorites . As a lesson in respect for diversity , The Last Hurrah has a lot to say . History it's not though .
You'll never see films like Stage Door Canteen again . The all star support the troops film is a thing of the past . Try to make something like that today and see how many stars would be willing . This is an art form deader than the dinosaur . No reason it can't be enjoyed though . Skip the slight plot involving the servicemen who are patronizing the Stage Door Canteen who hook up with the hostesses there . Concentrate on the number of stars in the film , each doing some bit of business for themselves . Though a number of film stars are here , the film concentrates on stars of the Broadway stage . Katherine Cornell makes her one and only appearance in a film , in fact my favorite part of Stage Door Canteen is her impromptu reading from Romeo and Juliet with bashful GI Lon McCallister who played Romeo in high school . Alfred Lunt and Lynne Fontanne are here also . The Lunts later did some televised plays and we have some kinescope version of them . They eschewed the screen though , so even a bit of footage of them doing kitchen police at the Canteen we should be grateful for . The concert violinist Yehuda Menuhin is also here and it's nice the GIs took time to hear some serious music , a break from the swing bands of the era that are featured like Count Basie , Freddy Martin , Benny Goodman , and Kay Kyser . Director Frank Borzage was known for doing films of tender romances and the nominal leads William Terry and Cheryl Walker were little heard from again . Still they do their best to provide the note of poignancy for the serviceman enjoying time with the stars before going to war . Funniest unintentional moment occurs when Franklin Pangborn and Johnny Weissmuller are on the serving line . Pangborn who was very close to being an out gay actor at the time is looking admiringly at Tarzan and engages in a little banter with Weissmuller . Tarzan decides things are too hot in the kitchen and removes his shirt . I thought Pangborn was going to faint on the spot . I'm a sucker for these all star extravaganzas , I'll never give a bad review to one of them . Stage Door Canteen provides a glimpse of a bygone era , not likely to return .
This was the final film for James Cagney and Pat O'Brien who in my opinion invented the buddy film . O'Brien would be leaving Warner Brothers the following year and the two of them would not get together in another film until Ragtime in 1981 in which they both had small parts . It's a typical fast paced comedy for both of them , they were incapable of doing anything else together . O'Brien slowed down when he was in a clerical collar and Cagney when he was doing a nostalgic film , but together the lines go at light speed . Except when Ann Sheridan is concerned . Director Bill Keighley always slowed the pace for Sheridan because he didn't want anyone to miss some of her tart sayings . She has some of the best lines ever in her career . Typical being when she tells O'Brien that the stork that brought him must have been a vulture . Or when she's constantly one upping Helen Vinson who made a career of playing the other woman . O'Brien is the hardnosed manager of a tropical fruit company and he's in big trouble because a local Sandinista type bandit leader , George Tobias , is wrecking his operations . Another distraction is Ann Sheridan whose redheaded beauty he figures is too much of a distraction to the men where redheads are scarce . Notice how O'Brien tells the local authorities what to do . More truth than humor in that situation . He's desperate enough to hire back his number one troubleshooter James Cagney who gets the job done , but always gets himself in a jackpot where women are concerned . He's taken a fancy to Sheridan and she him . A couple of other reviewers have pointed out the obvious similarities between this and The Front Page . The first film version of that classic play is the one where Pat O'Brien made his screen debut as the ace reporter . However he did it on Broadway in the role of the editor which he's playing here . Perhaps this might be better described as another version of His Girl Friday . I can't say remake because both films came out at the same time . Sheridan comes off the same way as Rosalind Russell does in His Girl Friday , but Keighley also wants to accent her sensuality as well as her sharp tongue . He succeeds admirably because no woman in their previous films quite put off both Cagney and O'Brien the way Sheridan does . The woman sure had oomph .
Stagestruck's biggest asset is the performance of Joan Blondell as the Paris Hilton heiress of the day . Blondell plays Peggy Revere which is a takeoff on Peggy Hopkins Joyce whose antics back in the 30s kept the tabloids buzzing the way the Hilton twins do today . Blondell overacts outrageously , but it's all to the good . Warren William plays ego-maniacal producer Fred Harris which is also a takeoff of producer Jed Harris . Legend has it that Jed Harris was as full of tricks and deviltry that Warren William's character in Stagestruck is . It's very similar to the John Barrymore character in 20th Century . In fact looking at William's profile it's like looking at a poor man's Barrymore . But that is unfair because Warren William did a lot of good work on screen . Dick Powell is the director here and he gets a couple of good songs to sing . Mostly he has to act annoyed at Blondell and falling for newcomer Jeanie Madden . Since Powell and Blondell got married right after this film , that may have been the biggest performance in the movie . Jeanie Madden was the love interest . Ruby Keeler had departed Warner Brothers so Powell got a new Ruby , a singing Ruby . Ruby Keeler's singing voice was as flat as her dramatic delivery . Madden couldn't dance , but she sang beautifully especially in the duet with Powell , Fancy Meeting You . But her acting was as bad as Ruby's and she was gone after two more films . There was a quartet in the film called the Yacht Club Boys and they had a couple of funny bits , especially one in Warren William's office where William plays a straight man for them ( and looks like he's having a ball doing it ) . I suppose they were too similar in style to the Ritz Brothers over at 20th Century Fox so they were gone after this film . It's a funny film on its own merits , but unless you know who Peggy Hopkins Joyce and Jed Harris were , a lot of the lines will be lost on you .
Task Force was the first of two films Gary Cooper made regarding the development of aviation . Here he plays the fictional Jonathan Scott who looks back on his life after retiring from the Navy . The second is the Court Martial of Billy Mitchell where he plays the real life Army Aviation pioneer . For today's fans if one wants to see where Tom Cruise and the gang from Top Gun all got their start , take a look at Task Force . The idea of a floating flattop ship from where airplanes could take off and land was one that was scoffed at post World War I . Pilots didn't have the skills yet for that . What Task Force shows is Gary Cooper and a whole bunch of other people who believed in an idea living and dying to prove that idea . Task Force was memorable in the career of Gary Cooper for two other reasons . It was the first film he did after leaving his original studio , Paramount , at Warner Brothers where he worked for about five years . It was also the last film he did with good friend Walter Brennan . They made eight joint film appearances , including some memorable ones in The Westerner and Sergeant York where they got Oscars , Brennan for The Westerner and Cooper for Sergeant York . Jane Wyatt is Cooper's leading lady , playing the part of the faithful wife where if this had been made at MGM , June Allyson would have had the part . She's the widow of one of Cooper's early Navy flier friends who is killed trying to land on a new aircraft carrier . Director Delmar Daves made good use of actual combat footage both black and white and in the last 15 minutes color . Lent a real air of authenticity to what we were viewing . Look for some good supporting performances from Brennan , Wayne Morris , Bruce Bennett and the best being an obtuse United States Senator played by Stanley Ridges . The final shot of the film shows Cooper now in civilian attire with jets passing overhead . That was a whole new skill that had to be learned by the next generation of Top Guns . Very graphically demonstrated in The Bridges at Toko-Ri . I'd like to think that Tom Cruise and the rest of the cast of Top Gun saw those two films and realized the great heritage they were now going to portray .
Streets of Laredo is a remake of Paramount's successful Texas Rangers with William Holden , William Bendix , and Macdonald Carey playing the parts that were done thirteen years earlier by Fred MacMurray , Jack Oakie , and Lloyd Nolan . Color is added and if anything this is a remake that proved better than the original . Three amiable outlaws get separated running from a posse . Two of them Holden and Bendix join the Texas Rangers and Carey continues his outlaw ways . Carey also as the film progresses demonstrates that he's a good deal more vicious than when we first meet him . Between them they have a lot of adventures on both sides of the law . But it is inevitable that they are destined for a showdown . There's a nice performance here from Alfonso Bedoya , fresh from The Treasure of the Sierra Madre , as Calico another outlaw with a murderous protection racket . Bill Bendix though he's never bad in anything , is really miscast in a western . He's just too urban a type to be a convincing western sidekick . Holden is a year away from his breakthrough part in Sunset Boulevard , in Streets of Laredo he's in one of his ' smiling Jim ' parts as the amiable good guy . He fit those parts well , but he never would have had the career he did had he stuck to them . Western fans will definitely like this one , enough action and gunplay for any fan of the genre .
For his second feature film directorial effort Orson Welles assembled a lot of his Citizen Kane alumni , Joseph Cotten , Erskine Sanford , Ray Collins , and Agnes Moorehead , for this screen adaption of the Booth Tarkington novel The Magnificent Ambersons . He didn't bring Gregg Toland along to film the thing , but Stanley Cortez definitely learned how from Gregg as to what Welles wanted . The Amberson mansion sure looks like a lost relation to stately Xanadu and the same deep focus photography is present . And those fill the screen closeups and telling shadows , still there and used to great effect . Richard Bennett is the head of Amberson clan and he's got a lovely daughter in Dolores Costello . Joseph Cotten is the hardworking young man who desires her hand as do many . But he tries a bit too hard and she coquettishly rejects him and marries good and dull Donald Dillway . The have a son who she spoils rotten in the person of Tim Holt . Tim Holt as George Amberson Minafer would today be called a trust fund baby . The thought of work or some kind of profession is alien to him and he has an intense dislike for Cotten as much as he'd like the daughter he has from the marriage he made after Dolores rejected him . My favorite scene in the film is Holt with Cotten's daughter , Anne Baxter , in a carriage where Holt is telling her about his disdain for any profession let alone any manual labor . But while being a person of leisure as one in Holt's class is born to be , he'll use his money in various charitable enterprises to benefit the less fortunate . Sounds like a budding Michael Moore . Holt got great reviews for this part proving here as he did in The Treasure of the Sierra Madre that he was capable of being more than a B film cowboy . But that's where he returned to and probably of his own choice . Also about that time war service interrupted his career as well . Joseph Cotten belongs to that vanished race of gentleman players that used to grace the screen . They don't write parts for people like him , William Powell , Don Ameche , Ronald Colman , etc . But being a part of these two immortal Orson Welles creations assures him a place in cinema history forever . The saga of the Amberson family covers a slice of American social history from the Gilded Age to the Progressive Era . Besides the editing that Welles claimed butchered his film , The Magnificent Ambersons failed to find an audience in 1942 . America's entry into World War II was on most people's minds then . A story about a bygone era just didn't sell . Citizen Kane which also had a bygone era story was also about a guy still very much on the scene . All the controversy about William Randolph Hearst sold a lot of tickets for Citizen Kane . The Magnificent Ambersons certainly didn't have that kind of a built in publicity gimmick . Even with the cuts that Welles objected to the film still has great merit , a fine group of players telling a good story . Tim Holt got his comeuppance , but not quite the way he expected . Then again so did just about everyone in the cast .
Since musicals have both gone out of fashion and are incredibly expensive to make without all the talent needed to make one under contract to a studio , I doubt we will ever get a real life story of Enrico Caruso . But if everything else was in place it was no accident that no Hollywood studio attempted the task until Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer had Mario Lanza under contract . No one else could have done it , I doubt whether it will ever be tried again . And why should it . I think Enrico Caruso himself would have been satisfied as to how his singing was portrayed on screen . For his tenor voice was his life , his reason for being on the earth . To say that liberties were taken with his life is to be modest . Caruso , like the man who portrayed him , was a man of large appetites although with a lot more self discipline . He had numerous relationships with several women and fathered two out of wedlock sons who are not in this film . His contribution to the recording industry is treated as almost an afterthought . He's shown in a recording studio once late in his life . Actually he started recording right around the turn of the last century and together with Irish tenor John McCormack for RCA Victor made the recording industry what it became . When Caruso and McCormack were at their heights you had to practically inherit a ticket to see either of them perform live . But a lot of immigrant Italian and Irish families had a phonograph and a record or three of either of these men . It's why both became the legends that they are . What the film does have is some beautifully staged operatic arias done by Mario Lanza , a taste of what he might have become had he the discipline of a Caruso to stick to opera . The Great Caruso won an Oscar for sound recording and received nominations for costume and set design . Mario himself helped popularize the film with an RCA Red Seal album of songs from The Great Caruso . Unfortunately due to contractual obligations we couldn't get an actual cast album with Ann Blyth , Dorothy Kirsten , and Jarmila Novotna also . Though Blyth sang it in the film , Lanza had a big hit recording of The Loveliest Night of the Year further helping to popularize The Great Caruso . If you're looking for a life of Enrico Caruso , this ain't it . If you are looking for a great artist singing at the height of his career , than you should not miss The Great Caruso .
At the end of Dirty Harry , Clint Eastwood throws a way his badge and ID after ending the life of that evil piece of protoplasm Scorpio . The intention obviously was like High Noon when Gary Cooper just threw away the marshal's badge after killing four Miller brothers , Eastwood was quitting the San Francisco PD . Well he must have thought better of it because Harry Callahan became such an iconic figure that the public wanted him back on the job . So Eastwood made the first of four sequels in Magnum Force . Somebody is doing a great job in reviving the vigilante tradition of San Francisco with a string of assassinations , starting with the opening sequence of a shooting of a labor / racketeer who massacred a rival and his whole family . Shades of the United Mine Worker's Tony Boyle and what he did with Joseph Yablonski . A pimp who murders a prostitute who was withholding on him , there's another massacre at the house of a drug dealer , it's getting open season on criminals . His supervisor Hal Holbrook hates his guts , but there's no one like Harry Callahan for these kinds of cases . Mitchell Ryan who's an old friend of Eastwood plays a cop falling apart at the seams and he looks good for it . And there's a group of four sharp shooting rookies on motorcycle patrol , Tim Matheson , David Soul , Kip Niven , and Robert Urich . Any one of them could be our vigilante . In a way Magnum Force is the polar opposite of Charles Bronson's Death Wish films . Bronson's pretty good at selecting some of the right kind of criminal scum to eradicate , but doing this seems to offend Eastwood although Deity only knows , this has been his game for a long time . There's a nice climatic sequence with an unarmed Eastwood dealing with the responsible party for all of this . Magnum Force is every bit the equal of Dirty Harry in action and violence . In the end as Clint's famous tag line in this film says , it turns out that Dirty Harry was dealing with a man who did not know his limitations .
I'm sure that even in 1910 when Kaiser Wilhelm still had a few fans who remembered he was the grandson of Queen Victoria and not ruler of the soon to be hated foe of World War I , E . M . Forster must have come in for a few critic's slings in having some of his protagonists of Howards End have a German surname . Even that early time there were many who saw Germany as a potential foe . These two Schlegel sisters played by Emma Thompson and Helena Bonham Carter befriend the Wilcoxes , a family of newly rich plutocrats headed by Anthony Hopkins who seem to be a version of Lillian Hellman's the Hubbards lite . Their mother is the class of the family and she's played by Vanessa Redgrave who is in poor health . While Bonham-Carter is rejected by Hopkins's son James Wilby as a suitable wife for marriage , Vanessa befriends Thompson finding her to be a kindred intellectual spirit in a house full of moneygrubbers . In fact before she dies she writes an unsigned note asking that a cottage that's in her family's name called Howards End be given to the Schlegel sisters . When Hopkins and the rest of the family find the note after she's dead it gets torn up and burned . Unsigned it has no probative value in any event . But as fate would have it Thompson and Hopkins get into a relationship and they soon marry and she tries to polish some of the rough edges off him . Especially in regard to snobbery . Hopkins is the kind of man who wants no reminders of where he came from . Particularly with another of the Schlegel sisters friends , a young clerk named Leonard Bast played by Samuel West trying to make his way in the world as the Wilcoxes have . Emma Thompson won the Academy Award for Best Actress for Howards End that year and the film also won Oscars for Art & Set Direction and for adapted screenplay . Though Thompson won the Oscar , my absolute favorite in this film is Susie Lindeman as Mrs . Dolly Bast . She's so incredibly common and obviously holding him back , you can't blame West for eventually getting involved with Bonham-Carter which leads to tragedy . The team of Ismail Merchant producer and James Ivory director succeed again at bringing the look and manners of Edwardian England as seen by E . M . Forster to life . Who says they don't make literate films any more , whoever says that have them see Howards End .
I have a great deal of difficulty in deciding whether Blazing Saddles or The Producers is the funnier of the Mel Brooks comedies . Being a western aficionado I suppose I have to go with this film . I don't think there was a western cliché Mr . Brooks missed in this one . From the first scene with that celebrated foof contest going on at the campfire to that last shootout at the premier of Blazing Saddles , you'd better be ready to not stop laughing for one minute . Mel Brooks assembled one of the best casts of comic actors this side of It's A Mad Mad Mad Mad World and got lifetime performances out of all of them . I've always thought that Mel Brooks for Blazing Saddles borrowed a lot from the surreal quality of the Road pictures and certainly Cleavon Little and Gene Wilder have a Crosby / Hope like camaraderie going . My favorite though is Harvey Korman as chief villain Hedy , oops I mean Hedley Lamarr . That was the role of a lifetime for him , I think his best moment on screen . Following closely is Madeline Kahn as famous saloon entertainer Lily Von Shtupp . You could tell the Code was a thing of the past when a character could have a name like that . John Wayne was purportedly shown the script and while he declined to be in it , he did say it was the funniest thing he ever read and he would buy the first ticket . Now that's the highest possible endorsement pilgrim .
The Big Country is one big and fun western with concurrent plot lines . The first is the struggle between two implacable enemies , Charles Bickford and Burl Ives . The second is a four sided romantic triangle involving Gregory Peck , Jean Simmons , Charlton Heston , and Carroll Baker with Chuck Connors trying to horn in . William Wyler directed the almost three hour western with a sure hand and your interest does not wane for one minute in this film . Gregory Peck also was a co-producer on this film as well as the first billed . He had a hand in casting a lot of the film , specifically Burl Ives in his Academy Award winning performance as Rufus Hannessy . It's the Terrills versus the Hannessys . Charles Bickford is the local Ponderosa owner Major Terrill . Presumably the title comes from the Civil War . Bickford does play Terrill with a military bearing . My guess is that he was a Yankee soldier . The Hannessys would now be called white trash . They look like hillbilly folk who also came west for fame and fortune . They've also got a big spread in a place called Blanco Canyon . They hate the Yankee Major as much as he hates them . Sitting between them is Jean Simmons who has inherited a modest piece of land that sits across a river that both outfits water their cattle on as per an agreement with her late grandfather . She doesn't work the land herself any more , she teaches school in town . Simmons tries to keep above the feud . She is friends with Carroll Baker , Charles Bickford's daughter . She's been east and is bringing home a prospective bridegroom who is a former sea captain played by Gregory Peck . That doesn't sit well with Charlton Heston who is the Terrill foreman . He's got eyes on Baker himself and Chuck Connors who is Burl Ives eldest son has eyes for Simmons when he's not in the local bordello . A lot of started and broken relationships and a few of the cast members being killed occurs in The Big Country . My favorite scene and line in the film is when Burl Ives gives some advice to Chuck Connors on how to woo and win Jean Simmons . His big advice is to show her how much you care by taking a bath occasionally . Charlton Heston took a role that was fourth billed because he wanted the opportunity to work with William Wyler . That was one great career move because Wyler and he hit it off so well that Wyler signed him for the lead in his next film which turned out to be Ben-Hur . Heston in his memoirs , conservative as he became , says he also got along very well with Gregory Peck who he called a " thinking man's liberal . " Peck and Wyler had worked together previously on Roman Holiday and had done good work there and also hit it off . However with Peck as a co-producer as well as star they had some clashes on the set . One notable one involved Peck wanting to retake the carriage scene where the Hannessy brothers attack Peck and Baker on the way to the Bickford ranch . Peck wasn't satisfied and wanted a retake . Wyler who was legendary for doing scenes dozens of times until he got what he wanted refused . Later when shown the finished film , Wyler had edited out and around what Peck didn't like and it came out OK . They remained friends , but never worked together again . Simmons as the independent minded school teacher and Baker as the spoiled daddy's little girl acquit themselves well in their roles . Baker is disappointed in Peck not seeing him as her ideal western man and Simmons upbraids her with the quote I put in the review title . This is also the final film of Alfonso Bedoya who never did get a role in an American film as good as the one he had as Gold Hat in The Treasure of the Sierra Madre . Still this is a fine farewell performance to a very colorful and talented player . When he's on the screen Burl Ives dominates and fills it and not just physically either . Rufus Hannessy may not be to the manor born , but he has his own sense of integrity and fair play . All that Burl Ives captured in Rufus and The Big Country is worth watching just for him alone . And that Jerome Moross score ; simply one of the best ever done in the history of film .
Alvarez Kelly , Mexican national , has just sold a herd of cattle to the North during the American Civil War . Yankee Major Stedman insists he accompany the cattle all the way to Richmond where they're to feed Grant's troops besieging the city . Only Confederate Cavalry hero Tom Rossiter has different ideas for the cattle and for Kelly . William Holden as Kelly and Richard Widmark as Tom Rossiter settle down in roles familiar to them . Ever since Sunset Boulevard Bill Holden has brought us a fine line of cynical protagonists to the silver screen . Holden's good , but he's not breaking any new ground here . Richard Widmark as Rossiter is a bit more idealistic than Kelly , but only because he believes in a cause . He's no less cynical than Kelly in his methods of getting Kelly's cooperation in his scheme . The scheme being to get the cattle passed union lines to Richmond . We're not talking here about slavery and the causes of the Civil War . Just the prevention of disease and starvation . The only other larger role of note is Patrick O'Neal as Major Stedman of the Union Army . He is such and unctuous and boring man and written deliberately so by the writers that we will understand why Kelly is tempted by the Confederate offer . Of course Widmark uses other forms of persuasion , but you have to see the movie for that . It's a nice action film by two very capable male stars who were passed the peak years of their respective careers in the Fifties . Also you will not be able to get the title song , sung by the Kingston Trio over the opening credits out of your mind . Very catchy indeed .
It took a loan out film to Columbia for Gene Kelly's home studio MGM to realize his creative talent and give him some control over what he did in his own films . Cover Girl also became Rita Hayworth's signature film for the GIs and their pinup fantasies during World War II . Kelly plays the owner of a small nightclub in Brooklyn where Rita is a featured dancer and Phil Silvers the comic . Of course Kelly does a bit of hoofing himself there . Hayworth comes to the attention of millionaire Otto Kruger when it turns out that Kruger had loved and lost Hayworth's grandmother . In some flashback sequences from the gaslight era , Hayworth also plays her own grandmother with Jess Barker playing the young Kruger . You might remember Jess Barker was the husband of that other legendary screen redhead , Susan Hayward . Broadway producer Lee Bowman also is attracted to Hayward , but he's not interested in nostalgia . He wants her for his Ziegfeld Follies revue and in fact the biggest number of Cover Girl is the title song of the film . It's nicely done in Follies style . Hayworth also gets to sing A Sure Thing in a gaslight era number and in the only song in the show not written by Jerome Kern and Ira Gershwin , Hayworth also does an old English music hall number Poor John . When I say sing , as everyone knows Rita mouths words . Singing here is done by Nan Wynn . The biggest hit of the show is Long Ago and Far Away which is introduced by Gene Kelly . It was one of the biggest hits of the World War II era and one of the biggest sellers Jerome Kern ever wrote . It happens in fact to be a favorite of an aunt of mine who with my uncle will be celebrating 60 years of marriage this September . Long Ago and Far Away was nominated for Best Song , but lost to Swinging on a Star . What really sets Cover Girl apart and what makes it a milestone film for Gene Kelly is the two numbers Put Me to the Test and the Alter Ego number . Harry Cohn decided to do what Louis B . Mayer had refused at MGM , to give Kelly creative control of his own material . Kelly later said the alter ego number was one of the hardest things he ever attempted in his career . In it he dances with a pale reflection of himself and the choreography is dazzling and intricate . In fact after one more loan out film , Christmas Holiday at Universal , Louis B . Mayer never loaned out Gene Kelly for the rest of the time he was at MGM . And he did get creative control from then on . With that dazzling technicolor cinematography and Rita's red hair and Gene Kelly's boundless creativity , Cover Girl was and is a classic and will forever be so .
I've always felt Othello to be more Iago's play than Othello's . Iago is the guy whose subtle machinations keep the whole thing going . In fact William Shakespeare probably should have entitled the play Iago instead . Othello gets the title because the emphasis is on his reactions to Iago's hints of infidelity in regard to Othello's new wife Desdemona . The proud Moor is destroyed by the ' green eyed monster ' who when he gets a hold doesn't let go . Why's all this happening ? Because Othello , a Moorish soldier of fortune in the pay of the Duke of Venice passes Iago over for a promotion and gives it to another favorite named Cassio . All that sucking up gone for naught , Iago plans subtle revenge . But in order to make this work , it's more than Othello he has to maneuver . He drops lies and suspicions to Othello , Desdemona , Cassio , and even his own wife Emilia , to another suitor for Desdemona named Rodrigo , in short to just about the rest of the cast . It's why I think Iago's character is central . Nevertheless Othello earned for Laurence Olivier another nomination for Best Actor and for Maggie Smith as Desdemona , Best Actress . Frank Finlay as the subtle and clever Iago and Joyce Redman as his wife Emilia got nominations in the Supporting Actor categories . None of them came up a winner though . In one of his earliest screen performances you'll find Derek Jacobi as the loyal , brave , but slightly dense Cassio . And as Rodrigo who Iago plays like a piccolo is Robert Lang , both of whom are cast perfectly . Unlike Olivier's other Shakespearean work , this is essentially a photographed stage play . But the sets are just fine and since it's a story about palace intrigue , the palace sets are more than appropriate . I'd be hard pressed to say whether this or the Orson Welles version is better , judge for yourself .
When Indiana Jones went on his last crusade in search of the Holy Grail , the adventure took him to such far flung places as Venice , Vienna , Berlin , and the fictitious kingdom of Hatay in the Middle East . Well he wasn't just searching for the Holy Grail . A mysterious millionaire who's been a benefactor of archeology played by Julian Glover has hired the senior Henry Jones , who's always been a Grail seeker to look for it . But he's turned up quite missing and it's up to Harrison Ford to find his father . In an inspired piece of casting Sean Connery plays the senior Doctor Jones and the chemistry between Ford and Connery is fine . Connery is so good in the part that he makes you forget that it's usually Connery who gets to do the action stuff . Ford of course bares the burden of it while rescuing Dad from the clutches of the Nazis . They too are in pursuit of the Holy Grail . I guess if they couldn't get the Ark of the Covenant , they'll settle for the Grail . They've got a lovely female scientist in the person of Alison Doody in on the hunt . While I was watching Indiana Jones And The Last Crusade , the thought struck me that this was also the plot of Abbott and Costello Meet The Mummy . Of course with a budget a gazillion times more . But in that film Bud and Lou are in pursuit of Klaris the Mummy , Marie Windsor and a couple of henchmen are also after it , and so are the followers of Klaris led by Richard Deacon intent from not letting the secret out . Indiana Jones And The Last Crusade also has a group of people who know the secret of the Holy Grail , where it is , and they're not letting ANYONE remotely near it . Indiana Jones regulars like John Rhys-Davies and Denholm Elliott are also here and I also like the performance of 81 year old Robert Eddison in his next to last film as the Grail Knight . His is an astounding story and the last shot of him is for me the most memorable moment of the film . The first Indiana Jones film came out at the beginning of the Eighties and it's fitting and proper that this film came out as that decade came to a close . It's a worthy successor and in some ways superior to the first two films and a grand show .
The novels of James Hilton were very popular in America as well as in the United Kingdom . Mr . Hilton created British heroes that resonated with the American public and cerebral actors like Robert Donat and Ronald Colman seem born to play . I do remember as a lad being given a book with Lost Horrizon , Goodbye Mr . Chips and Random Harvest by my mother to read and the stories fascinated me . Random Harvest concerns Charles Rainer who sustained a head injury during World War I and woke up in a hospital in his native country with no memory of who he is . On Armistice Day in 1918 Rainer walks out of the hospital and takes up with another drifting soul , an entertainer named Paula . When you're Ronald Colman , goodness oozes out of you from every pore , so small wonder that Greer Garson accepts him at face value with no idea who he could be . They live together for two years and then one day in Liverpool , Colman is hit by a taxi . He regains his memory when he regains consciousness . He remembers he's Charles Rainer , oldest son of a title and a wealthy fellow at that . But no memory of his life with Garson . The chemistry between Colman and Garson is a thing of beauty . She wants so much to tell him who she is and he was for three years , but she's advised by psychiatrist Philip Dorn not to do so . And Colman becomes even richer and more successful , but with something missing . Memories just out of his reach and Colman exudes a sadness that the most hardened heart will find touching . One highlight for me is Greer Garson performing one Harry Lauder's great music hall numbers , She's Ma Daisy with appropriate Scot's costume . This was the career year for James Hilton . In addition to this film , Hilton did the screenplay for the Oscar winning Mrs . Miniver in 1942 and won a personal Oscar there . In fact Random Harvest ran second to Mrs . Miniver in a lot of categories . Mrs . Miniver was the Best Picture of 1942 , Ronald Colman for Random Harvest and Walter Pigeon for Mrs . Miniver both lost to James Cagney for Yankee Doodle Dandy for Best Actor . And Susan Peters as Colman's step-niece lost to Teresa Wright for Mrs . Miniver as Best Supporting Actress . The film brought Susan Peters her first recognition . But her's was another career cut short due to a hunting accident that left her a paraplegic . Random Harvest as a book and as a film is how the British see themselves and how they like being portrayed on the screen . When you have players the caliber of Ronald Colman and Greer Garson doing it with the help Hollywood's English colony , the results are outstanding .
It's ironic indeed that in Noel Coward's greatest screen role he played a part so atypical of what we expect from that most witty and erudite of artists . There's a lot good in In Which We Serve , but if you are expecting Coward bon mots , skip this film . Whatever else Coward was , he was one patriotic British citizen who loved his country and wanted to do his bit in World War II . The incident in which In Which We Serve is based on what actually happened to the the destroyer HMS Kelly in 1941 off Crete which was sunk after taking a few of the enemy with her . The ship was commanded by one Louis Mountbatten of the royal family and a good friend of Coward's . Coward's character while not a member of the royal family is still of the upper crust of British society . Mountbatten when war broke out used his considerable royal connections to get into a combat assignment when war broke out . The sequences in which Coward's ship is sunk and the actions of Coward and the crew hews pretty close to what happened to Mountbatten and the men of the Kelly . While we Coward and his survivors clinging to life rafts and bits of wreckage , the audience gets a series of flashbacks revolving around three men , Coward , CPO Bernard Miles , and Seaman John Mills . We see them at peace and at war with the women they are involved with who are Celia Johnson , Joyce Carey , and Kay Walsh . This was total war for Great Britain , something until I don't think Americans could fully appreciate . While the men are at sea , the women live under threat and fact of bombardment by air . Their scenes are every bit as important as the battle scenes at sea , showing a people totally mobilized . In small roles you can find such people as James Donald , Michael Wilding , and Richard Attenborough all part of the crew . Attenborough in particular makes a vivid impression in his part . The Earl of Mountbatten made a series of televised memoirs in the early seventies that didn't reach American television until after his assassination in 1979 . It was about 10 episodes and they dealt with all facets of his career . Before he retired in fact he became the First Sea Lord of the British Navy . But one episode dealt with the sinking of the HMS Kelly and the men of the Kelly who survived year after year got together for a remembrance . Some footage was shown of one of the gatherings . I wonder if they still do that and how many men are left from the ship survivors . In fact it's altogether fitting and proper that this review be dedicated to Lord Louis Mountbatten who not without controversy served his country well and faithfully throughout a long a productive life . And of course this review is also dedicated to the brave men of the HMS Kelly , those that have passed on and those who might still survive . They and the other members of the Royal Navy kept their country from invasion for almost a thousand years and in the case of World War II kept the world from a totalitarian nightmare . And they couldn't have a better film than In Which We Serve to perpetuate the memory of their deeds .
Sir Thomas More , a multi-talented man of letters and law , went to the executioner's block because he would not recognize a temporal king as head of his country's church . Though a friend of Henry VIII and his chancellor he was more afraid of offending God than the king . A man who took his Catholic faith quite seriously . Robert Bolt's play ran for 637 performances in the 1961-1963 season on Broadway and the only two who came over from the Broadway cast were Paul Scofield as More and Leo McKern as Thomas Cromwell . They present quite a contrast indeed as antagonists , Scofield the man of honor and principle and McKern as the sly intriguing Cromwell . This Cromwell was in fact the grand uncle of Oliver Cromwell and he suffered the same fate as More for finding himself out of step politically at Henry VIII's court . That's the way it was in court politics in Tudor England . You stayed in step with the monarch whims or the executioner shortened you a little bit . As Henry VIII , Robert Shaw does actually have reason to be concerned . The only American in the cast , Orson Welles as Cardinal Wolsey , explains it quite clearly . It was only 40 + years since the king's father Henry VII took the throne and reunited the York and Lancastrian claims to the crown . Previous to that for sixty years England went into a steep decline during the period known as the War of the Roses where rival factions fought for the crown . The lack of a strong male heir would guarantee such an event which was fresh in a lot of minds . Why wouldn't the Pope just find some ecclesiastical loophole and give who had been his ardent defender a divorce ? Very simply Henry VIII's first wife Catherine of Aragon was the aunt of Emperor Charles V and his army was occupying Rome after the battle of Pavia a few years back . Catherine's marriage to Henry put England in the Spanish orbit and he wasn't about to let it go . Basically the Pope was going to dance to Emperor Charles's tune . Which still left Henry VIII with a dynastic problem . He made the complete break and said he was head of the Church in England . That is how the Anglican church came into being . A lot like More thought this wrong and paid with their lives . Paul Scofield won Broadway's Tony Award for playing Sir Thomas More and matched it with an Oscar for Best Actor in 1966 . Scofield set a standard for playing a man willing to die for a belief . His More is a man of wit and humor , not a priggish sort by any means . It's what makes More such an appealing character and even non-Catholics can certainly appreciate his sacrifice . Besides those I've already mentioned the cast also includes Wendy Hiller as More's good wife , Susannah York as his daughter and Corin Redgrave of that great theatrical family as his somewhat bumptious , but well meaning son-in-law . Sister Vanessa is her briefly as Anne Boleyn who Henry hoped to marry to begat a son with her . For the story from her point of view see Anne of a Thousand Days or for the whole saga see the fine BBC production of their mini-series starring Keith Mitchell as Henry VIII . Besides Scofield though , my favorite in A Man for All Seasons has always been McKern . To see what a wide ranging player he was apart from being the henpecked barrister Horace Rumpole you have to see A Man For All Seasons . He plays Thomas Cromwell every bit as slimy as he has come down to us in history . Also note the presence of a young John Hurt who plays Richard Rich whose perjured testimony convicts More . A Man For All Seasons , a film for all seasons and lots of reasons .
In No Name on the Bulllet , Audie Murphy got to star in one of the most unusual and best westerns in his career when he was cast in this off beat tale of a hired killer . As John Gant , Audie reverses type and becomes a coldblooded , yet very philosophical hired killer . His modus operandi is simple . He gets hired by someone to do someone else in and he goes to wherever his target is , baits him into a fight and then shoots him dead . It's pretty well known in the west that's how he operates . So Murphy arrives in a particular town , everyone knows he's there to see that someone dies . The town grows crazy with panic and speculation as to who his target might be . It's a nice original concept for a western and the credit has to go to scriptwriter Gene L . Coon who all Star Trek fans remember as the writer on the original series . Some of the townspeople are blacksmith R . G . Armstrong , doctor Charles Drake , banker Whit Bissell , mine owner Karl Swenson , judge Edgar Stehli , bartender Charles Watts , and store clerk Warren Stevens . Just who has Audie come to dispatch . All of these players fill out the roles of the panic stricken townspeople very well indeed . But it is Murphy's film and one of the best westerns ever done and I believe his personal best .
