In Kentucky , five sexy students are trapped to spend the night in an abandoned sanatorium , where many people were killed in the 30's when the location was devastated by an infectious white plague , as a prank of their school mates . Along the night , while trying to escape from the asylum , they are haunted by ghosts and the survivors disclose that they are descendant of the victims and are reviving their deaths . " Death Tunnel " is a messy , noisy and boring rip-off of many other movies , with a group of students trapped in a haunted building . The screenplay and the edition are terrible , using unsuccessfully noise to startle the viewers . The acting is not bad , but the best of this forgettable crap are the girls wearing lingerie . The conclusion is simply awful . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Túnel da Morte " ( " The Death Tunnel " )
Mary Katherine Gallagher ( Molly Shannon ) is an orphan raised by her grandmother and student of a catholic school . She decides to participate in a competition of new talents , where the winner will travel to Hollywood and may have a chance to act in a movie . She is also interested in kissing Sky ( Will Ferrell ) , the boyfriend of the selfish Evian ( Elaine Hendrix ) . This movie is a crap . It is a boring comedy , which is not funny . Molly Shannon is not beautiful , not funny , not charismatic and too old for the role of Mary . Her smile , showing the teeth , is horrible ! I hated this trash . I spend the whole film without any laugh . It really deserves a spot in IMDB Bottom 100 . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Superstar - Despenca Uma Estrela ' ( Superstar - Falls a Star ' )
Gary is a guy who lives in a trailer and he is trying to be a writer . His girlfriend Maris works as a waitress and wants him to have a real job . Gary receives Ozzy , a relative ' self - guest ' in his trailer ( by the way , this character has nothing to do with any plot along the story . Maybe he has lent some money for the ' production ' of this amateurish movie and required to participate somehow in the story ) . His best friend is Bud and his neighbor is a neurotic veteran from Vietnam . Gary realizes that persons in his community are being killed by The Sandman . This film is almost as bad as ' Troll 2 ' and ' Satanic Attraction ' : amateurish cast and direction , poor effects and locations . The greatest work on me is that Sandman made me sleep at least four times along the story and I , instead of going to the bed , used the ' rewind bottom ' to watch the missing parts . However , the screenplay with improvement , actors , actresses and director could be the basis for a reasonable movie .
First of all , this movie is so confused that it is almost impossible to summarize it , since I myself did not understand this horrible story . Further , the unknown cast , leaded by an actress called Laura Mennell , is simply awful . The expressions and screams of the character Sara Tobias are laughable and ridiculous , confusing grimaces with acting . Last but not the least , there are many favorable reviews about this flick in IMDb as follows : - Top Notch - Can't wait to see more of the directors work ? the author has only one review in IMDb on 24 September 2004 ; - Incredibly shot , amazingly intense ? the author has only one review in IMDb on 12 August 2004 ; - Not your typical blood and gore , in fact better . ? the author has only one review in IMDb on 13 February 2005 ; - As intense as Asian horror ! ! - the author has only one review in IMDb on 14 November 2004 . Coincidence ? Or are they the parents , relatives , friends or people hired by the production to promote this crap ? Title ( Brazil ) : " 11 . 11 ? A Nova Profecia " ( " 11 . 11 ? The New Prophecy " )
A group of animal rights activists ? Jade ( Andrea Lui ) , Tim ( Dylan Taylor ) , Fix ( Andrew Hachey ) and the hacker Izzy ( Kristin Pellerin ) ? invades the complex of Chapel Pritchard to liberate subjects , with the support of the daughter of Dr . Woods ( Andrew Gillies ) , Ali ( Ellen Furey ) , and her boyfriend and security guard Chris ( Edward Furlong ) . Dr . Woods is in charge of an unsuccessful experiment for the cure of cancer in the facility , and when they use his access card . , the security system is activated . They try to escape using an elevator to the underground laboratory , and when the guards trap them , Izzy opens all the doors of the compound trying to provide a escape route for the group . However , she actually liberates an assassin mutant in the same floor as her friends and the guards . " Warriors of Terra " is an awful collection of clichés with a predictable story repeated in many B-movies with minor variations . The worst are the acting and the characters : Edward Furlong looks like a drugged junkie with a terrible face , in spite of performing a security guard ; Jade is a real bitch with her attitudes and Andrea Lui does not have a good performance ; Izzy makes grimaces trying to look like an intellectual hacker and Kristin Pellerin also does not have a good performance ; Ali makes all of this confusion to call the attention of her father , but Ellen Furey's acting is not bad ; Dr . Woods is absolutely unreasonable as a scientist , disclosing his secret experiment to a security guard ; Fix smokes marijuana while being chased by the security guards in a ridiculous attitude ; and Tim is also an unreasonable character . Do not waste your time watching this movie , you will have a sensation of Déjà vu ( for the worse ) . Title ( Brazil ) : " Mutação Assassina " ( " Assassin Mutation " )
Along the night in the cottage of his father , James Hoyt ( Scott Speedman ) and his girlfriend Kristen McKay ( Liv Tyler ) are terrified by a trio of sick trespassers . It is amazing the capacity of destroy good movies that some pretentious writers and directors have . This unknown Bryan Bertino made a rip-off of the gem " Ils " , which is one of the scariest movies I have ever seen , without any credit to the original movie , and destroyed the frightening atmosphere of that film with many stupid scenes . For example , why James did not believe on Kristen ? Why Mike did not call the police when the arrived in the partially destroyed house ? Why the couple , armed with a powerful gun , did not lock themselves up in the bathroom ? Scott Speedman has an awful performance , and Liv Tyler has a good work . And that is all . Prefer watching the French ? Romanian movie ( http www imdb com title tt0465203 ) instead of this crap . Title ( Brazil ) : " Os Estranhos " ( " The Strangers " )
In China , Lau Sing ( Stephen Fung ) leaves his wife and their young daughter in his province and travels to the big city with his friends to raise money in pharmacology business . Four years later , he becomes well-succeeded and raises a small fortune , but a scum gambler burns the building . killing his friends and accusing him of the criminal act . Lau Sing is arrested and the young lawyer Siu Chin ( Gillian Chung ) defends him in court , but she does not succeed and her client is sentenced to decapitation . However , Lau Sing escapes on the day of his execution and travels with Siu Chin to his province , where along forty-nine days he unravels dark secrets . " 49 Days " is a complete mess , with an absolutely confused screenplay and is based on the belief of many Chinese people of reincarnation and karma . Further , there are serious inconsistencies and mistakes in the subtitles in Portuguese that makes the story tougher to be understood , The intention of the writer and the director is also never clear , blending drama , romance , mystery , comedy and horror and making in the end a salad of genres . Title ( Brazil ) : " 49 Dias " ( " 49 Days " )
Kristen Parker ( Tuesday Knight ) , Roland Kincaid ( Ken Sagoes ) and Joey Crusel ( Rodney Eastman ) are having normal lives and studying in Springwood , Ohio , after defeating the evil Freddy Krueger ( Robert Englund ) . Kristen is very close to her boyfriend Rick Johnson ( Andras Jones ) and his sister Alice ( Lisa Wilcox ) is her best friend . Kristen has a premonition with Freddy Krueger , who has resurrected and is chasing the trio of survivors of the Elm Street . When Freddy kills the three survivors , Kristen transfers her ability to draw other people to her dreams to Alice , and Freddy uses the power of the teenager to gather the souls of her school friends . " A Nightmare on Elm Street art 4 : The Dream Master " is a weak sequel to the classic " A Nightmare on Elm Street " . Patricia Arquette , who performed Kristen Parker in the previous " A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 : Dream Warriors " , was pregnant and not able to film this sequel . The actress and musician Tuesday Knight that replaced Patricia Arquette recorded the song " Nightmare " used during the film's opening credits . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Hora do Pesadelo 4 ? O Mestre dos Sonhos " ( " The Hour of the Nightmare 4 ? The Master of the Dreams " )
In a skiing station in Dakota , a gang of criminals leaded by Alexander " Alex " Ward ( Frank Wolff ) plans the heist of golden bars from a small bank . While the lover of Alex , Gypsy Boulet ( Sheila Carol ) , goes to an isolated cabin with the ski instructor Gil Jackson ( Michael Forest ) , a time bomb explodes a cave to divert the attention of the locals and the gangsters steal the gold . But the explosion releases a spider-like monster and due to a storm , the group becomes trapped in Gil's cabin and threatened by the creepy beast . The debut of Monte Hellman as director is a typical trash movie of the 50's . The story is not bad ; the low budget effects are very poor and laughable ; the heroine is gorgeous ; the sudden conclusion gives the sensation that the shooting was interrupted ; and the cover of the Brazilian DVD is extremely funny with the following text : " Young girls scared and sucked by a maze of horror and blood of a hunger beast from hell " , which is delightfully funny and ridiculous , since the story has nothing to do with it . In spite of these remarks , I like this type of film , which are part of mine childhood , therefore " Beast From Haunted Cave " is a good entertainment at least for me . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Besta da Caverna Assombrada " ( " The Beast From the Haunted Cave " )
In Paris , after winning the lottery , the clerk François ( Bernard Campan ) goes to a bar in Pigalle and offers one hundred thousand Euros per month to the prostitute Daniela ( Monica Bellucci ) to live with him until the end of his money . François is a lonely man , with heart problems and Daniela stays with him for eight days . Then , she decides to come back to her man , the mobster Charly ( Gérard Depardieu ) , but she misses François and returns to his place . But once a whore , always a whore . The promising " Combien Tu m'Aimes ? " is a great deception : having Monica Bellucci , Gérard Depardieu and Bernard Campan in the cast , and directed by Bertrand Blier , this " dramatic romantic comedy " has a weird development and a confused and disappointing open conclusion . I honestly did not understand the last quarter of this movie , which is simply awful . The screenplay wastes a good and original idea , and the character of Gérard Depardieu is absolutely dull and ridiculous . The beauty of Monica Bellucci , even with forty-one years , is the best this mislead movie can offer . Title ( Brazil ) : " Por Amor ou Por Dinheiro ? " ( " For Love or For Money ? " )
Kyle Baxter ( Ethan Randall ) is a teenager who plays very well a video game called ' Evolver ' . This game was developed by Dr . Russell Bennett ( John de Lancie ) . He wins a competition of Evolver where the prize was a robot similar to the game . What nobody knows is that Evolver indeed is a war machine with artificial intelligence . Therefore , the friends of Kyle are playing against a dangerous weapon . Although being a very predictable and forgettable movie , Evolver really entertains . It has some good special effects and a reasonable thriller .
In 1989 , in Medellin , the prostitute and killer Rosario Tijeras ( Flora Martínez ) has an affair with the playboy Emilio ( Manolo Cardona ) and is introduced to his best friend Antonio ( Unax Ugalde ) in a night-club . The relationship of Rosario with Emilio is limited to sex and she befriends Antonio , who is in love with her . After the death of her brother Jonhefe ( Rodrigo Oviedo ) , Rosario and Antonio become closer and she falls in love for him . But Rosario is chased by her enemies from the past . I had a great expectation for this movie based on the awards highlighted on the cover of the DVD but after watching it , it became a huge disappointment . The plot has a promising beginning , mostly because of the erotic scenes with the sexy Flora Martínez and her naked body . Her mysterious character is intriguing in the beginning . However , the dull story goes nowhere and I had trouble to write a summary since nothing happens but a silly triangle of love in the landscape of the underworld of Medellin in a messy soap-opera . The characters are awfully developed : for example , Rosario Tijeras is one of the most ambiguous characters I have ever seen . Is she an expensive prostitute and a killer , and also a drug-dealer or what ? Where is her money charging large amounts for sex and murders ? She seems to be a powerful and cold woman in the beginning , but she is disclosed extremely fragile like a housewife along the story . Is the upper-class Emilio just a playboy ? And who is Antonio ? Why are these guys connected to the underworld of drugs ? The celebration with the dead body of Jonhefe is funny but totally out of the context . The dinner at Emilio's home is another terrible moment of this forgettable flick . Title ( Brazil ) : " Rosario Tijeras "
Nick Randall ( Rutger Hauer ) is a bounty hunter . He chases ' very bad guys ' , gets the reward and is saving for buying a vessel . He intends to retire and travel around the world with his girl friend . He is assigned to catch an evil terrorist , Malak Al Rahim ( Gene Simmons ) , who has killed more than 140 persons in his last explosion of a movie theater , and intends to blow-up a chemical facility and kill thirty thousand persons . This is an authentic B-movie full of clichés . The plot is totally predictable , but supported by good actors . It may be watched only for killing time .
In 1486 , in Sicily , five nuns are crucified in their nunnery by the superstitious locals that believe they are evil and worship devil . In 1990 , in Toronto , the skeptical archaeologist Professor Paul Evans ( Brett Halsey ) and his superstitious colleague Liza Harris ( Meg Register ) explore with their team the medieval dig where the nuns were killed . Liza has dreadful nightmares with the nuns while members of the expedition mysteriously die and the locals are against the research in the archaeological site . " Demonia " is a deceptive Lucio Fulci's gore movie . The terrible story is never scary or intriguing ; actually it is boring , with the low pace of the first half , and ridiculous with an awful conclusion associated to an annoying soundtrack . It is funny to see , for example , the blonde archaeologist that is superstitious , participates in séances and is scared after finding coffins with bones in a crypt . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
While in the hospital for a tomography of the brain of his autistic daughter Sarah ( Skye Bennett ) , Ben ( Noah Huntley ) becomes upset when there is a power failure . He decides to leave the hospital with Sarah , while the nurse Emily ( Dominique McElligott ) tries to convince him to leave Sarah for further treatment . They get the elevator with three other passengers , and suddenly the elevator stops ; when the door opens , people has vanished from the hospital , the environment is creepy and they are chased by devilish monsters . They find that they are trapped in the hospital , and the creatures seem to be hunting Sarah . " Dark Floors " is a bizarre and weird trip to a disturbed mind of an autistic girl . The dark story is intriguing and has a promising beginning , but the conclusion is disappointing . The performance of Skye Bennett , the eerie atmosphere and the special effects are the plus of this movie ; Emily is a nice character well performed by Dominique McElligott ; however , it is impossible to feel any empathy for the lead and important character performed by Noah Huntley . Title ( Brazil ) : " Alma Diabólica " ( " Devilish Soul " )
After some mysterious deaths showing the same symptoms in the victims , Terry Huston ( Natascha McElhone ) , from the Department of Health , investigates the possibility of a virus in the city with Homicide Detective Mike Reilly ( Stephen Dorff ) . However , they realize that all the victims have visited an Internet site called ' www . fear . com ' forty-eight hours before dying . A further investigation shows that there is a ghost on the web killing its users . Meanwhile , Detective Mike Reilly is also investigating a murderer called Alistair Pratt , ' The Doctor ' ( Stephen Rea ) . This movie has good and bad points . The story is plagiarized from the excellent and original Japanese ' Ringu ' , but the American ' The Ring ' was a copy and became a success . There are some flaws along the confused plot . But there are also interesting points . For example , the dark and rainy atmosphere recalls ' Seven ' . There is a sort of contrast between the modern ( computer , Internet , cars ) and life in the 30's or 40's ( old buildings , classic costumes and furniture ) , recalling a film-noir , with a beautiful photography and style . There are also some reasonable special effects . The cast is slightly above average , with Natascha McElhone , Stephen Rea and Stephen Dorff . Therefore I dare to say that it is a watchable movie and I do not agree with the User Rating . Title ( Brazil ) : ' MedoPontoCombr ' ( ' FearDotCom ' )
Archer is being judge by the Klingon court accused of conspiracy against their empire because he had responded a distress signal and helped the survivors of a Klingon colony . Archer convinces his lawyer to really help in his defense and stop the farce of his trial . " Judgement ' is an episode with a terrible beginning , since it is never disclosed how Archer was captured by the Klingons , and an awful conclusion , with Archer escaping from the mine of the penal colony . This is maybe one of the weakest episodes of the Second Season . Title ( Brazil ) : " Julgamento " ( " Judgement " )
When his brother Charles Spalding ( David Baron ) mysteriously dies , Harry Spalding ( Ray Barrett ) and his wife Valerie ( Jennifer Daniel ) decide to move to the inherited cottage in a small village in the country . They are coldly received by the locals , with the exception of the bartender and owner of a pub Tom Bailey ( Michael Ripper ) , who welcome them . His weird neighbor Dr . Franklyn ( Noel Willman ) , who lives with his beautiful daughter Anna ( Jacqueline Pearce ) , tries to persuade them to sell the house and leave the place , but the couple decides to stay . Harry and Valerie find that the locals are being killed by some snake and they feel threatened . When Anna asks for help and they trespass Dr . Franklyn's house , they find the horrible truth hidden in the place . I have grownup watching Hammer horror movies in the movie theaters , mainly when I was a teenager . Therefore , Hammer movies have been and are very pleasant for me . " The Reptile " is only reasonable : the atmosphere is great , the snake-woman Jacqueline Pearce is really a very beautiful woman and the suspenseful story , although having many flaws and a weak conclusion , is attractive . The shape of snake woman recalls 1954 Universal's " Creature from the Black Lagoon " . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Serpente " ( " The Serpent " )
The American daughter of missionaries Lana ( Michelle Williams ) returns to Los Angeles from Palestine to work in a mission helping homeless people . Lana was born in Ohio and raised in South Africa and Middle East , and she is an authentic citizen of the world , connected through Internet and aware of how other people see the lack of culture and knowledge and exaggerated patriotism of average American people . Her unique relative is her unknown uncle Paul ( John Diehl ) , a veteran of Vietnam War that cut relationships with his family and is bigot and paranoid . Paul lives in a surveillance van , lives as if he were a secret agent , sees conspiracy and terrorist cells everywhere , and has a great prejudice against Arabs and other non-American breeds after the September , 11th . They meet each other , and when they see the murder of a poor Pakistanis nearby the mission , they travel together to the small town of Trone to deliver his corpse to the family , where Paul sees a different reality . " Land of Plenty " is a very well acted low budget movie , with great performances of Michelle Williams and John Diehl . Wim Wenders tries to picture the reality of North America unknown for foreigners and even common Americans , with homeless and alienated people living with fear , angst and prejudice , totally disconnected of the world , instead of the land of opportunities and plenty of the American Dream shown in most of the American movies . In this regard , he is very well succeeded , but in my opinion I found the character of Paul absolutely exaggerated , using many apparatuses and gadgets in his " work " . The beautiful and shining character of Michelle Williams gives the hope that the world can be a better place someday . Title ( Brazil ) : " Medo e Obsessão " ( " Fear and Obsession " )
Warner do Brasil released on DVD the following episodes : 1 ) " Campo de Batalha " ( " Battleground " ) : In Dallas , the hit man Jason Renshaw ( William Hurt ) breaks in the headquarter of a toys company and kills Hans Morris , the manufacturer and owner of the company . He returns to his fancy apartment in San Francisco , and later he receives a package of toys with soldiers , helicopters and heavy weapon . Suddenly he is attacked by the commando , and he tries to survive . " Battleground " is a very silly and naive episode , without dialogs and with the character performed by William Hurt being attacked by toys . The explosions and shootout on the fortieth floor of the elegant building do not bother any neighbor . 2 ) " Crouch End " : The career devoted Lonnie Freeman ( Eion Bailey ) and his wife Doris Freeman ( Claire Forlani ) are in London in honeymoon . Loonie receives a message from the important client Squales inviting the young couple to have dinner with him in his house at Crouch End . While going to the dinner party , Doris is advised by the cab driver to return from Crouch End , which would be a thin spot in another dimension . Lonnie does not accept the non-sense explanation and have a weird experience with Doris . " Crouch End " seems to be a bad homage to " Twilight Zone " . The mysterious story has a great atmosphere , but an absolutely disappointing conclusion . 3 ) " O Último Caso de Umney " ( " Umney's Last Case " ) : In 1938 in Los Angeles , Clyde Umney ( William H . Macy ) is a divorce private eye successful with women . On the weirdest day of his life , he sees his world turning upside-down when he discovers that he is a character of a series of novels made-up by the writer Sam Landry . Sam is grieving the loss of his son and wants to swap position with Clyde . " Umney's Last Case " has a stylish noir production and an original story ( I believe this show was produced before " Stranger than Fiction " ) . I liked the whole story , but the conclusion is abrupt and seems that the original intention could be to be continued . Title ( Brazil ) : " Nightmares & Dreamscapes Vol . 1 ? Pesadelos e Paisagens Noturnas " ( " Nightmares & Dreamscapes Vol . 1 ? Nightmares and Nocturne Landscapes " )
Along the night of São Paulo , the lives of many characters interconnect through reality and fiction , in a search for love and sympathy . " Anjos da Noite " is an experimental movie of the " Novo Cinema Paulista " ( " New Paulista Cinema " ) , a movement in the 80's that took place in São Paulo and that was considered nostalgic and nihilistic in the vision of many critics . The metaphoric inconclusive essay about loneliness of the urban citizen in the big city focuses one night in the lives of common people without any judgment or conclusion : Ciça ( Be Valerio ) , the student of sociology researching some tapes ; Teddy ( Guilheme Leme ) , a escort man that interacts with all the characters ; Marta Brum ( Marília Pera ) , a former successful actress forgotten by the audiences and limited to commercials on TV ; Guto ( Marcos Nanini ) , a successful gay that lives in New York and occasionally returns to Brazil for short periods ; the director Jorge ( Antônio Fagundes ) , who is interested in having sex with a young actress . The stunning performances of Marília Pera , Guilherme Leme and Marcos Nanini are remarkable . The optimistic end , showing the dawn with Ciça and Teddy together , in a wonderful photography , ends this different but attractive passionate movie . Title ( Brazil ) : " Anjos da Noite " ( " Angels of the Night " )
The Lake sisters - Brielle ( Kelsey Crane ) , Kelly ( Kelsey Wedeen ) and their step-sister Samantha ( Tara Gerard ) - receive a surprising inheritance from their unknown grandfather that has just deceased . Brielle and Kelly join a group of friends and travel in a RV to visit the Lake Motel and decide what to do with the property . Sooner they finds that their unknown relatives are deranged psychos . " Lake Dead " is an average slasher B-movie and has an unoriginal story that I have seen many times : " The Hills Have Eyes " , " Wrong Turn " , I can not count many movies with stories similar to the original " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " plus a collection of clichés of the genre ( naked women , friends surrounded and under siege by psychos etc . ) . Even the incestuous relationship among relatives is not original - " Timber Falls " is better and better . But entertains , and my vote is six . Title ( Brazil ) : " Lago da Morte " ( " Lake of the Death " )
The unofficial agency of the American government Espionage Corporation is assigned to investigate the Chinese organization The Dragons when the government is advised to remove the American troops from Asia , otherwise The Dragons would destroy Los Angeles with a Hydrogen Bomb . The chief Mr . Kane ( Donald Woods ) asks his best agent Justin Power ( Jeffrey Hunter ) , who is testing a time converter belt , to be in charge of the mission with the Chinese agent Ki Ti Tso ( France Nuyen ) , aka Kitty . The intelligence agency unravels that parts of the bomb has been imported by the smuggler Big Buddha ( Harold Sakata ) and Power and Kitty seek the hidden place in USA . " Dimension 5 " is an original , but dated , espionage movie and quite underrated in IMDb . I bought this DVD because of the name of Jeffrey Hunter , the unforgettable Captain Christopher Pike of " Star Trek " , and I did not dislike this type of 007 with time travel . There is one specific scene that is shamefully bad , when Justin Power finds that Kitty has not died in the car and hugs her and the DVD released in Brazil by Classicline distributor presents many scratched images , but in the end this movie is a reasonable entertainment . Title ( Brazil ) : " Dimensão 5 " ( " Dimension 5 " )
In 1899 , almost simultaneously , England is attacked by German and vice-versa . The European continent is close to the war due to these events . A group of heroes ? Allan Quartermain ( Sean Connery ) , Captain Nemo ( Naseeruddin Shah ) , the vampire Mina Harker ( Peta Wilson ) , the Invisible Man Rodney Skinner ( Tony Curran ) , Dorian Gray ( Stuart Townsend ) , the American Tom Sawyer and Dr . Jekyll ( Jason Flemyng ) ? are invited by M ( Richard Roxburgh ) to gather and form the League of Extraordinary Gentlemen . Their objective would be fighting against Phantom , the mentor of the aggressions in Europe . Although having good cast and special effects , this movie fails . Somehow it recalled me Will Smith's ' Wild Wild West ' .
Nine strangers ? a priest ; a dancer ; a designer ; an aspirant rapper ; a former tennis pro ; a woman on probation ; an unsuccessful composer and his wife ; and a detective ? are randomly abducted , drugged and locked in a house by a wealthy maniac . They are informed through a public address system that there are seventy-five cameras following them , and only one will survive and win US$ 5 , 000 , 000 . 00 to keep quiet . The psychological game begins , with fear and greed affecting the participants . " House of 9 " is an opportunist story and rip-off of the storyline of 1997 " Cube " and using psychological elements of 2001 " Das Experiment " . The story is also very similar to 2005 " Saws 2 " , but it is difficult to say which one is the rip-off of the other since they were released in the same year . Dennis Hopper , the famous name of the cast , never convinces as a priest , and it seems that time for his retirement has arrived . The unpredictable and surprising end saves this forgettable movie from a lower rating . Title ( Brazil ) : " Aprisionados " ( " Imprisoned " )
In her forty years old birthday , the boring and serious housewife Julia ( Diane Salinger ) is gifted with a bottle of magic bubbles and her wish is to forget her age . She is granted and changes her behavior , acting like a young woman and bringing happiness to her daughter , her son , her psychiatrist and her mother-in-law . Her husband Charles ( John Calvin ) does not accept her new personality and threatens her with the divorce . However , in a supermarket Julia meets Mac ( George Clooney in the beginning of his successful career ) , a young man who falls in love with her . This fable is a wonderful screenplay , showing that you shall never let the child inside you die , no matter your age . Diane Salinger , who has a wonderful voice , fits perfectly to the role of Julia , but unfortunately John Calvin has a very weak performance as Charles . This is a low-budget movie , but with some improvement in the screenplay , a better actor in the role of Charles and some adult situation between Julia and Mac ( such as an affair ) , it would probably be a wonderful fairy tale . Anyway , it is a good entertainment for the whole family . The English title in Brazil is ' The Magic Bubble ' . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Jovem Para Sempre ' ( ' Young Forever ' )
The teacher Pauld Duncan ( Greg Kinnear ) , the photographer Jessie Duncan ( Rebecca Romijn-Stamos ) and their eight years old son Adam Duncan ( Cameron Bright ) composes a simple but very happy medium class family . On the day after his eighth birthday , Adam is hit and killed by a car , shaking the stability of the Duncan's family . Some days later , a mysterious doctor Richard Wells ( Robert De Niro ) approaches to the couple and proposes to make a clone of their deceased son . A new Adam is born , but after his eighth birthday , the boy has horrible nightmares and a weird behavior at school . The reproduction process hides a deep secret , which affects the life of the Duncans . " Godsend " was a great deception for me , since I expected much more from this film . The first three quarters have some flaws , but is scary and hooks the attention of the viewer . However , the conclusion of the story is horrible ! I believe that even the director Nick Hamm was not satisfied with the end of the movie , since the American DVD presents four ( 4 ) alternative endings , which one of them worse than the original commercial and moralist one . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Enviado " ( " The Envoy " )
In California , Zack ( Drew Wicks ) owns the " Breakingtime Billiards " , a store that sells pool tables and game room supplies . He works with his girlfriend Jennifer ( Nikki Stanzione ) ; the sexy seller Tara ( Nicole Rayburn ) ; the installer of pool tables and best friend , the wolf David ( Ryan Parks ) , and his idiot assistant Eddie ( Keith Alexander ) . After having a threesome arranged by Jen with Tara , Zach breaks up his relationship with Jen , in spite of her bringing him up all the time . He tells his sexual experience to David while Jen asks for an advice to her psychologist Dr . Bob Johnson ( Bart Shattuck ) in his radio show . Along the day and after the visit of many peculiar clients , Zack concludes that Jen is his dream girl . " Kisses & Caroms " is visibly inspired in Kevin Smith's " Clerks " and " American Pie " franchise , with erotic and gross jokes and situations . However , this low budget movie has an ace called Nicole Rayburn . This unknown actress is extremely sexy and attractive with her luscious body , has a good acting and is the greatest attraction of this very reasonable independent film . Title ( Brazil ) : " Kisses & Caroms "
A group of Jewish immigrants arrive in Palestine , after a travel in the vessel Kedma , to live in a kibbutz . While resting on the beach after the disembarking , British troops shoot them , and some of them escape with the support of a Jewish platoon . Sooner they are ambushed by Arabian resistance , who are trying to protect their lands against the Jewish invasion . Yesterday I saw ' Kedma ' on DVD and I confess that I was completely disappointed with this low-budget and personal movie . The back cover of the DVD and the Plot Outline of IMDb provide important information about the ' when ' the story takes place , which I have not seen in the movie . The story happens in May 1948 , shortly before the creation of the State of Israel . There is also a boring speech of one of the survivors about the fate of the Jewish people . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Kedma '
In a small village in the interior of Minas Gerais , a young priest ( Paulo José ) arrives as the substituted for Priest Antônio , who is almost dead . There , he meets the old man Fortunato ( Mário Lago ) , who is the local leader and lives with the young woman Mariana ( Helena Ignez ) as husband and wife . The priest decides to take the girl to the city of Diamantina , but they both fall in love for each other . In my opinion , the characters of this very slow movie are not well developed . The dilemma of the young priest is very clear , but the feelings of Mariana are very confused . I indeed expected much more of this story . In Brazil , this film is only available on cable television . Title ( Brazil ) : ' O Padre e a Moça ' ( ' The Priest and the Young Woman ' )
While traveling on vacation to Florida , the college friends Anderson Lee ( Jay Gillespie ) , Cory Jones ( Matthe Carey ) and Nelson Elliot ( Dylan Edrington ) meet the gorgeous Joey ( Marla Leigh Malcom ) and Kat ( Gina Marie Heekin ) in a gas station traveling with their gay friend Ricky ( Brian Gross ) to the same location . Anderson gives his phone number to Joey in Florida . The teenagers decide to take a shortcut and they find a detour through an old road leading to the Southern town of Pleasant Valley . They are welcomed by the local Mayor Buckman ( Robert Englund ) as guests of honor together with Joey , Kat , Ricky and the Afro-American biker Malcolm ( Mushond Lee ) and his Chinese girlfriend Leah ( Bianca Smith ) and invited to stay for their Guts and Glory Jubilee with free lodging , meals and booze at Granny Boone's hotel , and dancing , games and a mouth-watering barbecue in the climax of the jubilee . The group accepts the invitation but sooner they find who will supply the meat for the feast . " 2001 Maniacs " is a movie with great potential of cult , having black humor , gorgeous actresses and an excellent twist in the end . I really liked this gore film a lot , and I laugh with the witty , funny and great lines , and many of them are quoted in IMDb . Robert England is amazing in the role of the revengeful southern mayor , giving a perfect touch of humor to his sadistic and friendly character . In the end , " those who don't learn from history are doomed to repeat it " . Title ( Brazil ) : " 2001 Maníacos " ( " 2001 Maniacs " )
In Houston , the teenager Jeremy Capello ( Robert Sean Leonard ) is a normal middle-class boy , who lives with his beloved parents and has Ralph as his best friend . He has a crush on Darla Blake ( Cheryl Pollak ) , but he is shy and does not date her . He works making deliveries for a supermarket and is seduced by his sexy client Nora ( Cecilia Peck ) . While having his first intercourse with her , Jeremy is transformed in a vampire . His friend Ralph is mistakenly chased by two weird vampire hunters , Prof . Leopold McCarthy ( David Warner ) and his assistant Grimsdyke ( Paul Wilson ) , that believe he is a creature of the night . Meanwhile , Jeremy learns how to use his new powers with Modoc ( Rene Auberjonois ) , and falls definitively in love for Darla . " My Best Friend Is a Vampire " is a delightful teen comedy . Having a funny story with many jokes and a beautiful cast , this movie makes the viewer feels lighter and happier , being and excellent entertainment . The amazing beauty of Cheryl Pollak , and the chemistry with Robert Sean Leonard , is another attraction . Title ( Brazil ) : " Meu Adorável Vampiro " ( " My Adorable Vampire " )
In a small town nearby a nuclear power facility , the chaste Dawn ( Jess Weixler ) is raised with her dysfunctional stepbrother Brad ( John Hensley ) by her mother that is sick and her stepfather . Once in high school , she participates of a meeting called " The Promise O " that preaches purity and virginity for the members . When the newcomer Tobey ( Hale Appleman ) arrives in town , the naive Dawn feels that he is her soul mate and stays close to him . The proximity becomes attraction and Tobey does not control his hormones and forces Dawn to have intercourse with him in a cave in an isolated lake . However , he is castrated by her vagina and vanishes in the lake . The desperate Dawn runs to the library and discovers that she has the mythical " Vagina Dentata " and only a hero can rescue her . " Teeth " is one of the most refreshing horror tales that I have recently seen . The story of a chaste teenager that finds that she has a " Vagina Dentata " is simply hilarious and surrealistic . The legend does really exist , and in accordance with the Wikipedia ( http en wikipedia org wiki Vagina dentata ) " various cultures have folk tales about women with toothed vaginas , frequently told as cautionary tales warning of the dangers of sex with strange women and to discourage the act of rape " . There could be also a subtle interpretation that could be the difficulty of Dawn to self-adjust to the womanhood , but I believe the intention of the author was simply uses the myth to make a gem of dark humor . The beauty of the sweet Jess Weixler is awesome . Title ( Brazil ) : Not available
Three small time crooks robber a museum and after a shooting with the guards , one of them dies , the other one is wounded and the last one , Morgana ( the gorgeous Holly Fields ) survives and accidentally releases the evil Djinn ( Andrew Divoff ) from a stone . Djinn assumes a human form as Nathaniel Demerest , takes the blame for the crime and is sent to prison , where he intends to collect one thousand and one ( 1001 ) souls . In accordance with the prophecy , after Djinn accomplishes his intent , Morgana shall ask him for three wishes . Then , his race will domain earth , destroying human race . Morgana and her friend , Father Gregory ( Paul Johansson ) , try to avoid Nathaniel to be successful in his objective . This sequel was a great surprise for me , since I did not expect such a good story without the name of Wes Craven in the credits . Further , the beauty of Holly Fields , with lips that recall Liv Tyler's , is impressive . A good entertainment , combining humor , horror and special effects , unfortunately underrated in IMDB User Rating . Title ( Brazil ) : ' O Mestre dos Desejos 2 ' ( ' The Wishmaster 2 ' )
The Irish hit-men Ken ( Brendan Gleeson ) and Ray ( Colin Farrell ) are sent by the Londoner mobster Harry Waters ( Ralph Fiennes ) to the medieval Belgium city of Bruges in Christmas after an awry job in London . Ray , in his first assignment , was sent to murder a priest ( Ciarán Hinds ) in a church , and he accidentally shot also a boy on the head . While Ken enjoys the historic city , Ray , who is in inner conflict due to the death of the boy , feels completely bored and misses his home . Ray meets the smalltime drug-dealer and crook Chloë ( Clémence Poésy ) , who sells drug to the cast and crew of a movie that is filmed in Bruges , and has an incident with a Canadian tourist and later with Chloë's boyfriend . Meanwhile Harry , who has an stringent code of principles , orders Ken to kill his protégée Ray . " In Bruges " is a dramatic and violent comedy with the famous British dark humor at best . The flawed characters are charismatic and weird : two hit-men , one of them in existential crisis ; a mobster lord with a code of principles ; a drug-dealer ; an American dwarf star of a movie ; a clumsy crook ; a stressed Canadian tourist are the lead components of this sarcastic story , associated to witty dialogs , with many jokes and irony , and unusual situations . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
In Lawrence Ville , the poor student of University Colby Alicia Campbell ( Mia Kirshner ) , had an overdose and is in coma in the intensive care unit of the local hospital . Sheriff Artie Bonner ( Taye Diggs ) is called by the Dean ( Edmund J . Kearney ) and intimidated to carry out a shallow and discreet investigation , since the school is very dependent of the wealthy families of the riches students , and a scandal would jeopardize its reputation and consequently its income . The mother of Alicia , Connie Campbell ( Glynnis O'Connor ) , is blaming her new upper class friends of drugging her daughter . Hadley Ashton ( Meredith Monroe ) , Sidney Connors ( Dominique ' Lolita ' Swan ) , Julianne McDowell Levinson ( Rachel True ) and Trevor ( Scott Bairstow ) have become her friend a few time ago , and Alicia was seduced by the ' world of the rich people ' . Through interviews and investigation of the manipulative students , Sheriff Bonner discovers the truth . I liked this amoral movie . The screenplay is intriguing and the story is presented in pieces through flashbacks along the investigation of Artie Bonner . In the end , none of the characters is really like we supposed they were . The problem with this movie is the age of the lead actresses . It is very hard to believe that , women of about thirty years old in real life can really play the roles of young women . Anyway , it is a good entertainment . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Perversas Intenções ' ( ' Wicked Intentions ' )
The Enterprise finds three different phenomena to research : a supernova ; three neutron stars ; and a pre-industrial planet with 500 million people . T'Pol is against the exploration of the Akaali planet fearing cultural contamination , but when she scans the Minshara-class planet , she finds a powerful antimatter reactor hidden underground emitting neutrino . Archer , T'Pol , Trip and Hoshi use makeup to resemble the locals and travel to the planet . They meet the pharmacologist Riann and discover that several Akaali have been sick after the arrival of Garos , the owner of an antique shop . Their further investigation discloses that the aggressive race of the Malurians is exploring minerals in the underground , jeopardizing the health of the Akaalis . In " Civilization " , once again Archer uses curiosity against the logic of T'Pol , ignoring her wise advice . However , the menace of the Malurians justifies their action like sheriff and interference in the development of the planet . T'Pol also proves that is a great strategist , using the reactor to defeat the enemy . Archer acts like Captain Kirk , having a first and second contact through a brief romance with Riann . Title ( Brazil ) : " Civilização " ( " Civilization " )
While investigating an abandoned Xindi ship on the surface of a planet in the Delphic Expanse , Archer , Reed , Sato and T'Pol are infected with a virus and are transformed in aliens . T'Pol keeps her memory and language , and using the translator , she understands that their mates are seeking the city Urquat . Meanwhile , the Enterprise is under siege of two alien ships with teams of exterminators that want to " neutralize " the infected crew to prevent an outbreak of the virus while Phlox researches the cure using the DNA of T'Pol . In " Extinction " , there is a break in the non-stop action of the other three episodes and Archer , Reed , Sato are transformed in obsessive aliens by a mysterious laboratory virus that changes the DNA of other races to the one that is near extinction without capability of breeding , while the Vulcan T'Pol is only partially transformed . I did not find anything special in this episode . Title ( Brazil ) : " Extinção " ( " Extinction " )
General Krantz tells Lincoln that the price of Michael's surgery is the safe return of Scylla . Lincoln tortures T-Bag to find the location where Self and Gretchen will deal with the buyer ; after losing two teeth , T-Bag tells that the meeting will be in Arlington Pier at 3 : 00 PM . Lincoln and Sucre head to the place , but Rita calls Gretchen and tells that the Company abducted T-Bag . When they arrive , Self and Gretchen have already gone . Sara stays with Michael and she does not recognize the equipment and the procedure in the surgery room , but the doctor informs that it is a state-of-art technique . In a blink of eyes , Michael meets Charles in Fox River , and he asks for his forgiveness . Charles advises that things are not like they seem to be , and Michael tries to find the true meaning of his words and the word Bargain on the wall . Meanwhile Mahone asks to go to the bathroom and the reluctant Wheeler finally stops the car . Mahone steals a pipe and jumps from Wheeler's car after shattering the window . He is chased by Agent Lang and Wheeler , and Lang covers his escape in the end . The Company tracks Gretchen's call in her cellular , but when Lincoln and Sucre arrive , the buyer escapes with Scylla and they capture Self and Gretchen . Michael deciphers that Scylla is not a black book with the past of The Company , but a secret of power and The Company is actually protecting the future . Lincoln discovers that his mother also worked for The Company and splits with Michael in the name of the " family business " . " Prison Break " is literally going under in this Season . The shows are no longer engaging like they were in the past , and the plot has no where to go and not everything is like it seems anymore . The possibility of Lincoln working with Gretchen , Self and T-Bag is too much for me . My deception with this Fourth Season is increasing after each episode , and I hope the author Paul Scheuring does give the same fate of " Lost " to this series . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
In San Francisco , a Caucasian family pressed by the real estate speculation , moves to Hunter's Point , an Afro-American neighborhood ruled by the V-Dub gang and the son Nick Wade ( Ben Crowley ) faces problem with the violent gangsters . However , the drug dealer K-Luv ( Anthony Mackie ) decides to bootleg CDs and get close to Nick , protecting him . Meanwhile , the Chinese collector Lincoln Ma ( Ken Leung ) is blackmailed by the owner of a restaurant and he executes him , falling in disgrace with his mobster boss . The lives of Nick , K-Luv and Lincoln are entwined when the drug lord Sleepy ( Darris Love ) protects a rapper against the Chinese piracy of his CD . " Sucker Free City " is a good movie about dangerous Chinese and Afro-American gangs in the streets of San Francisco . The film has good moments , is very realistic and it is impressive the scene when Little-O is executed . The inconclusive ending is a little disappointing , but none of the lead characters deserved redemption , therefore life goes on . Title ( Brazil ) : " Código das Ruas " ( " Code of the Streets " )
During the funeral mass of Elwyn ( George Zucco ) , the local Kate ( Fern Emmett ) accuses him of evilness . Later , his brother Dr . Lloyd Clayton ( George Zucco ) and tutor of his niece Gayle Clayton ( Mary Carlisle ) tells her and her fiancé Dr . David Bently ( Nedrick Young ) that his brother has become obsessed by mysticism and black magic since he traveled to India . During the night , Elwyn comes to Dr . Lloyd Clayton's house and accuses Dr . Clayton of pushing him in a cliff to die . Further , he tells Dr . Clayton that he will revenge , slowly killing Gayle and transforming her in a vampire . Dr . Clayton does not believe in what he has seen and heard , but when Gayle gets mysteriously sick and Dr . Clayton becomes the prime suspect of David and the locals , he finally accepts that his brother is a vampire and tries to find his coffin to destroy him . " Dead Man Walk " is a creepy low-budget vampire movie visibly inspired in " Dracula " , with a good story and acting . The cinematography of the DVD that I watched is a kind of blurred in the scenes in the cemetery , maybe because of a lighting problem in the shot , but the story is told in a dark atmosphere and I liked this underrated film . George Zucco has great performance in his double role . Title ( Brazil ) : " Mortos Que Andam " ( " Dead That Walk " )
In Burnaby , Nick Powell ( Justin Chatwin ) is an excellent high-school student that raises money selling homeworks and results of quizzes to his schoolmates . He aims to travel secretly London to have a course of writer and he tells his best friend is Pete Egan ( Chris Marquette ) that he has already bought the airplane ticket but he has not told to his mother yet . Meanwhile the punk and smalltime thief Annie Newton ( Margarita Levieva ) has a problem with Pete , who owes money to her . Nick pays the debts of his friend and the angry Annie attacks Nick in the messroom . In the night , Annie and her boyfriend Marcus Bohem ( Alex O'Loughlin ) that is in parole rob a car and Annie breaks a jewelry window and steals the exposed jewels . When Annie tells Marcus that she will not share her theft , he anonymously denounces Annie to the police . The police go to the high-school and open Annie's locker , and the girl assumes that Pete has rat her . Later Annie and her gang attack Pete and the coward teenager to protect himself tells that actually Nick has called the police ; then the raged trio chases Nick and beats him to death , dumping his body in a sewer . On the next morning , Nick goes to school and finds that he is actually a spirit , invisible for people . Further , he tries to communicate with the living to find his body since he is still alive . " The Invisible " has a promising original idea of a spirit in limbo while his body is in coma . The beginning of this movie is excellent and without clichés and developed in an adequate pace and good development of characters . However , the writer in a certain moment wastes the plot with a corny and implausible romantic situation . How could a handsome teenager that has no problem with girls fall in love for the girl that tried to kill him a couple of days ago ? This dull situation really spoiled the movie since it is not believable . Pete is one of the most despicable characters I have recently seen in a movie . At least , the writer gives a decent conclusion in the end and Annie has the deserved fate . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Invisível " ( " The Invisible " )
While inspecting the sewage system of London , two workers are attacked by a weird creature . Later , Kate ( Franka Potente ) , decides to leave a party trying to meet the actor George Clooney that is in London . She waits for the last subway train , but after drinking many alcoholic beverages , she takes a nap on the platform bench losing the train and being trapped in the closed subway station . Later , a train going to the yard passes she gets and she meets her acquaintance Guy ( Jeremy Sheffield ) , who tries to rape her in the wagon . Guy is hardly attacked by the creature , and Kate escapes through the tunnel . This is the beginning of her claustrophobic , scary and gore night running through the underground of London . " Creep " is a good horror movie . The story is scary , the eerie creature is horrible , his screams are frightening and I believe that the fans of the genre will like this flick . It is not possible to feel empathy for the character of Franka Potente , which is very arrogant . Further , her yellow dress is absolutely awful , but at least exposes her beautiful legs . Title ( Brazil ) : " Plataforma do Medo " ( " Platform of the Fear " )
After the suicide of his wife , the psychiatrist Dr . David Callaway ( Robert De Niro ) decides to move with his traumatized daughter Emily ( Dakota Fanning ) from New York to the country to give more attention to her . In their huge old house , Emily finds a new and violent invisible friend called Charlie , making David very concerned with her mental state . " Hide and Seek " is a good , but predictable thriller . Dakota Fanning has another outstanding performance , on the contrary of in the just-released " War of the Worlds " , where she is histrionic . Robert De Niro is too old to act as the father of Emily , but in the end , this movie is enjoyable . The DVD shows three alternative ends , and there is a very dark one , which is excellent , with Emily in an institution . Unfortunately , the commercial end prevails and becomes the " official " conclusion of the movie . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Amigo Oculto " ( The Hidden Friend " )
While in her deathbed , Ann Lord ( Vanessa Redgrave ) repeats the name " Harris " and recalls the day on the 50's when she was an aspirant singer and traveled from New York to be the maid of honor of her wealthy friend Lila Wittenborn ( Mamie Gummer ) in Newport . Ann Grant ( Claire Danes ) is welcomed by Lila's alcoholic and reckless brother Buddy ( Hugh Dancy ) in the Wittenborn's cottage at seaside and he tells her that his sister is in love actually for their friend and servant Harris Arden ( Patrick Wilson ) , who fought in the war and has graduated in medicine . Later the bride-to-be confesses her true feelings about Harris to Ann . However , when Ann meets Harris , she has a crush on him and they have a brief affair during one night stand while a tragedy happens with Buddy . Meanwhile Ann's daughters , the insecure and unstable Nina Mars ( Toni Collette ) and the happy wife and mother Constance Haverford ( Natasha Richardson ) , are worried with their mother and have differences to be resolved . " Evening " has one of the best feminine casts I have ever seen in a movie , with magnificent performances . The resemblance of the stunning Mamie Gummer with her mother Meryl Streep is amazing and she has a performance that honors the name of her mother . The locations , costumes , set decoration , cinematography and soundtrack are also awesome . Unfortunately the plot is confused and I have not clearly understood the message of this film . Why motherhood is so important in the story ? Was Constance engendered in the night stand of Ann and Harris and he would be her father ? Why Ann and Harris have not stayed together , if the guy really loved her like he confesses in their occasional encounter in New York ? Which issues Ann Lord has resolved after the visit of Lila Ross ? Was Buddy Wittenborn bisexual or his love for Harris was a fraternal love ? Why Nina Mars changed her thoughts about motherhood in the end ? It seems that the screenplay writers or the director failed since they were not able to make sense and fulfillment to the beautiful love story . Title ( Brazil ) : " Ao Entardecer " ( " In the Eventide " )
In the country of Drees County , the widow hard worker John Munn ( Dermot Mulroney ) lives in a simple rural isolated property with his rebel and troubled son Chris ( Jamie Bell ) and his sick son Tin ( Devon Alan ) and no friends . When his brother Deel Munn ( Josh Lucas ) unexpectedly arrives in his house on probation , John welcomes him . However , the real intentions of Deel lead the family to a tragedy , forcing the boys to leave home . " Undertow " is a low paced movie , with a short story , great development of characters and excellent performances . There are no big surprises along the story and in spite of the introduction of the film inducing that it is based on a true event , I have not found any reference in Internet about this murder . Title ( Brazil ) : " Contra Corrente " ( " Undertow " )
Yesterday I saw this documentary of the Sixth Nazi Party Congress in 1934 for the first time , and I was visually very impressed with the images . The grandiose and powerful scenarios where the Nazis parades and speeches happen are amazing . Everywhere the viewer looks are huge places , with the crowd worshiping Hitler , as if they were hypnotized . The quality of the images is also amazing for a 1934 shooting . The director Leni Riefenstahl was accused of making propaganda for the Nazis and I am not sure whether she was absolved or not of these accusations , but in IMDb biography I noted that she stayed from 1954 to 2002 without making any film . This movie is mostly recommended for students , since for a regular viewer it becomes boring after 114 minutes running time . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Triunfo da Vontade " ( " The Triumph of the Will " )
In England , the Pakistanis Yasmin ( Archie Panjabi ) lives two lives in two different worlds : in her community , she wears Muslin clothes , cooks for her father and brother and has the traditional behavior of a Muslin woman . Further , she has a non-consumed marriage with the illegal immigrant Faysal to facilitate the British stamp in his passport , and then divorce him . In her job , she changes her clothes and wears like a Westerner , is considered a standard employee and has a good Caucasian friend who likes her . After the September , 11th , the prejudice in her job and the treatment of common people makes her take side and change her life . " Yasmin " is a powerful drama that exposes the tough life of Muslin immigrants in England after the terrorist attack of September , 11th . The story is very real and well acted , and shows the difficult situation of simple people that suddenly are hated , submitted to interracial intolerance , injustice and prejudice , just because of a group of religious fanatics , causing a generalization of worldwide hate . Title ( Brazil ) : " Yasmin - Uma Mulher , Dois Mundos " ( " Yasmin , A Woman , Two Worlds " )
While grieving her husband in a cemetery , a widow meets a smart widower and tells him that she has inherited a large amount of money from her husband . The small time crook convinces her to go to a beauty shop and he moves to her apartment , going to parties , theaters , restaurants and casinos with her . The widow brings her son Carlinhos ( Oscarito ) , who lives in a mental institution , to live with them . " Tristezas Não Pagam Dívidas " is a funny Brazilian musical comedy called " chanchada " , written and directed by Ruy Costa . This very common type of movie in the 40s has great technical limitations and usually is a silly storyline prepared for many songs sing by the popular Brazilian radio singers of the 40s . The original running time of " Tristezas Não Pagam Dívidas " was about 100 minutes , but only 43 minutes survived , therefore it is quite difficult to understand some parts of the story . Title ( Brazil ) : " Tristezas Não Pagam Dívidas " ( " Sadnesses Do not Pay Debts " )
In Montreal , the middle age thief Marcel Talon ( Michel Coté ) has spent a great part of his life in prison . When he leaves his confinement on probation , he promises to his beloved girlfriend Magdeleine " Maggy " Fortin ( Marie France Marcotte ) that he will find an honest job and have a decent life with her . Indeed Marcel has schemed the greatest heist to a bank ever happened in Canada , and he joins his old friend Fred Giguère ( Jean Lapointe ) and his non-reliable pal Smiley ( Christopher Heyerdahl ) and proposes to dig a long tunnel underground Montreal along the sewers for three months to reach the cellar of the Montral Bank . Fred's grandson and a friend of Smiley join the gang and along the robbery , an unexpected betrayal of his accomplices Smiley and Savard destroy the retirement plan of Marcel . " Le Dernier Tunnel " is a very good movie based on a true heist of Montreal Bank called " the heist of the century " . The realistic dramatic and suspenseful story of loyalty and betrayal has excellent performances and direction and is a great entertainment . I have never heard anything about this robbery , but this unknown little gem deserves to be discovered by fans of the genre . The shameful DVD released in Brazil does not offer the option of the original audio in French , only in English or Portuguese . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Último Túnel " ( " The Last Tunnel " )
In New York , when the shy and lonely project manager of a design firm Matt Saunders ( Luke Wilson ) meets Jenny Johnson ( Uma Thurman ) in the subway , he invites her to date and have dinner with him . Jenny immediately falls in love for him , they have sex and she discloses her true identity to him , telling that she is the powerful superhero G-Girl . After meeting his co-worker and friend Hannah Lewis ( Anna Faris ) , the needy Jenny becomes jealous , controlling and manipulative , and Matt follows the advice of his best friend Vaughn Haige ( Rainn Wilson ) and dumps her , breaking her heart . Jenny turns Matt's life into hell , while he has a romance with Hannah . However , the archenemy of G-Girl and former high school sweetheart of Jenny , Professor Bedlam ( Eddie Izzard ) , proposes Matt to lure Jenny to strip her superpowers . " My Super Ex-Girlfriend " is delightfully silly and funny . This romantic comedy-adventure has many hilarious moments and is very entertaining . Luke Wilson is great in the role of an idiot , Anna Farris is extremely sexy as usual , and Uma Thurman is great in the role of a deranged neurotic superhero that recalls Glenn Close in " Fatal Attraction " or Evelyn Draper in " Play Misty For Me " . Title ( Brazil ) : " Minha Super Ex-Namorada " ( " My Super Ex-Girlfriend " )
Six months after the suicide of her twin sister Sofie ( Elisabeth Harnois ) , Megan ( Elisabeth Harnois ) still grieves her death and misses her beloved sister . In the Saint John's Eve , Megan travels with her friends Christian ( Shawn Ashmore ) , Zoe ( Amanda Seyfried ) , Mark ( Matt O'Leary ) and Alicia ( Hilarie Burton ) to her family's house in Nowell Lake , Louisiana , to celebrate the summer solstice . While shopping supplies in a local store , Megan befriends the seller Nick ( Tyler Hoechlin ) and buys a magazine with an article about communication with the dead in the summer solstice , the time of year when there is the greatest length of daylight . While in her house , Megan is haunted by a spirit that she believes is Sofie trying to communicate with her . In her investigation , she suspects of the weird hick Leonard ( R . Lee Ermey ) and while snooping in his house , she finds the picture of the missing girl Malin ( Jenna Hildebrand ) and unravels a dark secret about the suicide of her sister . The low-budget " Solstice " was a great surprise with a consistent story , solid screenplay and good acting . The original story startles in many moments without gore , and the young team of gorgeous actresses and handsome actors has great performances . I was expecting to see another slasher teen horror movie and found a pleasant surprise . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
In New York , the painter Reno Miller ( Abel Ferrara ) shares a loft with his girlfriend Carol ( Carolyn Marz ) , who left her husband Stephen , and their roommate Pamela ( Baybi Day ) . Reno is having difficulties to pay his bills , while is obsessed painting his masterpiece , a buffalo with a hypnotic eye . When a punk band moves to his building playing day and night , Reno cannot sleep and drives insane , going to the streets with a driller , killing homeless derelicts . When the art dealer calls his painting a mockery , and Carol returns to her husband , leaving him alone , Reno goes totally mad . " The Driller Killer " is polemic , forbidden in England in the 80's , but it is a good low budget slash movie . The red color very alive prevails in most of the scenes , and together with the nervous camera , provoke a sort of discomfort sensation in the viewer . The characters and the insanity process of Reno are very well constructed , and the story also captures the punk wave of that moment in New York . There is a good and worth explanation for the church scene in the beginning of the movie in IMDb Message Board written by SyZombieLoserKid . Although indicated for specific audiences , " The Driller Killer " is a good film . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Assassino da Furadeira " ( " The Driller Killer " )
In the French Riviera , the spoiled and futile seventeen years old girl Cecile ( Jean Seberg ) is spending the summer vacation with her father , the widow playboy and bon-vivant Raymond ( David Niven ) , and his girlfriend Elsa ( Mylène Demongeot ) . Cecile has a serious Complex of Oedipus with her father , and they have a quite incestuous relationship . The successful designer and former friend of her mother Anne Larson ( Deborah Kerr ) arrives in their seaside house invited by Raymond to spend a couple of days with them , and the life of Cecile changes when Raymond proposes Anne to marry him . Full of jealous , Cecile plots with Elsa to separate Anne from Raymond . " Bonjour Tristesse " is a film that became very dated , but it is still enjoyable , mostly because of Jean Seberg , who is amazingly perfect in her role , and the charming cast . The direction of Otto Preminger is very precise , as usual , using the black and white to picture the present and colors for the past . Jean Seberg , Debora Kerr and Mylène Demongeot are extremely beautiful and David Niven is great in the role of a silly millionaire with no other preoccupation but women and entertainment . In the present days , it can be clearly seem that the story shows , but does not emphasizes , an incestuous relationship between Cecile and Raymond . The costumes of Givenchy and the Cartier jewelries glitter the colored part of the movie . Title ( Brazil ) : " Bom Dia Tristeza " ( " Good Morning Sadness " )
After the lecture of a poem to a group of bored students , the alcoholic and sex addicted poet Charles Serking ( Ben Gazzara ) meets a young girl in the backstage and caresses her breasts . Then he travels to Los Angeles , and has kinky sex with bizarre women . When Charles meets the gorgeous self-destructive prostitute Cass ( Ornella Muti ) in a bar , he finds his soul mate and falls in love for her . Marco Ferreri is one of the weirdest directors that I know , and this " Storie di Ordinaria Follia " gives a perfect theme for him to make a good movie about of two self-destructive souls . I do not know the work of the underground poet Charles Bukowski , and actually I just know a little about his biography based on the movie " Factotum " that I hated . But in " Storie di Ordinaria Follia " , Ornella Muti is on the top of her awesome beauty and her performance in the role of a tormented character is impressive . Ben Gazzara has also a stunning performance in the role of Charles Serking , a man near to madness that survives drinking booze and having dirty sex . However , this movie is only recommended for very specific audiences . Title ( Brazil ) : " Crônicas de um Amor Louco " ( " Chronicles of a Crazy Love " )
In 2223 , Zed ( Sean Connery ) is a kind of priest of a new religion : he terminates with the brutals . This ' new religion ' of admirers of Zardoz controls the society simply killing the so-called ' brutals ' . The confused plot is presented in flashbacks , so any comment may be a spoiler . Therefore it is better off not make additional comments . Watching Zardoz in 2003 sounds strange . This low budget B-movie was made 1974 , when the world have the ' Peace and Love ' generation , the remake of ' Lost Horizon ' one year before , ' Logan's Run ' two years later and ' Hair ' some five years later . In 2003 , Zardoz is aged , but twenty-nine years ago it was a cult movie in close touch with the pop culture of that moment .
The old man and former senator João Gaspar ( Walmor Chagas ) tells his romance with Luz Del Fuego ( Lucélia Santos ) to his nurse , while traveling to the " Ilha do Sol " ( " Island of the Sun " ) in a boat . In the end of the forties , he meets the show-girl Luz del Fuego , who becomes his lover . Ahead of time , she shocks the conservative Catholic Brazilian society with her costumes of being naked most of the time , and when she moves to the " Ilha do Sol " , a property of her own , it became a nudism colony . This movie was awarded in Gramado Festival , and Lucélia Santos has an amazing performance , being very natural naked most of the time and dancing with snakes . The story omits many parts of the biography of Luz del Fuego , highlighting her mostly as a low-level woman , and explores the beautiful body of Lucélia Santos . However , in accordance information of the site : http aolliver vilabol uol com br luzdelfuego html ( written in Portuguese ) , Luz del Fuego was born on 21 February 1917 , with the name of Dora Vivacqua , in Cachoeiro do Itapemirim ( ES ) . In 1944 , she began her artistic career with the company of two snakes , " Cornélio e Castorina " , working in " Circo Pavilhão Azul " ( " Blue Flag Circus " ) , with the artistic name of " Luz Divina " . In 1947 , she changed her name to the foreign artistic name of " Luz del Fuego " , following the advice of her friend , the clown " Cascudo " , expecting to attract a greater public . Later , she was hired by the owners of the theater " Follies " . Luz del Fuego was an ecologist and naturalist , in a period when these themes were not discussed by the Brazilian society . In 1950 , she opened the first nudity colony of the Latin American in the Ilha do Sol ( " Island of the Sun " ) , in São Gonçalo . She wrote two books : " Trágico Black Out " ( " Tragic Black-Out " , in 1947 ) and " Verdade Nua " ( " Naked Truth " , in 1950 ) . Part of her profits with these books were donated to charity institution . The famous Ilha do Sol hosted many international vips , such as Errol Flynn , Ava Garden , Tyrone Powel , Brigite Bardot , Steve MacQueen , César Romeno , Laura Turner and Gleen Ford . On 19 July 1967 , Luz del Fuego was murdered by Alfredo Teixeira Dias and Mozart . In 1982 , the pictures of Lucélia Santos in this film was the front page and the centerfold of the Brazilian edition of Playboy magazine . Further , it is worthwhile watching this movie . Title ( Brazil ) : " Luz Del Fuego "
The witch Isabel Bigelow ( Nicole Kidman ) arrives in California with the objective of having a normal life without spells . Meanwhile , in Hollywood , the egocentric actor Jack Wyatt ( Will Ferrell ) is trying to retrieve his former prestige in the cinema industry playing Darrin in a remake of the successful TV Series " Bewitched " . When Jack meets Isabel by chance and sees her moving her nose , he immediately decides to invite her to perform Samantha . His second intention is to cast an unknown actress and overshadow her performance . When Isabel finds his real intention , she becomes upset and her aunt puts a hex on Jack . But Isabel is in love with Jack and decides to tell him the truth about her . I heard many bad reviews of " Bewitched " but a friend of mine convinced me to give a chance to this movie and watch it . I really liked this delightful entertainment . The story is not a remake of " Bewitched " , indeed it is great homage to this wonderful TV Series . Nicole Kidman is very beautiful and seems to feel pleasure in making this movie , with a sweet performance . Will Ferrell is funny and suits perfectly to the role of the self-centered and selfish Jack . Michael Caine and Shirley MacLaine are excellent as usual in their small parts . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Feiticeira " ( " The Witch " )
Ana ( Geraldine Chaplin ) is alive and married with Antonio ( Norman Briski ) ; they arrive in the manor in the countryside of Spain where she worked as a nanny many years ago , for the centennial birthday of the matriarch ( Rafaela Aparicio ) . In their reunion , she finds that Jose died three years ago ; Juan ( José Vivó ) left his wife Luchy ( Charo Soriano ) ; Fernando ( Fernando Fernán Gómez ) is still living with his mother and unsuccessfully trying to fly a hang glider ; and the three little girls are grown-up . Further , she discovers that the dysfunctional family is completely broken , and Luchy in embezzling mother's money . When Juan arrives for the celebration , he plots with Fernando and Luchy to kill the mother to get the inheritance . Meanwhile , Antonio has a brief affair with Natalia ( Amparo Muñoz ) . " Mamá Cumple Cien Años " is a surrealistic dark comedy that uses the characters of " Ana y los Lobos " and Antonio from " Elisa , Vida Mía " . Again , Carlos Saura uses a political allegory with his characters : the omnipresent and omnipotent mother is still the old Spain ; however , the children have grown , Lucy becomes a greedy woman and Juan is gone . Further , she is betrayed by her beloved sons . There are certainly many other political elements for those familiarized with the Spanish history . The beauty of the former Miss Spain ( 1973 ) and Miss Universe ( 1974 ) Amparo Muñoz is astonishing . Title ( Brazil ) : " Mamãe Faz 100 Anos " ( " Mother is 100 Year Old " )
On 15 January 1949 , the former music teacher Clément Mathieu ( Gérard Jugnot ) arrives in " Fond de l ' Etang " ( " Bottom of the Well " ) , a boarding school for orphans and problematic boys , to work as an inspector . The place is administrated with iron fist by the cruel director Rachin ( François Berléand ) , and most of the boys have severe punishments for their faults . Clément decides to teach the boys to sing in a choir in their spare time , and identify the musical potential of the rebel Pierre Morhange ( Jean-Baptiste Maunier ) , the son of a beautiful single mother for whom he feels a crush . He also has a special feeling for the young Pépinot ( Maxence Perrin ) , a boy that expects the visit of his father every Saturday near the gate , but indeed lost his parents in the war . With his methods , Clément changes the lives of the boys , of the other employees and his own . " Les Choristes " is a very simple , but also sensitive movie . I personally like both of the central themes , teaching and music , and this delightful movie was very special for me . This beautiful feel-good story is disclosed in a perfect pace , with great performances of the cast , and with a wonderful surprising twist practically in the last scene as if it were a fairy-tale . The songs are adorable and I recommend this movie to viewers that like a simple , touching and very real story . My last advice is to keep a handkerchief close to you for the last heartbreaking scene . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Voz do Coração " ( " The Voice of the Heart " )
Lincoln tries to find a clue in Whistler's bird guide in his hotel room ; when he sees an envelope with pictures of LJ and Sara underneath his door ; he tries to find the carrier but meets Sucre instead . Lincoln visits Michael on the next morning and shows the picture of Sara , where she seems to be pointing to some hint of her location . Michael requests a phone to call Sara . Sofia Lugo visits her boyfriend Whistler and finds the address of Lincoln in the visitors list . Mahone is wandering in Sona needy of Viratril ; when the public defender Raul visits him and tells that his trial is scheduled on the next year ; Mahone demands the medication and Raul refuses to get it . Michael blackmails T-Bag , threatening to disclose that he is a rapist and pedophile to Lechero ; T-Bag gets the cell phone and later he distracts the crime lord permitting Michael to return it to the charger . Lechero discuss with his partner Augusto that somebody is stealing his business ; later T-Bag intrigues Lechero against Sammy . Sofia meets Lincoln and he tells that they are in the same side . He finds the hideout in the red light district where Sara and LJ are hidden , but he arrives late in the place . Whistler , who claims to be a fisherman , talks to Mahone seeking information about Michael . In this third episode , Lincoln finds his son and Sara , but he does not succeed in rescuing them . Michael is plotting a means to escape from Sona , and apparently he noted that dead bodies are taken to the outside . The tricky T-Bag is falling under the grace of Lechero , and he seems that will get rid off Sammy . The secret about Whistler and the interest of the Company on him is intriguing . What is the content of the box left in the garage by Susan ? Title ( Brazil ) : " O Telefonema " ( " The Phone Call " )
When Lechero , T-Bag and Bellick run to the fence , they are captured by the guards . However , this was the real plan of Michael that waits with Whistler , Mahone and McGrady the exact moment to leave the hideout . When Bellick shows the tunnel , the quartet breaks-out Sona , meeting with Lincoln on the beach , where Whistler notes that he lost the book with the coordinates . They use breathing apparatuses and swim underwater to a buoy , waiting for Sucre . However their fellow is cuffed to a file drawer in Sona . But McGrady's father finds the boat 312 moored in the marina and he rescues the escapees . McGrady follows with his father , while the car of Lincoln and the fugitives is chased by Gretchen's men . However they find the GPS in Whistler's watch and they lure the gangsters in a shootout later . When Sucre is released in Sona , T-Bag sees him and discloses his identity to the guards . Meanwhile , Mahone says goodbye and Whistler escapes from Michael and Lincoln , leaving them with nothing for a negotiation with Gretchen . The escape of Michael and the other inmates , luring the scumbags , is the engaging part of this show . However , the attitude of Whistler leaving the brothers and not having the coordinates by heart is disappointing . The coincidence of T-Bag seeing Sucre in Sona during the torture session is also a forced situation . Title ( Brazil ) : " Inferno ou Alto Mar " ( " Hell or Deep Sea " )
The Enterprise receives a distress call from a Retellian cargo vessel and the crew tells Captain Archer that they have problem with the life support system of an alien that is transported in a cocoon . Trip goes to the alien ship to repair the system while Goff and Plinn come to Enterprise to have a shower and meal . Trip sees a beautiful woman in the cocoon that suddenly wakes-up , and Trip tries to help her to leave the spot . However , Trip is attacked by Goff , who leaves Plinn in the Enterprise and escapes with Trip and the woman . She introduces herself to Trip as Kaitaama , the First Monarch of Krios Prime , and she tells that she had been abducted by the Retellians that asked for a ransom . Trip decides to escape in the pod and convinces Kaitaama to come with him . " Precious Cargo " is a funny episode , and Trip recalled me Captain Kirk from " Star Trek " again , seducing another female alien . The unpleasant character of the gorgeous Padma Lakshmi actually did not need a consultation with Dr . Phlox to relieve her sexual tension with the presence of Trip . The Retellian Goff is easily lured by Archer and T'Pol , but I liked this episode . Title ( Brazil ) : " Carga Preciosa " ( " Precious Cargo " )
I watch many movies , but presently my genre number one is Asian horror . I have just bought this DVD and I initially found " Janghwa , Hongryeon " an intriguing but confused film , since I had not understood many parts of the story . But I saw in IMDb Board a message titled " Explanation of a Masterpiece ( all your questions answered ) Faster load " , written by opiemar , and I was really impressed with the high quality of the explanations this user provided to viewers like me that missed points of the story . I would like to congratulate opiemar for his excellent work and suggest him to write a correct summary of this movie in IMDb to help and guide other viewers . In the end , I agree that " Janghwa , Hongryeon " is a great Korean film , but I do not give ten in my vote because very few people can afford to see the same movie more than once , like this film demands , and without the great support of opiemar , I would not be able to understand the story as a whole . I intend to see this movie again in a near future . Title ( Brazil ) : " Medo " ( " Fear " )
The Enterprises manages to arrive on the schedule for the meeting with Degra , and Captain Archer invites Degra and Jannar to come on board of the damaged Enterprise to show evidences that the Xindi are being manipulated by the trans-dimensional builders of the spheres , and Degra becomes impressed with the evidences . Meanwhile Archer assigns Trip to write a letter to the parents of crewman Jane Taylor , who died on duty during the attack of the Reptilians , while he is working hard trying to make the Enterprise operational again with a short staff . When the hostiles Reptilians threaten the Enterprise , Degra takes a surprising attitude . The Fourth Season of Enterprise now is excellent , actually with one long story split in episodes . " The Forgotten " is dramatic , with the loss of eighteen members represented by Taylor and the reluctance of Trip in accepting Degra as an allied , superseded in the very end , when Trip accepts the loss of Taylor an Elizabeth . Title ( Brazil ) : " Os Esquecidos " ( " The Forgotten " )
The Enterprise finds an iced comet with the rare mineral Eisilium in its core . Captain Archer sends Lieutenant Malcolm Reed and Ensign Travis Mayweather in the shuttlepod to collect samples 20 m beneath the crust using a portable drilling rig . Meanwhile , the Enterprise is observed by a Vulcan ship and the Vulcan Captain Vanik believes the humans are arrogant and prideful . When the Enterprise discovers an encrypted message from the Vulcan ship to T'Pol , Ensign Hoshi Sato gives the translation of the message to Trip , and he sees that it is a personal letter . The ashamed Commander seeks T-Pol and asks her to forgive him . Later she calls him to discuss the subject . When the drilling team is trapped in a hole in the comet , Captain Archer accepts the offer of help of the Vulcan vessel . " Breaking the Ice " is the best title of an episode that I have recently seen . This title is related to every situation disclosed in this episode : refer to the surface of the comet ; refers to the relationship of T'Pol and Trip , and also to humans and Vulcans . The wise T'Pol has lesson of human free will and uses it to define her destiny . I believe the respect among the humans in the Enterprise and T'Pol will increase . Title ( Brazil ) : " Quebrando o Gelo " ( " Breaking the Ice " )
The Enterprise finds a primitive starship with two dying alien astronauts , and one of them tells that his Valakian race is extinguishing due to an epidemic . Archer travels to their planet and assigns Dr . Phlox to find a cure for the disease . Dr . Phlox , who is trying to understand his relationship with the human crewman Elizabeth Cutler , discloses that the planet inhabited by two humanoid races that pacifically coexists : the developed Valakian and the primitive workers Menk . Further , he discovers that the Valakian have genetic epidemic that will annihilate their race in about two centuries while the Menk have linguistic and manual abilities to be developed . With the dilemma of interfering in the development of races , Phlox has a serious conversation with Archer . " Dear Doctor " presents a good discussion of ethical and moral concerns . The story is centered in the pleasant Denobulian Dr . Phlox , who is totally integrated to the human style of life but still have doubts related to relationship between male and female . The advice of T'Pol is very funny and logical , since she does not understand the matters of heart and love . The excerpts of " For Whom the Bell Tolls " , showing the gorgeous face of Ingrid Bergman with about twenty-seven years old , is a plus in this great episode . Title ( Brazil ) : " Caro Doutor " ( " Dear Doctor " )
After thirteen and half years in prison for kidnapping and murdering the boy Park Won-mo , Geum-ja Lee ( Yeong-ae Lee ) is released and tries to fix her life . She finds a job in a bakery ; she orders the manufacturing of a special weapon ; she reunites with her daughter , who was adopted by an Australian family ; and she plots revenge against the real killer of Won-mo , the English teacher Mr . Baek ( Min-sik Choi ) . With the support of former inmates from prison , Geum-ja seeks an unattained redemption with her vengeance . " Lady Vengeance " is a very dark tale of vengeance and search for redemption . The screenplay is confused in some moments , using symbols and metaphors , but the story is engaging blending black humor and unpleasant and bold scenes of torture and death of children with a harsh revenge . Yeong-ae Lee has a magnificently performance in the role of Geum-ja along almost fourteen years of her life . I am a big fan of Chan-wook Park , and I regret that in Brazil the first movie of his trilogy about vengeance ( " Boksuneun Naui Geot " a . k . a . " Sympathy for Mr . Vengeance " ) has not been released yet . Title ( Brazil ) : " Lady Vingança " ( " Lady Vengeance " )
' The Young Lions ' is the Second War II presented through the participation of three soldiers . Christian Diestl ( Marlon Brando ) is an idealistic German , son of a shoemaker . He joins the Army believing that life could improve in Germany under the administration of the Nazis . However , being a soldier , he cannot accept ' acting like a police ' in an occupied Paris and requests transference to the front , where he has another disappointment with the cruelty of the war . Noah Ackerman ( Montgomery Clift ) is a shy American Jew , a very simple man , just married with Hope Plowman ( Hope Lange ) and very discriminated in his platoon for being Jew . He goes to the war and leaves his family . Michael Whiteacre ( Dean Martin ) is a successful actor who became friend of Noah while in New York and is also obliged to join the army and go to London . There , he decides to leave the office activity and join his platoon in the front . This movie is excellent . It shows common people being used by government in a senseless war . All the main characters are peaceful common persons : Christian is a very simple person , wishing to climb socially in life in a Germany without opportunities and is misguided by the speech of Hitler and pretty soon he becomes aware how stupid war is . Noah is also a very simple person , a salesman from a department store , who indeed wishes to be with his family and join the Army just for obligation . And Michael is a selfish actor and bon vivant , without any sense of patriotism and who is not interest in anything but to have his life back . These characters are put together in a stupid war , having to kill persons to save their lives and to obey orders , which they do not agree . This movie is an excellent perspective of the stupidity of a war .
Renato ( Agnaldo Camargo ) and Miro ( Grande Otelo ) are black brothers raised by the family of the Caucasian Marta ( Vera Nunes ) in an old mansion in Tijuca , Rio de Janeiro . Renato is graduated and has always looked for dignity , winning in life due to his honesty and search for social recognition . His brother , on the contrary , is a rebel small time crook and he says that his behavior is the fruit of the treatment he received while living in the Caucasian family's house . Their step sister Marta has a crush on Renato . When she meets the crook Walter Mendes ( Jorge Doria ) , Marta falls in love for him . Renato argues with Walter , they fight , Walter tries to shoot Renato , but Renato accidentally kills him . However , Moleque Miro is blamed and wrongly sent to prison . Renato assumes his guilty , and the young boy Hélio ( Agnaldo Rayol ) , who witnessed the crime , convinces Marta to testify that Renato killed Walter in self-defense . " Somos Todos Irmãos " is a movie made in the beginning of Brazilian cinema's new phase . In the end of the 40's , Brazilian cinema made a rupture with the previous model mainly due to the post-war ; political changes ; growing industrialization ; and new references of the traditions of the Brazilian man and culture . In this movie , both black characters have different views of the society . The story does not fall in the usual melodramatic Hollywoodian clichés and there is no final redemption . This movie was produced by Atlântida but unfortunately the available copy is almost impossible to be heard . I probably understood less than 40 % of the powerful dialogs . Title ( Brazil : " Também Somos Irmãos " ( " We Are Also Brothers " )
After the funeral of her father Arnaldo ( José Lewgoy ) , who committed suicide , Engraçadinha ( Lucélia Santos ) confesses to the priest the motives . On the engagement party of her cousin Sílvio ( Luiz Fernando Guimarães ) with Letícia ( Nina de Pádua ) , Engraçadinha seduces him in the library , and later she ends her engagement with Zózimo ( Daniel Dantas ) and lies to Letícia , telling that she is pregnant . Letícia decides to tell Arnaldo what happened , and he says that the child can not be born . He exposes dirty secrets to Engraçadinha , and a tragedy is announced . " Engraçadinha " is another adaptation of an erotic , amoral and tragic novel about the degradation of the family of Nelson Rodrigues , one of the best Brazilian dramaturge , to the cinema . The performances of Lucélia Santos , Luiz Fernando Guimarães , Nina de Pádua and José Lewgoy are magnificent . The beautiful title song is sang by the Brazilian singer Zizi Possi . Once again I regret that another great Brazilian film has not had a decent distribution . Even in Brazil , I have a very old VHS , bought from a rental , and this movie has not been released on DVD . Title ( Brazil ) : " Engraçadinha " ( " Cute " )
In one day in the 21st Precinct of New York , many criminals are booked after being arrested : a shoplifter is brought after stealing a purse in a department store ; two burglars with extensive criminal record are captured by a policeman burgling an apartment ; the small time embezzler Arthur Kindred ( Craig Hill ) , who is primary , is arrested without any resistance . The tough Detective McLeod ( Kirk Douglas ) , who loves his wife Mary ( Eleanor Parker ) , is an honest detective with strong principles and code of honor and zero tolerance . He is near to conclude a case against an abortionist , Dr . Karl Schneider ( George Macready ) , with the testimony of a witness that is coming to identify Dr . Schneider in the precinct . However , the woman is bribed and the upset McLeod hits Schneider , and he insinuates to McLeod's chief , Lt . Monaghan ( Horace McMahon ) , that the problem is personal and gives the name of Mary McLeod . Lt . Monaghan invites Mary to come to his office for investigation , when deep innermost secrets of her past are disclosed leading to a tragedy . " Detective Story " is amazingly intense and full of emotions in spite of being shot practically in only one scenario in the interior of the precinct . Kirk Douglas gives an outstanding performance , developing a complex character that sees his principles destroyed in a couple of hours with a great intensity . Eleanor Parker is also fantastic , in the dramatic and heartbreaking role of Mary McLeod . The direction of William Wyler is perfect as usual . Title ( Brazil ) : " Chaga de Fogo " ( " Sore of Fire " )
In 1832 , a frightened France has a serious epidemic of Asiatic cholera , which is killing the population specially in the country , and Italy is invaded and dominated by Austria . In this scenery , Angelo ( Oliver Martinez ) is a 25 years old refined Italian colonel from a wealthy family exiled in France . He is trying to gather his exiled compatriots and return to Milan to organize the Italian resistance against Austria . Angelo is welcomed by the French noble Pauline ( Julliete Binoche ) in her house in a difficult moment for him , and Pauline travels together with Angelo , trying to find her missing husband in a chaotic country . Along their journey , Angelo becomes her protector , and they fall in love for each other . " Le Hussard Sur le Toit " is a delightful adventure and a sensitive romance . The story is beautiful and the platonic love and the chemistry between Angelo and Pauline are wonderful . An excellent movie , with a beautiful reconstitution of a dark period of French history and highly recommended for any audience . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Cavaleiro do Telhado e a Dama das Sombras " ( " The Knight of the Roof and the Lady of the Shadows " )
In 1860 , Sir James Forbes ( André Morell ) and his daughter Sylvia ( Diane Clare ) receive a letter from his former brilliant student Dr . Peter Tompson ( Brook Williams ) , who is married to an old school friend of Sylvia , Alice ( Jacqueline Pearce ) . In this letter , Peter tells that mysterious deaths are happening in the area where he is the local doctor . Sir James decides to visit the friends with Sylvia and helps Peter to find out what is happening . There , he realizes that the bodies of the new dead are disappearing from their graves . A further investigation shows them the existence of zombies in that location . This 1966 movie from Hammer just released on DVD in Brazil is a great film of zombies . There are just a few good movies about this subject that I can remember ( the best of them and classical 1968 ' The Night of the Living Dead ' and the two others of George Romero's trilogy ? ' Dawn of the Dead ' and ' Day of the Dead ' , the good remake of ' The Night of the Living Dead ' , the great Bill Pullman's ' Brain Dead ' and also great Jennifer's Grey ' Ritual ' ) . This movie from Hammer is also an excellent one , and if the viewer pays attention , he will notice that it was made BEFORE the 1968 ' The Night of the Living Dead ' . I supposed that George Romero's movie was the first important one to explore the zombie theme , but now I realize that this 1966 Hammer's movie came first .
The sportswoman Sarah ( Shauna Macdonald ) loses her husband and daughter in a car crash , but she survives . One year later , her friends Beth ( Alex Reid ) , Rebecca ( Saskia Mulder ) , Sam ( Myanna Buring ) and Holly ( Nora-Jane No one ) , leaded by Juno ( Natalie Mendonza ) , invite her to explore a deep cave in the mountains . When the expedition is about three kilometers underground , a rock collapses and blocks the access tunnel , trapping the group inside the cave . With limited supplies , they try to find a way out , but sooner they face a hunger and savage breed of predators . The storyline of " The Descent " is not original , inclusive a couple of months ago I saw a very similar movie called " The Cave " . But on the contrary of the foregoing film , " The Descent " has a great screenplay , with a scary , claustrophobic , tense and gore story , and a psychological study of the characters under a huge condition of stress , deteriorating the relationship among them . The use of light and darkness in the special effects transmit a sensation of fear for the unknown . Title ( Brazil ) : " Abismo do Medo " ( " Abyss of Fear " )
In a poor village in Mexico , the Colonel ( Fernando Luján ) lives with his asthmatic wife Lola ( Marisa Paredes ) in an old house . Lola still grieves the death of their son Augustin some time ago . The colonel has been expecting for his pension of fighter in a war against Catholic church for almost twenty-seven years . However , for political reasons , the present government wants to forget this old fight . Without having any possession or money , but a valuable gamecock , they struggle to survival with the expectation of the acknowledgement letter from the government , recognizing the law and paying for the delayed pension . This slow and touching movie reflects the social and financial situation of most of the elder retired persons in third world countries . In Brazil , most of the retired persons has to survive with about US$ 80 , 00 per month . The debts of the colonel in the story were made to pay for a graveyard for his son , otherwise he would be buried as an indigent . Outstanding performance of the cast , in a very sad story that is reality in the poor countries . Title ( Brazil ) : ( ' Não se Escreve ao Coronel ' ) ( Do not Write to the Colonel )
Vampires and werewolves are fighting against each other in a battle of hundred of years . In the present days , the gorgeous vampire Selena ( Kate Beckinsale ) is a werewolf killer warrior . Both races use very special guns : the vampires use a bullet made of silver nitrate , while the werewolves use a sort of special bullet with daylight glow . The werewolves chase the human Michael Corvin ( Scott Speedman ) , and Lucian ( Michael Sheen ) , the leader of them that is supposed to be dead , bites Michael . Selena is intrigued with the interest of the werewolves in Michael , and while protecting him , she falls in love with him . Kaven ( Shane Brolly ) , the leader of the vampires ' coven , does not pay much attention on the observations of Selena about Michael . She decides to wake-up Viktor ( Bill Nighy ) , the ancient leader of the vampires , when deep secrets are disclosed . ' Underworld ' is a great Gothic adventure . Once all the characters are night creatures , the story takes place along the night and the dark photography is wonderful . The acting is good , but the grimaces of Shane Brolly , trying to look evil , are the weak point of the film . However , the story hooks the attention of the viewer until the last scene . I saw this movie for the second time on 12 November 2006 . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Underworld ? Anjos da Noite ' ( ' Underworld ? Angels of the Night ' )
The nurse Caroline Ellis ( Kate Hudson ) decides to quit her job in a hospital and work for a family in the swamps of Terrebone Parish , Louisiana , one hour far from New Orleans . The family lawyer Luke ( Peter Sarsgaard ) hires her for US$ 1 , 000 . 00 per week to take care of Ben Devereaux ( John Hurt ) , the beloved husband of Violet Devereaux ( Gena Howlands ) , who had a stroke and is totally paralyzed . Violet gives a skeleton key of the huge house to Caroline , and the curious young woman finds a secret creepy hoodoo room in a scary attic that belonged to a couple of sorcerers that worked in the house . Caroline , who does not believe in magic , decides to learn about hoodoo , and believes Violet put an evil spell on Ben . She decides to help the invalid man , and asks for help to Luke . Finally I was able to see an original and recent American horror movie that is not a remake of a successful Japanese film ! " The Skeleton Key " is really a good movie , using psychological horror and mystery in a very consistent story , and a great conclusion . Kate Hudson has an excellent performance , and it is good to see her fixing her career after some terrible movies . I did not recognized Gena Howlands , who I believe was submitted to plastic surgery and has a completely different face . I am not sure whether fans of gore horror movies will like this film , but for those who liked " The Others " , " The Sixth Sense " , " Haunted " or " El Espinazo del Diablo " will certainly appreciate this film . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Chave Mestra " ( " The Master Key " )
In the periphery of São Paulo , the very low middle-class dysfunctional and hypocrite family of Teodoro ( Giulio Lopes ) , Cláudia ( Leona Cavalli ) and the teenager Soninha ( Sílvia Lourenço ) have deep secrets . The religious Teodoro is indeed a hit-man , hired to kill people in the neighborhood with his friend Waldomiro ( Ailton Graça ) . He has a lover , the very devout woman Terezinha ( Martha Meola ) , and he wants to regenerate , going to the country with her . Cláudia has a young lover , Júlio ( Ismael de Araújo ) , who delivers meats for his father's butcher shop . Soninha is a common sixteen years old teenager of the periphery , having active sexual life , smoking grass and loving heavy metal . When Júlio is killed and castrated in their neighborhood , the lives of the members of the family change . " Contra Todos " is a great low budget Brazilian movie that pictures the life in the periphery of a big Brazilian city . The story is very real , uses the usual elements of the poor area of the big Brazilian cities ( drug dealers , hit men , fanatic religious evangelic people , hopeless teenagers etc . ) , has many plot points and a surprising end , and the characters have excellent performances , acting very natural and making the story totally believable . The camera follows the characters , giving a great dynamics to the film . In the Extras of the DVD , the director Roberto Moreira explains that his screenplay had no lines , only the description of the situations , and was partially disclosed only one week before the beginning of the shootings . The actors have trainings in workshops and they used lots of improvisation , being the reason for such natural acting . Title ( Brazil ) : " Contra Todos " ( " Against Everybody " )
I bought this DVD without any reference , and for my surprise it is an excellent thriller . The theme about children prostitution is very well exposed , the beginning of the movie is very impressive , and the actress Lauren Van de Broeck that plays Bieke Cuypers really looks like a little Lolita . The story of an old hit man that has a code of honor and does not accept the job of killing a teenager , turning against the powerful men that hired him , is magnificently disclosed , in a right pace and with stunning performances . The emphatic character of Angelo Ledda is played by the unknown actor Jan Decleir , and I was really impressed with his acting . I have just seen in IMDb that " De Zaak Alzheimer " won seven prizes and three nominations in European Festivals and this movie certainly deserved these awards . The character of Baron Gustave De Haeck , living in a swamp of corruption and children prostitution , would certainly not adapt living in the jungle , as mentioned in the story . Title ( Brazil ) : " Alzheimer Case "
After the death of the oil tycoon Howard ' Red ' Stevens ( James Garner ) , his greedy family is gathered in the office of his lawyer , partner and friend Mr . Theophillis ' Ted ' Hamilton ( Bill Cobbs ) and his associated Miss Hastings ( Lee Meriwether ) for reading the will . For his reckless and selfish grandson Jason Stevens ( Drew Fuller ) , who hated him , Red assigns twelve apparently simple tasks called " gifts " ? of work , money , friends , learning , problems , family , laughter , dreams , giving , gratitude , a day and love ? challenging the playboy Jason to a journey of discoveries . When he meets the leukemic girl Emily ( Abigail Breslin ) and her mother Alexia ( Ali Hillis ) , Jason changes his perspective of life and money , superseding the expectations of Red , improving and becoming a better man and receiving the ultimate gift from his wise grandfather . What a wonderful surprise " The Ultimate Gift " is ! This simple little movie has a magnificent story of discoveries , friendship , family values , redemption and love , supported by awesome performances highlighting the girl Abigail Breslin , whose witty dialogs make the viewer laugh and cry . Do not pay attention in the bad reviews in IMDb , and you will see a pleasant movie with a beautiful message . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Presente " ( " The Gift " )
Sergeant Neil Howie ( Edward Woodward ) arrives in a Scottish private island looking for a missing teenager girl , Rowan Morrison ( Geraldine Cowper ) . The place belongs to Lord Summerisle ( Christopher Lee ) and is famous because of their plantation of apples and other fruits and their harvest . Sgt . Howie realizes that the locals are pagans , practicing old rituals , and Rowan is probably alive and being prepared to be sacrificed . The end of the story is a tragic surprise . This movie is a different horror movie in all aspects : first , the environment , with beautiful and happy people , naked women , full of sunshine , love scenes and songs , contrasting with those dark and Gothic movies , with monsters or weird persons , taking place in the night , in shadowy castles or forests . The simple and original story , which has a surprising end , hooks the attention until the last scene . The cast , mainly Edward Woodward and Christopher Lee , has a great performance , especially in the duel of their religious beliefs . Just as a curiosity , when Britt Ekland dances naked in the inn , tempting Sgt . Howie , the beautiful and sexy body belongs to a double body . Title ( Brazil ) : ' O Homem de Palha ' ( ' The Straw Man ' )
In 2035 , robots are mandatory electronic devices in every home , being the proportion of four men for each robot in the American society . They are built by US Robotics following three basic laws for preservation of the human being , and no robot is allowed to harm a human being in any circumstance . In Chicago , detective Del Spooner ( Will Smith ) , who hates robots , is assigned to investigate the suicide of the scientist and his old friend , Dr . Alfred Lanning ( James Cromwell ) , in the facilities of US Robotics . The CEO Lawrence Robertson ( Bruce Greenwood ) asks the psychologist Susan Calvin ( Bridget Moynahan ) to support Spooner in his investigation . Spooner believes that Dr . Lanning was murdered , and looks for the criminal , finding the robot Sonny hidden in Dr . Lanning's room , becoming the prime suspect . While following the hints left by Dr . Lanning , Spooner and Susan are initially misguided , finding the truth in the end . " I , Robot " is a good action sci-fi movie , using elements of " Blade Runner " and " Terminator 2 " . However , the characters and the society of 2035 are not well-developed , and if the viewer starts questioning details , will find many shallow points and flaws . Therefore , my advice is : do not think too much , and have a good entertainment . Title ( Brazil ) : " Eu , Robô " ( " I , Robot " )
The quiet mechanic Carter Chambers ( Morgan Freeman ) is a man with a great general culture ; has been married for forty-five years with his beloved wife Virginia ( Beverly Todd ) and has two sons ? one lawyer the other engineer ? and a violinist daughter . The caustic and bitter billionaire Edward Cole ( Jack Nicholson ) owns many hospitals , has many divorces and one missing daughter . Following the policy of Edward , his hospital makes no exception giving a private room to him and he shares the same room as Carter . Along the days , they become close to each other and when Edward finds in the garbage the bucket list that Carter had prepared , listing all he wanted to do before dying , he includes his own items and invites Carter to a journey of friendship , discoveries and redemption . " The Bucket List " has a wonderful screenplay , two fantastic actors and a predictable story about the journey of two terminal patients with cancer that find friendship , discoveries and redemption . The contrast between the two lead characters offers very beautiful moments with witty and spirituous dialogs alternating with funny and dramatic scenes . This is one of those movies that bring happiness to the viewer in spite of the unpleasant theme ? illness and death . Title ( Brazil ) : " Antes de Partir " ( " Before Leaving " )
While travelling for his third year in Hogwarts , the grown-up Harry Potter ( Daniel Radcliffe ) is advised that the criminal Sirius Black ( Gary Oldman ) has escaped the Wizards ' Prison Azkaban . Sirius Black is blamed for being responsible for the death of Harry's parents and their best friend , Peter Pettigrew . In the train , Harry Potter faces an evil Dementor , sort of creature who drains good memories and life of their victims and which was sent to chase Sirius Black , but he is saved by Professor Lupin ( David Thewlis ) . Once in Hogwarts , he realizes that the school is surrounded by Dementors , sent to protect Harry Potter and the students against Sirius Black . After many adventures , the truth is disclosed . Although being a good adventure , I found " Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban " the weakest story of the trilogy . There are many situations used in the other two stories , like the game they play , or the bad treatment of Harry Potter's relatives , the character of Emma Thompson is too silly and not funny and Daniel Radcliffe does not correspond in some dramatic situations . Emma Watson , in the role of Hermion Granger , has another excellent performance . It is funny to see how the cast grew and changed in a couple of years . However , this movie is a great entertainment and does not disappoint . Title ( Brazil ) : " Harry Potter e o Prisioneiro de Azkaban " ( " Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban "
Five years after the events related in " Pitch Black " , the Furyan fugitive Riddick ( Vin Diesel ) is hunted by mercenaries , hired by Abu ' Imam ' al-Walid ( Keith David ) of New Mecca , as the last hope of the universe against the Necromongers . This evil breed , leaded by Lord Marshal ( Colm Feore ) , converts or eliminates the human as part of the plan of conquering the universe . Aereon ( Judi Dench ) , an ambassador from the Elemental race , tries o convince the also evil Riddick to save the human race . " The Chronicles of Riddick " is a movie with flaws , cliché , even it is brainless , as most of the movies of this genre , and it will certainly not receive an Oscar nomination . However , for its proposal of entertainment , it is an excellent sci-fi adventure and sequel of the cult " Pitch Black " . The story is narrated in off , and Vin Diesel's voice is magnificent in this aspect . In the DVD , Vin Diesel also presents the set , were most of the story takes place , and it is interesting to see the illusion of the cinema . I believe that fans of sci-fi action movies like me will love " The Chronicles of Riddick " , which is underrated in IMDb . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Batalha de Riddick " ( " The Battle of Riddick " )
In Rio de Janeiro , when the socialite Delfina Delamare ( Maitê Proença ) is found dead in her Mercedez Benz with a shot in her heart , having a 22 caliber gun in her hand , the police conveniently believes she committed suicide , since she had leukemia and only six months of life . Delfina was the wife of the powerful Eugênio Delamare ( Gracindo Júnior ) and lover of the successful writer Gustavo Flávio ( José Mayer ) . However , the honest , competent and incorruptible detective Guedes ( Tony Ramos ) is not convinced about the alleged " causa mortis " , and when the receives the autopsy report , he finds that she had no powder on her fingers and the shirt was buttoned after the shot , and consequently she was murdered . Meanwhile , Gustavo is writing a novel , based on his life ten years ago as the Pan-American insurance investigator Ivan Canabrava , living with his mate Zilda ( Zezé Polessa ) , when he found a huge fraud against Pan-American with the support of his friend Minolta ( Isabel Guéron ) and Prof . Ceresso ( Juca de Oliveira ) , and hidden by Eugênio . The two stories are simultaneously unfolded , having a surprising open conclusion . " Bufo e Spallanzani " is a great Brazilian film-noir , having a great screenplay , magnificent direction and acting and wonderful locations in Rio de Janeiro and Serra da Bocaina . Based on a book of the famous Brazilian writer Rubem Fonseca , " Bufo e Spallanzani " presents two intriguing parallel tales , and is another excellent example of the present great moment of the Brazilian cinema . The beautiful naked body of Isabel Guéron is a collyrium for the eyes and the subtitle of this fictional tale could be " The Hard Life of an Incorruptible and Competent Brazilian Detective " . This movie participated of the following film festivals : 1 ) Festival do Rio BR ; 2 ) Mar del Plata Festival ; 3 ) Festival de Cinema do Recife ( " hors concours " ) ; 4 ) Miami Festival of Brazilian Movies : - Best Movie ; - Best Screenplay ; - Best Support Actor : Tony Ramos ; - Best Soundtrack . 5 ) Montreal Festival ( " hors concours " ) ; 6 ) Festival de Gramado : - Best Lead Actor : Tony Ramos ; - Best Lead Actress : Isabel Guéron ; - Best Support Actor : Juca de oliveira ; - Best Art Direction : Gualter Pupo . 7 ) Festival de Natal : - Best Support Actress : Zezé Polessa ; - Best Art Direction : Gualter Pupo . 8 ) Del Nuevo Cine Latinoamericano International Festival ( Cuba Festival ) ; 9 ) Palm Springs International Film Festival ; 10 ) Tiburon International Film Festival ; 11 ) Philadelphia Festival of World Cinema ; 12 ) Chicago Latino Film Festival ; and , 13 ) Paris Brazilian Cinema Festival . The Brazilian DVD , released by Warner do Brasil , wrongly spells the French expression " hors concours " in the list of film festivals in the " Extra " and does not provide the year of each foregoing festival . Considering that Warner is not a minor distributor , it is a shame and a lack of respect with the Brazilian consumer ! Title ( Brazil ) : " Bufo e Spallanzani "
A mutant attacks the president of USA . Military forces commanded by the evil William Stryker , the mentor of the whole plot , attack the Xavier school for mutants . His intention is to use the cerebral machine and destroy all the mutants in the world . With this simple storyline , Bryan Singer presents a great sequel of the first X-Men . To the original movie , the greatest new is Nightcrawler ( Alan Cumming ) , supported by state-of-art special effects . A magnificent entertainment , indicated for the whole family .
Lincoln proposes to crash the General's car to copy the last card using the trick he did in 2001 , in Chicago , to rob a wallet . Michael tells Sara that Gretchen is alive and dealing with Agent Self a partnership together with T-Bag . Sara is disturbed with the new partner and recalls the torture she was submitted , whipped on her back . Roland sends an untraceable message to Wyatt asking how much he would pay for Michael and Lincoln . Mr . Feng visits T-Bag in his office in Gate , but Gretchen negotiates Scylla for US$ 125 million , offering US$ 25 million to T-Bag . Lincoln plans the accident with Sucre while Lincoln and Michael rob an ambulance in a federal yard . Gretchen gives a message to Self inviting Sara to meet her in a motel room . Sara is worried with Michael's health . Roland tells Wyatt where Michael and Lincoln are , and the killer shots Sucre . Michael presses Roland that denies being a rat . Self makes clear to Gretchen and T-Bag that they are scum . T-Bag plots with Trishanne against Gretchen . Gretechen proposes a cease-fire to Sara , and she asks about Michelle Taylor . Roland removes the GPS monitor and escapes to meet Wyatt , who shots his knees . Roland gives the address of the warehouse in Pier 31 , San Pedro , but Michael , Lincoln , Bellick and Mahone arrive just in time and capture Wyatt . The general concludes that the attempt was against his card and orders to move Scylla . The partnership of Michael's team with the cold sociopath Gretchen and the despicable T-Bag certainly will never work . In this episode , Sara discloses the reasons for her emotional disturbance with the recollection of her period of captivity and torture with Gretchen . Roland deserves his fate , and finally Mahone has captured Wyatt . Title ( Brazil ) : Not Available
Papa is dead and Sammy presses Lechero to kill Michael ; Lechero replies that he also wants Michael dead , but he does not want an uprising in Sona . Mahone receives a mail with a picture of his son . Lechero , Michael , Mahone , Whistler and T-Bag inspect the hole in the tunnel and Michael requests a saw and hammer to support the tunnel . Sammy takes the power of Sona with the pistol delivered by Augusto and other three gangsters and promises a box of bottles of rum for the inmate that kills Michael . T-Bag convinces Bellick to give the chicken foot to Sammy promising him to join the escape team ; when he discovers that there is no acetone , he unsuccessfully tries to call-off the fight . Meanwhile Lincoln and Sofia visits Osberto and buys a bomb ; Sucre plants the bomb under the seat of Gretchen's car but she unravels that she found Maricruz tracking the US$ 25 , 000 . 00 check she gave to him . Sammy leaves the fighting with Bellick to chase Michael , who is locked behind the door in the tunnel with Mahone . Sammy beats Whistler , who was left behind , trying to get the combination of the door . Michael removes a wedge from the hole and the tunnel collapses over Sammy , burying him , while Lechero and Mahone kill the three other gangsters . Sofia finds a wallet hidden in Whistler's bag . The greatest question in " Dirt Nap " is who Whistler is . The quintet and maybe Bellick are " back in business " after the death of Sammy , and Lechero is stronger in Sona . The ambiguous Mahone is uplifted after receiving the picture of his son ( I believe that it was sent by Agent Lang ) . Sucre is really a stupid guy , sending the check to Maricruz instead of the untraceable money . Title ( Brazil ) : " Por um Fio " ( " In the Edge " )
Chloe Sullivan visits a former friend of her father in Luthor Corp . to know if he is blacklisted , since all his applications are not accepted and he is not able to find a job . She steals his security card and breaks in the Luthor Corp . laboratory trying to find evidences , but she accidentally is exposed to a sort of gas that makes people tell the truth , exposing their innermost secrets . Chloe uses her ability to explore her curiosity of journalist , hurting people and showing the dangerousness of the absolute truth . " Truth " is a great episode of Smallville , showing the real feelings of many characters . We see a needy Lex Luthor looking for parental love ; Martha Kent's fears about Jonathan Kent recent attitudes ; Pete Ross's feelings for Chloe ; the application of Lana Lang in an art course in Paris ; the confirmation of the crime of Lionel Luthor against his parents . It shows also how people in general hide some of their feelings in order of not hurting the others . I recalled Jim Carrey's " Liar Liar " , where his character can not lie , getting into troubles . Title ( Brazil ) : " Verdade " ( " Truth " )
After a drinking competition , the winner Lois Lane hits a drunken abusive player of the Bulldog football team and later , the guy is found paralyzed and Lois is arrested for aggression . The Metropolis University offers a scholarship to Clark Kent to play football , and he is welcomed by the idol Geoff Johns ( Chris Carmack ) . Seduced by the sorority girls and the reception of the other players , Clark takes a tough decision . Lex Luthor advises Lana Lang about the secrets of Jason Teague , including his encounter with her in Paris . In " Recruit " , Clark Kent shows a great integrity , sacrificing his love for football and building the character of a future national hero . I liked the proud reaction of Chloe Sullivan . The new mystery arisen by Lex Luthor about Jason and his mother Genevieve is very promising . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Novato " ( " The Rookie " )
After having a scary nightmare , Jason Teague is interned in Metropolis Health Center with risk of death . Clark Kent and Chloe Sullivan decide to investigate , and find that Jason had had a meeting at Luthor Corp . a couple of hours before . They go to the plant , and Chloe has the same trouble . Sooner , many dwellers of Smallville have the same mysterious disease , and Clark finds that it is caused by an experimental bacteria released from Luthor Corp . ' s laboratory after an explosion in the facility , and the team of scientists is working in an antidote . Meanwhile , Lionel Luthor is released from prison . " Scare " is an episode that recalls " A Nightmare on Elm Street " , where Luthor Corp . would be the Freddy Krueger . The story is excellent , and the nightmare of Lex Luthor recalls a scene of " Terminator 3 : Rise of the Machines " . I have a guess of who set Lionel Luthor free from the prison . Title ( Brazil ) : " Susto " ( " Scare " )
The Smallville High School is visiting Luthor Corp . , and Clark Kent is left behind with the science geek Alicia Baker ( Sarah Carter ) to get the next elevator . While in the lift with her , the cable breaks and Clark uses his heat vision to melt the security camera first , and his powerful force to stop the vehicle with his hand . Alicia in return " teletransports " Clark and herself to another floor . She discloses her ability to Clark and he tells her about his strength and heat vision . When they date , Clark finds that the girl is indeed obsessed for him , jeopardizing his privacy and Lana Lang's life , and not accepting to end their short relationship . Meanwhile , Lana finds that Adam keeps a journal about Clark and her , and she decides to evict him . When Adam uses the tenant laws to get more time , Lana asks for help to Lex Luthor . " Obsession " is one excellent episode of " Smallville " and I do not qualify it as one of the best because again the resolution of the situation of the secret of Clark Kent is flawed . He told his powers to Alicia , arrested her in the end , and nothing happens , i . e . , the girl does not expose his abilities to everybody . The promising conclusion , when the mission of Adam is disclosed , is great . Title ( Brazil ) : " Obsessão " ( " Obsession " )
In Delfti , Holland , 1665 , the poor seventeen years old Griet ( Scarlett Johansson ) is hired as a maid in the household of the Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer ( Colin Firth ) , to maintain her family . The Vermeer family is supported by the powerful and wealthy commissioner Van Ruijven ( Tom Wilkinson ) , and is totally dependent on the inspiration of master Johannes Vermeer to keep their high standard of living as if they were rich . When Griet arrives in the breast of Vermeer's family , she understands the relation of power among the members of the family and Van Ruijven , and meanwhile , a platonic love and attraction develop between Johannes and her , due to her feelings and perspective relative to his work . " Girl With a Pearl Earring " is a magnificent contemplative art work and a beautiful dramatic romance based on a famous painting , which has this name . It is known that the maid who worked in Vermeer's house was the model and inspiration for such a piece of arts . However , the dramatization , based on an adaptation of Tracy Chevalliers's novel , is a fiction . The reconstitution of Delftt in the Seventeenth Century is amazingly perfect , being based on paintings of that time . Watching this film , the viewer feels as if he or she were seeing paintings at an exhibition , and if he or she pauses the DVD on any scene , will have a magnificent painting on the screen of the TV . The intense performance of the cast and direction are overwhelming , highlighting the spectacular Scarlett Johansson , who is in my opinion , one of the best " new " actress in the cinema industry . Most of the feelings and sensations of the characters are transmitted through the looks and expressions of the actors and actresses . This movie had three Oscar nominations in 2003 ( cinematography , art direction and costume design ) and two Golden Globe nominations , and is highly recommended to any viewer who appreciates arts . I am a positive fan of movies , I always try to find the beautiful points or entertainment it can offer , instead of looking for destructive parts , like most of the professional critics do , but " Girl With a Pearl Earring " has superseded my uppermost expectations . Title ( Brazil ) : " Moça Com Brinco de Pérola " ( " Young Woman With Pearl Earring ' )
Dean and Sam go to Hibbing , Minnesota , to investigate the mysterious disappearance of a local . Once there , they realize that there are many missing persons in the place . When Sam vanishes in a parking area , Dean asks for help to Officer Kathleen ( Jessica Steen ) , whose brother also disappear a couple of years ago . Dean and the sheriff disclose that Sam was abducted by a family of deranged hillbillies that hunt human beings . " The Bender " is the scariest episode of this series up to this moment . In this tense story , the Winchester brothers do not face demons , ghost or fiends , but sick human beings worse than their usual enemies . I liked the open scene when Kathleen kills the father of the Benders ; it is not explicit , and each viewer is allowed to have his or her own interpretation . In my point of view , justice worked through the hands of the female sheriff . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Família Bender " ( " The Bender Family " )
Michael and Lincoln chase Whistler that calls Gretchen in the warehouse . However the brothers capture him and Michael schedules the exchange meeting in the public space Plaza de Francia . Gretchen invites him to join The Company , and he changes the spot to the lobby of the Museum of Antiques . Meanwhile , Mcgrady's truck is stopped for inspection in a police barrier and the policemen sees that the cargo is fertilizer ; however , McGrady is hidden in a hideout in the cabin . Then his father drives to Acandi , Colombia , where he is welcomed by his family and friends with a party . T-Bag apparently protects Lechero and lures him telling that they may buy their freedom for US$ 50 , 000 . 00 . When Lechero calls his prostitute to bring the money , he finds that this is actually T-Bag's plan to escape and the traitor kills him . Sucre is beaten and forced to dig his grave ; he does not give any information about Michael , is buried alive and then brought to Sona , where he sees T-Bag . When Gretchen arrives in the museum , she finds that there is metal detector on the entrance . She leaves the armed agents at the exits to kill Michael and Lincoln . They trade LJ per Whistler , and Sofia asks the coordinates to Whistler ; they discover that there is no coordinates . Sofia leaves Whistler while Michael breaks a window and the security alarm sounds , and they walk together to the exit . There is a shootout , Sofia is wounded and LJ stays with her . Michael has the chance to kill Gretchen , but he hesitates and she escapes . T-Bag gets part of the Lechero's money , makes a speech to the inmates telling that they are all equal and distributes the money . LJ gives Sara's origami to Michael and tells him that Sofia has something that belongs to Whistler in her apartment ; he goes there with Lincoln , finds a file of Jason Lief and he splits and say goodbye to Lincoln telling that he must chase Gretchen . Meanwhile , Whistler meets Mahone in a bar and together with Gretchen , they leave the place as a team . " The Art of the Deal " is the best episode of the Third Season that closes with golden key . The bright Michael succeeds in trading the mysterious Whistler per LJ , and they find that the guy has an agenda with Gretchen . However he fails when he has the chance to kill Gretchen . The poor Sucre is loyal to Michael and does not deliver him to General Mestas . The tricky T-Bag shows his abilities luring the dangerous drug lord Lechero . Who Whistler is and what Michael will do when he reaches Gretchen are the greatest questions for the next promising Season . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Arte de Negociar " ( " The Art of the Deal " )
During a stormy night in the countryside , Cleci ( Zezé Macedo ) wakes her redneck husband Anastácio Fortuna ( Oscarito ) up to close the window of their room . He sees that something has fallen on their chicken house and killed two chickens , and he brings the circular object home . On the next morning , Cleci reads on the news that a Sputnik is missing and might have fallen on Earth . Based on the picture of the satellite , they conclude that the object is the sputnik . Anastácio sneaks out of the house with the object and goes to the bank Caixa Econômica Federal to pledge the object and raise some money to repair the chicken house . However , the attendant Dorinha ( Neide Aparecida ) calls her boy-friend Nelson ( Cyl Farney ) that works in the newspaper Tribuna da Cidade under the pseudonym Jacinto Boucha , covering the social column , and he sees the chance of a scoop that could raise his career . However , the snoopy and unethical reporter Alberto ( Alberto Perez ) hears the conversation in an phone extension and releases the news on the front page . Anastácio becomes famous and has an immediate social ascension to the high society , moving to the fancy Copacabana Palace Hotel , while the Russian , North American and French governments send their agents to Brazil to get the sputnik at any cost . This is the fourth time that I have watched " O Homem do Sputnik " , one of the funniest comedies of Brazilian cinema ever . In 1959 , with the Cold War , sputnik and Brigitte Bardot , this movie is a hilarious collection of stereotypes . The sexy and witty Norma Bengell performing BeBe is na amazingly perfect parody of the French actress ; Hamilton Ferreira in the role of a Russian agent and the presently famous Jô Soares ( Joe Soares in 1959 ) performing an American agent chewing gums and swinging while walking are comical . The lines of Oscarito and Zezé Macedo are amusing , and Cyl Farney and Neide Aparecida play the usual good guy and his girl . Title ( Brazil ) : " O Homem do Sputnik " ( " The Man of the Sputnik " )
In a business lunch in a hotel in New York , the advertising executive Roger O . Thornhill ( Cary Grant ) is wrongly identified as being the American spy George Kaplan by the foreigners agents Phillip Vandamm ( James Mason ) and his right arm Leonard ( Martin Landau ) . Roger is kidnapped and Vandamm's men try to simulate an accident for killing him . Roger escapes , but sooner is accused of murdering a diplomat in the UN building . With the police and the foreigners spies chasing him , Roger meets and has a crush with Eve Kendall ( Eva Marie Saint ) . Later , he will be advised that George Kaplan indeed does not exist , and he agrees to act like a bait to rescue Eve from Phillip and his men . This movie is another masterpiece of Alfred Hitchcock . The story , full of comedy , action , thriller and romance , is delightful . Cary Grant is amazing in the role of Roger Thornhill and Eva Marie Saint is extremely beautiful and sexy . The actions scenes are breathless and outstanding , highlighting the one with the plane and the pursuit in the rock mountains . A wonderful movie recommended for the whole family . Title ( Brazil ) : ' Intriga International ' ( ' International Intrigue ' )
In Montreal , the industrial François Delambre ( Vincent Price ) is called late night by his sister-in-law Helene Delambre ( Patricia Owens ) . She tells him that she has just killed her beloved husband Andre Delambre ( Al Hedison ) , using the press of their plant to press his head and left hand . François calls his acquaintance , Inspector Charas ( Herbert Marshall ) , and later the reluctant Helene is convinced to tell them what happened . She explains that François had invented a matter transportation apparatus , and while experimenting with himself , a fly entered the chamber , exchanging one hand and the head with him after the transference . " The Fly " is one of my favorite classic movies of the 50's . The story is great , blending romance , sci-fi and horror , and the narrative , through flashback , keeps the mystery alive until the last scene , when the fly with white head is finally found in a spider web screaming for help . I like very much the dialog when Inspector Charas smashes the spider and the fly with a stone , and François tells him that he is as killer as Helene is , since he killed a man-fly and Helene a fly-man . Title ( Brazil ) : " A Mosca da Cabeça Branca " ( " The Fly of the White Head " )
