Positively ridiculous Jerry Lewis 1967 vehicle where he becomes involved with diamond smugglers after encountering a dying person on the beach while fishing . The big joke is that the guy he encounters belongs to a smuggling ring and resembles Lewis . There are two groups after the diamonds and Lewis acts as he did in parts as the Nutty Professor . It's quite awful to say the least . Then , there is romance along the way . No surprise that the actress who played his love interest in the film was never heard from again . After making a movie as miserable as this , one would want to hide out . Harold J . Stone appears as a gang leader . He is boisterous but is given poor material to work with .
Terrible film with Angelina Jolie starting off her career . She comes into a school and goes around unchallenged by a security guard . Walking into a biology class , she sees that the teacher is harassing a student for refusing to cut up a frog . It turns out that the teacher has been doing more than just that to his female students . Jolie , known as Legs , finally jumps the teacher with 4 other girls . They are suspended by Principal Parks . ( Richard Beymer ) Sad to see that Beymer's career has come to this playing a non-understanding principal . The part is gratefully brief . The girls are suspended and come back to the school with Legs since one of them has to retrieve papers . A lit match ignites a fire and the sprinkler system goes on . Even with the arrival of the police , the girls manage to flee to a hidden abandoned house where they dance and act like the brats they are . Of course , there is a stolen car episode and a gun going off and hitting one of the parents . Seems his daughter , Goldie , is on drugs . There is entirely too much going on here . Legs thankfully leaves and Matty is suddenly no longer afraid of heights . The writing is contrived . The ideas are out of inner sanctum . A very poor movie with no way out other than turning it off .
Positively dreadful film . Probably must be ranked as one of the all-time worst viewed by yours truly . The film depicts the life of Bob Dylan at various stages of his life . The film is terribly uneven with different characters just made to bounce around makes for a totally uninteresting affect . Yes , Cate Blanchett does give a solid performance but you just keep wondering and wondering what this is all about . The backdrops of the struggle for civil rights is lost in the absolute nonsense generated by the characters in this ensemble cast . Problem is that the writing is so atrocious , the uneven plot is never permitted to gel . A simply awful production of the worst character imaginable .
A truly awful film depicting what goes on during the making of a film as well as Oscar time . We've seen ideas like this before with Maggie Smith in " California Suite " and Stephen Boyd in 1966's " The Oscar . " However , these films were far superior to this nonsense . That stupid film " Home for Purim " is so obnoxious because the Jewish players are anything but Jewish . We could have sung when Irish eyes are smiling . Note that due to political correctness , the name of the film was changed to " Home for Thanksgiving . " The good part of the film was showing what happens when the supposed stars don't get the Oscar nominations and literally fade into oblivion . Until that point is made , the film is useless .
One of the worst films I have seen in recent memory . The automobile association and others should be up-in-arms with this trash . We are seeing the glorification of automobile accidents . This is outrageous . A group of people are aiming for Jayne Mansfield and James Dean like fatal accidents . What an awful plot ! With today's violence , who needs junk like this for our teens to see ? To state that smashing up a car is conducive to sexual freedom is the sickest message one can give . This film should be banned from the universe .
I'm not a prude but " Kinsey " goes way beyond the top . It was utterly disgusting to see a grown man showing how many times he could ejaculate in a given time . Is it any wonder that our wayward youth of today goes awry when they seen such things depicted on the screen ? A case could be made that Prof . Kinsey was some kind of a nut . The man was simply infatuated with talking about sexual activity-all kinds . John Lithgow was believable as his preacher father who condemned everything immoral to him but at the same time showered his family with mental abuse . A story about the father himself would have made for interesting entertainment . Even the father talks about his sexual problem following his wife's death . Not only should we return to decency in making motion pictures , it is time to return to good old fashion common sense as well .
Dreadful 1949 film . I guess that even Doris Day had to be in a stinker once in a while so as to come down to earth . Fortunately , her career took a much more of a positive turn after this loony film . With Doris as a waitress in Hollywood looking to break into pictures , the film becomes very silly , especially with Bill Goodwin as a bewildered producer . Jack Carson and Dennis Morgan are along for the ride as the 2 guys who feel that they need Day in order for them to succeed as well . There is a hole host of cameo appearances from some directors . The funniest one is Joan Crawford blaring out a Mildred Pierce-like speech when Carson , who co-starred with her in that great film , is next to her . Usually , the girl breaks into films , is a hit and the film ends . Day goes nowhere but home to Wisconsin to wed an old boyfriend - none other than Errol Flynn . Carson and Morgan are left just standing there holding the bag to a ridiculous film that should never have been made .
78 minutes of comic waste best highlights this silly 1942 tale . Bob Hope again is caught up with Nazi spies as he is brought into this by British agent Madeleine Carroll . The jokes and punchlines are ridiculous at best . The scene with the boy who spits at him was absolutely ridiculous . Gale Sondergaard is along for the ride . She says little in this one , but is her usual sinister self . Just those facial expressions alone make you know that she is up to no good . The funeral parlor scene by film's end leaves you very much unsatisfied . Even the airfield ending makes you feel that you have missed something .
The Ugly Duckling syndrome is brought back to the screen in this 2006 stinker . Amazing to me that former Oscar winner Reese Witherspoon would appear in this stinker in a supporting role . Christina Ricci is born with the face of a pig as a result of a curse put on the family from generations back . The one bright shiny part in the film is Catherine O'Hara as the intolerable mother who tries to shield her daughter from the outside world . James McAvoy from the recent Ann Hathaway film on " Becoming Jane " co-stars in this wretched production . How many times must we hear that by being yourself and accepting your lot in life , you can rid yourself of the miserable curse ? I wish we could have rid ourselves of this tasteless film as well .
Clark Gable and Hedy La Marr starred in this awful mess . This is certainly no Ninotchka , even with its anti-Communist theme . The film is just awful . It would have been funnier had they managed to make more fun of the Nazis in it . I realize that the film came out in 1940 and since we weren't at war with the beasts as yet , the film board probably wanted to cool things down . The ending becomes a ridiculous tank chase and becomes very silly after a while . The Commies come and go and knock each other off as if it's nothing . Even though it was so true , it was done film wise in such a boring way . The idea that the poet philosopher was a true phony who went on to kill his supporters was not adequately explained . A year after " Gone With the Wind " and Clark Gable had a bomb with this film !
" The Mother " is basically Mildred Pierce in the reverse without the shooting . When mama and papa go to visit their children and grandchildren , grandfather drops dead and grandmother decides to stay with her daughter . To make a long story short , the old woman has an affair with a carpenter who is also sleeping with her daughter . This is disgusting at best . The old girl ( Ann Reid ) has been quite a naughty lady . She admits that she has done this before her husband's untimely death . While I realize that the message of the film is not to put our old seniors right out to pasture , we don't have to go to this extreme . All men , young and old in this film , are depicted as either being too busy or that they readily jump in bed as soon as there is one available . Grandfather was lucky to get away from all this . This is certainly no way to treat an elderly lady . When the daughter finds out that mother has been unfaithful , she socks the old girl . Sock the director and writer of this trash as well .
Ben Stiller plays a loser with a former wife who is engaged to a bond-holder . Stiller has drifted from job to job but still manages to have the love and respect for this son . All this could possibly change when he takes a job as a night watchman at a local Museum of Natural History . There he meets veteran watchmen Mickey Rooney and Dick Van Dyke . The latter two are just too old to play rues . While it is interesting that the exhibits and all come to life in the evening , it becomes inane to watch history intermingle within itself . How ludicrous to see the Wild West cowboys trying to act with Roman centurions . A little common sense , please ! Robin Williams provides his usual laughter in portraying Teddy Roosevelt . There is a young lady whose character could have been made more interesting . She is researching Sacajawea of the famous Lewis and Clark expedition . She just can't seem to find her way . This speaks for the movie itself .
Chauncey Street , where the Kramdens and Nortons lived , never looked so good as depicted by the famous series with Jackie Gleason . Even though the movie is in color , Ralph and Alice don't exactly look like their apartment is lacking . The original apartment told the story in a nutshell . Alice , in this movie , is far too sophisticated for the role . When she talks , it sounds like she could be a psychologist or social worker , despite lacking the educational requirements . Cedric is adequate but of course is never in the same league as the great Gleason . Ditto for Michael Epps , his interpretation of the Ed Norton character doesn't hold a candle to Art Carney . The writing here is silly ; although , the Kramdens of the 2000s still have high aspirations , and Ed and Ralph will still come up with any scheme possible to fulfill those dreams . Of course , their vulnerability still exists .
What's all the fuss regarding this 1949 routine film noir dealing with the corruption of the boxing industry . Robert Ryan and Audrey Totter do deliver knock-out performances in this film , but the story is so played out . He is the washed up boxer attempting a comeback . She is his girl who is against his latest fight . She stays away to show her contempt for everything . Ryan is supposed to take a dive . He plays the mob for suckers by knocking out challenger Darryl Hickman . The mob finds him in the back alley after the fight . Come on everyone , you know the rest even with Totter running to him in the street as he collapses to the floor dying . The scenes in the ring , which make up most of this 1 hour and 12 minute film , are quite authentic . They are staged extremely well . The answer to this film : You can't fight the mob . What else is new ?
Madonna and mysticism . Madonna and the Kabbalah . . . . And now Richard Gere . What's next ? Believe it or not , Gere is Jewish in this film and he marries Juliette Binoche , a Catholic turned Jewess . They have two bright children . Gere teaches about kabbalah with Jewish mysticism at a college . He is immersed in religious thought and with the idea of his daughter winning a spelling bee . He uses kabbalah to train his daughter with regards to letter and word relationships . Sorry to say that the film is weird . Feeling left out by his father , his son turns to religious experimentation . This leads to difficult scene with his son where Gere actually uses the 4 letter word . To make matters worse , the wife has been stealing objects through the years and is hospitalized in a mental ward . The ending is a surprise but it's needed to show Gere that the world is far from perfect . Those who wrote the screenplay for this film should have realized this as well .
The tale of a dysfunctional family who leave New Mexico in order to enter their homely teenage daughter into a California beauty contest . The family to put it mildly is absolutely ridiculous . The girl has no chance whatsoever of succeeding in such a contest . Her older brother has taken a vow of silence . While on the trip to the pageant , it is determined that he is colorblind and therefore will not be allowed to fly . He goes ballistic before being calmed down by his sister . Greg Kinnear and Toni Collette play the couple in this hopeless film . Kinnear is terribly miscast . The part , if the picture had to be done , should have gone to Steve Martin . Collette's brother , a college professor , has attempted suicide over a failed homosexual relationship with another student . He has left the hospital to join the family . In addition to all this , Kinnear's foul-mouthed father has left a senior citizen group to live with the family . He has taken up heroin addiction in his dotage . While on the trip , grandpa ( Alan Arkin ) has the temerity to die in his sleep due to an apparent overdose but the family carts the body out of the hospital to get to California on time . To add to this pitiful nonsense , they are stopped by a state trooper who finds racy magazines but not the body . Finally arriving at the pageant , the young girl does a dance routine that shall we say is not appropriate . The family goes on stage to support her . The police are called and the family is set free on the promise that they never enter their daughter into another beauty contest in the state of California . Can you believe all this nonsense ? Along the way , Kinnear learns that a big selling opportunity has fallen through . Arkin is the lucky one . By dying , he gets away from all this . A very bad movie in extremely poor taste .
Only the musical number by the fabulous Dorsey band as well as the playing of Ms . Scott and wonderful singing by Lena Horne are about the only 2 saving graces of this rather silly film . The trouble here is the far too many sub-plots . We have Red Skelton pursuing entertainer Eleanor Powell . She marries him when she discovers infidelity on the part of her boyfriend . A dancer with a pants presser ? Sounds silly enough but they don't take the plot far enough . Instead , we have John Hodiak as a player in a show who is really a Nazi saboteur ready to blow up the theater area which is next to some important valuables . Some of the Skelton-Powell skits are way overdone . While we may have needed films like this in war-time , some of this is just too silly to imagine .
What's all the excitement generated by this 2008 film ? In the old days of the 1950s , this picture would be nothing more than a grade B film and everyone knows that . Will this film join AROUND THE WORLD IN 80 DAYS , AN American IN Paris and UNFORGIVEN as well as Shakespeare IN LOVE and go on to win a much undeserved best picture Oscar ? If academy voters voted such stinkers as the above films in , SLUMDOG will probably follow as a winner . The first 20 minutes of the film was absolutely disgusting and nauseating to watch . We know that we're not dealing with Park Avenue , New York City here but the scenes were a little too much to take . We do have somewhat of a good plot here - how a young man relates the questions asked of him to his earlier brutal life . We've also seen films how 2 brothers with a miserable background can go either way in life . We're also reminded of the corruption facing the quiz shows of the 1950s .
Routine movie fanfare where Melissa Gilbert finds out that her late erudite judge father was previously wed to a rodeo queen . The latter let him go because she saw greatness in his future . If she felt like this , why did she marry him to begin with ? Unbeknown to the future , he had a daughter with this woman . She is played by Lindsay Wagner . When Gilbert goes to the ranch to investigate , she soon finds that Wagner is in dispute with the new owner of the range regarding water rights for her horses . In fact , the film begins with the guy shooting at the horses . I was wondering if this was another " They Shoot Horses , Don't they ? " Unfortunately , the true nature of the conflict between them is never revealed . As Gilbert is an attorney , she soon threatens the guy with jail if he doesn't let the horses get their water . Along the way , there is a budding romance between Gilbert and the town vet . Looks like the film is going to the dogs .
A tale of two losers , one who happens to be the billionaire Doris Duke . With all her money , it is shown that the latter can't bring happiness . Duke lives in a closed-existent world and is soon attracted to her butler played by Ralph Fiennes . The scene with the two celebrating her birthday is ridiculous . Fiennes suddenly dresses up with earrings , makeup , etc . To say that he looks ridiculous is to put it mildly . This butler was there just for the money . That he gave Duke some happiness was just a matter of coincidence . Sarandon is too young for the part . What Bette Davis could have done for this part ! The film is uneven since it starts with Duke ignoring Lafferty ( Fiennes ) and suddenly he is the head of the house . It didn't show how he got into her good graces .
Robin Williams is in true form in this 2006 comedy . The problem with this film is that we have seen it so many times before as Chevy Chase vehicles for his vacation pictures . It's basically a story of a family not close , who go on a Colorado trip and during the trip , evolve into a family that realizes the value of strong relationships . This is so hackneyed . Of course , there is plenty of comical twists as Williams comes off as a jerk for plotting such a trip so that he can be close to a very big business deal . There are a few laughs in some really silly situations . Jeff Daniels plays a guy with a family who the Family Williams meet on the road . He and his kids are much smarter than they appear . The film takes off but only briefly when Williams and his family turn the tables on his nasty boss at the very end . We must credit the beautiful cinematography in Utah and Colorado .
Barbara Stanwyck continues her portrayal of ruthless women getting men orbited around her and invariably in her schemes to commit murder . Naturally , she is always falling in love with the guy or vice versa . There are so many similarities here to the 1944 Stanwyck classic " Double Indemnity . " This was a far better picture . This picture even starts off with comic overtones as Assistant D . A . Wendell Corey falls for Stanwyck and is actually funny in his early drunken scenes . The movie shifts to classic film noir as Stanwyck bumps off her elderly aunt and then tries to pin it on someone else . Naturally , Corey is called upon to defend her . It also seems odd that the old lady , awakened from her sleep by a supposed intruder , is able to run around the house with a gun she has in the drawer . The old bird gets blasted by Stanwyck when she enters the room with the safe . The ending where love comes too late has been realized so often in films that this is really cliché .
" The Fugitive Kind " stars 4 Oscar winners . By the time the moved came out , Joanne Woodward , Marlon Brando and Anna Magnani had already won . Maureen Stapleton would win in the supporting actress category 22 years later . Nonetheless , with these great thespians plus an added excellent performance by Victor Jory , the film is done in due to the relentless writing of Tennessee Williams . As soon as we see a Williams production , we know it's about Louisiana , drifters coming into a town and a plethora of emotional instability compounded by the neurotics on the part of the characters . " Fugitive Kind " falls right into this . Joanne Woodward looks like her eyes were punched out here . She appears too young for the part here and she amazingly disappears through most of the middle of the picture . I must say that Anna Magnani's English is far better here than in her award winning " Rose Tattoo , " as well as the wonderful " Wild is the Wind . " As far as Brando is concerned , he is again another Stanly Kowalski , but this time far saner , though quite vulnerable to the tragedy that befalls him . Magnani has never been more earthy and Maureen Stapleton's performance as a sympathetic character is understated and quite brief .
Jane Austen's novel continues to be a bore when it's transferred to the screen . Despite the great 1940 cast of Greer Garson and Edna Mae Oliver , the film didn't exactly catch fire and the same is true for this 2005 remake . Elizabeth is a highly intelligent girl . Her parents are played well by Donald Sutherland and Brenda Blethyn . The latter should be used if ever they make the life-story of Sara Allgood . She is in fine form as the doting mother who wants to see her daughters married off into wealth and happiness . Allgood ? She ought to be the Irish answer to the Jewish mother . Keira Knightley is beautiful and gives a restrained Oscar nominated performance as the eldest daughter . She meets up with Mr . Darcy , a brooding character , who is both angry and frustrated with life in general . His nature is to almost cause misery for the family until things are straightened out by explanation and he emerges as not such a bad Joe after all . In her brief role as Darcy'd aunt , Dame Judi Dench nearly steals the picture with her vicious performance as a wealthy dowager , who looks down on the family and tries to prevent Elizabeth marrying Darcy . Dench has made quite a success in brief screen performances as she did in her supporting Oscar win for " Shakespeare in Love . " The cinematography and set decorations are elegant and quite in order for the period of history they represent . The problem here is with the writing . We can't see all at once why Darcy is such a brooding character . His emergence as a person is also not adequately explained .
Another routine film where Texas cheerleaders witness a murder and are then protected by Marshal Tommy Lee Jones . Jones shows a thick Texan accent and is aging . The guy looks like he has not had a good night sleep in a while . Naturally , while they are confined , the girls learn a lot from Jones and he in return learns from them . Nice seeing Anne Archer back in films after a hiatus for her . As English literature professor , Molly McCarthy , her part is small but she shows real professor-like teaching in her class . She is good at giving out the assignments . The last scenes are exciting when the killer catches the daughter of Jones and the cheerleaders are able to get her off the bus . While the girls are not exactly brilliant , they know do some degree what life is all about . The former also best describes this film which has a few funny moments . Cedric the Entertainer appears in the first and last scene as a preacher with a jaded past .
Richard Grieco gives a convincing performance as quite a sick character in this television movie . With quite a record , Grieco marries an unsuspecting girl and when she wants a baby so badly , he concocts quite a plot to steal one , and get plenty of loot for himself in the process . This leads to an unbelievable tragedy with a family friend's wife losing her life as Grieco commits the ultimate crime-murder . Gradually , the wife finds out that her husband isn't the sweet loving guy that he has pretended to be . There is the house that wasn't bought but is being rented . The job that doesn't exist , the lawyer that doesn't exist as well . I could go on and on . Where was the wife to immediately confront him as his lies unravel ?
Too bad that Jeff Daniels , an excellent actor , can't get better parts . He showed so much promise as Shirley MacLaine's son-in-law in " Terms of Endearment . " Come on , Hollywood . You can do better than this for Mr . Daniels . Daniels is a college professor here who finds that his wife , a music teacher , is missing . He alternately hallucinates due to a lack of sleep . He even dreams that his wife has been found dead . Maybe , this is wishful thinking on his part . We discover that the Mrs . has been having an affair with a gym teacher in her school and is pregnant . To add to the mayhem , a student , named Sadie Crumb , comes over to find out why the college professor hasn't been showing up to class . When Daniels doesn't show up for 2 days , his response to the college secretary , calling to tell him that the dean wants to see him , is memorable . What should the police believe when they find Sadie's bloody clothing on the scene ? Incidentally , she had a nosebleed while at the professor's house . Daniels spends most of the time in this movie in the toilet wiping away blood and possible body parts . This is mainly where the script should have placed as well .
I have never seen a film to deteriorate in the last 20 minutes in the way that " There Will Be Blood " does . The film has a great plot - a man who becomes very wealthy from oil drilling , and the apparent abandoning of his son who is deafened by the blast of oil being discovered . I thought that this would be the basic story line , the relationship between father and son through the years . Instead , we see the horrible relationship between Lewis and the town pastor . This film is certainly an anti-religious one . At the end , we see the human frailties possessed by the pastor . The two had a fight by film's end in a manner that reminded me of Max Bialystock and Leo Blum fighting in 1967's " The Producers . " The ending is simply awful . Before the last 20 minutes , Lewis gives a restrained but powerful performance as the wealthy oil driller who is really insane . A the time of the horrible ending , Lewis announces to his valet that he is finished . He should have been so 20 minutes sooner .
Pearl Harbor . The sneak attack and the brave men and women who served during the attack as well as World War 11 . Sounds very familiar to the 1953 Oscar winner for best picture - " From Here to Eternity . " This is no such picture . The latter film was a deep study of the basic characters . That is sadly lacking here where we have veteran pros such as Henry Fonda and Dana Andrews in brief parts . Am stilling trying to figure out the conflict between Andrews and Rocky , played by John Wayne . The acting kudos in this film goes to Patricia Neal . She plays a rugged nurse who tells Wayne that her husband was less than a man and that caused her to leave him . Brandon de Wilde is the son that Wayne gave up 18 years ago and now finds his lad under his naval wing . Kirk Douglas plays quite a rogue . His wife , fooling around with a guy when the attack occurred , winds up dead along with the fellow . A devastated Douglas takes to drinking and fooling around with de Wilde's girlfriend causing the latter to commit suicide . To run away , Douglas flies out and uncovers Japanese naval ships on their way to launch an attack . A lot of this sounds like " Peyton Place " but again this film also worked due to the intense character study . This can't be found in this film . Nice to see that director Otto Preminger used Jill Haworth from his 1960 " Exodus " film 5 years later for this film as well .
She returns home after breaking up with her boyfriend . He lives next door . The 2 mothers never got along . The two fall in love and after 7 months , he pops the question . The moms start talking so as to make an all-out wedding . The lovers are overwhelmed and postpone the wedding . This is so predictable . Anyone could have written the script . Any chances to make something out of this cliché ridden script is mired by the obvious . With Patty Duke and other very good supporting cast members , this film really fails to convey any excitement . O yes , the lovers really wanted a beach-front wedding . What else is new ?
This film started off quite boring despite the marvelous talents of Gene Kelly and Frank Sinatra . It got very funny with the coming of Betty Garrett and the memorable Alice Pearce as Lucy Schmeeler . Kelly was wise to take Pearce from the Broadway stage and transfer the part of Lucy that she performed there to the big screen . The people still ride in a hole in the ground . Yet , that's what N . Y . C . is basically about is this fun thrilled film dealing with 3 gobs on a 24 hour pass in Gotham . The ending tended to be more slap-stick with scenes of cops chasing our culprits throughout the city . Kelly , as always , shows his mettle in his dancing . He is ably backed up by Sinatra and Vera-Ellen . Ann Miller is along for the ride as one of the broads that the 3 guys pick up during their 24 hour adventure . Remember Miss Subways ? That was an integral part of this city . In this film , it's known as Miss Turnstiles . Jules Munshin , the able comic and dancer , joins Kelly and Sinatra here . A sad note is the early deaths of Jules Munshin , Vera-Ellen and Alice Pearce . All 3 died way before their time and Hollywood was a sadder place for this .
This is one of Cuba Gooding's best performances in years . Mr . Gooding has been on a dry run since his Oscar win in the supporting category for Tom Cruise's famous line-Show me the money ! This is basically a fun film . Cuba Gooding , recently fired from his job , returns to Georgia for the funeral of his beloved Aunt Sally . That funeral scene in the church is just memorably realized . Gooding captures the part of the not so competent worker , with a kind and understanding heart . He can keep the inheritance providing that he does something is an old Hollywood line . This time , it's the taking up of the choir . LaTanya Richardson gives a stoic performance as the holier than thou choir leader who looks to trip the Gooding character up so that she can maintain her position . She is just great as one who preaches reverence but has strayed herself . Beyonce Knowles belts it out . Of course , her rendition of fever can't be compared to that of the great Peggy Lee .
A hostage story within another hostage taking situation is what we have here . The film starts off reminding us that even with the best hostage negotiator , dealing in a calm way with a situation , tragedy can result . Three kids , two of them real mental cases , try to hijack a car . The situation soon spins out of control with a police officer dead , and the kids in the home of a widower and his 2 children creating mayhem there with their victims . We soon learn that the father is no angel either . He works for some kind of illegal organization and he has to pass something to them in a disc . The organization soon takes as hostages , the negotiator's daughter and wife . If you can fathom all this , good luck to you . The negotiator , Bruce Willis , does well in the part but the flick soon comes apart , complete with lots of violence . Not for the squeamish . Negotiator Talley ( Willis ) has an assistant in his office , a woman , who reminds us of the late Selma Diamond . She looks like the type living in a rent-controlled building on Kings Highway or Brighton Beach in Brooklyn . Like the rest of this mayhem , she should have retired and spent her days sitting in front of her house with a chair . There has to be two ends to this as there are two hostage situations . The faster they end , the better for all concerned .
Interesting film is marred by the ending . While others find the ending to be an unusual twist , I found it to be a cop-out . Ed G . Robinson is a college professor who becomes directly involved in a murder after meeting the woman whose picture he becomes enamored with while staring at a window . The professor is an amateur at crime as we see by the mistakes he makes and we are amazed at the ability of the police , led by Raymond Massey , in picking up clues . You would think for sure that Robinson and Joan Bennett , the woman he kills for , would be found out at the end . There is a slick blackmailer who knows all the angles . It appears that Robinson and Bennett are done for and there is nothing left for Robinson to do but to commit suicide . Voila ! The dream sequence ends . See Robinson run down the street like a frightened kitten when a woman asks him for a light . Come on . This could have been a thriller of a murder film . It is simply done in by the cop out ending . Even Dorothy upon waking up in Oz would have been annoyed with this .
The Sanderson Sisters of Salem become alive again and return to Salem to wreak absolute havoc in this inane Disney film of 1993 . Bette Midler is terrific as the oldest and ugliest sister . She is ably supported by fellow " sisters " Sarah Jessica Parker and Kathy Najimy . They want to " gobble " up the children of Salem so that they can remain alive . The movie becomes slap-shot in nature as the 3 witches battle a young man and his sister , recent arrivals from California along with a beautiful young girl of the town . We have some very silly dialogue here . The thought of Najimy , so heavy and riding through the air with a vacuum cleaner is a little hard to take .
. . . And I actually thought that the television series " Picket Fences " showed plenty of what was going on in Wisconsin . This film primarily deals with commitments or really the lack of . It is about immaturity and problems among older and younger couples . That's the problem here . Too much is trying to be shown . Nonetheless director Tony Goldwyn should be applauded here for an admirable job and getting top performances by veterans Blythe Danner and former Oscar nominee Tom Wilkinson ( In the Bedroom ) . As the frustrated 30 year wife , this is Danner's best part and performance in years . She pulls out every emotional stop as a woman whose married to a psychiatrist ( Wilkinson ) has been failing for years . Wilkinson is a brooding figure who finally speaks out when his pregnant daughter's fiancé has cheated on her . The story is also about friends of the young couple . One disenchanted guy whose affair has ended and has decided to leave on a whirlwind trip with a fellow pal , a 29 year old bartender . Casey Affleck and his wife can't stop arguing while they undergo the pains of trying to rear a baby . The film really centers around Zach Braff and his relationship with Barrett . Who are Barrett's parents to give advice after it is revealed that their marriage is on the rocks ? The film had the potential to be a good one but it tries to convey too much . Too much immaturity and lack of commitment here . The ending scenes of sitting out in the rain to get his girl back are sometimes laughable at best .
" Just Cause " starts off well but after 45 minutes goes downhill rapidly . Ruby Dee runs to a veteran college professor , who hasn't practiced law in years . She begs him to intervene on the part of her college dropout grandson who is on death row for killing an eleven year old 8 years before . It looks like the old south with white officials beating confessions out of accused black people ? But wait a minute , Tany Brown , Laurence Fishburne , is the sheriff . He beats his own people ? Ed Harris steals the show as an insane religious zealot who is also on death row . Harris does a great imitation of Hannibal Lechter and is effective . His letter eventually frees Dee's grandson ( a very good Blair Underwood ) but the viewers are soon in for a predictable roller-coaster like ride in a fairly predictable film . Veterans Kevin McCarthy and Hope Lange are completely wasted as Connery's in-laws . The way the bodies begin to pile up , it might be just as well . Cate Capshaw plays Connery's wife who once played a key role in a previous Underwood trial . What's going on here ? Is everything so coincidental ?
Denzel Washington , a policeman in law-school is playing basketball with the neighborhood toughs . He achieves fame by bringing down a drug dealing character , played extremely well by John Lithgow , who by his acting of a psychopath , put a new dimension into his acting abilities . Washington has it made as the years pass . Lithgow plots revenge while incarcerated and breaks out violently at his parole hearing . He turns the tables on Washington in several ways including the killing of his friend and fellow officer , nice played by Kevin Pollak . Washington is blamed for the killing . He kidnaps Denzel and shoots drugs into his system and provides him with a prostitute . The two eventually tangle on top of a high area before the obvious ending occurs . A good story allowed to go awry by crazy staged events .
Even the great Katharine Hepburn and Burt Lancaster can't help this film dealing with a woman who has little prospect of ever finding a husband in a rural Texas town . Hepburn plays Lizzie Curry to the hilt but she can't arise over the writing and some utterly boring scenes . Hepburn may also have been too old for the part . She was 49 in 1956 . She is frustrated in her attempts to find love despite the fact that she has strong family support in her father and brothers played by Lloyd Bridges and Earl Holliman . Both gentlemen give ample support , especially Holliman , the more sympathetic to his sister's needs . Lizzie admits that she is no Lady Godiva or Cinderella at the ball . Bridges frankly tells her that she is plain and will remain a spinster . Remember the way that Ralph Richardson told Olivia De Havilland this in " The Heiress ? " Lancaster is Starbuck , a con man who comes to the town and brings Lizzie to realize that she is more the woman than she actually thought she was . His early scenes will remind you of his Oscar winning portrayal of Elmer Gantry 4 years later . There is also another wonderful supporting performance by Wendell Corey , the town sheriff , a divorced man who can't bring himself to love Lizzie . The story is told in the backdrop of a drought hitting the small Texas town . The ending in particular is more stage like than a motion picture .
A very disappointing goes to " The Constant Gardener " Dealing with the greed and ultimate murders they commit , pharmaceutical companies really get some reputation from exploiting Kenyan people stricken with aids . They test tuberculosis drugs on them knowing full well they are terminal anyway . Then , they talk up how wonderful the drug is in issuing false reports . Rachel Weisz won a Golden Globe award as best supporting actress for playing Tessa , movie wife of Ray Fiennes . She is murdered along with a black Kenyan doctor when they discover what's going on . It is made to appear that Tessa , who loses Fiennes baby , and the doctor were lovers . That soon unravels when it is discovered that the doctor was a homosexual . The film soon descends into twists of who did what and when . Yes , it is as confusing as the new Medicare Part D program . Aren't the pharmaceutical companies to blame for this one too ?
Routine film involving father Louis Calhern's over protective approach for his ailing daughter . Not only isn't she told that she has a year left to live , Daddy Calhern uses his wealth to marry her off to Dan Pierce . ( Van Johnson ) The film would have worked better had it not been for the Ruth Roman part of Maud , the girl next door , who lost out on Johnson and never lets Ellen ( Dorothy McGuire ) forget it . Between this and finding a book , Ellen soon finds out what is going on . A series of flashbacks shows how Dan wooed her and the supposed happiness they found during their 10 months of supposed wedded bliss . The acting is quite good here , especially McGuire's Ellen . She is soft spoken at times and reminded me of Kathy , her Oscar nominated performance of 5 years before , in the memorable " Gentleman's Agreement . " She pulls out all the stops when she finds out what is really going on . Roman's Maud is a nasty character . She will do anything to get back her lover Dan , even if it means telling Ellen that she will die soon . The film goes down in quality once Ellen knows what is going on . It is with the change of season that we know that love has triumphed and all shall end well as the end flashes on the screen .
In honor of their 1954 hit , Magnificent Obsession , Hollywood decided to team Jane Wyman and Rock Hudson again for another tear-jerker . This one is All that Heaven Allows . Jane is a widow again who falls for the town gardener , nice played by Rock Hudson . Since Ron is much younger than the Wyman character , the town gossips led by Mona , an excellent Jacqueline de Wit , have a field day . The inference immediately is that the two must have had a relationship while Wyman was still wed . As was the case with so many Jane Wyman films , Agnes Moorehead is part of this one too . She again plays an understanding friend , Sara . She attempts to warn her friend of the gossip with its ramifications . I found Moorehead to be weak here . Sirk would have been better served to have her in the Mona role . Moorehead could play real vicious when prompted to . Bowing to the town gossip and her adult children , Wyman breaks off with Ron only to find herself alone with her new television set . It has to take an accident for true love to intervene as the film ends . for Wyman and Hudson lovers . As Jane Wyman in well into her 90s now , wouldn't it be nice if her masterpiece picture of 1951 , The Blue Veil , were shown ? The film is currently in litigation . Time to get this gem of a film out of mothballs .
Bleak version of " Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf ? " Elizabeth Taylor sacrificed her good looks to portray Martha , the unhappy wife of a college professor . Taylor shouts across the scream with a vengeance . Her depiction of the wife traumatized by the death of their only child is a remarkable one and she was awarded her second Oscar for it . Richard Burton received another losing Oscar nomination , this time as George , the college professor husband . He is vile and often tipsy . He cannot control the situation nor life either . George and Martha are really 2 bored individuals letting loose on life in general . George Segal and Sandy Dennis were both Oscar nominated for supporting awards for their performances as a young faculty member and his wife who sit through the tirades of George and Martha . How anyone could sit through this on screen is beyond me . Apparently , academy voters felt sympathy for Dennis by giving her the coveted award in this category .
To the other people who have evaluated this film : I have seen a lot worse . The story centers around a young couple who write and win an award for the best song in a film . While on the dais , the guy ( Patrick Dempsey ) , proposes marriage . You would think this would be the perfect ending . Rather , it's an imperfect beginning to a rather fair film . The couple soon divorce due to a misunderstanding and go their separate ways . Fast forward to several years later , where Dempsey , now in real-estate and engaged to wed his partner , meets up with his ex-wife . ( Molly Ringwald They are given the opportunity to write a song for Moishe , yes I mean Moishe , who is now happily wed to his wife Christine . Moishe and Christine ? Lord bless those inter-faith marriages ! This highly predictable film is noteworthy for its light comedy . Will they write the hit song ? How will they be drawn back into love ? It's highly predictable but somewhat amusing . You can face this music .
Depression era film with Ryan and Tatum O'Neil as two terrific con artists . How could Tatum have won for best supporting actress ? She is nearly every scene in the film and steals the show for sure . Amazing that she was able to beat out Madeleine Kahn's Trixie Delight in that category . You really get a feeling for the depression from what the film depicts . When Addie ( Tatum ) stares with that icy expression , you know you're vulnerable to just about everything . What makes the film so good is the bonding between Ryan and Tatum . Since they're father and daughter in real life , this helped the situation . It was that very bond that brings them together at film's end .
John C . Reilly does a credible job as a rock singer in this film . This movie is really a take-off on the problems of the 1950s musical singers of the Elvis Presley genre . We see a young marriage falling apart , drug abuse , rising to fame too quickly . Denny is never forgiven by his father due to the tragic death of his younger brother . In addition , the way that it is showed how the mother died some years after that tragedy was rather silly . Falling out of a window with a radio landing on top of her was pretty unbelievable . Reilly , who sang his way to an Oscar nomination in " Chicago , " does sing well here again . The movie is a good one as it shows the importance of family .
Move over Hilary Clinton and Condi Rice . You had Ada to contend with before your true political aspirations become known . Bo Gillis is running for governor . He is introduced to trollop Ada , and after a whirlwind romance , they wed . Ada is played by Susan Hayward , always at the top of her game . Even with her red hair ablaze , Hayward looked haggard and not in the best of health when she made this flick . Of course , Bo , ( Dean Martin ) is a fool duped to run for governor by political boss Sylvester , ( a not so charming Wilfrid Hyde-White , ) who does quit well in his part of a vicious back-room character who controls the state of business and will go as far as murder to make sure that he rules . Bo quickly realizes that something is wrong when a governor is just called upon to sign bills . The Lt . Governor tells him all about the Parks legislation . Sylvester makes sure that the Lt . Governor resigns . Suddenly , Ada is determined to be his replacement . When Bo is ready to buck Sylvester , he is nearly killed in a bomb placed in his car . As Ada had volunteered to be the lieutenant , Bo thinks that she is in with Sylvester . Along for the ride is Ralph Meeker , who plays the head of the police . He is as corrupt as they come . He even makes a play for Ada . Why didn't she try to unload him right there and then ? What is amazing in all this is that Ada becomes very intelligent regarding the workings of government and legislation very , very quickly . She has her own ideas in mind to rid the state of Sylvester's bossism . She confronts certain ladies at a tea party and reminds them of their husbands ties to the state , thanks to the legislation on the books that allows them to do business with the state . Suddenly , in a scene change , Sylvester is shown in a wheelchair . What happened Syl ? True though , you're as sly as ever . Bo is released from the hospital and in the capitol gallery views the showdown between Ada and Sylvester . Sylvester's old tricks will not prevail . Good for its depiction of corruption . Fairly good performances but storyline is so predictable .
Drama with Jack Palance as a big movie star in big trouble . He killed a child in a hit-run accident and someone or someones are threatening to spill the beans . We have a top-rated cast here . Rod Steiger steals the show as a movie studio mogul out to destroy Palance if he doesn't sign that 7 year deal . Looks wise , Palance has never appeared better . Kudos to the make-up artist who actually made the guy look good looking here . As his wife , Ida Lupino is not dominant in the film . There lacks that vicious quality which made her a star in so many other films . Nonetheless , she turns in an adequate performance as the conflicted wife . Jean Hagen and Shelley Winters portray two bimbos who are really flying high . Wendell Corey and Ilka Chase , the latter as a Hedda Hopper type round out the cast . Palance is quite conflicted here . He is almost a Shakespeare-like tragedy . We know that he is contemplating suicide because we see that near famous James Mason like walk in " A Star is Born , " the year before . Geraldine Page would repeat that phenomenon in 1978's " Interiors . " Ironically , Palance starred with Winters in " I Died A Thousand Times " in 1955 . The latter was a remake of the Ida Lupino vehicle " High Sierra " with Humphrey Bogart . What a grand reunion here for all !
When " In Which We Serve " was made in 1942 , England was in the midst of its finest hour . We see a film of honor , devotion , and loyalty to the realm . It is basically the story of a boat being torpedoed and the flashbacks of 3 sailors aboard the doomed wreckage . Noel Coward , a brilliant talent , did not perform well here . His scenes with his children appear awkward and he is unusually cold towards them . While a war is going on , that strong sentiment of a loving friendly tie is missing . Kudos go to Celia Johnson , as Alix , his wife in the film . She states in a memorable way that in the navy , devotion to the ship comes first . John Mills is also effective as a navy man . In a heart-wrenching scene , he must tell a fellow shipman that his wife and mother-in-law have been killed in the blitz . The ending is poignantly done . A tear will come to the eye as Coward says goodbye to those who survived the torpedoed ship . A film of valor and of the human spirit . England was certainly at its finest hour .
The inconvenient truth here is that Al Gore lost the 2000 election here . The country has been worse for that ever since . The documentary is well done . Gore points to the dangers of carbon monoxide emissions and there is some political gibes given by the former Vice President as well when we see former President Bush ridiculing the Clinton-Gore team on global warming several days before his defeat in 1992 . Notice that the states that have attempted to do something regarding global warming are the very states that Mr . Gore carried in 2000 . How coincidental . An informative piece of information even for those , such as myself , who never cared a bit about science either because I found it boring or had some miserable people teaching it 40 years ago . Vice President Gore , you're a good teacher . My hope is that a deadlocked 2008 convention will turn to you . John Edwards should be your running mate . Many of your views are in sync with his .
Mitzi Gaynor and Scott Brady starred in this 1952 Damon Runyon tale involving gangsters and some good people . When Brady is returning from Florida , as the heat from the commission investigating him has been turned off , he runs into Georgia hick Mitzi Gaynor . Feeling sorry for her , this bookie brings her back to New York only to realize that she is a 20 year old girl . He sets her up for dancing and naturally being Mitzi Gaynor , she succeeds . As he falls in love with her , he will incur the wrath of his jealous girl who will turn the tables on him . Gaynor was just wonderful in her dance sequences . Mitzi Green is in fine form in a supporting performance as the mob's moll who helps both Gaynor and Brady as the two fall for each other . Very light and amusing entertainment . Look for 2 brief scenes by Charles Bronson as a mobster . Milo O'Shea handles his role as a police officer effectively .
Steve Carell proves that he is quite an up and coming versatile actor . In this interesting film , he plays a widowed newspaper writer with 3 children . They're invited to his parents ' house for a family weekend and mayhem ensues . Obviously , his children are precocious . One already is quite serious with her boyfriend . Dan plays the part of the father all the way by trying to disconnect this relationship . The parents , John Mahoney and the ever talented Dianne Wiest , are given little to do here . This is a story of a man trying to get his life back in shape after the passing of his wife . His family is there to get him to do this never realizing that this will lead Dan to fall for the girlfriend ( Juliette Binoche , who won a supporting actress Oscar some years back for " The English Patient . " ) of his brother . This is interesting movie fanfare made more enjoyable by the solid chemistry between Carell and Binoche .
" You're going to make it on your own " was part of the theme song for this hit 1970s sit-com . Luckily , for Mary Tyler Moore , she made it because of an outstanding supporting cast . Moore's dead-pan humor could become dull many times . You would actually be anticipating something occurring . When would it finally come ? Miss Moore was extremely fortunate to have a superlative supporting cast . People such as Ed Asner , Gavin MacLeod , Valerie Harper , Nancy Walker , Georgia Engel and Ted Knight provided the necessary strength for this show to succeed . Naturally , working in a newsroom with mostly all these characters didn't exactly hurt either . It may have been cold in Minnesota but the characters on this show provided the necessary warmth .
A skillfully directed film by Martin Ritt where a drifter and anti-hero , John Cassevetes lands in N . Y . to escape a tragic incident in his life , where he killed his brother in an automobile accident as well as going AWOL from the army . Cassavetes , always an intense actor , shows grit in his portrayal of a film . Am surprised that Montgomery Clift didn't get this part . Ruth White is his mother and does remarkably well in two scenes on the telephone . Once in New York , he befriends Sidney Poitier as the two work on the docks . Immediately , Jack Warden , a bully and villain in this film , takes a dislike to him and tragedy ensues when Poitier tries to defend his friend . Ruby Dee , plays Poitier's wife in this film , and is brilliant in a scene where she urges Cassavetes to reveal the killer of her husband . This is definitely an interesting film of moral values and the loner in society . With the backdrop of tenements , the right mood is depicted in the film .
The warm family relationships that abound in this production makes the movie an appealing one . Taking place after the civil war , it chronicles the life of a widow with 3 children who are poverty stricken . The eldest daughter , a writer with a great imagination , concocts a story that ultimately draws their wealthy grandmother to their New Hampshire home . Jackie Bisset plays the stern grandmother . She is entirely too young for the part . Nevertheless , she gives a gem of a performance as a wealthy matron who married a much older widower than she and had a daughter with him to secure herself financially . The daughter ran away years before with a stable boy who has now died . Both mother and daughter must confront past events in front of the children . The story is filled with scarlet fever epidemics abounding . The film also deals with a getting kind grandmother who will go to any length to get her children and grandchildren out of the poverty cycle . It is a nicely done film with a triumph of the family spirit in this season of giving .
Guess what , Vince Vaughn can really act and it is about time that he be used more in mature subject matters . He is quite effective here in the role of a father who is forced to take care of his little boy when the wife and mother goes off to her sister's engagement party and never returns after 18 months . While the premise may be a little silly to believe , Vaughn gives it his all and in certain ways reminded me of Dustin Hoffman's " Kramer vs . Kramer . " The little boy is adorable and appealing in the role . The film works because it deals with maturity and responsibility in a very apt way . Vaughn is an attorney who also dabbles in coaching basketball in the film . One of his renegade players has a sister and you know the rest .
Charlize Theron well deserved her best actress Oscar for " Monster . " The person who did her make-up should have received one as well . Ms . Theron is marvelous as serial killer Aileen Wuornos , a prostitute who went on a killing spree . Theron received remarkable support from Christina Ricci , who played a young girl seduced by Wuornos . Ricci's face shows her unhappiness and disturbance and ultimate betrayal of her lover . The film does suffer from clichés such as Wuornos's attempt to justify the killings . Raped at age 8 by her father's friend , she would be subjected to abuse by the father as well . When she is found guilty of the killings and sentenced to death , Wuornos screams that you're killing a raped girl . Does this life history excuse her from what she did ? Not even a psychiatrist would be able to justify this .
Even though he saw his gangster father cut down by police bullets , you have to wonder how a kind hearted , sympathetic character as Nick Bianco , well played by Victor Mature , settled down to a life of crime . In addition , was there anything going on with Nick and the babysitter while Nick's wife was living ? They sure teamed up quickly and Nick remarried very fast after his wife's suicide . Despite these possible flaws , we have an engrossing film dealing with a gangster must face when he starts squealing on fellow mob members . Of course , Richard Widmark steals the movie with his performance of the insane hooligan with that memorable laugh , eerie smile and depraved indifference to human life . Throwing a wheel-chair bound Mildred Dunnock down the stairs was most shocking . It would take a performance such as the one given by Edmund Gwenn in the family tradition film , " Miracle on 34th St . " to defeat Widmark . Ironically , Widmark was never Oscar nominated again .
Sissy Spacek won an Oscar for portraying Loretta Lynn in this 1980 biography and Tommy Lee Jones , who portrayed her husband , should have been Oscar nominated . Spacek and Jones are just perfect in this musical story . There are a few inconsistencies in the film . Why was that man shot at the beginning of the film ? If Lynn's father loved her so much , why did he allow her to marry at 13 to someone they knew for about a month ? Is this an example of rural southern behavior at its worst ? The film shines due to the fact that Spacek did her own singing . She is matched every way by Jones's outstanding performance as her husband , the man who knew to get away from the coal mines as soon as possible . Beverly D'Angelo appears in a much understated performance as the tragic Patsy Cline . It was with her untimely passing that Lynn became the Queen of Country Music . Lynn certainly wasn't much of a mother as she quickly leaves 4 children behind in pursuit of her career . Adding twin girls for a total of 6 doesn't seem to complicate matters at all . British director , Michael Apted , successfully conveys the southern country musical scene in this film . Even Minnie Pearl shows up in Nashville but just smiles and says nothing .
Jack Nicholson's first Oscar winning performance as a patient in a mental institution . Based on Ken Kesey's best seller , we come to realize that the heads of these institutions are in desperate need themselves . Nurse Mildred Ratched was skillfully played by Louise Fletcher , who won the best actress Oscar . Needless to say that an argument could be made that Nurse Ratched was a supporting performance . Fletcher also benefited from the fact that Elizabeth Taylor and Anne Bancroft turned the part down . Could one imagine Geraldine Page doing this role ? She would have had a field day with it . Anyway , Ratched is an instigator . She riles the inmates up and then steps away after calling for emergency assistance . She is sicker than anyone confined there . Nicholson , ideal for the role , made the most of it . His refusal to conform shall lead to his ultimate downfall . Note a strong performance by Brad Dourif as one of the inmates , who Ratched destroys in one of her blistering fits . Remember our short friend Mr . Cheswick ? Vulnerable , his nervousness was memorable in a well designed film .
Garson Kanin and Ruth Gordon wrote a corker for this 1952 film . Just like 1983's " Terms of Endearment , " we see a comedy turn to tragedy suddenly with a tremendous emotional impact . Sorry to say that both Aldo Ray and Judy Holliday were miscast here . Ray had that hoarse voice that would serve him better in war films or in pool halls . He is just not the husband-type that would find himself in the situations that he did . As for Miss Holliday , that sing-song voice of hers was great for her Oscar-winning " Born Yesterday , " but enough already . However , both Ray and Holliday achieve star like qualities when the film turns serious . Their emotional outbursts towards each other are memorable to say the least . You wonder why the two of them , in love and so much to live for , turn up in front of a judge seeking divorce . The judge is kind enough to sit down to try and straighten things out . We are then led on an Odyssey of a 7 year marriage gone terribly wrong . Of course , the tragedy that ensues at the beach will absolutely shock and tug at your heart . The wonderful ending is reason enough to see this often quirky but rewarding film . The ups and downs of a marriage are well depicted here . I always wondered where my 1952 second grade teacher got that corny song " Good Morning to You , Good Morning to You . We're all in our places with sunshiny faces , etc . " Don't you think that song is sung here ? After all , the film was made in 1952 .
Quite a good film is depicted here despite the fact that it's hard to believe that Rue MacLanahan's daughter did not realize that Rue was staying out and away from her terminally ill husband and father because he wanted it that way . You know that the waitress who is chasing after Dale Midkiff will wind up with the attorney . They have so much in common . That's so obvious . That being all said , the picture succeeds because it's a sentimental tale about home life , the saving of the life of a young boy and the renewed love of his widower father and woman doctor who comes back to the town to attend a high school reunion .
Neil Simon focuses his attention on a variety of people at a hotel in this 1978 comedy hit . Walter Matthau certainly has a penchant as a hotel guest . Remember him with Maureen Stapleton and several other ladies in another hotel farce comedy-drama ? Matthau , as always , is hilarious when he attempts to hide a hooker from his wife . It seems that Elaine May is always the naive victim in films . Remember her in 1972's " The Heartbreak Kid ? " The real acting kudos here goes to Maggie Smith for a gem of a supporting Oscar-winning performance in this film . Smith plays an actress at the hotel who has been nominated for an Oscar . A win would mean a tremendous comeback for her . Naturally , she loses . How many people have won Oscars for playing an Oscar loser in a film ? Judy Garland accomplished the opposite in 1954 in " A Star is Born . " In the film she is an actress who wins the academy award but in real-life competition lost it to Grace Kelly for " The Country Girl . " Only the lord knows why . Smith is just grand as she prances around the room delivering memorable one-liners . This is just a gem of a film .
A really inspiring film despite the usual subject matter of an unwanted teen pregnancy . Ellen Page really gives a lot of herself in her Oscar nominated performance as a teenager in trouble . Fortunately , this girl has her head on her shoulders . She knows that she can't keep the child and is able to find what she thinks will be the ideal couple to adopt her baby . Unfortunately , the couple proves not to be what we're all expecting . It seems that Page has entered their lives just at a time when their very marriage is disintegrating rapidly . Ellen's father and step-mother play an understanding couple in this situation . I was a little perplexed regarding the stepmother part of Allison Janney . When hearing the news of Page's pregnancy , she begins to exhibit religious fanaticism that we saw her do so well on a comedy level in " Hairspray . " Suddenly , she falls into line and gives a truly compelling supporting performance . This is a lovely , emotionally paced film .
The director of this film died recently as we was approaching 100 . Dennie Moore , who plays the common Gertie , with a typical Brooklyn accent , turns 99 in December . Wonderful seeing John Garfield in a non-gangster role . As the sympathetic Sims , an inventor whose a dreamer , Garfield etches a totally believable character . Anne Shirley plays the girl who loves and tricks him into marriage . Garfield plays basically another George Bailey type . The opportunities are there for him but situations arise which prevent him from fulfilling his dreams . Claude Rains plays his philosophical father-in-law who plots to do away with himself so that Garfield and Shirley can live happily ever after . The two work in the same office , fall in love and marry . With the coming of war , she gets laid off and he is asked to take a pay cut . Sad but realistic . This true to life film does end happily .
Why wasn't this favorite of mine sung in a Bobby Darin biography ? Kevin Spacey did quite well singing the legendary singer . Just too bad that he didn't make this film 10 or more years ago . He came across too old for the part . Joaquin Phoenix , of " Walk the Line " would have conveyed a much needed younger spirit . As I stated , Spacey's voice and dancing are up to par . His motions emulating the late Darrin are terrific as well . The film has two very good performances . One is by Kate Bosworth , who portrays the late Sandra Dee . Dee is depicted at first as an immature young star , easily led by an overbearing , domineering mother . Nina , the woman who Bobby grew up thinking was his mother is also well done by the actress Ms . Aaron , who portrays her . The woman looks just like an Italian Lainie Kazan . A young lad named Ullrich plays Bobby as a young boy . He is quite effective and the idea of having him and Spacey on screen at the same time is splendidly done . Bob Hoskins and John Goodman , Bobby's supposed brother-in-law and manager , do well with the script handed to them . Brenda Blethyn , well remembered for " Secrets and Lies , " and " Little Voice " is miscast her . She just doesn't come across as the supposed mother of Darrin . Her funeral scene remains puzzling though it again shows that the show must go on at any cost . The film nicely deals with Darrin's social activism . Though we all know the end of the film , it does not end in a downer but in a well-staged music ensemble instead .
This excellent 1946 vehicle provides Orson Welles with a role that he is most sympathetic with . Married to Claudette Colbert in this film , he is soon declared missing and dead . Colbert quickly remarries a wealthy gentleman who is most sympathetic when this apparent tragedy strikes . Fast forward 20 years . By chance , Colbert comes across Welles in a new disguise . This is all coming about as World War 11 will envelop Europe . It appears that Welles was not killed off during World War 1 , but merely was missing and apparently suffering from amnesia . The film becomes a heartbreak after this . Both Colbert and Welles really are conflicted here . She suspects that he realizes his true identity now and he realizes that the son she bore is his . Both Colbert and Welles put on some very fine acting here in this film where you had better have plenty of handkerchiers available .
Lady Godiva was a freedom rider . . . And when the country was falling apart , Betsy Ross had it all sewn up . . . and then there's Maude ( repeat , ) right on Maude . That was part of the opening theme song of this very popular show of the 1970s brought about by Beatrice Arthur visiting Archie and Edith Bunker's home on " All in the Family . " Go know that Edith and Maude were cousins . The hilarity broke loose when Maude's liberal views were tested with Archie's ultra-conservative leanings . Arthur was such a success on the show that she was given her own show " Maude . " While Maude is very liberal , the film showed that her home was anything but functional . I guess that the same can be said about any liberal or conservative . The show was highlighted by another great supporting cast with Bill Macy and Adrienne Barbeau as husband and daughter to Maude respectively .
Another great Oscar nominated performance by Bette Davis . In this one , she plays Fanny , a selfish woman who thinks of nothing but her beauty . As she ages , she will do about almost anything to keep youthful looking . The picture begins where she is overwhelmed by a plethora of suitors . Eventually , she will marry a banker , wonderfully played by Claude Rains . Frustrated by getting older , she leaves it out on him and he is eventually driven away . Returning later , Fanny is stunned to see him now blind . Apparently , he was in a Nazi occupied country and being Jewish did not exactly help . She takes him under her arm and leads him away . Now , as a blind man , she will accept him knowing that he can't see her age . This was done in a poignant manner .
Beautiful biography of Cole Porter wonderfully realized by Cary Grant in the title role . Many criticized the film due to the fact that Porter's homosexuality was omitted . What they fail to recognize in their criticism is that we're dealing with 1945 . Our moral behavior was so differently viewed at that time . The affluent Porter family wanted him to study law ; with his gift for songwriting , he had other ideas . Jane Wyman , as Gracie , is wonderful as well as Mary Martin portraying herself . Donald Woods is a loyal friend along with a very young newcomer to the screen , Dorothy Malone . Monty Woolley plays himself , a stuffed shirt , in a great performance . A college professor , who gave everything up to pursue Porter in California , only to achieve a remarkable movie career for himself . The Porter songs come alive especially the title song-Night and Day . Cary Grant was meant for the role . He alternates beautifully , handling the musical part greatly and gives a wonderful performance when it came to Porter's personal life-especially his war injury and other accident that followed . The film probably marked the end of Jane Wyman's career in musicals . She did quite well as Gracie , discovered by Porter in his early years and then transferring with him to Broadway and success . With the exception of singing In the Cool , Cool , Cool of the Evening with Bing Crosby in 1951's " Here Comes the Groom , " Wyman fled to strong dramatic roles after " Night and Day . " Mary Martin's heart certainly belonged to daddy . She belted out her classic song in the film . Ginny Simms was wonderful here singing a variety of Porter tunes . Too bad that her career really never took off . Alexis Smith , adequate for the part of Linda , really acted subservient until she leaves the workaholic Porter . The ending where they come together and embrace was typical Hollywood all the way . With beautiful set decorations and the Porter music , the film is memorable . Monty Woolley is a steal scener as Porter's friend , a college professor at Yale , who gave up his professorship for a stage and screen career .
Eric Roberts has matured but has never been better than an alcoholic ex-cop who gets involved online with an apparently unhappy woman who is married . Their above names are their online names . They meet online and a raging affair ensues linking Pittsburgh , Pa . and Atlantic City , N . J . Trouble is that a lot starts to evolve from the affair . Our " kitten " becomes pregnant and tells of her abusive husband who may be mob linked . Enraged when she informs him that she loses the child , Roberts , who urged Heche to remain non-violent confronts the husband and shoots him to death . It's at this point where the story really turns . Heche shows great acting in her change to a vicious , calculating woman who used Roberts to further her goal . Will not give away the ending but will say - " Hell hath no fury like a man who is scorned . "
A true wholesome American story about teenagers who are interested in launching their own rocket in a rural West Virginia coal mining town , after the launch of Sputnik in 1957 . Through trial , tribulations and perseverance beyond belief , they are ultimately able to achieve their goals . Jake Gyllenhaal , as the leader of the group , is excellent in the title role . As his motivating science teacher , Laura Linney is quite good but her southern accent is over the top . There is a standout supporting performance by Chris Cooper , a head miner , who wants his son to follow in his footsteps , but gradually comes around at film's end . What makes this film so unusual for our times is that there are no bed-hopping scenes and no profanity whatsoever . It is the epitome of an American story that is well done . Besides the science angle , we have the father-son disagreement , football scholarships as a way to escape coal mining , and the loving spirit of family . Why aren't pictures like this recognized more at award times ?
Outstanding biography detailing the life of Boston Red Sox slugger Jimmy Piersall . The late Anthony Perkins depicted the appropriate temperament in his portrayal of this baseball legend . Driven by a domineering , obsessed with perfection father , Perkins is outstanding in his portrayal . He is equally matched by Carl Malden , terrific as the father . From childhood Perkins is seen as being driven by his father to achieve perfection . Nothing less will satisfy the compulsive driven father . The scene where Perkins goes berserk during a game is memorable . His recovery is well staged as well . My diagnosis would have been to keep his father away but to make sure that the viewers see this wonderful film .
Booth Tarkington's memorable novel became a hit film of 1942 . It's the story of the deterioration of an American family set in the mid-west at the turn of the century . Their lives change drastically as the country is industrializing . Orson Welles amassed an impressive cast where Joseph Cotten twice attempted to marry Isabelle Amberson , ( Dolores Costello ) but fate intervened each time . While both marry others , it appears that their offspring George ( Tim Holt ) and Lucy ( Anne Baxter ) will marry each other but the fates are tempting again . Holt , as the wealthy scion , steals many of the scenes in every sense of the word . He is equally matched by Aunt Fanny , a superb Agnes Moorehead . She portrays a spinster aunt , sister-in-law of Isabelle , who has designs of her own regarding Cotten . An interesting note to this film is that Agnes Moorehead won the N . Y . film critics award for best actress in 1942 for this film . When it came Oscar time , she was nominated for best supporting actress for it and promptly lost to Teresa Wright in " Mrs . Miniver . " Orson Welles does a great job directing . The close-ups of the town gossips are memorable . The eerie scenery sets the standards of what the film is all about . It is filmed beautifully in black and white . The coldness of winter is evenly set against the strong family relationships that only death can put an end to . Too bad that over a half-hour of this wonderful film was cut . As an example , Isabelle running off to Europe after the vicious gossip destroys her relationship with Joseph Cotten , only to return gravely ill . There must have been scenes between all of this . Nevertheless , this is a memorable classic motion picture .
John Garfield delivers a worthy Oscar nominated performance in the story of " Body and Soul . " Poor and from a tough neighborhood , Garfield sees boxing as a way out of his current existence . As usual , veteran pro , Anne Revere , was called upon to play Garfield's mom . This terrific Oscar winning actress ( 1944 for National Velvet , in a supporting role ) played just about everyone's mom in Hollywood during the 1940s . " Mom " to Gregory Peck in " Gentleman's Agreement , " Linda Darnell's mother in " Forever Amber , " Montgomery Clift's mom in " A Place in the Sun " and Jennifer Jones'mother in " The Song of Bernadette . " To me , Miss Revere , who was a descendant from Paul Revere , delivers a memorable line in the movie . To paraphrase , she states : " I want you to be respected . I want you to be a teacher . " Sure , in 1947 , the teaching profession was looked up to-to use a pun , it was revered . Unfortunately , this great line has been overshadowed by the line , " Everybody dies . " Must we always be true to life ? A hard-nosed , gripping film dealing not only with human emotions , but the fighting ring as well along with its corruption . A film exhibiting one wallop of a punch .
Despite a far-fetched coincidence at the end , " The Note " is a wonderful movie . It made me think of the 1952 film , " Phone Call from A Stranger . " Again , we're dealing with the after effects of a plane crash . In this film , a reporter retrieves a note left behind from the passenger and tries to determine who the note was intended for . There are 3 possibilities . While each does not pan out , the note has a definite affect on each of the possible recipients - a pastor , a country western singer and the son of a real estate mogul . The last 2 mentioned had falling outs with their parents . The note shows the importance of strong family relationships and the ties that bind . It is also shown that the note could be used for devious means as in the case with the son of the real estate millionaire . With the spirit of the season , this is a timely , well-crafted film . Genie Francis delivers an interesting performance as the reporter . While she searches out the recipient of the note , we see flash-backs of her tragic life revealed . The ending , while too coincidental , comes with the spirit of the season so I will have to forgive the writers . This is still a memorable film and is well worth watching .
Anti-semitism was alive and functioning quite well in America in the 1950s . Our film takes place in 1955 . At the local Roxie Theater , in Scranton , Pennsylvania , " Rebel Without A Cause " is playing . What an appropriate title . In this film , our " rebel , " Brendan Fraser , does have a cause . At first , I laughed . Brendan Fraser playing a young Jewish guy . The laugh is on me . He comes across in a wonderful performance as a typical American young man who happens to be Jewish . Scouted by an elite Catholic prep school , Fraser takes the challenge by transferring to the Boston school . It is here that we see that anti-semitism is rampant among the supposed elite of the young students attending there . The Jewish people are stereotyped in the usual ways that we have been denounced through the ages . It must be said that Christian people are negatively stereotyped here as well . Warned by the scout to keep it quiet that he is Jewish , Fraser seems to assimilate among the other students . His winning ways at a football game get him endeared with the rest of the guys . In fact , he falls for the girl that fellow student Matt Damon likes . Naturally , via a slip it comes out that Fraser is Jewish and he is subjected to the worst torments by the rest of the students . His girlfriend , in addition , now rejects him because her grandmother would turn over in her grave if she ever she heard that she was dating a Jewish boy . Here is a school that prides itself on its honor codes . They know full well what is going on . Talk of honor at this bastion of bigotry ? This is hypocrisy at its worst . The film also deals with pressures of student life-getting good grades so as to get into the Ivy League Schools . As I'm not one of the most optimistic people , for me , the picture ended well . Green ( Fraser ) tells the headmaster off . " You used me to improve the football team and I will use you to get into Harvard . " He walks off the campus a determined but yet a bitter young man . Great to see a film end like this rather than we all sat down and lived happily ever after . I might be sounding bitter but the theme here is not exactly " Mary Poppins . " I liked this film so much because it depicts that upper class Americans went to church and then practiced hatred for the rest of the week . May I also state that Matt Damon is terrific in a supporting role as a bigot . He conveys the twisted and tormented hate that is so anti-American as well as anti-human . It's sad that the Oscar-winning film " Gentleman's Agreement " conveyed this in 1947 . The unrelenting hatred goes on and on .
This film was nominated for best picture in 1951 and along with " A Place in the Sun , " should have received more careful attention from Academy voters . Their choice of " An American in Paris " as best picture left a bitter taste in the mouths of movie people . " Decision Before Dawn " chronicles the U . S . army's attempt to recruit German soldiers to spy on their own countries . These recruits are tested at a prisoner of war camp . A very young Oskar Werner steals the show as one who is chosen . The picture becomes even more exciting as Werner eludes the German army as the gestapo is on to him . This film deals with those Germans who realized that the war was lost and what Germany had done , they want to redeem themselves even if it means that their countrymen would denounce them after the war . Then , there are those who would use this as an attempt to get back home and inform the army of the traitors among them . Werner gets terrific support from Gary Merrill and Richard Basehart , the latter a fantastically under-rated actor .
John Travolta truly shines as dance hero Tony Monero in this wonderful 1977 production of " Saturday Night Fever . " When Friday night comes around , Tony can quickly forget about the rest of the week , get those dancing shoes ready , dress up and head down to that Bay Ridge Disco and dance the night away . The songs from the Bee Gee's are great . Shockingly , they were not nominated for best song among the Academy Award nominations . Why not ? What was the nominating committee thinking ? Tony has his problems at home and frustration at work . Dancing becomes an outlet for him and what an outlet he has . Fast on his feet , Arthur Murray praised Travolta's dancing in this film ; although , prudish Arthur and Katherine objected to the language . We see the lives of average Italian Brooklynites on the streets of Bay Ridge as well as the disco . Complications ensue . Tony's brother , a priest , comes home and announces that he is leaving the church . There may be homosexual implications but that is fortunately glossed over . Karen Lynn Gorney is an excellent dance partner for Tony . Usual TV good girl , Donna Pescow turns in a surprisingly good performance as a girlfriend rejected by Tony . There is plenty of excitement beyond the dance floor . That memorable scene on the bridge , where tragedy befalls a pal of Tony's , is terrifically done . Get out your dancing shoes and dance up a storm . This is sure one fever well worth catching .
Another very good Perry Mason film where a singer , with a changing personality , is murdered and her second husband is arrested for this . As always , Perry uncovers a slew of others who could have done the victim in . You know that something is really amiss when of all people , Alice Ghostley , is killed by the killer as she same him at the scene where he didn't want people to know that he had been there . Other potential suspects include the woman's first husband , and two female friends . The ending , as always , is a real shocker . You'll almost feel empathy for the killer until you realize that he or she tried to blame the first husband out of revenge for his previous affair . As the singer , Vanessa Williams sparkles . Her singing , in flashbacks , is absolutely sparkling . Wonder if she did her own singing .
Usually in baseball every pitcher and catcher on a particular team develop some sort of relationship since they need team work to be successful . Such is the story here added with the complication that the catcher Bruce , shyly but beloved character played by Robert De Niro , is dying of Hodgkins Disease . As the dying catcher , De Niro captures a simplicity rarely seen in his acting . It's really a standout performance . Michael Moriarty is the faithful pitcher and Vincent Gardenia received a well deserved supporting nomination as the suspicious manager of the team who hires a detective to find out what's going on between these 2 guys . Inevitably , the team finds out and attempts to come to the rescue of the stricken catcher . This is certainly one of the best of the baseball pictures as in the case of Pride of the Yankees , it explores tragedy and the human relationship among team players than can develop during such adversity . Selma Diamond is on hand as is effective in her brief 2 scene appearance as the sly telephone operator who knows something is amiss . The one disappointment was that when the inevitable occurs during off season , other than the Moriarty character , no one else attended the funeral .
This was a terrific film dealing with a teenage girl , verbally abused continuously by a mother , who drove 2 men out of her own life . Christine Lahti gives an absolutely fabulous performance as the mother who always comes up with a line to put down her n'eer-do-well son-in-law . When her simpleton daughter marries this pill popping , lazy fellow , all he takes is the constant verbal abuse by his mother-in-law . Nothing remedies the situation , even the birth of a grandchild adds to the woes of the family . This is a perfect example that comedians would use to describe life with a mother-in-law . Obviously , this is not funny here and the story invariably turns tragic . This is a tale of what the lack of education and maturity can lead to . I highly recommend this film .
Charming film in color where Shirley Temple's dad goes off to fight in the Boer War . She is left is a fancy girl's school with a headmistress who is stern . When word is brought to the school that the father , who adored his Sarah ( Temple ) , has been killed and the child is left penniless , poor Sarah is shut up in the attic and made to work in the kitchen . Move over Cinderella . Sarah never gives up hope that her dad ( Ian Hunter ) is living and she searches feverishly for him . When a Indian mystery man ( Cesar Romero ) makes her room beautiful during a ballet sequence , Sarah is suspected of stealing . Mary Nash is the wicked headmistress and acts in the same way as Margaret Hamilton in " The Wizard of Oz . " Richard Green and Anita Louise play lovers , who are discharged from the school , by Nash for loving each other . The ending is wonderful when Sarah finds her dad with the help no less of Queen Victoria ( Beryl Mercer ) . Enjoyable tale for children and adults alike .
Excellent film-noir wonderfully paced with a memorable performance by Marie Windsor as the widow of a mobster called to testify in Los Angeles and she must get there by train from Chicago . The surprise is who Windsor really is as well as Jacqueline White , an unassuming mom on the train who is mistaken as the mobster's wife . Are they really mistaken ? There is plenty of action in this rather short 75 minute film . Usual grade B actor Charles McGraw gets the lead role of the cop ordered to escort Windsor to L . A . It turns out that he is being tested as well . Well done film filled with irony . Highly recommended for those into film-noir .
Very interesting story which we can certainly relate to in our times . Connie , who is married with 2 children , finds herself pregnant . Tests indicate that her husband is not the father and naturally his suspicions are aroused . This is so since he had a vasectomy and the couple had briefly separated for 3 weeks . Suspicion soon falls on the dentist who had put her to sleep during a dental procedure . The dentists surprises all by admitting that he is the father but claiming that the 2 had an affair so the sex was consensual . Interestingly , Joe Penny plays the evil dentist and you really come to hate him . Joe has become like Richard Chamberlain and Perry King , the macho guy of television movies . Both parties bring charges against each other and it is very interesting to see how Penny is trapped at the end . The film depicts an almost end to a marriage , before the husband realizes that his wife is a victim . The film shows the intricacies of the court system and how you have to maneuver around it . Well acted and quite interesting . Makes you shutter when you have to go under for any procedure .
Excellent film dealing with Arthur Miller's story of a man who sold defective plane parts to the military during World War 11 resulting in the death of many pilots . Edward G . Robinson gave us an outstanding performance as the conflicted individual , who did this for his own selfish-interests only to escape prosecution but to see his partner jailed . This is a story of intense inter-family conflicts . The partner's daughter was to be married to Joe's ( Robinson's ) son Larry in the film . The picture begins with the fact that Larry is missing in action . Ann , played by Louisa Horton , is now becoming engaged to Joe's other son , Chris , played with marvelous insight by a young Burt Lancaster . Mady Christians is also a standout as Joe's devoted wife , who herself is in denial that Larry is probably dead and knowing full well what her husband did was wrong . This is a terrific film dealing with moral conflict and the ultimate tragic resolution to it . You have to wonder what Edward G . Robinson had to do to be nominated for an academy award . This is Arthur Miller at his best writing . A truly American classic .
She was an A student by day and a hooker at night . Living the life of a lie , when in fact , her mother had abandoned her 3 years before , Angel has taken to the street to make a living for herself . On the way , she has met a variety of characters and unfortunately there is a psychopathic killer on the loose who murders 2 of her hooker friends . We have a first rate cast here led by Ms . Wilkes , as our heroine , Rory Calhoun , as Kit Carson who relives his days of long ago on the strip as well as Susan Tyrrell , a foul-mouthed character along with Dick Shawn , who portrays a transvestite quite effectively . Cliff Gorman plays a very understanding police officer . There is action . There is drama , especially when Angel's secret life is discovered and she is humiliated in school . She then goes on a death hunt when May , her friend , is stabbed to death . This is a surprisingly interesting and good film .
A surprisingly hilarious spoof on mother-in-law and daughter-in-law to be in their bitter rivalry . Jennifer Lopez meets the doctor of her dreams and they decide to wed . The problem is his mother , Viola , played with relish and great comic timing by Jane Fonda . A pleasure to welcome Fonda back to the silver screen . She plays a neurotic , vicious washed-up Barbara Walters type who can't bare that her precious physician son is marrying supposedly beneath him . The two exchange in bitter rivalry with Lopez eventually turning the tables on Viola . Viola has an assistant , delightfully played by Wanda Sykes . Sykes comes up with one-liners in the tradition of Thelma Ritter . She is a great side kick . Fonda's reaction to the announcement of the engagement hasn't been shown in a funny way . We had the Katie Roth ( Jo Van Fleet ) reaction when Lillian was set to marry David in " I'll Cry Tomorrow , " but that was a totally different genre . Look for veteran Elaine Stritch as Viola's mother-in-law . She steals the scene and gets Fonda to look at herself . A very pleasant surprise of a film . Watch it and chuckle with laughter .
Terrific film dealing with the German occupation of Holland during World War 11 . The film is fabulous due to the exciting plot twists . Even though many of the good guys turn out to be villains , the film is done so well that you just don't mind having to think a little . Imagine , a Jewish woman , whose parents and brother were gunned down by Nazis , is eventually accused of being a traitor . An admirable job is done to depict her as this , especially since she was the one who helped to wire German headquarters while working for the Dutch underground . When it's discovered by the Nazis , what she is up to , they fabricate stories which they know will be heard by the underground . The cast of German and Dutch actors are wonderful . One question I have is since when was escaping to Belgium considered a panacea ?
James Dunn , often a fixture in Hollywood , won the best supporting actor award for his performance as Johnny Nolan in 1945's " A Tree Grows in Brooklyn . " Imagine , in one year Hollywood gave the coveted award for playing a drunk as well in " The Lost Weekend . " I guess that booze was the in thing that year . Seriously , both performances were great that year and Dunn captured our hearts as the pathetically poor alcoholic living a dreary existence in a Brooklyn tenement with both a daughter ( Peggy Ann Garner ) and wife ( Dorothy McGuire ) who love him so very much despite the hopeless of their situation . Surrounded by poverty and deprivation , this is a feel-good movie in the sense of the strong family ties that are depicted . How much the daughter respects her father even as he descends further into misery . Just like Brooklyn can never be thought of as rural in 20th century America , we see the sociological impossibilities brought about poverty and the inability to overcome it , but we can all dream a little .
Superb film regarding Fred March , Martha Scott as a married couple who are held hostage by Humphrey Bogart and his motley crew along with the couple's children . The tension is so thick and is beautifully realized by director William Wyler . This is a story of inner-strength held by March and yet how his acts to protect his family could be seen as cowardice by his young son . Both March and Bogart are at the top of their game performance wise in this excellent film . The film is aided by a wonderful supporting cast including Arthur Kennedy as a detective , Dewey Martin as Bogart's younger brother and several others . Gig Young plays the suitor to March's daughter . He feels that March doesn't like him and of course this is added on by the hostage situation . We see how detrimental being held hostage can be by what it does to the normally mild-mannered March . Just view his hostile actions towards his secretary . ( Helen Kleeb ) While we may know how the film will turn out , we can still applaud and wait with great anticipation for its wonderful climax . This was Hollywood at its best in film making .
Outstanding television show where young Dr . Quinn gets her medical degree and gives up a life of luxury in New England and ventures forth to the wild west . The scenery and the stories were absolutely captivating . As the wonderful doctor , Jane Seymour etched an unforgettable character . Soon taking on a family when their mother is killed in an Indian attack , Dr . Quinn shows that she is a lovable person as well as a humanitarian . As Sully , the Indian guide , Joe Lando was terrific in this part . At first brooding because of the death of Abigail , his wife , he learns to love the good doctor and they soon wed as he takes on the responsibility of a family . With a terrific supporting cast led by Orson Bean and others , the show had different weekly stories . One was better than the other . A show depicting warm family values . Our current presidential candidates could easily learn from this show .
One of the best documentaries in years regarding students and staff of Whitwell , Tennessee who embark upon a school project regarding the holocaust . The area is located in a homogeneous Protestant town where not one Jewish person resides . Kudos to Principal Linda Hooper and her assistant principal and 8th grade language arts teacher for devising this project . Over 29 million paper clips were collected , the latter representing the holocaust victims . We learn that paper clips came originally from Norway and was meant to unite . How appropriate . Holocaust survivors visit the town and relate their harrowing experiences to students , staff and town residents . Principal Hooper is certainly a hands-on administrator . She was directly involved in the project and shows her emotional vulnerability as she learned about what took place in Europe over 60 years ago . Through this project , the school was able to obtain a train car where victims were shipped to concentration camps . The ceremony was memorable when the car made its way to this rural Tennessee town . This magnificent documentary shows that we have the ability to learn tolerance and eventual acceptance of all people . It should definitely be shown in all public schools and the likes of Mel Gibson should be made to see it . Congratulations for a memorable experience . Thank you .
A totally delightful musical for the viewer to see is the 1963 hit " Bye Bye Birdie . " Albert Peterson is a scientist who also likes to write songs . Janet Leigh , his long-suffering girl friend , can't get Albert to make a commitment due to his mother , hysterically played by Maureen Stapleton . Her scenes with her space shoes and mink coat were memorable . To plug a song , Leigh devises a plan to name a typical teenager , Ann-Margret , to kiss Elvis-like Jesse Pearson farewell , as the latter has been drafted into the army . This event shall take place in Sweet Apple , Ohio-America's conservative heartland . The film is buoyed by Margret's " film " dad played with zest by the late Paul Lynde . The finale with an overworked Russian ballet is a riot and memorable . Even , TV host Ed Sullivan plays a small role in this fun-filled flick . The music and dancing are marvelously staged . Who can forget " Goin ' Steady , " " One Last Kiss , " " An " English Teacher , ? " etc .
Woody Allen acts but does not direct this excellent depiction of the McCarthy Era blacklisting in " The Front . " He plays his typical neurotic way until he is asked to front for blacklisted writers . The money comes in and all is well for Allen . We meet the people that he is fronting for . We also meet Zero Mostel , in an excellent supporting role , as a blacklisted comedian , Hecky Green , who begs for work and throws himself out a window as a result . The scene where Allen is afraid to attend his funeral , since the FBI is taping who is entering the funeral parlor , is memorable . Allen is asked to appear before the House UnAmerican Activities Committee to name names . What he said in that scene will forever be etched in the minds of movie-goers . A marvelously , well-acted movie on one of the greatest tragedies in our nation's history . This movie dealt with how blacklisting ruined the lives of so many people in the entertainment industry . Walter Bernstein , who was blacklisted in real life , wrote the screenplay for this film . No wonder why it was so good . He wrote from personal experience and therefore from the heart .
Klein's Book Store ? Elsa Gowns ? What's going on in these 2 places of business ? Probably not much , unless you're part of a Nazi spy ring operating in New York City before World War 11 in this great picture . William Eythe , who died too young , is a terrific student who informs the FBI when he is asked to join a Nazi spy ring . He enters the world of counter espionage . Lloyd Nolan , as the head of the bureau , is fabulous . As for the spies , there is no one like Elsa , proprietor of Elsa Gowns , played by Swedish actress Signe Hasso . Her German accent is authentic all the way . She is really something , the devil in disguise of a woman . Not one of her counterparts even knows who Mr . Christopher is . They will not know until the end of this film and what a surprise that is . A frightening , unforgettable look at the trash known as Nazis operating in this country , whether it was through spy rings or German Bund of the 1930s .
and bravo to this great 1959 film dealing with 2 poverty stricken women who meet ; one becomes a famous actress , the other works for her . Successful in their lives , they are not successful with dealing with their respective daughters . Lana Turner was great as the actress and Juanita Moore , her maid , who is kind and beloved by all , only to be unable to deal with her daughter , terrifically played by Golden Globe supporting winner Susan Kohner . ( Kohner would lose the coveted Oscar to Shelley Winters for The Diary of Anne Frank . ) The daughter , who is light skinned , is ashamed of her black identity and tries to hide it at any cost . Who can forget the scene in school when she tried to hide from her mother in the classroom ? With her success , the actress who Ms . Turner portrays , can't handle her daughter , played effectively by Sandra Dee . Dee falls for Turner's boyfriend and Turner can't deal with her rebelliousness . The hysterical ending with the Moore character dying and the daughter running up to the coffin pulls out every emotional stop possible . Kohner and Moore were nominated for best supporting actress . They probably divided the Oscar ballots between them . The film , which calls for racial understanding , was quite an achievement for 1959 . The film producers were concerned how the picture would be viewed down south . It turned out that they did not have to worry .
Marvelous film showcasing the excellent acting talent of Olivia Hussey . Hard to believe that it's over 35 years since her 1968 interpretation of " Romeo and Juliet . " This is an extremely inspiring story of the nun who looked for the most simplicity of life in aiding the impoverished . Her dedication to the suffering of mankind is definitely an inspiration to us all . Not only does the picture beautifully capture what she must endure working among the impoverished , it also shows the problems that she goes through within the Catholic church , accusations of corruption and trying to accomplish her goals in a society that is not accustomed to handle what she wants done . Hussey is simply magnificent in the part of this saintly woman . She has her down to every movement of her walking , talking , etc . Too bad that the film did not bring out that Mother Teresa came from an affluent Albanian family . A wonderful film of the human spirit .
Excellent . Often hilarious and poignant comedy regarding a therapist who has a patient , newly divorced , who is now seeing the therapist's 23 year old son . Meryl Streep is in terrific form as the hysterical Jewish therapist who knows how to give advice to others , but can't take what's going on . Of course , there are ethical issues here . Streep should have immediately stopped with the patient when she realized what was occurring . Brian Greenberg is tops as the 23 year old love-smitten youth and Uma Thurman delivers a grand performance as his 37 year old lover and patient of Dr . Metzger ( Streep ) We have some crisp dialogue here . We get one-liners such as Greenberg saying to Thurman on a Friday night , " Would you like to start observing the sabbath ? " Greenberg also tries to reassure his mother , who has to see a therapist herself once she finds out what is going on , by saying , " Mom , we're not living in the Warsaw Ghetto . We're on the upper west side and there are plenty of us here . " Streep relents and in another funny scene Thurman meets our typical Jewish family . The best scenes really occur between Thurman and Streep when the former discusses with the latter about the relationship . It becomes more hilarious when Streep realizes that it's her son who is involved . This is a story of the coming of adulthood and of forming and maintaining true relationships . While the ending may annoy some people , it is appropriate . We have seen the final scene before in these types of films . This film should not be missed . I highly recommend it .
Bette Davis is just fabulous here as the embittered sister who kills her recently widowed twin sister and assumes her identity . What makes this film so good is what Bette has to go through to keep this charade going . From the handwriting , to recognizing friends and rooms in the mansion , Bette has a field day . The irony here is great when Bette realizes what a witch her sister is but it's too late to do anything about it . Just seeing why Bette goes to the chair at the end is just unbelievable . Surrounded by an excellent supporting cast consisting of Peter Lawford as the playboy boy-friend of dead sister Margaret and Karl Malden as the man who loved Edith , the sister who has done the killing . This film has been tremendously under-rated . Not to be missed !
