The NFT in London are currently holding an Almodovar season - what else would pseuds do - and the best you can give it is that at least it's not New Voices From The Rain Forest : Some Recent Films From Jivaro Directors , which is probably scheduled for Next year . Having failed to ' see ' anything in Almodovar's recent titles I thought perhaps his earlier titles would have something going for them . Alas , I have to conclude not much . His first film , screened last week , and this one from six years later are apparently based on the theory that if it's outrageous enough it will be good . T'ain't so , honey , t'ain't so . This time around we have a Black Widow spider of a lawyer who kills her partners at the moment of orgasm , an ex-matador who likes his girl friend to pretend to be a stiff every time HE gets stiff , a ' psychic ' virgin with a penchant for confessing to serial killing , etc , put them together and what do you get ? Bibbety-Bobbity-Poo or pretentious crap , whichever's the greater . If it's a choice between this and being force-fed ALL the Carry On titles whilst Elton John brays from a speaker system I know which I'd choose .
This is a prime example of Lead Soufflé School Of Light Entertainment . How dire is it ? Let me count the ways . On second thought better not , wed be here all day . It's from that school of Realism where scrap metal dealers wear bow ties and carnations in the lapel whilst presiding over huge totally empty warehouses that would , in a film boasting even a scintilla of realism , be bursting with scrap metal . There's only one employee on view , Harold Lang , who trebles as receptionist , switchboard operator and chauffeur to say nothing of purveyor of smart , sophisticated dialogue . Sample : John McCallum to Lang . ' How does this ( indicating switchboard ) work ? Lang : ' Find out ' . This sets up an intriguing question . Was this film ghost-written by 1 ) Geoge Kaufman and Moss Hart , 2 ) Joseph L . Mankiewicz , or 3 ) Billy Wilder and Charles Brackett . Answers on a postcard , please , to : Do I Look As Though I Give A Big Rat's Ass . Amongst other delights this movie boasts one of the most improbable menage a trois on record with Thora Hird and Vida Hope vying for the attentions of a punch-drunk John Slater , proud owner of a bashed-in face that makes Lon Chaney look like Tom Cruise . The plot ? It is to laugh .
Margaret Leighton fan Shelagh Delaney went to see Leighton in Terence Rattigan's Variation On A Theme and having done so declared that 1 ) the play was rubbish - by Rattigan's high standards she was right - and 2 ) that she could write better than Rattigan - by anyone's standards she was hopelessly wrong . So she went home and apparently assembled every cliché in the book - one-parent family constantly one-jump ahead of the landlord , sluttish mother one step up from a genuine whore , confused , neglected teenage daughter , plainer than Kansas and ripe to be seduced by the first man who gives her a second look , mother abandons girl for toyboy Jack-the-lad , girl becomes pregnant by , natch , black man who then abandons her , add one obligatory gay man and stir til indigestible . Delaney didn't write characters she wrote caricatures but maybe at the time - 1961 - when the young Turks were routing the Old Guard no one could tell the difference . Not one to let plausibility get in the way of a good cliché Delaney has mother and daughter ( Dora Bryan , urrrgh , and Rita Tushingham ) told to come up with the rent by tomorrow or else , doing a ' moonlight flit ' straight to a new flat that is waiting for them as if by magic ; days later Bryan informs Tushingham - who's still at school - that she's on her own as she , Mother , is moving in with Jack-the-lad , who doesn't want a kid along . No mention of how a school girl is supposed to pay the rent but that might involve Plotting , not Delaney's forte . This is an Alice-in-Wonderland world where people meet on the flimsiest of pretexts - Murray Melvin buys a pair of shoes off Tushingham - tries on the first pair she offers , doesn't bother to walk around in them to see how they feel - meets her again later as both of them are watching the Whit Walks - teenagers have nothing better to do with their time in Delaney's world - spend a day at the fair and before you can say ' well-made ' play Tushingham has invited him to live with her . Give me a BREAK . For the record Rattigan , who wrote something like 30 plays and 20 screenplays , is still being revived today . Delaney , if she's lucky , is stacking shelves in Safeway .
Neil Jordan is a graduate of the Ken Loach I-Hate-England school of film-making which means that like Loach he spurns no opportunity to explore its worst aspects in loving detail . This time around it's the sex industry that sleazes its way into his spotlight . The story is improbable-to-ridiculous , one leave it out , guv , after another . Why , for example does Michael Caine's Mr Big wait til Bob Hoskins gets out of the slammer before hiring a driver for Cathy Tyson's hooker - what did she do before , take a bus ? In turn why does Tyson wait until their initial antipathy has thawed before asking him to locate another hooker when 1 ) surely the world of London hookers is not that large , there's obviously some kind of network whereby one can locate another without charming a violent oak into doing the job and 2 ) for what she spent kitting out Hoskins with shirts , suit and topcoat in a trendy Men's Store she could have hired a private detective for a month but given how easy the hooker was to find he'd have taken about a day and a half tops . This leaves us with the acting ; for Hoskins it's the mixture as before , all contained violence and effing and blinding , sure he was phoning it in by that stage , Robbie Coltrane is totally unconvincing and Mike Tyson could have done as well as Cathy . Okay , it's twenty years old - a freebie with a newspaper , just as well I didn't spend more than the price of a paper I buy anyway on this pap - and maybe at the time it looked better but it's way past its sell-by date .
As is often the way if you try to be everything to everyone you wind up being nothing to no one . Assuming that we actually needed another take on this character - who , especially in France , has been as well documented on celluloid as Sherlock Holmes , Maigret , Raffles or even Tarzan - then we could have started with someone a tad more credible . Romain Duris is one of those actors ( Vincent Cassell and Benoit Magimal are others ) cursed or blessed depending on your point of view with a built-in insolent , arrogant expression that probably makes certain females roll over and play dead but makes me reach for the sick bag . The script does him no favours by jumping about like a Time Traveller and invoking echoes of The Maltese Falcon and The Da Vinci Code via a Masonic cum Knights of Templar outfit and crucifixes instead of black birds . On balance it's risible more than thrilling and / or scary which is the wrong response to this type of fare . As others have remarked here the viewer is constantly conscious of time passing non-fruitfully .
If you substitute a caserne for a desert island then what you have here is essentially The Admirable Chrighton in army fatigues ; a tale of role reversal when master and servant leave behind the status quo and find themselves in an alien world in which the master is ill equipped to survive and the servant is right at home . It's somewhat unusual to find Michel Simon - even as a young man carrying a lot of heft - as an ardent young swain but even in his salad days the acting chops were well in evidence . Renoir is one of those directors who tend to be over feted as opposed to overrated ( as in Hitchcock ) ; a man who made several exceptional films - La Grande Illusion , La Crime de Monsieur Lange , French Can Can - and a lot more average titles unlike Duvivier , Decoin , Carne ' etc who turned out consistently better than average movies across long careers . This is certainly enjoyable if you can get past the unfortunate background music which sounds as if someone has scored a madrigal for accordion though the vaguely Shakespearean music is perhaps apropos for the finale with the sets of lovers happily united .
Offered recently as a ' freebie ' with a UK newspaper it was just about worth the price . The name ' Terence Rattigan ' on a screenplay usually guarantees quality that fails to date - witness his masterpiece ' The Way To The Stars ' which was released two years prior to Brighton Rock and still holds up magnificently - but this is one time it fails to deliver , though the blame may lie more with co-screenwriter Graham Greene , author of the original novel . Much of the problem lies with the mannered ' acting ' of Dickie Attenborough , a lifelong victim of overratedness , who spends the film labouring under the delusion that his idea of a fixed , blank , expressionless stare equates to menace . He is given one hilarious line to deliver during his meeting with rival gang-leader Colleoni to the effect that Colleoni thinks his ( Pinkie Brown ) gang is too small ; given that his ' gang ' consists of three members , frail Senior Citizen Spicer ( Wylie Watson ) who gives the impression that even in his heyday he would have been hard put to defeat a fiesty Girl Guide ; ' stock ' caricature Cubit ( Nigel Stock ) sporting the kind of joke ' villain ' moustache which was surely used by George Cole as the model for his GENUINE comic wide-boy Flash Harry in the St Trinian's series and later by Michael Palin in Monty Python and finally Dallow ( William Hartnell ) the closest approximation to a ' real ' gangster - though ' close ' is relative and is this case Hartnell is about as close to a real gangster as Hull is to Fairbanks , Alaska - albeit one with a penchant for the kind of suits sported by Nicely-Nicely Johnson in Guys and Dolls . Whilst Colleoni - in his novel Greene based the character not on an Italian but on real Brighton gangster Darby Sabeni who was in fact Maltese - lives in splendour at the Cosmopolitan ( read Metropole ) hotel Pinkie and his ' gang ' rough it in a sleazy rooming house that lacks even such basics as pillow cases . Totally lacking in charisma it's virtually impossible to imagine even someone as naive as Carol Marsh's Rose agreeing to date Pinkie on the basis of one five-minute conversation let alone marry him given that someone as attractive as Rose with a job in an upmarket restaurant would have no trouble attracting men from whom she could take her pick . Similarly Fred Hale ( Alan Wheatley ) who , as Kolly Kibber , has been sent by his newspaper to Brighton with a brief to visit popular spots and leave a card in each one to be redeemed by his newspaper to the tune of ten shillings ( 50p ) to anyone that finds them and challenges Kibber . If , as is implied , Hale has somehow ' crossed ' Pinkie in the past why would he not either refuse an assignment that would take him to Brighton or call in sick . I accept that at the time ( 1947 ) few , if any viewers would have questioned the risibility of a geriatric gangster ( more realistically Wylie Watson played Mr . Josser - who began the film by retiring at age 65 - the very next year ( 1948 ) in ' London Belongs To Me ' in which Attenborough also appeared as Percy Boon , a fellow tenant in the Lodging House in Dulcimer Street in which all the main characters live ) and would have accepted a blank stare as passable ' acting ' but almost 60 years on it just won't do .
For years I've heard this movie hyped out of all proportion so it was perhaps inevitable that I was less than smitten when I finally got around to seeing it . What stuck out like a sore thumb - if not a grazed knee - was Rohmer's ' new wave ' technique of ending a scene brusquely when it would no longer support the point he was trying to make . I lost count of the times he just cut almost on the tail end of dialogue and up came yet another cap to tell us it was now Wednesday the fourth of July or whatever . In my book this is just sloppy film making yet even as I write this I hear the laboured breathing of pseuds baying for blood . So be it ; I still maintain there's nothing wrong with professional writing , slickness if you will , where one scene grows out of another smoothly and as inexorably as Sophocles or one of those other three cats who were writing out of Athens in the 5th century BC . This beef being registered the principals were pleasant to look at and on the whole managed to deliver their lines without bumping into the furniture but other than that I came dangerously close to wasting my time .
Alas , I have to disagree with the only other poster's academic quasi socio-economic reading and declare this a disappointment . On the other hand knowing that Ken Loach was one of the three directors involved I was prepared to be clubbed over the head with his Left-Wing fanaticism and I also knew that Valeria Bruni Tedeschi - my main , if not only , reason for seeing the movie was in the first segment so I reasoned I could always walk out if I started gagging on Loach's preaching . As it is I stayed for all three segments and although the best thing for me was the close ups of Bruni Tedeschi's lovely face the other two segments though labored weren't too hard to take . I can't see this one generating much revenue apart from the Rent-A-Pseuds among whom Iranian movies are currently flavor of the month .
Unfortunately there are so many posted comments on this entry that to read them all would take more time than I can spare but it's a reasonably safe bet that some of them at least found the same glaring flaws as I did . To nutshell the plot a recently widowed young woman is taking the body of her husband from Berlin , where he died , to New York for burial . She is accompanied by her six year old daughter , Julia and by a fantastic coincidence she just happens to have designed the plane on which they are flying . Some three hours into the flight the mother ( Jodie Lawrence ) wakes from a nap to find the daughter ( who was sitting next to the window and so would have had to crawl OVER the mother ) has disappeared . A search of the plane fails to locate her and then documentary evidence reveals - or more accurately SUGGESTS - that not only was the child never on the plane but that her body is in the morgue in Berlin , i . e . a ' grieving ' widow is in denial . By another coincidence there is an ' air marshall ' aboard , sitting adjacent to Foster and he is charged by the captain with keeping Foster in what amounts to house arrest . I doubt if anyone was surprised when this same air marshall turns out to be a terrorist carrying not only explosives but a detonator , who plausibly convinces the captain that Foster is demanding $50 million and all the usual trimmings . It was , of course , the Air Marshall who had taken a sleeping child in full view of a plane full of passengers and hidden her in the hold . So many questions , so little time : WHY did Foster and the child board the plane a good TWO MINUTES before the other passengers , thus lending credence to the she-was-never-on-board statement . How did the terrorists KNOW that Foster would fall asleep conveniently and they HAD to have targeted Foster PRIOR to everything in order to ' fix ' the morgue officials in Berlin plus the Airline personnel responsible for passenger manifests . HOW did an Air Marshall get through the necessary vetting procedure , and so on . The he-she-was-never-there storyline was used to better affect in ' So Long At The Fair ' more than a half century ago ; that time around Jean Simmons travelled to the Paris Exposition with her brother who not only disappeared from his hotel but so did the room he was allegedly occupying . The answer on that occasion was that the young man had contracted typhus and rather than cause a panic the officials conspired to render him nonexistent . Would that Flightplan were half so plausible . For the record the acting is okay but I for one require more than competence from a cast .
This is only the second Hitchcock thirties film I've seen , the other being The Lady Vanishes ; both films deal with spies and music is a vital element ( from what I've read about The Man Who Knew Too Much , music features again ) so it's no wonder I tend to dismiss Hitchcock as something of a vastly overrated Johnny-One-Note . Here , as in TLV , we have to get round some fairly unrealistic stuff ; for reasons best known to himself , Robert Donat , a Candadian in England for a short visit , decides to go to a Music Hall where shots are fired at a performer on stage ; nothing much is made of this and as he leaves Donat is accosted by a well-dressed woman who asks if she can go home with him ; bizarrely and / or naively he agrees and once at his flat she confesses to firing the shots and speaks of a spy ring intent on removing state secrets abroad . She also asks for a map of Scotland which of course he has on hand , as you would . To lend credence to her story she indicates two men loitering in the street below , one of whom telephones the flat from the call-box on the corner . It is totally unrealistic to believe that the men would know either Donat's name ( Richard Hannay ) OR his telephone number ; he was chosen at random by the woman and they had no way of ascertaining his phone number . If you're prepared to swallow this - and I accept that thousands are - then you won't have a problem with the remainder of the film . Nice to see a young Peggy Ashcroft even if she was married unrealistically to John Laurie . Fans will love it .
Hitchcock buffs often point out that his serious movies are laced with laughs and this one has a terrific laugh toward the end . Murder suspect Raymond Burr has been lured out of his apartment in order that Grace Kelly and Thelma Ritter can dig up the flowerbed . Frustrated to find nothing Kelly enters his apartment in search of evidence . Stewart , watching from across the courtyard , sees Burr returning and unable to warn Kelly rings the police - after first looking up the number - explains that a man is assaulting a woman ( not true , though he IS about to ) and - wait for it - the police ARRIVE inside five minutes . I mean is this funny or not . I seem to be saying the same thing over and over ; namely that Hitchcock is vastly overrated . Why then do I watch his films . Well you might ask . The short answer is that I know a lot of people , some of them are even friends , who have , in my opinion , fallen for the hype , because by now the myth is self-perpetuating , and keep pressing dvds on me in the hope of converting me . They're something akin to those well-meaning folks who can't see an unattached person without attempted matchmaking . So far I'm holding out . Whilst I acknowledge a competent filmmaker that's as far as it goes . On the other hand any director would have his work cut out to coax even a mediocre , let alone a bad performance out of Jimmy Stewart just as any director would have his work cut out to elicit anything resembling acting from Grace Kelly . So now we have a stand-off . On the plus side we have Thelma Ritter , who enhances anything she appears in but then he spoils it again by casting ex-Forestry Commission employee Wendell Corey . Not as bad as To Catch A Thief but then what is .
. . . seems to whisper Puh-LEEZE . This is primarily a movie for the curious ; Abel Gance directing light Opera ! This I have to see . Ginette Leclerc , Cadaver Extraordinary To The House of French Cinema - known as ' the most murdered woman in France ' because of her proclivity for winding up dead in the bulk of her films , can she keep breathing in this one ? Let's check it out and see . Last but not least , for the fully paid-up student of irony Robert Le Vigan , whose life was anything but playing in light Opera . Yes , please , wheel it on . In the event this is mediocre in the extreme . The plot - girl's parents object to her interest in bohemian composer - needn't detain us , Grace Moore does Grace Moore as well as anyone so if you like that kind of voice and the kind of songs it sings you'll salvage something and there's always La Vigan . There aren't too many actors who go from playing Jesus Christ on celluloid to dedicated Fascist in oxygen and wind up dying in poverty in South America . La Vigan was a fine actor - completely wasted here , of course - who enhanced films as disparate as Quai des Brumes and Goupi Mains rouge and whose extreme politics cost him a key role in Les Enfants du Paradis and who , in spite of his Fascist beliefs could still get people like Julien Duvivier and Marcel Carne to testify on his behalf when he stood trial . Of course in 1939 the viewer would know only that Le Vigan had played the artist in Quai des Brumes and Jesus Christ in Golgotha . Louise did nothing to eclipse either film and remains a curio .
Not being a Hitchcock buff the selling point for me was Charles Vanel in a supporting role ; in that same year he also appeared in Clouzot's Les Diaboliques and it's a pity that ' Master ' Hitch didn't check that one out to see how the Big Boys do it . It is , on the whole , a reasonably albeit instantly forgettable romp and Hitch even manages to make the Riviera - the exteriors were shot on location in the South of France - look like Upper Sandusky on a wet Tuesday . Cary Grant , of course , would be hard pressed to turn in a bad performance and he is is as polished and urbane as always and keeps his end up ( sorry , but that's the level of the dialogue ) in several exchanges with Grace Kelly that pass for banter in the John Michael Hayes set , otherwise it's left to John Williams and Jesse Royce Landis to flesh out a weak storyline .
This is yet another Hollywood entry that made a lot of noise in its day but now seems dated . It top-bills Jimmy Stewart as a small-town lawyer in North Michigan who is asked to defend serviceman Ben Gazzara on a murder rap . Seems Gazzara's wife , Lee Remick , got herself raped by one Barney Quill following which Gazzara went looking for Quill with his service revolver and put a bullet where it would do the most good . Neither of these three principals is exactly chopped liver and there is strong support - by Eve Arden especially - in the shape of George C . Scott , Murray Hamilton , Arthur O'Connell and John Qualen . Duke Ellington provided the score though we don't get enough of it and courtroom dramas really should be more dramatic , although , of course , maybe at the time it was .
This bombed in France last year but one doesn't write off the likes of Alain Corneau and Daniel Auteuil lightly so when it surfaced at the French Film Festival in London I was present and correct . By a strange coincidence Phil Corneau - apparently no connection with Alain despite copping a prestigious French Award - made a short with the same title a few years ago but this is , of course , a remake of the Jean-Pierre Melville entry now just over forty years old . Daniel Auteuil is indisputably a superior actor to Lino Ventura , who created the role of ' Gu ' Minda for Melville but Ventura inhabited the role of Minda in a way that appears beyond Auteuil though honors are divided more or less evenly between Paul Meurisse and Michel Blanc in the role of the intrepid cop determined to bring Minda down . The third lead , Monica Belucci is , of course , a joke as an actress and there's a woeful lack of chemistry between her and Auteuil - or indeed anyone with whom she shares a scene . Jacques Dutronc is arguably the best actor on display or , more accurately , the actor who best adapts his style to this particular film . Corneau opted for a bizarre color , something between Warren Beatty's Dick Tracy and South Pacific and if , as seems probably , he did so inn order that the final sequence , over the end credits , could revert to a ' normal ' color and make the point that there is indeed a ' normal ' i . e . non-gangster world out there it seems an awful lot of trouble to make such a small point . Worth a look . Just .
In one sense this is two films in one , always difficult to pull off and more so when the contrast is so startling ; for two thirds of the running time we're comfortably ensconced in the thirties and living the privileged life vicariously largely via the Lasts ( James Wilby and Kristin Scott-Thomas ) who rattle around with their small son in a Gothic pile except when Brenda ( Scott-Thomas ) is up in Town banging her sponging lover ( Rupert Graves ) . The main problem here is that there is insufficient contrast between Wilby and Graves to convince us why Scott-Thomas elected him as a lover ( I'm speaking of course merely about external appearance and outward behaviour ; Beaver may well have been exceptional in bed but nothing about him hinted at excitement , in fact he and Wilby could easily have passed for brothers , and in those days Brenda would have no other yardstick ) . There's also a symbolic element which tends to be heavy-handed ; having encountered an eccentric named Dr Messenger ( geddit ) Wilby decides more or less on the spot to underwrite the Dr's expedition to South America and go along himself for the ride so that the heavy-handed point being made is that he is leaving a moral jungle for a tangible one . The last third of the film finds him in the jungle , stricken with fever , left alone by Messenger who is never able to get the help he went in search of , and ' saved ' by Tod ( German for ' death ' ) a white man gone native played by Alec Guinness , who cynically keeps him a prisoner in all but name . As we might expect with actors of this calibre the acting is first class as is the period feel and if you can accept the wrench from Shires to Jungle you may well enjoy it .
No writer would invent a character like Garrison Keillor , one one hand a sophisticate who writes for the ultimate sophisticated magazine The New Yorker and on the other the down-home writer and MC of A Prairie Home Companion , two hours of gospel / country music and hokey commercials . True to form Keillor has written a movie equally eccentric . It begins with Kevin Kline in voice-over spouting sub-Chandler dialogue for all the world like a preface to a latter-day Blue Dahlia and / or Big Sleep then it quickly segues into quasi-documentary mode as we witness from both back stage and out front the last show at the Fitzgerald Theatre . From here on in we have something of a Howard Hawks-lite movie because what is emphasizes is the professionalism of th performers who segue effortlessly from backstage gossip to polished performance in a matter of seconds . I have to confess that gospel music doesn't fire my hymn book and in fact friends in America tape just the Lake Woebegone monologues for me and ignore the rest . I checked out the movie hoping for at least one and maybe two monologues but perversely writer Keillor has chosen to omit what is arguably - and certainly overseas - the best-known part of the PHC . Even so it was entertaining enough although one viewing was enough .
The DVD release has an ' extra ' in the shape of Bryan Forbes talking about the film in the course of which he takes full credit for ' inventing ' the child that died at birth - a revelation withheld until the closing stages ; until then Kim Stanley has given the impression that it lived for some years . This raises the interesting speculation that Edward Albee ' stole ' this from Forbes for his own highly successful play ( which has been revived consistently , unlike Seance ) Who's Afraid Of Viginia Woolf , in which , again , a dead male child is referred to throughout the three acts by ' parents ' George and Martha until George ( again it is the husband that forces the wife to accept the truth ) reveals that the child never in fact existed and was a fantasy . Virginia Woolf opened on Broadway in October , 1962 , and played in London at the Piccadilly Theatre the following year whilst Seance was released in 1964 . In a line from the screenplay the leading lady says ' . . . brightness falls from the air . . . ' . In 1941 Nigel Balchin published a very fine novel set during the Blitz and entitled Darkness Falls From The Air . Bryan Forbes owned a bookshop for many years in Virginia Water . As for the film itself , seen in 2008 , it's fairly ho hum though doubtless finding its audience at the time , never one to be afraid of nepotism Forbes again cast his wife , Nanette Newman , and Richard Attenborough's brother-in-law , Gerald Sim , in supporting roles . Kim Stanley has the flashier role and acquits herself well whilst Dickie tends to phone it in . Interesting as a curio .
I have to agree with most of the other posters that despite a wonderful score this movie is a disappointment . Okay , they lost three of the numbers during the transition from Broadway to Hollywood - one of them , alas , A New Town Is A Blue Town - but at least they didn't hire another songwriting team to supplement Richard Adler and Jerry Ross . This is a movie in which one gorgeous number follows another - I'm Not At All In Love , Hey There , I'll Never Be Jealous Again , Steam Heat , Hernando's Hideaway , Once A Year Day , etc , but leading man Raitt in particular seems to just ' walk through ' them and as for any chemistry between him and Doris Day forget it . On the other hand this is a rare opportunity to see Carol Haney strut her stuff ; one of the great ironies of show business is that Haney got sick during the Broadway run and her understudy , Shirley MacLaine , went on for her and built a career based on mugging and playing allegedly ' lovable ' kooks whilst Haney was forgotten . Those of a cynical nature might find it singular that a pajama factory is staffed almost entirely with Broadway-standard singers and dancers or that a young and attractive girl ( Haney ) would be seriously involved with a ham three times her age ( Foy ) but if you put your logical questions on Hold and just wallow in one of the last REALLY melodic , witty and literate Broadway scores chances are you'll enjoy yourself .
I don't think that anyone who admires and respects Melville approaches this , his last film , more than probably aware of the negative notices and general feeling of disappointment , prepared to add another voice to the chorus of condemnation . One approaches - or should approach - it in search of positives and hoping against all the evidence to find something worthwhile . The opening augurs well , a brilliant set piece involving a small crew , a bank , an off-season seaside town , raw , blustery weather , and muted pastel photography . For reasons never made clear the leader of the gang , Richard Crenna , is a minor American actor who is dubbed . Melville of course made no secret of his admiration for Hollywood gangster movies so maybe he hired Crenna - when there were dozens of equally talented French actors available - as a form of indulgence . Almost inevitably the heist goes wrong leaving one of the gang badly wounded and then the eponymous character , Edouard the cop ( Alain Delon ) appears in what at first seems to be a parallel story emphasizing the boring routine of police work . If you're a candidate for Mensa you will eventually work out that Delon and Crenna are friends and that they share a girl friend , Catherine Deneuve , though it remains ambiguous whether or not any of the three realize the full extent of the twisted relationship . Melville also indulges his love of American Jazz by having Delon play an acceptable piano in the club owned by Crenna . The second set piece involving a train , a helicopter , and a courier is great on paper but almost risible in practice with little or no attempt to disguise the models involved . On balance this is a film that all Melville admirers will want to see . . . . Once .
On paper Huppert plus Chabrol is an unbeatable parlay but several times it has run out of gas and this , alas , is no exception . Bizarrely Chabrol has opted to film a novel whose essence is tedium - Emma's ennui with the minutiae of day-to-day life is the key to her subsequent actions - by speeding up the pre-marriage sequences so that instead of the stately courtship that would be more apropos we get a scene with Charles Bovary asking her father for Emma's hand ; an intermediate scene with Charles watching for the signal ( the opening of a shutter ) that will signify Emma's agreement and then ( all this in less barely one minute of screen time ) we cut to the wedding feast . True , Chabrol slows it down later - as well he might with two and a half hours to play with - but the contrast tends to be off-putting . In its favour are the fine sense of period , costumes , decor , etc and though woefully miscast Huppert doesn't do mediocre and remains watchable in anything but overall one is left with the impression of a fine opportunity squandered .
I've heard of swings and roundabouts but this is ridiculous ; what Julien Duvivier gained by having a near perfect Anna in Vivien Leigh he lost by being saddled with Keiron Moore as Vronsky . His presence can probably be explained by his status as a contract artist with Korda and though he did appear in one or two decent films - Mine Own Exectutioner , A Man About The House - they were good in spite of and not because of Moore ; here he is given leading man status and a leading man who theoretically epitomizes passion yet Moore plays it like an under-rehearsed ill-prepared understudy in The Chocalate Soldier obliged to go on at half an hour's notice in a role for which he has no empathy . When fifty per cent of your leading characters is this bad there's not a lot even a genius like Duvivier can do but even so he manages to make a fairly decent fist of it and include some tasty set-ups . As is to be expected Ralph Richardson walks away with the acting honours leaving Leigh to slug it out with Martita Hunt for whatever scraps he left on the table . Trivia buffs will be fascinated to see Leigh caressing Jeremy Spenser playing her son some thirteen years before she would throw him the key to her bedroom in The Roman Spring Of Mrs . Stone . All Duvivier fans will want to see this but probably once will be enough .
I've heard of sport as a metaphor for life but this is ridiculous ; there's literally barely a frame in which two or more of the principals are not rowing , jogging , playing squash , golf , canoing or mountain climbing . It's all in the interests of our old friend the company ' bonding ' session and anyone who saw the play Neville's Island will know what to expect . For reasons best known to himself and / or the director Benoit Magimal is sporting red hair this time around ; Jean-Pierre Cassel is wheeled on possibly to bring a touch of class to the marquee but the two females , Marion Cotillard and Melanie Doutey both turn in ho-hum performances . If you like sport and / or power games then this is right down your rue but if not you may be sorry you went .
At least Mike Leigh didn't rip THIS one off a better director as he did with his last film , Vera Drake . On the other hand , there's not much of a plot to speak of , more a series of vignettes that could just as easily have been called Scenes From An Unrealistic Life . Sally Hawkins has little to do other than mimic the Felicity Kendall School of Acting which may be defined as Help , I'm Locked In A Chocolate Factory And Am Trying Desperately To Cute My Way Out . As an antidote to Poppys rampant joie de vivre Leight throws in Eddie Marson as a driving instructor with serious personal issues and had the film been a little better no one would have noticed that although her driving lessons cost £22 . 50 a throw Poppy always pays in notes and receives no change which is difficult given that English currency has not had a one pound note for several years and NEVER had a note to the value of fifty pence ; Poppy would therefore have to tender $25 in notes and receive , say , two one pound coins plus one fifty pence coin in change or actually tender £20 in notes plus £2 . 50 in coins . Like I said , build a better mousetrap , Mike , and we wouldn't notice this . Okay , it's worth a look but don't buy coke and candy in the foyer , you'll already o . d . on the screen .
this is like no other John Ford movie I've ever seen . Whilst it's true the plot resembles that of The Searchers it has none of the ' feel ' of a typical Ford movie , western or otherwise . The best sequence by far is one long two-shot of Stewart and Widmark shot from the waist up as they sit , talk and throw in almost an impossible amount of ' business ' so that throughout one or the other is doing something with hands or face , punctuating about ten pages of dialogue . Elsewhere we hover between comedy , farce and drama and Ford seems comfortable with none of these . Jimmy Stewart and Richard Widmark are far from a natural partnership but both are consummate actors and keep us watching .
On paper this is a movie nostaligists can wallow in , Nostalgia is , after all , its raison d'etre and not just common or garden Nostalgia but Show biz Nostalgia , arguably the most potent of all and , as if that were not enough they've thrown in Judi Dench as not so much the icing but the fairy on top of the cake complete with magic wand but , alas , batteries aren't included . So why doesn't it work . Let me count the ways . Possibly one large factor is the time period ; 60 years ago is not quite far enough away to mess with unless you can get it spot on because there are still lots of people around who were there - Judi Dench herself was alive , albeit an infant - and others , marginally younger who have seen newsreels and feature films of the period , sufficient to be able to discern wheat from chaff . On the other hand it's not quite recent enough either , like the fifties / sixties and the overall result is a mixed grill without the steak . The producers seem to think it's enough to lay on a dozen vintage cars - as in the opening funeral scene - vaguely period costumes and then let everyone act in a ' modern ' style . Not least of the embarrassments is the male playing the second lead who attempts to sing a standard like All The Things You Are in one of the current styles which largely means singing like a girl , presumably acceptable to kids today but he's supposed to be singing in an era of baritones with deep-brown voices like Crosby , Dick Haymes , Billy Eckstine , etc . On the plus side Judi Dench almost cancels all this out by sheer force of charisma and acting ability but even she can't quite convince us that we're in the middle of the second world war and not a Second Unit . A nice try but ultimately no cigar .
This movie rounded off a week of Michael Powell movies on British TV and it will be hugely enjoyed by anyone who likes 1 ) War films and 2 ) Michael Powell films but since I am unable to work up much of a sweat about either I endured it rather than enjoyed it . This is not the same as saying it was badly made because this would be patently untrue ; it's well shot and well acted if you consider the usual job lot of English ' war film ' actors phoning it in good acting . Among those wheeled out were Peter Finch as the German captain of the Graf Spae , Anthony Quayle , Ian Hunter , Lionel Murton , Bernard Lee amongst those on ' our ' side . It does , of course , depict an actual event from the early days of World War Two in which three British warships lined up against the famous German ' pocket ' battleship in Montevideo . As I said those who like this sort of thing will like it ; then there are those like me . . .
. . . would NEVER have a family like this , Mom , Pop , Siblings , Nephews , Neices and not a single dysfunction between them . This is The Waltons and Little House On The Prairie combined . That being said the central storyline involving Binoche and Carrell comes off thanks to the writing and acting . Probably if you go on the wrong day you could find it a tad cloying overall but again the core is sound and there are just enough one-lines sprinkled throughout to take the edge off the hokey family . Juliette Binoche does this kind of thing sparingly having got her feet wet in Danielle Thompson's Dacalage Horaire opposite Jean Reno and it's great to see her letting her hair down . Not a world-beater but a pleasant diversion .
With a standing ovation at Cannes and the kind of reviews the cast could have written themselves this is a re-affirmation that audiences don't WANT cgi , s & v or mindless pap but are looking for throwbacks to simpler times when one went to the movies to be ENTERTAINED not preached / sermonised at or in search of a social conscience . The idea of flat / apartment sharing is hardly new , George Stevens dabbled in it 60 years ago with Jean Arthur moving in with Charles Coburn in war-time DC where space was at a premium . Here we have David ( writer-director Emmanuel Mouret ) who plays a mean French Horn and also teaches the same , sharing with Anne , Frederique Bel ( also currently appearing in Camping ) who falls loosely into the lovable kook category . Then Ariane Ascaride ( the best thing in the film ) decides that offspring Julia ( Fanny Valette ) might benefit from French Horn lessons and you should be able to guess the rest . Just to complicate matters Mouret throws in a second guy Julien ( Danny Brilliant ) and after that it's a case of perm any two from four . If light-as-air soufflé's are your thing you're almost certain to enjoy this but don't analyse it away .
For me at least this is a chance to get a glimpse of the Great Arletty in a strictly bread-and-butter movie , possibly the French equivalent of the quota quickie , ephemera whose only purpose was to fill the cinemas for a week or so and then be consigned to the vaults . Chronologically it came smack-dab in the middle of the four Classics she made for Marcel Carne ' , two pre-war ( Hotel du Nord , Le Jour se leve ) and two shot in the war itself ( Les Visiteurs du soir , Les Enfants du paradis ) , though Les Enfants was actually released just after the war , the last three written by Jacques Prevert who was unavailable for Hotel du Nord though pinch-hitters Jean Aurenche and Henri Jeanson did very nicely thank you in his absence . I may be easy to please but I liked this confection which showcased Arletty as a vedette of the Music Hall wearing glamorous outfits and performing stock conjuring tricks whilst not averse to throwing in a little singing ( Je crois que c'est arrive ) on the side . Naturally she has her admirers and one of them , milquetoast bookseller Jean Tissier ( in one of eight films he made in 1942 ) tests high on self-awareness and figures he stands more of a chance if he does a little work on his image . Accordingly he snaps up any and every piece of exotica he can lay his hands on and transforms a friends apartment into a prototype Theme Park whilst putting himself away as an intrepid explorer who knows Borneo like the back of his Place Vendome . This goes down well with Arletty but lest things go too well she lets it be known that she would love nothing more than to take a trip to Borneo so long as this big , strong man is there to protect her . Before being too harsh with this we should try to remember that it was produced in occupied France and was intended solely as a diversion in wartime . On those terms it succeeds admirably .
This is arguably Kevin Costner's best film in a long time - I haven't seen too much of his recent work because it was so obviously second-rate / embarrassing but here he's back on track despite a storyline that stretches credibility to breaking point - what are the odds for example that Brooks and Smith would randomly select Atwood's estranged husband and his lawyer as victims or that Atwood would trace Mr Smith to the very fleabag in which the escaped con she put away and who has sworn vengeance is holed up . What carries the viewer along is the understated playing and the novelty of Upright Citizen as Serial Killer when as a rule Serial Killers are dysfunctional loners and almost never Man Of The Year . If it does find itself spinning too many plates in the face of logic - the main strand , Mr . Brook ' Jekyll and Hyde existence is supplemented by 1 ) Mr . Smith witnessing one of his killings and blackmailing him to carry out another to which Smith will be privy , 2 ) Atwood's personal problems with a divorce settlement , 3 ) Atwood's life being threatened by the escaped con and 3 ) Mr . Brooks ' daughter apparently bent on replicating her father's sideline - it manages on the whole to keep this kind of logic at bay leaving us to enjoy some fine acting .
As an admirer of Tonie Marshall I was disappointed with this effort and of the four Marshall films I've seen ( and own ) , Venus Beaute , France Boutique , Les enfants du salauds I have to relegate this to fourth place . Yet again Leo McCary's ' An Affair To Remember ' crops up in someone else's movie . Maybe Noel Coward should have said in Private Lives ' strange how potent cheap MOVIES can be ' and not ' cheap music ' . Catherine Deneuve adores An Affair To Remember and sits through it time after time even going so far as to arrange a rendezvous of her own atop the Empire State Building . This doesn't gibe with her overall coldness not least to her own daughter but go to New York she does and there she meets William Hurt with not a shred of chemistry between them . It ends ambiguously but it's difficult to respond to on any level .
Screened on late-night TV recently this one kept me watching til the small hours . The writers tip their glove by naming the protagonist Danny Roman and then SHOWING him to be the ' noblest Roman of them all ' but I can live with that late at night . It adheres to classic formulae in that it begins by catching Roman at work - he's a highly skilled hostage negotiator - and showing us just how good and well respected he is and then taking it to the next level by having him framed not only for the murder of his partner but also of embezzling from the police pension fund . Unable to get anybody to agree with his contention that he is innocent he resorts to taking hostages of his own - something he is more than equipped to do via his specialized knowledge - and then demanding a second negotiator , the equally skilled Chris Sabien , be seconded to the Case . What we have is a mixture of Talk and Action , a Cat-and-Mouse game and a Mystery to be solved and actors of the calibre of Kevin Spacey and Samuel T Jackson who between them elevate a fairly pedestrian script to a higher level . Well worth watching .
If your attention-span is severely traumatized by Police Academy then best give this one a miss . Keeping track of all the separate threads is like keeping track of individual strands of spaghetti after it's doused in sauce . On the other hand if you make the effort you may decide it's worth it . In one sense it revolves around Camille ( Jeanne Balibar ) a French actress back on French soil for the first time in three years via a European tour of Pirandello's As You Desire Me . Camille is , in fact , the first thing we see as a pin-spot picks her out of the darkness reinforcing the theatrical quality we are in for . Ostensibly an item with Ugo ( Sergio Castellitto ) the director of the play and leading actor opposite her , Camille has it in mind to look up her ex-lover , a Professor of Philosophy who , in the interim has married and become a devoted husband . Neither is Ugo as open as he might be about his quest for a lost manuscript by Goldoni and the young girl Dominique who is ' helping ' him in this quest . The plot thickens when we learn that Dominique's brother , Arthur , is not only enamored of the Professor's wife but has eyes also for an expensive ring she wears . Rivette and his two screenwriters - both , incidentally , actors themselves - keep the balls spinning and throw in a series of set-pieces as well as ringing the changes on duets , trios and quartets a la opera bouffe and all is resolved a la Shakespeare when le tout ensemble come together in the empty theater and dance off into the night as a haunting lyric performed by Peggy Lee implies that this is not the end of anything . Jeanne Balibar is the main attraction , Castellitto , so warm in Mostly Martha , turns down the heat on his natural charm but still turns in a solid performance . At two and a half hours it's clearly not for everyone but if you're one of those it IS for then this is for you ( and let's face it , could Pirandello himself have put it better ) .
This film calls to mind the celebrated Brooks Atkinson quote in his review of the first production of Pal Joey in 1940 . Acknowledging that the Rodgers and Hart score was up to snuff likewise the acting he then drew attention to the fact that the entire cast were low-lifes , heels and / or worse and asked ' Can you draw sweet water from a foul well ? ' It's a question we may well ask of this movie ; ostensibly it's a sumptuous , sophisticated , feel-good chick flick but the only problem is that he's a gigolo and she's a hooker-lite . Truman Capote wrote a novella that was close to Christopher Isherwood's Goodbye To Berlin in which a gay writer ( Isherwood / Capote ) ' observed ' a hooker ( Sally Bowles / Holly Golightly ) albeit ' quirky ' and / or ' fascinating ' but still a hooker . George Axelrod , working presumably with helmer Blake Edwards has fashioned a screenplay in which a gay ' observer ' has become a heterosexual gigolo and the hooker is actually WORSE than a real hooker because she willingly and knowingly accepts cash from men on the tacit understanding that sex is on the menu and then skips out on them via the powder room - having first extracted another fifty dollars for the alleged purpose . At least the gigolo ( George Peppard , aka Mr Mahogany ) delivers though even here one could argue that Patricia Neal isn't exactly chopped liver - in reality he'd be humping someone who looked like Marjorie Main - whilst the hooker remains a hooker who isn't . It's obvious that a lot of viewers have chosen to ignore the sordidness and enjoy the surface which is , of course , glamor personified . It IS enjoyable , especially when Hepburn is on the screen and if Peppard IS wooden , so what . They wear elegant clothes , mix with elegant people and inhabit a Manhattan with nary a mugger or bag lady to its name . If it's escapism you want look no further and DON'T look beneath the surface veneer .
Alain Corneau is amongst the finest of the current writer-directors in France which makes it all the more surprising that he didn't attempt to tighten this script and erase some of the more obvious holes . Frank Poupart ( Daeware ) is a not very good door-to-door salesman peddling household goods from a suitcase so it is highly unlikely - make that impossible - that he would be able to produce a mohair dressing gown in Extra Large when an old lady asks for one . This is an important point because to a certain extent the rest of the movie hinges on it . Had he said he didn't carry such items , which would have been true , the old lady would not have invited him inside and he would not have met her niece ( Trintignant ) and slipped into the downward spiral that led to three murders . At a basic level it's the kind of situation - man meets femme fatale and it all ends in tears - that produced such classics as The Postman Always Rings Twice , Double Indemnity , etc , but in each of those cases - a man is hired to work in a restaurant , meets the wife of the owner and starts an affair with her ; insurance salesman calls at client's home to get him to renew a policy on the verge of expiring , meets the man's wife , starts an affair respectively the meetings were quite normal and not contrived as here . If you can get past that - plus the wife who goes from slut to Good Housekeeping Wife Of The Year overnight - then this is a fine , darkly comic , slightly surreal entry in which there are no winners . The mood is almost totally melancholic with gloom the predominant shade and Daeware weighs in with a remarkable performance and trivia buffs will enjoy learning that the actress who played his wife ( and wound up dead ) is the mother of Clovis Cornillac .
Karl Anton was born in Prague and made the majority of his films in German and for all I know they were quite distinguished but you can't prove it from this effort ; I'm guessing it was a creaky operetta when it was written for the stage and by the time it got to the screen it was seriously arthritic ; on the other hand there are three reasons to see it : Arletty ! Arletty ! Arletty ! , three and a half if you include Jean Boyer , who was associated with Arletty on five of her early films including La Chaleur du sein and Bolero . For an operetta the singing is pretty ho-hum but I suppose we have to remember that this was Depression fodder intended to provide escapism for the masses but it's difficult not to compare it with similar output from Hollywood around the same time so that compared with , for example , 42nd Street this one is a bad nowhere . For reasons best known to the producers Arletty at one point takes a bath in the fountain of Place Concorde : no , not really , it just seems that way from the number of people who keep turning up , possibly thinking they're extras in a Marx Brothers movie . See it for Arletty by all means but leave it at that .
This debut movie from writer director Alante Kavaite won't be released in France until the summer and Londoners were given an early showing as part of the Rendez-vous With French Cinema weekend at the Curzon , Mayfair . Knowing as much about it as anyone not connected with it I was drawn by the name of Ludmila Mikael who has to be one of the loveliest 60 year olds in the Industry ( okay , pedants , she turns 60 next month ) in addition to being a wonderful actress who doesn't appear in as many non-domestic films as she might but instead illuminates the Paris theatre on a regular basis . Top-billed Emilie Dequenne was an added attraction , this 26 year old is rapidly developing into a fine actress and has already scored heavily in Rosetta , Une Femme de menage and L'Equipier among others . Ecoute sees her as a sound recordist who returns to her childhood home following the murder of her mother ( Mikael ) . For a reason not satisfactorily explained in the script ( unless , of course , I missed it ) she has brought her sound equipment with her and finds herself able to tune into the past via her recorder . If you can get over the discrepancies here ( Sound Engineers do't usually own their own equipment , if they are employed by a television company they just draw it from the Stores on a daily basis , and there is no indication that she has resigned from her career and returned to her childhood home on a permanent basis ) this is a fairly decent little film that could do well if it finds its audience and is a promising debut .
As everyone and his Uncle Max knows Hollywood is run by accountants rather than creators so it's ironic to discover that accountants can't count ; having changed the title of Agatha Christie's novel from Ten Little Indians ( which was itself a subtle change from Christie's original Ten Little Ns ) to And Then There Were None and having changed the title figured why not change the ending as well so that now the correct title should read And Then There Were Two . Christie went to great pains to construct a plot in which all the ten people on a small , uninhabited island , died one by one leaving no one alive and a ' solution ' in the form of a suicide note written by the murderer before taking his own life . It was , of course , as improbable as any of the ' locked door ' mysteries penned by Christie herself and / or any of her rivals in the genre but improbable is not quite the same as not technically feasible but since when has Hollywood left a novel / play , etc unmolested . If you answered ' never ' you're close . So , not content with changing the names of some of the characters they also throw in a happy ending in which the two survivors are not only the two youngest members of the group and one of each sex but are also implicitly bound for the altar . That being said Rene Clair makes a decent enough fist of this , the seventh and last of the films he made outside his native France in a roughly ten-year period . Perhaps wisely he selected his cast from the ranks of ' character ' actors rather than stars - or , perhaps more pertinently , no ' star ' would be prepared to be killed on screen - but most audiences at the time would be familiar with virtually all of them - Judith Anderson had appeared in Laura , which was possibly still showing , Barry Fitzgerald had copped an Oscar the previous year for Going My Way , Richard Haydn had featured as one of the seven dwarfs / professors in Ball Of Fire , June Duprez was the female lead in The Thief Of Bagdad , etc . Clair did his best to bring a little visual flair to what is essentially a one-set piece , the actors got their lines out without bumping into the furniture ( at least not intentionally ) and a reasonable time was had by all including the viewer . Not perhaps one to treasure or buy on DVD but certainly worth catching on television .
This was probably the tail end of the first great Noir cycle but even if it does tend to flag a little it's still worth anyone's time . Stanwyck is on best scenery-chewing form and Paul Kelly is fine in a lower-billed role . Wendell Corey was , of course , prime lumber and wisely Siodmak doesn't give him anything difficult to do - like acting . The Stanwyck role is a first cousin to the one she played so brilliantly in Double Indemnity i . e . a femme fatale who uses her wiles on some poor sap who is a necessary means to her end whilst all the while there is another guy in the background . Siodmak was no slouch at noir or film-making in general and his professionalism keeps you watching to the bitter end . Definitely worth a look .
Consider the cast : Richard Bohringer , Daniel Auteuil , Phillipe Leotard , Jean Yanne , Michel Piccoli , Fanny Ardant , Jeanne Moreau - seven of the heaviest hitters in French cinema - throw in a bargain priced DVD and who WOULDN'T buy it ? This dream cast ensures that it IS worth watching but there are those who may struggle to cope with the surreal aspects which have some of the hallmarks of Death In A French Garden , the work of the same director . Here we have an ongoing bridge game in which the participants have titles rather than names - The Doctor , The Journalist , The Honorable Trader - in a slightly unrealistic setting that resembles a darker version of the one in Les Demoiselles de Rochefort , a vast space not unlike the Gare d'Orsay that Orson Welles utilised for The Trial . In the background is Jeanne Moreau , who bears yet another title , The Brothel Keeper ; at her right-hand The Paltoquet ( nonentity ) Michel Piccoli and spending a great deal of time in an incongruous hammock is Fanny Ardant . The bridge game is interrupted by the Flic ( Jean Yanne ) who commandeers the Doctor to determine the cause of death of a body that has just been discovered . Soon the Doctor is accused ( by Yanne ) of the crime and in the fullness of time the other players are also accused . In terms of storyline that's about it . None of the principals is in need of acting lessons and it's never less than interesting but more than that . . .
No one ever accused a Hollywood biopic of sticking slavishly to the facts and after beginning by blatantly casting two leggy blondes ( Betty Grable , June Haver ) to portray the real-life short , stocky brunette eponymous twins this biopic fits where it touches . Of course in 1945 no one went to the movies accompanied by a fact-checker they went to be entertained by a permutation of spectacle , color , song and dance and if there were a few laughs thrown in for good measure so much the better . In those terms this could be counted a hit but those with a more discerning palate would balk at John Payne who was assigned the ' hit ' of the score , I Can't Begin To Tell You . Payne was a graduate of the Dick Powell Academy of Joke Singers though in his defense Powell began warbling in the early thirties before there were guys like Sinatra , Haymes and the Eberle Brothers ( Ray and Bob ) to show how it should be done and it's probably not just coincidence that Powell stopped singing around the time Sinatra established himself . Grable was current Queen of the Fox lot having usurped Alice Faye , who was intended to co-star but wasn't prepared to come out of retirement so instead the role went to newcomer June Haver , who'd had a bit part as a hat-check girl in Faye's last musical , The Gang's All Here , only eighteen months before . Grable was uneasy by this casting as befits the head that wears the crown but it's a testament to her acting skills that none of this comes over on the screen . Perhaps a tad tween for the 21st century but otherwise pleasant and undemanding entertainment .
Though it shares many similarities with Rich Man , Poor Man , not least the ending this movie is far more superficial than Irwin Shaw's fine novel . It has the same number and ratio of siblings - two boys , one girl , and one of the boys is successful legitimately ( cop , as opposed to businessman ) and one is marked lousy from the cradle and later prospers outside the law and apart from the end there you have it . Guillaume Canet ( ' good ' brother ) and Francois Cluzet ( ' bad ' brother ) had , of course , teamed successfully on Ne Le dis a personne for which both copped Cesars , Canet , Best Director and Cluzet , Best Actor , so it's not surprising that they work well together , which is just as well as they are the only ' names ' in the film . This isn't to say that the support phoned it in because that , too , is pretty solid . The script is a tad sloppy in spots for instance an early scene when cop Canet tells a colleague that he actually grew up in the building in which they are preparing to arrest someone . We then cut to a domestic scene involving Canet which gives the impression that this is a flashback - there's no other reason for the cut and we never go back to find out if the arrest was successful . If it IS meant as a flashback it's ludicrous because ( SPOILER ) Canet dies at the end of the flashback so clearly cannot be remembering some time in a post-death future . It does improve as it goes on and lots of strands come together but ultimately it's only partially satisfying .
I chose to see this on the strength of Diane Kurys and Michelle Laroque or vice versa so the rest was something of a bonus . There's nothing new in the premise which is little more than Class Reunion time with added spin . Essentially one brother writes a book in which he is critical of his ' Mr TV ' type brother , who specialises in Reality shows . Irked by this the ' wronged ' brother ( Lambert Wilson ) invites bad brother plus a bunch of old friends and colleagues to his second home in Marrakesh , a convenient 45th birthday falling at just the right time . Naturally old sores are picked to reveal festering wounds before they once more go their separate ways . The satire doesn't quite come off but there are some nice moments and Laroque has the has-been actress down pat . I'd hesitate to describe it as essential viewing but neither will you be entirely wasting your time .
At a superficial level this is Beauty And The Beast with spin . The Beast isn't really handsome and Beauty doesn't really fall in love with him but he is unprepossessing to say the least and she is attractive and maybe even beautiful in the right light . The Beast , Geremia is a tailor by profession who does a little loan sharking on the side and loses no opportunity to waive repayments in return for sexual favours reaching a new low on the day he sleeps with a young bride minutes before her wedding . As if to emphasize the fairytale source the director allows no chance to point up the squalor in which Geremia lives with his bedridden mother to go unexploited whilst contrasting this with a succession of comely young girls . Woven inextricably into all this is a Sting perpetrated by Geremia's best friend , Gino . It's an interesting movie to say the least and a notable follow-up to the same directors The Consequences Of Love but I'm not sure if it will stand subsequent viewings .
Having recently seen two other Chabrol films starring his then wife Stephane Audran I thought this slightly earlier one would be fairly similar and I was as right as I was wrong . Certainly the trademarks are on hand - stylish settings , photography , behaviour verging on the obsessive etc - but this time Chabrol throws sexual deviation into the mix at a time when it wasn't as commonplace as it was to become shortly afterwards . A lot depends on Why in more senses than one given that the second female character answers to that name , but why DOES Audran leave a ridiculously large tip for a pavement artist , why does Why allow herself to be picked up and ultimately of course why do we care . Completing the menage a trois is the ever reliable Jean-Louis Trintignant and whilst it's far from a waste of time I won't be so eager to watch it again as I will Le Boucher or La Femme Infidele .
This is certainly head and shoulders above Miller's last movie , La Petite Lili , in which he thought he was better than Chekhov and generally stank up the screen . Apparently this is also an adaptation , this time of a modern novel which I haven't read so I don't take it so personally . Another - and better - French director , Louis Malle , also had a crack at Chekhov but Vanya On 42nd Street was content to just film the original text rather than rewrite it . Here , with the help of a mainly fine cast , Patrick Bruehl , Mathieu Almaric , Cecile de France , Julie Depardieu , he tackles a multi-generational tale that begins in the mid thirties with a Holocaust waiting in the wings and ends in the eighties with resolution of a sort . Cecile de France makes an effortless transformation from her usual ingenue to a mature woman but Miller erred in casting Ludo Sagnier and expecting her to act with her clothes on ( her naked love scenes in Lili had been central to the wrecking of Chekhov ) . It has art house written all over it , of course , but it no worse for that . If slow , ponderous , unravelling is your thing you could do far worse than this and my only caveat is that Mathieu Almaric is not given enough to do .
Nothing in the several episodes of ' Due South ' or the Oscar-Winning ' Million Dollar Baby ' , just two of his writing credits , prepared me for Crash . At a very basic level it echoes Robert Penn Warren's terrific novel All The King's Men , a thinly disguised portrait of Huey ' Kingfish ' Long , whose complex character could be boiled down to ' there's a little bit of good in the worst of us and a little bit of bad in the best ' . There are further nods in the direction of Robert Altman who also likes to people a canvas with several diverse characters and slowly allow them to meld so that the good become blurred with the bad and the bad . . . well , you get the point . Although I can't exactly toss my hat into the ring with the majority of previous posters I did keep watching to the end and I was unable to fault the performers but there's a nagging feeling deep down that keeps murmuring that somehow we need a little more than this .
One line of dialogue stood out for me and actually made the film ; Lockwood and Calvert are travelling by coach to Calvert's London home and she asks Lockwood ( who has just played Desdemona to Granger's Othello ) how long Granger has been an actor . ' As far as I'm concerned he never was ' replies Lockwood , a brilliant summation of Granger's talent , the lack of which , of course , failed to prevent him achieving film stardom . This Regency meller stands up remarkably well and if Mason and Lockwood are slightly over the top , Calvert a tad TOO twee , as if auditioning for any parts Olivia de Havilland might reject , and Granger too inept probably at the time - and wartime at that - they were all quite acceptable . Certainly worth a look .
Gordon Douglas was something of a poor man's Michael Curtiz at Warner Brothers inasmuch as he could turn his hand to just about any genre the studio assigned him to . In the early fifties Alan Ladd had run out of exotic locations to meet Veronica Lake and William Bendix at Paramount and although his greatest performance and greatest Paramount film by far ( Shane ) was already in the can though unreleased his agent wife Sue Carroll brokered a deal that took him to Warners who , being hip to his stand-out performance in Shane , laid on another ' Western ' to welcome him aboard . As a biography of Jim Bowie it fits where it touches and concludes with no reference to the Alamo - probably a bit tricky as Bowie winds up the movie married to the daughter of a Mexican official . That aside it's a fine example of the genre with Ladd on top of his game albeit playing Bowie as a nice guy who can't seem to help killing people , mostly as a result of his involvement with super-bitch socialite Virginia Mayo . In terms of Ladd's overall career it ranks well inside the top half and will surely entertain viewers .
Those who love Wilder can and will find something to love in even his most blah projects - The Emperor Waltz for example - and this is no exception . It's fascinating to notice little ' touches ' not necessarily commonplace in 1934 like the early scene when the protagonist , recently stripped of his car by a tough-love father ' sees ' another car reflected in a shop window and we can almost pinpoint the moment when he decides to steal it yet Wilder refuses to follow this shot with the next logical one , i . e . the car being actually stolen ; instead we cut to another car containing two men which effectively ' masks ' the theft and THIS shot is followed by our protagonist now at the wheel and blithely speeding away . This is a film full of wheels and circles or , to put it another way , motion . This is not to say the trademark Wilder wit is not evident as there are gags a plenty . At seventeen years old and already a veteran actress Danielle Darrieux is virtually unrecognizable physically but the talent was there right from the beginning . No Wilder collection is complete without this and once again I'm indebted to an ultra kind Frenchman who taped it for me .
If you attempt to take this film literally you'll encounter the kind of problems that one of the three people who have posted reviews here has noted . Until Time Travel arrives it remains impossible to know just WHAT it felt like in 1939 with a World War waiting in the wings , i . e . would we crave escapism and yearn to o . d . on soufflé's like this or would we dismiss them as irresponsible trifles and demand something with more gravitas . It may be worth remembering that 1939 has been well documented as a vintage year in Hollywood cinema with such releases as Gone With The Wind , Stagecoach , Ninotchka , etc , none of them particularly weighty . Pedants may well question the SPEED with which an Idea becomes a Fact . Guitry identifies a gap in the market ; there are lots of wealthy Foreign women in Paris who are looking at a one-way ticket home unless a loophole can be found ; Guitry figues the answer is our old friend the marriage of ' convenience ' ; one minute he has the idea , next minute he has opened a Hospice de veuillards ( in French a hospice is just a home rather than a place for the terminally ill , ergo hospice de veuillards = old people's home ) and no sooner is it open for business than the women arrive by shuttle . If this bothers you then you're destined for a bad two hours but if you're content to suspend your disbelief you're in for a treat of vintage Guitry which is saying something . One of his finest films and very well worth seeing .
There's a wonderful ' in joke ' at work here : Leslie Howard , the ultimate ' English ' man , teacher of English and expert ON English was actually Hungarian though George Bernard Shaw could have had no idea of this when , in his original play he created a Hungarian pupil of Higgins who became so adept that he , too , could spot an impostor at ten glottal stops . Inevitably comparisons will be made with My Fair Lady and , by extension , between Howard and Harrison . It's really no contest ; in real life Harrison was widely acknowledged both to his face and behind his back to be a super c . . . so that he could phone in the Higgins arrogance and disdain whereas Howerd was a much nicer , gentler person and had to ' act ' the Higgins arrogance . The movie is this week's free DVD with a Broadsheet newspaper and it makes a welcome addition though the companion DVD - also directed by Puffin Asquith - The Browning Version is light years ahead of it and an acknowledged classic .
Irwin Shaw settled in Paris in 1951 and remained based there for two decades and it's fun to speculate that he saw this movie there and found the concept - during a funeral five people , the wife , son , daughter , mistress and a business associate of the deceased give their respective takes on his life - sufficiently interesting to borrow the opening for one of his finer late stories , Goldilocks At Graveside , published in his collection Love On A Dark Street in the mid 1960s . For that matter Joe Mankiewicz possibly borrowed the same motif for The Barefoot Contessa , released one year later than Bon Dieu . Arguably the opening are all the three have in common ; the dead man in Shaw's tale was a promising State Department official whose career was destroyed by the eponymous Goldilocks and lived out his life in obscurity , the shoeless aristocrat was a major film actress and Monsieur Dupont was a small-time business man . Autant-Lara ignores the rules of flashback and the film is stronger for it and if Danielle Darrieux as the mistress gets as much screen time as the wife , son , daughter and business associate put together by virtue of her star status this is not necessarily a bad thing given that Darrieux is the kind of actress the camera loves and riveting to watch . Autant-Lara extracts marvellous performances from the entire cast including Claude Berri and Julien Carette in relatively small roles and an Award winning one from his leading man . Released some five years before the new wavelet began lapping the feet of the Titans of French cinema the quality on display here makes one wonder just what Truffaut and his ilk found to cry about . One to savour .
This movie opens with the epitome of Noir ; EXT . Street . Night . Rain lashing down , light dappling the cobbles . A woman walking away from camera . Cut to : Man waiting up ahead . He takes out a gun as the woman approaches and puts a slug where it will do the most good . The woman crumples the man walks away . We stay with him as he enters a Carney and makes for a trailer attached to Le Mur de morte , the Wall of Death . If you shot something like that today you'd probably be satirising Noir but in 1949 it was right on the money . That Wall of Death link pegs the time with almost pin-point accuracy because in the immediate post-war years ex-servicemen were eking out livings riding motor bikes up and down the walls of small enclosed circular arenas as the crowds waited for them to get it wrong - one of the three main characters in Nevil Shute's novel The Chequeur Board takes it up and the novel was published in 1947 , a few years later the game was finished . The man with the gun made no attempt to conceal his identity and we recognise leading man Pierre Brasseur , but there's something wrong here , Brasseur wasn't leading man material ; his face shouted ' heavy ' and he was right at home as the gangster humiliated by Jean Gabin in Quai des Brumes , who later shoots Gabin in the back , he wasn't much nicer as Frederic Lemaitre in Les Enfants du paradis - both Marcel Carne movies - and even his JoJo in Porte des Lilas wasn't that simon pure . So , where were we , oh yes , Fabius ( Brasseur ) begins to pack when his wife Martha ( Arletty ) comes in . He's a little nonplussed given that he's just killed her but she's the forgiving sort and he agrees to keep on riding . Now top-billed actress Maria Montez enters the picture as an impresario interested in promoting Fabius as the star of a circus owned by Jules Berry . This involves him performing a loop-the-loop in a specially designed car after hurtling down a ramp designed by Marcel Dalio - YEAH , it IS a great cast if we don't count Montez and I STILL haven't mentioned Eric Von Stroheim as a badly disfigured ex-stuntman employed by Montez . Henri Decoin - no mean director himself - and the brilliant Charles Spaak weigh in with a classy script and you're in for a swell time if you catch this . For me the selling point had to be Arletty in her first film since Les Enfants du paradis four years earlier . They didn't do right by our Bess ; accused of collaborating - she had an open relationship with a German officer during the war but that's a long way from collaboration - she was arrested at Carne's house and not allowed to attend the premiere of Les Enfants or work again for a while . It's not for me , a non-Frenchman who wasn't around at the time , to discuss French policies on sensitive issues but as a lover of French Cinema perhaps I can wonder out loud what Great performances have possibly been lost by that Greatest of French actresses in those years between 1945 and her return here in 1949 . The price she paid is clearly etched on her face but she still acts joke ' actress ' Montez off the screen .
. . . when a film by Julien Duvivier featuring heavy hitters Raimu , Louis Jouvet , Michele Morgan , Suzy Prim , Fernand Ledoux and Robert Le Vigan would not have disappointed my French friend quite so much . We tend to agree more than we disagree and are both great admirers of Duvivier but this time we differ slightly . Hindsight is , of course , a wonderful thing and 20-20 hindsight is much sought-after . I'm inclined to think that as he was shooting this in 1940 Duvivier knew he was leaving France to stay in America for what must have seemed indefinitely so he chose to shoot not so much a film as a valentine to his homeland . My friend has also pointed out that Duvivier is at his best with less sprawling canvasses and it's true that the picaresque is not his natural habitat but as a non-French lover of French movies I revelled in the company of some of the very finest actors that France had to offer illustrating a painless history lesson spanning seventy years , indeed it may well have been subtitled 70 Glorious Years .
There's a major hurdle facing anyone who contemplates adapting Elwyn Brook White into another medium ; they're tampering with the supreme Stylist ( he even co-authored the definitive work on the subject , The Elements of Style ) so it's no contest for the average Hollywood Hack , and Susannah Grant and Karey Kirkpatrick ARE Hollywood hacks ( possibly self-awareness / frustration led them to name the two inept crows unable to distinguish a scarecrow from a flesh and blood person and who wind up trapped , Elwyn and Brooks ) . That said the film gets by on charm and the Universal Truths which is its stock in trade . Where White's original lines have been retained it takes on an extra dimension and like the original book it doesn't attempt a ' happy ' ending . Another strength is adhering to a ' period ' feel with no intrusive ' modern ' culture or falling standards of behaviour . If you are going to try to ' humanise ' a spider you could do a lot worse than have it ' voiced ' by Julia Roberts who is arguably known as a lovely person by more than half the movie-going world . In terms of ' life lessons ' this is not unlike Andy Hardy Down On The Farm which , as I mean it , is no bad thing .
A cynic with a little culture under his belt may be tempted to dismiss this as Idiot's Delight With Spin but to do so is to reveal a shallowness not lacking in the film . Robert E Sherwood enjoyed a success with his play , Idiot's Delight , the subsequent movie adaptation was ho hum at best and several decades later the Broadway Musical version , Dance A Little Closer , was a disaster . Sherwood focused on a disparate group of people holed up in a mountain inn on the eve of World War II . Jacques Prevert's screenplay focuses on a disparate group of people holed up in a mountain hotel smack dab in the middle ( 1943 ) of that same world war yet of hostilities there is nary a mention . This was the third movie in which Gremillon featured his favourite actress Madeleine Renaud and he would do so yet again in La Ciel est a vous - and in passing coax a career-best performance out of Charles Vanel - and it's easy to see why he was so enamoured of her . Virtually forgotten today - much like the other Madeleine ( Robinson ) in the film - she was among the finest of an exceptionally fine generation of French actresses and she scores heavily here as a discarded mistress running a hotel in a remote mountain region . In a role written for Michele Morgan Madeleine Robinson offers strong support as a young lover , also rejected by Pierre Brasseur's troubled artist , who represents hope for the future in her new romance with a young engineer . All the values are sound , top writer , top director , top actors ( Brasseuer , Renaud , Robinson ) and make this an unfairly neglected minor masterpiece .
Despite the international success of Les Choristes Gerard Jugnot remains virtually unknown in England . Of the 92 movies in which he has acted - 16 of which he wrote and 10 of which he directed - only seven have been shown in England and in two of them ( Le Juge et l'assassin , Que le fete commence ) he was uncredited ; in Les Valseuses he had only a ' bit ' ; Le Clef de la bagnole was full of French actors who appeared only momentarily ; Herbie Goes To Monte Carlo wasn't made in France which leaves Tandem and Monsieur Klein . Most of his colleagues from L'equipe du Splendid have similar profiles , i . e . scores of acting credits ( well over 100 in the case of Thierry Lhermitte ) , plus several writing and directing credits also but even so the likes of Michel Blanc ( Monsieur Hire ) , Josiane Balasko ( Gazon Maudit ) and Christian Clavier ( Les Visiteurs ) have still to register as even a modest blip on the radar of English movie goers . This is a great pity as all of them have lots to offer and Jugnot is no exception ; Oui , Mais is a fine example of simply Jugnot the actor doing a first-rate job as the psychiatrist who helps Emilie Dequenne come to terms with emerging adulthood and deal with problems on several fronts . In an age where psychiatry , in England at least , prefers to deal with mental illness by treating it with drugs to suppress rather than cure - not unlike bandaging a festering wound but applying no ointment ; it won't offend passers by but neither will it heal - it's refreshing to find a film where the value of analysis via one-to-one sessions is appreciated . Both Dequenne and Jugnot are excellent and the film is a real gem which would , I am convinced , if given the chance would be well received in England .
At a superficial level this is a modern take on ' Marty ' , the Paddy Chayefsky / Delber Mann Oscar Winner of 1955 which centred on a romance between a plug-ugly butcher , Ernest Borgnine and a ' homely ' schoolteacher , Betsy Blair . This time around the ' homliness ' is supplied by writer-director Miranda July and the plug-ugliness by John Hawke . He's a shoe salesman just coming off a marriage and more or less saddled with two young boys while she runs a cab service for Senior Citizens and aspires to the artistic life . Apart from ' Marty ' there's also a nod to ' The Accidental Tourist ' with July in the kooky Geena Davis stalker and Hawke in the passive and timid William Hurt role . Elsewhere there are other performances , quirky / offbeat to a character but all handled well by the actors concerned . July is one of those actresses it's easy to fall in love with , in the style of Valeria Bruni-Tedeschi , and she's more than a competent writer director . Clearly she read somewhere E . M . Forster's celebrated mantra ' only connect ' and has adapted it as her own . It will be hard for her to follow this but let's hope she pulls it off .
Horror and even excessively violent movies don't even approach my radar but this multi ( albeit at minor festivals ) Award winner was so well reviewed that I decided to give it a whirl - in the same way , I did something similar a few years ago when Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon garnered the same sort of ecstatic Press . I found it slow to get into its stride and initially all the characters seemed as cold as the Swedish locale but gradually it warmed up . At its heart is a burgeoning relationship between two twelve-year olds - or one twelve-year-old and one of indeterminate age . Even at such tender years both have problems , not least hunger in more than one sense of the word . They nurture their relationship against a background of murders which seem hardly to impinge on the community of which they are a part . No one is questioned , no one is even followed by police and the fact that the viewer is privy to the killings is neither here nor there . There are scenes that could be construed as horrific but they verge very close to the risible , provoking mirth rather than terror . The two central performances are exceptional but may be one-offs , not unlike that of Bobby Henrey in The Fallen Idol , rather than the beginnings of fine careers .
Given their open admiration of Hollywood and sometimes slavish imitation , often improving on the prototypes , it's surprising that the French filmmakers were slow to tackle the newspaper pic ; virtually all the Hollywood icons played at one time or another a reporter , editor , photographer and some of the films in question - The Front Page , It Happened One Night , Five-Star Final , The Philadelphia Story , His Girl Friday - became equally iconic . Hardly surprising then that I relish the irony that it took a German company , Continental , to turn out a great French newspaper story in La Ferme aux loups . The joint leads , reporter Francois Perier and photographer Paul Meurisse , are two of the finest and most dependable French actors , both with long and distinguished careers but virtually unknown outside France . Perier even gets the girl , Martine Carol , making an early appearance in a leading role . The plot is serviceable ; the news-hounds cover a routine story involving the body of a tramp , a little later their car gets stuck in country mud and they seek shelter in an OLD DARK HOUSE and , guess what , there's the same tramp , stiffer than a Laurence Harvey performance . Turns out it's twins , revenge , the whole nine yards in fact but it's lotsa fun .
As an admirer of Louis Jouvet I have long coveted this film and now , at last , I own it thanks thanks to the boundless generosity of the Norwegian film buff who has provided so many memorable movies over the years . Jouvet was primarily a man of the theatre who condescended to appear in films to finance his theatre work , possibly inspiring Orson to do the same thing years later though in Orson's case he appeared in crap to finance art-house fodder . Jouvet played stage actors on film in such titles as La Fin du jour and Miquette et sa mere and here he plays a dramatic teacher which was again close to home as he had done this in real life as well . Henri Jeanson provided his usual pithy dialogue and there are sightings of Julien Carette and Marcel Dalio . Claude Dauphin is ostensibly the leading man but we needn't dwell on him . Marc Allegret enjoyed a fairly long if mainly undistinguished career - his Fanny , for example is arguably the weakest of the great Pagnol trilogy and a movie he made in England , Blanche Fury , didn't exactly set the screen ablaze - but this is definitely one of if not the highlight .
Louis Malle thought nothing of mining his childhood / youth for films such as Au Revoir , Les Enfants and in most cases these quasi-autobiographical entries are among his finest work . This is no exception ; set in Dijon , perhaps best known as the centre of the moutard ( mustard ) industry , it features a family very like his own , a protagonist very like himself , constantly ragged by two older brothers , obsessed with Jazz and literature and crucially sharing a hotel room with his mother . Stated as baldly as this it's not going to have a line at the box office but as always it is what Malled does with these basic facts that makes this an outstanding film ; beginning with the period ' feel ' which is spot-on and on to which he grafts some brilliant ensemble acting so that although Benoit Ferreux and Lea Massari carry the burden the weight is distributed equally between the very fine supporting actors . One to own on DVD .
A forgotten gem that was remade in Hollywood within a couple of years , using the same lead actor Gerard Depardieu but substituting Katherine Heigl for Marie Gillain in the co-leading role of Depardieu's daughter . Whilst both are good - if you've only seen the Hollywood version , My Father The Hero , you'll probably like it well enough not knowing what you're missing - but this , the original , has the edge . As it happens both Marie Gillain and Katherine Heigl went on to become accomplished adult actresses which has to say something about the quality of the writing . If you like to smile , laugh out loud occasionally , and weep a little this is right down your rue .
It's almost certain that as an English person with no Czech to speak of I missed a good two thirds of the satire here so it's probably just as well that the one third I DID understand is so good . I missed it first time around so it's even more possible that any satire that was pertinent then no longer obtains but even so we are still left with a delightful fable in which a sleepy small town train station is our old friend the microcosm . Although we do have something of a main character in Milos ( Vaclav Neckar ) the teenage virgin apprentice trainee there is a full complement of support both in and around the station from the stationmaster Max ( Vladimir Valenta ) and his wife ( Libuse Havelkova ) who are active in poultry , train dispatcher Hubicka ( Josef Somr ) the Czech equivalent of a babe magnet and who is ultimately responsible for Milos getting laid , Milos's girlfriend of sorts , Masa ( Jitka Bendova ) who is unable to make Milos a ' man ' and Victoria Freie ( Nada Ubankova ) who succeeds where Masa fails . Although it is set in the middle of World War Two there is a curious lack of wartime ' feeling ' despite the presence of a local Quisling . In passing there is one of the most outre phallic symbols in film history but that's another story . Verdict : A real charmer .
Notable left wing sympathizers Yves Montand and Simone Signoret read Arthur Miller's The Crucible in bed nightly and determined to play it in France , which they did on the Paris stage and a little later on film . Roulou directed some 23 mostly undistinguished films - though he fared better as an actor - and he makes little or no attempt to be cinematic , allowing in the main the text to do its work . At the time - mid / late 50s - Montand was still far better known as an outstanding singer both in concert and on record despite his fine performance in Clouzot's Le Salaire de la peur , whilst his wife , Signoret was well established as one of the finest French actresses of her generation yet the viewer is unaware that they are anything other than two fine actresses interpreting a fine script . This is one that tends to get lost in the shuffle and is unfairly neglected .
If all you knew about this prior to watching it was that the title translates as The Burning Barns you might be forgiven for anticipating a touch of the Southern Gothics , especially if you were on nodding terms with Faulkner and Tennessee Williams both of whom have written about barn burning as if it were a minor Art form requiring both skill and finesse and at worst a semi-respectable / legitimate occupation . You would , however , soon be disabused because what we have here is yet another story in a rural setting - in this case the Jura - involving a large family headed by matriarch Simone Signoret who owns a farm named The Burning Barns . The body of a young woman is discovered on land owned by Signoret and serves as a springboard to put the somewhat dysfunctional family under a microscope . Alain Delon arrives to head the investigation and the fun / fascination is watching two generations of French actors teaming up again in the wake of the previous year's success Le Veuve Coudroc . There's little in the way of thriller , mystery element but Signoret and Delon are augmented by the likes of Paul Crachet ( who appeared with Signoret in L'Armee des Ombres ) , a young and almost unrecognizable Bernard Le Coq , Miou-Miou and Signoret's real-life daughter Catherine Allegret . It's very watchable and definitely recommended .
. . . but it'll still be snowing in July , metaphorically at least , for this mother and her seven children . By pure coincidence I saw this film within days of Au Hasard Balthazar so that I couldn't help but be struck by the similarities , both feature , for example , the abuse of dumb animals but in the former Balthazar really IS an animal whilst in the latter it is Dominique Reymond who is both dumb first for ever getting involved with Daniel Duval and second for staying with him to BE abused by him and there is , of course , an extra twist in that Duval is himself an animal so that the end product is one animal abusing not only a dumb woman but also their own children . In its cyclical nature the film also resembles Etre et Avoir without the joy . There is no doubt that Sandrine Veysset has written and directed a fine film which treads a fine line between documentary and fiction . We are plunged into the action with no preparing the ground - ironic in a film in which farming plays such a large part - and left to work out that Reymonde has , for reasons not explained and thus open to such interpretations as that old catch-all low self esteem , at some time in the past become the mistress cum slave of Duval who in turn has a legal wife and another family in a neighbouring village . He seems to be totally without finer feelings and views his mistress and their seven children as cheap labour first , second and last and at one point he even accuses Reymonde of refusing to ' service ' him which speaks volumes of how he sees her although he has already provided an insight into his sensitivity when he makes sexual overtures to his own daughter , which is why Reymonde is reluctant to continue sexual relations with him . The thing that Reymonde has in spades is both a highly developed maternal instinct and an incredible amount of love for her children which is evident in everything she does . If ever a film illustrated Oscar Wilde's oft-quoted ' we are all in the gutter but some of us are looking at the stars ' it is surely this wonderful movie . Overwhelming .
As a student of irony I relish the fact that the outstanding stage actress Mildred Dunnock was uncredited despite being the subject of a focal scene - she is , of course , the lady in the wheelchair who Richard Widmark pushes down a flight of stairs . Actually there was quite a bit of fine acting on display here not least from leading man Victor Mature in arguably his finest performance albeit closely followed by his Doc Holliday in My Darling , Clementine . Taylor Holmes is also effective as the sleazy lawyer personified and Brian Donlevy and Colleen Gray are effective as Assistant DA and wife respectively . This makes Richard Widmark's performance all the more brilliant for eclipsing the others in what was far from a leading role . Henry Hathaway , one of the better journeyman directors of the time racks up the tension admirably and this remains highly watchable sixty years on .
It's difficult enough to write comments for films around fifty years old but when were talking ' silent ' there's another dimension of difficulty inasmuch as one is moving into a world of title cards and 26 frames per second . On the other hand a truly great film will suffer comparison with the best of later eras and so it is here . If one is new to Keaton , knowing only that he was a deadpan comedian who performed hilarious yet often dangerous stunts then this will be something of ( in the words Oscar Hammerstein put into the mouth of the King Of Siam ) a puzzlement ; it boasts a more or less straightforward narrative in which engineer Keaton's train is stolen by Union troops during The War Between The States and he sets off in pursuit . Any gags occur naturally within this context rather than being contrived and the film is better for this . I doubt if I can add anything pertinent to previous comments so I'll content myself with reporting that I'm glad to have seen it at last .
This has to be one of the better Hitchcock movies despite inconsistencies . I find Hitchcock vastly overrated which is not the same as incompetent ; basically he's a first-rate journeyman with a first-rate press agent but here he wisely cast Cary Grant in the lead and supplied him with a worthy villain in the talented shape of James Mason . Given that pairing you could practically cast Marjorie Main as the love interest and get away with it . For an average man in the street Grant is urbanity personified in the face of real , life-threatening danger and witty with it . It defies credence that someone who'd just been force fed an entire fifth of Bourbon would be able to sit up straight in a car let alone negotiate a winding road in the face of oncoming traffic and if you swallow this then nothing that follows will faze you . Enjoyable , Yes ; Credible , No , but what the hey , it's only a movie , Ingrid .
Irma La Douce began life as a French musical - a species fairly thin on the ground compared to Broadway and Shaftesbury Avenue - with a great score by Marguerite Monet , who composed several ' signature ' songs for Edith Piaf . In the fullness of time it transferred to London and Broadway and then Billy Wilder got hold of it and adapted it as a comedy dropping all the songs . You can do this if you're a genius and Wilder was one of the best in the business . Sometimes when you're a genius you gravitate to the similarly gifted and that happened here when Wilder signed Jack Lemon to play the lead . Actually it required little genius to make that move since the duo had already hit one out of the park with The Apartment a couple of years earlier . Even Shirley MacLaine can't louse this one up though God knows she tries hard enough with that ' Gee , look at me , aren't I the most lovable kook that ever came down the pike ' schtick on overdrive . Lou Jacobi is the perfect narrator who has a hammerlock on droll that just can't be broken . There's probably an academic somewhere even as I write who's writing a dissertation on how the apple that Nestor ( Lemon ) insists on paying for in his establishing scene is redolent of the Eve he will soon meet and who will subsequently lead him into temptation . Don't you just love these pseuds with nothing better to do than sacrifice pleasure on the altar of scholarship . Ah well , the rest of us can just sit back and pig out on a great comic movie .
This is a movie that just begs for someone to observe how FRENCH it is , the implication being that other countries somehow can't get their celluloid souffles to rise quite like the Gauls . Be that as it may this IS , I suppose , typically French , whatever that means . Sabine Azema and Daniel Auteuil are a well-heeled couple of the ' early retirement ' school . Azema likes to dabble in landscapes and whilst she is thus occupied a blind man ( Sergi Lopez ) tells her and shows - if that is the right word - her a house that is for sale . In nothing flat she and Auteuil are installed and beginning a new life in which Lopez and his wife ( Amira Casar ) quickly become their new best friends and in the fullness of time - probably about two or three months - it's wife-swapping time . Azema and Auteuil take to this like ducks to water so much so that they're soon advertising for like-minded couples . If it sounds sordid on the page it doesn't come across like that on the screen , possibly because it's French . All the principals are on top of their game and Casar proves that there IS life after Catherine Breillat . Well worth a look .
We've been in this adult - thrown - together - with - child territory before and not that long ago with Le Papillon and La Belle Marthe , both excellent examples of the genre . This has elements of both but is closer in locale and for want of a better expression meet-cute to Le Papillon inasmuch as the protagonists in Marthe were not only related but also the same sex , Aunt and Niece , whilst in Le Papillon the child was more or less neglected by her single-parent mother and so latched on to Michel Serrault and here a similar set-up obtains albeit one with a slight twist . We establish that Etienne Vollard ( Olivier Gourmet ) is both a mountaineer and a used-book seller , not the most credible combination but hey , this is a movie , right , and similarly establish that Pascal Blanchot ( Marie-Josee Croze ) is a single mother with a genuine affection for her daughter Eva ( Bertille-Noel Bruneau ) but not much of a clue about motherhood itself ergo she falls asleep in front of TV when she should be collecting Eva from school . Eva subsequently attempts to make her own way home , panics when she gets lost and runs in front of Etienne's van . For a while she is comatose in hospital and the doctors urge Pascal to talk to her constantly but little more than a child herself - at one point she describes herself to Etienne as a child with a daughter - Pascal opts out and it is left to Etienne , a part-time savant who retains every word he's ever read , to do the honours . In time Eva recovers consciousness but will only walk if Etienne holds her hand . Pascal finds work in another town and prevails upon Etienne to maintain visits to Eva as he is , in effect , the only game in town . When Eva's condition deteriorates he drives to the town where Pascal is working and takes her to the hospital but halfway there she asks him to stop the car and promptly seduces him . Employing what is perhaps an unorthodox form of therapy Etienne wraps Eva in a blanket and takes her mountain climbing in a snowstorm . He himself freezes to death but Eva makes a full recovery . This is actually a very fine film and the acting is top class so that it holds your attention despite the questions that demand answers like why no mention of Eva's natural father , how can Pascal run a car and a reasonable apartment with no visible means of support and why is there apparently no man or men in the life of a 28 year old woman who may not be a raving beauty but is neither a graduate of the Kennel Club . Reference is made to Etienne being an ex-alcoholic and wife-beater but only enough to tantalize and make us wonder at these contradictions in one persona - mountaineer-bookseller may give us pause but VIOLENT bookseller ? As I said both the acting and technical credits are first rate and I'd certainly see it again .
Three years after the first outing for the Beresfords , By The Pricking Of My Thumb , Pascal Thomas brings back the impeccable Catherine Frot and Andre Dussollier for Crime Is Our Business , his third and best adaptation of Agatha Christie . This is our old friend the murder without a corpse - there IS a corpse , of course , but only Prudence's aunt witnessed the actual murder which , in a nod to Rear Window , she witnessed taking place in a railway carriage as her own train passed in the other direction . In the fullness of time the corpse does turn up and the murderer is exposed but what makes the movie - as it did the first - is the wonderful rapport between the two leads , punctuated with wisecracks in the style of Bill Powell and Myrna Loy . If it's unadulterated entertainment you're after - to say nothing of arguably the best reading of the Holmes-Watson joke that went round the globe around ten years ago - then this one has your name on it . Bring on the DVD .
Though I've yet to see all the films Tracy and Hepburn made together of those I have seen this is the best which makes me lean toward agreement with those who have seen them all and nominate this as the finest . There weren't too many movies advocating Women's Lib in the late forties , or even the fifties if it comes to that but the movement , albeit not yet a Movement does add a spine to the Garson Kanin-Ruth Gordon screenplay in which the two leads are ably supported by Judy Holliday especially but also by David Wayne , arguably the only actor to create three characters on Broadway and lose out when they were bought for the screen , on the other hand he does get to sing Cole Porter's Farewell , Amanda - recycled by Porter from his earlier , So Long , Samoa - and Jean Hagan turning in a prototype , complete with voice , of the character she would play three years later in Singfin ' In The Rain . A comic gem .
Despite a long and active career , which included amongst other things supplying the off-screen ' voice ' of Lord Haw Haw in Twelve O'Clock High and creating the role of Socrates in the Broadway production of Maxwell Anderson's Barefoot In Athens , Barry Jones was relatively unknown to cinema-goers in 1950 which made him an ideal choice for Professor Willoughby who , well-shod in London , intends to detonate a nuclear device in its centre unless the Prime Minister agrees to issue a statement prepared by Willoughby . This is one of those British films that DO stand up half a century later which is not , of course , the same as saying they are without flaws - for one thing we never see Willoughby until he has stolen the nuclear device , left home , wife and daughter and made his way to London . What we feel the loss of is a sense of seeing him being slowly driven from brilliant scientist and nondescript family man to someone prepared to unleash devastation on a great capital city . Joan Hickson and Olive Sloan are both solid in support as is Andre Morrell , charged with the task of finding Willoughby but others characters , Willoughby's daughter , his colleague and son-in-law-in-waiting are cheapest cardboard cutouts . Overall the pace is the thing that keeps it interesting , that and the period ' feel ' of a lost London . Definitely worth a look .
There's a lovely tongue-in-cheek disclaimer at the beginning of this film to the effect that neither the events nor the characters depicted are based on real people or events , especially , nudge , nudge , wink , wink , the Elf scandal which rocked France lo , these few moons ago . No film of course should presuppose a previous knowledge on the part of the audience ; the average film-goer outside France will have little or no knowledge of Elf and the French Government Ministers involved in corruption just as the average film-goer will know of Marie Antoinette only that she once said ' let them eat cake ' and by coincidence Sophia Coppola's take on Marie Antoinette opens here , in London , tomorrow , whilst L'Ivresse du pouvoir is showing as part of the London Film Festival so it's a case of how do you like your corruption , in the 20th century heart of France or 17th century suburban Paris , that's about Versailles of it . What matters in either case is the quality of the film-making ; is it good , bad or indifferent . I've yet to see the Coppola but the Chabrol is out of the right bottle . Not a lot happens dramatically despite a nobbled car and a leap from a window , it's basically cat and mouse between Huppert's incorruptible judge and the highly corruptible ministers / big business she's attempting to nail - if she IS incorruptible Huppert is not above getting high on her power to imprison some of the fattest cats with their whiskers in the cream ( yet again a title has been badly translated ; the literal meaning of the French title is the drunkenness of power or , more colloquially , drunk on power ) which makes the French title more clear . Anybody who expects Huppert to turn in even a mediocre performance is seriously stupid and here she is right on top of her game well supported by Francois Berleand , who only a couple of years ago played her husband in Les Soeurs fachees , and here proves , as they used to say in Zenda , an opponent worthy of her steel . Go see , trust me .
Henry Koster was a fine journeyman director who probably did little more on this film than keep out of the way of Jimmy Stewart and Josephine Hull and prevent the supporting cast from bumping into the furniture but for all that the finished product is something he can be proud of as can Mary Chase , who adapted her own Broadway Pulitzer Prizewinning play for the screen . Despite the inevitable - if not obligatory ' opening out ' the stage origins are apparent but the movie is no worse for that - seasoned playgoers won't mind and non-playgoers won't know or care - and even the central flaw - Elwood P . Dowd lives in a small town where everyone knows everyone else so his eccentricity would be well documented and the ladies who come for tea at the beginning would take Elwood's behaviour in their stride rather than being shocked / scared into leaving - is easy to overlook given the charm of the central performance - Harvey , natch - and the wonderful support . In some ways Elwood P . Dowd is first cousin to Longellow Deeds , a notion reinforced by the fact that both pooka and pixilated begin with the same letter of the alphabet and both films have established places in the pantheon of great movies .
In Act I , Scene I , of Henry IV Part I the king , having just learned of Hotspur's latest triumph ( his army left 10 , 000 Scots dead and he took several important prisoners ) is reminded of his own son , Prince Hal , at this stage something of a wastrel ; the king expresses his dearest wish : ' Oh , that it could be proved that some night-tripping fairy had exchanged in cradle clothes our children where they lay and called mine Percy , his Plantaganet , then would I have his Harry and he mine . . . ' It's doubtful the LAPD had time to read Shakespeare circa 1928 because they were too busy with corruption , incompetence and framing anyone who dared to question their integrity . This could so easily be portraying Tony Blair's and now Gordon Brown's government exactly 90 years later . As Frank Sinatra's character in Suddenly put it , nothing changes . With a flashy role it's probably true to say that Angelina Jolie is courting the Oscar but it's too glib a charge to level - as it has been - at the film as a whole . Clint Eastwood is as fine a filmmaker as any working in Hollywood and seldom disappoints behind the camera . If this were fiction he would surely not have dared portray a State Asylum in which the chief psychiatrist was in the hip pocket of the LAPD and virtually every nurse was a certified sadist but it is , we are assured , a true story . Apart from Jolie and a strangely subdued John Malkovitch the only halfway decent character is the Steve Martin lookalike who inadvertently solves the mystery of Jolie's missing son . My advice : ignore the negative criticism and check this one out .
For whatever reason - maybe he needed to prove something , maybe he had little control over the Bournes - Tony Gilroy , who scripted all three of the Bourne movies , has made his directorial debut with a movie as complex as the Bournes but without the relentless violence that marred - for me at least - the trilogy . Plot-wise it could spot a pretzel ten points and , as someone has already pointed out , you need to pay attention otherwise you'll wind up floundering out of your depth . George Clooney gives certainly one of his finer performances and is well supported by the likes of Sydney Pollack , Tilda Swinton and Tom Wilkinson . All told it's a fine effort but one that like so many contemporary movies will probably not stand a second viewing .
I suppose it's lucky I enjoyed this film because if anything is critic-proof this is it . It has now racked up more admissions in France than any film except Titanic - it overhauled the previous French ( as opposed to Hollywood ) long-time leader La Grand Vadrouille a matter of days ago . France of course regularly throws up heavy-grossing films - think Amelie , Les Choristes , La Mome in this decade alone - and all of these are equally good , if not better than this one so whilst I don't begrudge its success I do find it somewhat inexplicable . I like the anti-PC element ( leading man Kad Merad feigns disability in order to win a transfer to the Riviera ) but the main thrust of the story - the singular dialect peculiar to Northern France - can take it only so far . Writer-director Danny Boon , a native of the region , spoke the dialect exclusively for the first two years of his life and full marks for getting a feature-length movie out of it . Kad Merad is excellent in the leading role as is veteran Line Renaud as Boon's mother . It's definitely entertaining but I would rate it no higher than that .
Outstanding location shooting in two of Europe's most photogenic countries ( Italy and France ) , a comic ' caper ' plot with guns that don't really kill plus two of the greatest comedians in French cinema - Louis de Funes and Bourvil - has to be an unbeatable parlay and in fact the following year they did it again - or something very , very similar in Le Grande Vadrouille in which the director of both films , ex-actor Gerard Oury , brought his daughter , Danielle Thompson , on board as co-scriptwriter . It was also a nice touch to name the Louis de Funes character after the Armenian-American writer William Saroyan , now largely forgotten but once hugely popular whose schtick was humorous whimsey . The plot won't really stand scrutiny under a harsh light ; Bourvil's 2CV is totally written off by the roller of de Funes even before he has left Paris on his proposed driving holiday in Italy . Knowing a rube when he sees one de Funes makes Bourvil an offer he can't refuse ; the ' loan ' of a Cadillac which needs to be driven from Naples to Bordeaux plus a ticket to Naples and spending money . What Bourvil doesn't know , of course , is that the car is bristling with gold , heroin and diamonds and how unwittingly he gets rid of these en route is half the fun . Perhaps a tad dated forty years on but still one of the best ' feelgoods ' around .
Nigel Balchin was one of the finest English novelists of his generation and equally facile at screen writing and it was his name rather than that of veteran director Henry Hathaway and definitely not that of wooden actor Van Johnson that attracted me to this one . Once you get over the ridiculous mistakes which no one who doesn't live in or know London well will register - Johnson's address is given as Portman Square which is indeed close to Baker Street but the Thames is a good mile or more away and not , as depicted , right outside his apartment building - this is a classy little thriller if a tad familiar : Johnson , a playwright has recently lost his sight and overhears a conversation ( shades of Sorry , Wrong Number ) which he interprets as a plot to kidnap someone . From then on the film divides into two halves ; 1 ) get someone to believe him / fake him seriously and 2 ) track down the perpetrators . It works on both levels even if Maurice Denham's policeman is a little too dim and a little too eager to let an ' amateur ' have his head . Certainly worth seeing .
If you like 1 ) Nostalgia , 2 ) great acting , 3 ) loving period detail and 4 ) lavish location shooting then you can't not like this wallow in pre-war sentiment . If , on the other hand , you go wild , simple wild , for Multiplex fodder then you'll seriously wonder what is the point , in any , of this subtle , graceful charmer . No one is going to be bowled over to discover that Judi Dench , Joan Plowright and Maggie Smith are great actresses but many of us may have dismissed Lily Tomlin and Cher as lightweights before this . Judi Dench's husband , the late Michael Williams contributes one of his rare - and never less than excellent - screen performances as the English consul and Franco Zeffirelli directs this semi-autobiographical account of his early years with a sure touch . The film is something of a contradiction in terms in that despite the rise of fascism , the outbreak of war and it's conclusion , not much happens ; by that I mean that the movie is more interested in the small group of expats and the small , motherless boy , who plays a role in all their lives than the World stage . Can't really be praised enough .
It's strange to realize that Pierre Chenal was also responsible for Clochemerle , a farce about a public toilet that went down well in England where public toilets are anything but . He had also worked with Stroheim earlier in L'Alibi ( now available from Rene Château ) and indeed it may be argued that Stroheim did some of his best work in his ' French ' period in such movies as La Grande Illusion , Les Disparus de St Agil etc . This time around he's a disfigured banker turned forger in the cause of love . It is , of course , debatable whether an International banker would actually patronize a fair ground but assuming he would then he's all set to meet a beautiful girl who's also blind which may be just as well given that she earns a crust by allowing a kife-thrower to use her as a target - shades of La Fille sur le pont . Chenal is working on multi-levels here so that we get part fantasy , part poetic realism , part melodrama . Hardly believing his luck Stroheim marries the girl and that could have been the cue for a happy ending but we don't want to give you that , do we , so how about the girl recovers her sight and doesn't like what she sees ; at around the same time Stroheim is getting in over his head in the counterfeiting dodge and Chenal is stirring a heady brew . With something for everyone this is truly an undiscovered gem .
Perhaps the highest praise one can heap on this film is that despite it being obvious what is going to happen within the first twenty minutes we still keep watching with silly smiles on our faces basking in the warmth of Wilder's genius and licking the cream of his jests off our metaphorical whiskers . Wilder was , of course , a master of the meet-cute and one could even argue that he had a childlike preoccupation with them unless , of course , you appreciate the thought that goes into them . Some filmmaker's careers - notably Orson Welles - are littered with unrealized projects , Wilder left a list of unrealized meet-cutes behind him like the two psychiatrists who both send their couches out for reupholstering and guess what . . . This time around the protagonists rather than meeting over a couple of stiff drinks do so over a couple of stiffs ; his ( Jack Lemmon ) father and her ( Juliet Mills ) mother who have enjoyed a same-time-next-year extra marital fling for the last ten years on the photogenic island of Ischia and might be doing so still had their car not run off the road . We learn this relatively quickly which was what I meant about knowing how it's going to pan out from reel # 1 . The trick is , of course , to start with a pair of antagonists and watch and wait for them to realize what we've known all along . The Italian setting is apposite because this kind of love-hate thing arguably began with Beatrice and Benedek who might , also arguably , have had a better scriptwriter than Wilder and Izzy Diamond ; on the other hand . . . The film is replete with Wilder ' touches ' such as the official in the morgue meticulously arranging forms , stamps and pads or the nonogenarian dancing with his young nurses - and recalling Lemmon himself dancing with ' senior citizen ' Joe E . Brown in Wilder's Some Like It Hot . Music was a great love of Wilder's life and whilst very few of his films are totally music free in others it plays a significant part - think of , in no particular order , Love In The Afternoon , Sabrina Fair , One , Two , Three , etc - and here he uses a background of evocative ' mood ' music notably the lovely Senza Fine which does double duty translating as it does to ' without end ' . Wilder has again turned for his source material to a play by Samuel Taylor who also wrote Sabrina and again Taylor has conceived a soufflé , the epitome of Romantic Comedy that is only enhanced by Wilder's mordant wit . It may be late-blooming Wilder but the bloom is definitely on this rose . One to cherish .
This is arguably Otto Preminger's finest hour albeit he inherited the project from Rouben Mamoulian . In my case the jury's still out on whether or not it was wise to jettison the several points of view that Vera Caspary employed in her novel but so long as we're stuck with a more or less straight-ahead narrative structure this example is as good as any with the necessary flashback element - to introduce us to Laura as she was in life - being placed up front where it will do the most good . With little to do other than look hauntingly enigmatic Gene Tierney scores heavily in the eponymous role and probably never equalled it again despite several notable At Bats . Dana Andrews has Mark McPherson down to a fare-thee-well and even well-know lesbian Judith Anderson almost convinces as Laura's love rival for Shelby Carpenter , Vincent Price . David Raksin's score , not least that stand-out theme has become undoubtedly as well-known as the film and those who know it only via the brilliant lyric supplied by Johnny Mercer after the film was in release and packing them in will be pleasantly surprised and maybe even a tad disconcerted by the pace at which it is first laid on us . This was shown on TV earlier today and it holds up remarkably well .
Another brilliant movie from genius Billy Wilder . Aspiring screenwriters would do well to analyse the painstaking construction of this great screenplay from the way the principals are introduced - Lemon as the CBS cameraman covering a football game , docilely moving up and down the touchline as instructed , freezing cold but asking for coffee only half-heartedly ; in short , a decent guy , easily controlled and not self-assertive ; next up is Matthau and even seen from the back , as he is in his first appearance , he is a coiled spring of cynicism , quite happy for his own child to break a leg in a hospital and already bullying a young doctor ( William Christopher , later to become Father Mulcahy in MASH ) ; last up is Judi West as Lemon's ex wife , seen initially in a sleazy apartment , telephoning for news of her ex husband while her new lover sleeps in the background and leaving us in no doubt that her prime interest is in the possibility of compensation - to the brilliant ' planted ' gags that pay off later - for example Willie ( Matthau ) , explaining about new breakthroughs in surgery which are written up in Time Magazine says ' don't you think doctors don't read Time magazine ' and about one and a half reels later one doctor says to another about a new technique ' I read about it in Time magazine ' . This is not to overlook the brilliant double-meaning lines , for example when Harry ( Lemon ) finally realizes that Sandy ( West ) has only been pretending concern in order to gain the $25 , 000 to mount her ' act ' at the Persian Room , he says , almost as an aside , ' yes , you can put on a pretty good act for $25 , 000 ' . The screenplay is liberally laced with solid observations like these so that the acting is just the frosting on a beautifully baked cake .
It was reasonable to suppose that poetic realism had had its day by 1957 but clearly Rene Clair thought otherwise and turned out a masterpiece to prove it . In some ways it is reminiscent of a pre-kitchen-sink English film of about ten years earlier called It Always Rains On Sunday ; the English movie was set in the East End of London and featured as a catalyst an escaped convict . Clair's film is set in the East of Paris and features as a catalyst a convict on the run but that's where the comedy ends as Howard Dietz once wrote . If seen today It Always Rains On Sunday would be risible and embarrassing whilst Porte des Lilas WAS seen today and proved more than durable . Its great strength is that NOTHING seems to be happening ; life humdrums its way to the grave in a down-at-heel quartier , two or three people hang out in a bar , one of them strums a guitar and sings timeless songs ; a convict breaks out of the slammer and holes up in the singer's house , the neighborhood bum saves his life , the daughter of the saloon-keeper falls for the gangster , he fills her heart with misplaced love and her ears with lies about a new life together requiring only the takings from the cash register to kick-start it , the bum , in love with the girl himself , kills the hood when he realizes he's merely been stringing the girl along . Life in ten reels , but WHAT life . Brilliant .
Given the success of You'll Never Get Rich the previous year it would have been foolish to say the least for Columbia not to rush into production with another vehicle for the dream team of Fred Astaire and Rita Hayworth ; often , of course , this can be a mistake but in this case the follow-up movie eclipses the first . For one thing the plot is just a tad less ludicrous as well it might be ' borrowing ' as it does from Shakespeare's The Taming Of The Shrew . Hollywood , of course , was always prone to exaggeration so while TWO sisters were sufficient for the Bard Harry Cohn reasoned that FOUR would be twice as good so here we have the four Acuna sisters who , in his wisdom , father Adolphe Menjou has decreed must be married in order of age . Okay , it's eccentric but no big deal . . . UNLESS . . . next in line Rita Hayworth has little desire for romantic involvement and a penchant for ' freezing ' any man who gets close enough to hand her a corsage . Cue Fred - Petruchio - Astaire , who , having dropped a bundle at the track needs a dancing job like yesterday and as Senor Acuna just happens to own a fashionable hotel and lacks any taste whatsoever - witness his hiring the musical joke Xaviar Cugat to supply entertainment - who else to approach for work . From here on in you can write it yourself but leave plenty of gaps for the great score by Jerry Kern and Johnny Mercer ; a title song that is really charming and somehow got lost in the shuffle in the face of a brace of winners like I'm Old Fashioned and Dearly Beloved . Loaded with class , charm , style and great songs this is the perfect antidote to the Baz Luhrmann school of musicals aka trash .
Seeing this movie for the first time yesterday I was struck by the commanalities it shares with Philippe Lioret's L'Equipier ; both share a location , Ouessant , both feature a lighthouse and both deal with outsiders coming in to close-knit communities . Indeed if Academics ever contemplated abandoning their lofty Ivory Towers temporarily and risk an attack of the Bends by putting a tentative gilded toe in the waters of Popular film they may even discover that Gremillon also made Remorques in which the sea figured prominently and that Lioret used a lighthouse motif in Mademoiselle but let's leave the Academics ensconced in their Spatial Relationships and return to the real world of craftsmen built movies . This entry came when Gremillon's career was coming to an end and it's a lovely swansong infused with delicate melancholy set in a close-knit community in which ironically no one is really happy or even content . There's a lovely moment when Marie ( Micheline Presle ) has toiled for hours through the night at the bedside of a sick girl who has finally , with the doctor's help , turned the corner . Her reward is more than money ' I take my hat off to you , doctor ' says one of the bystanders thus sealing her acceptance at last into the community ; as she walks home through the deserted streets the beam from the unseen lighthouse keeps playing over the walls and we think subconsciously of the hundreds of prison and prison-camp movies we have seen where a similar light seeks out those attempting to Escape but THIS light is celebrating Marie's acceptance INTO the community . Later she will travel in a rough sea to that same lighthouse and operate successfully on one of the keepers reinforcing her role in the community and Gremillon shoots the scene masterfully ; with a camera fixed in the cabin of the lifeboat we see only what the helmsman would see and initially this is only the sea washing over the deck as the ship pitches and tosses but gradually we are able to discern the lighthouse itself moving in and out of shot and slowly growing larger . In 1954 Gremillon probably found it prudent to cut from this scene to Marie safely inside the lighthouse and climbing the stairs but some 50 years later Lioret was able to show the transition from ship to rock in detail . One of the strengths of the film is that Marie has a secondary problem to cope with in the shape of an engineer , Andre Lorenzi ( Massimo Girotti ) , with whom she falls in love but who as a macho Italian takes it for granted that once married Marie will be happy to give up this foolish idea of work and be more than happy to devote herself to the chores of the housewife and to her shame there is a moment when she accepts this but after the exhilaration of the operation in the lighthouse Ordinary Housewife is no longer an option . The film is rich in observation of human nature with a nod to Jeux Interdits in the sequence where two children , both of whom were loved by the spinster schoolteacher who had devoted a lifetime to the local school , ignore her funeral in favour of a sick pet sheep . This is a wonderful slightly Chekhovian film that has been unjustly neglected .
Classical muso turned writer-director Denis Dercourt hit the ground running with this brilliant debut that contrives successfully to make Classical music both palatable and highly amusing to a mass audience . The premise is simple enough ; one of a group of freelance classical musicians is asked to put together an ensemble to play a New Year's Eve gig at a château in Northern France . He assembles it from amongst colleagues with whom he works regularly with the exception of the clarinet chair which will have to be filled locally . Everything that can go wrong does go wrong , natch , from the internecine rivalry centering on who is going to be leader to the slightly enceinte female member of the group choosing her moment with metronomic precision to the local clarinet player who mentions casually mid-rehearsal that he can't actually ' read ' reed music . Utilising his own experience and inside knowledge ( he teaches Classical music in his day-time job ) Dercourt brews a heady wine guaranteed to intoxicate the senses . Highly recommended .
Bogie's Dixon Steele suffers the same affliction as Gabin's Jacques Lantier in La Bete Humaine ; both are prone to unexplained violent rages that may ( in Steele's case ) and do ( in Lantier's ) lead to murder . The flaw in both films is the failure by the writer and / or director to offer an explanation for the outbreaks - actually Emile Zola , author of the source work for La Bete Humaine , did offer an explanation but you had to read the nine-novel cycle to be aware of it and how many moviegoers are prepared to do that . Putting that aside this remains a terrific movie with Bogie right on top of his game - in some aspects it's a dress rehearsal for his Queeg a couple of years later in The Caine Mutiny - which means the best there is and there's even the odd ' inside ' joke like the uncredited appearance by Mike Romanoff , proprietor of the Hollywood restaurant where Bogie was a habitue ' . Indeed the Hollywood setting allows for metaphorical readings if you're so inclined and it is a masterstroke to have a director , agent , actress , actor-on-the-skids and screenright as prominent characters yet remain a million miles away from a studio . This is almost certainly the pick of the crop of Bogie's Columbia years which coincided with his last great period . any day of the week .
. . . or at they would if Judi Dench had her way . I'm slightly bemused at the critical comments I've read in the Press inasmuch as they seem almost startled that Judi Dench is playing Evil . Come on , fellas , she's an ACTRESS for God's sake and that's what actors DO . ACT . It appears she's paying the price for years of playing roles that enhance her natural Warmth , decency and , yes , Goodness , but she's only done Lady Macbeth so we shouldn't be - and I , for one , am not - surprised to discover that her individual spectrum is impressive . Surrounded by other fine actors of the calibre of Cate Blanchett and Bill Nighy she dominates the screen to the extent that Patrick Marber's screenplay , adapted in turn from a novel by Zoe Heller , gets lost in the shuffle as does the direction of Richard Eyres . I suspect that a second viewing would reveal the richness of both the screenplay and the principal co-stars but the initial viewing belongs to Dench , who is beyond Magnificent .
This film has just opened in London and I attended one of the first screenings . I wish I could add something to the whole host of superlatives made by previous posters . This is a truly awesome film , at the very least a mini masterpiece and possibly even a fully-fledged one . With the best will in the world people in the West can never really KNOW what it was like to live in a state of constant long-distance supervision but this film - made by a native of West Germany who , by definition , has never known it either - comes as close as any to making us privy to that sensation . All the credits are impeccable from Writing , Directing down to the smallest ' extra ' and it is wonderful to see Martina Gedeck , so great as Bella Martha , and Sebastian Koch , equally good in Black Book , once more but excellent as both are they are outshone by Ulrich Muhe as the Stasi official charged with monitoring their lives . Weighing in at a little over two hours and with no sex or violence to speak of the film nevertheless rivets the attention by - if not in spite of - the very grayness which informs it with Muhe , himself a victim of Stasi surveillance , outstanding as he mutates from automaton to human being but totally from WITHIN ( no dramatic histrionics here to symbolize his volte-face , just acting of the most subtle kind ) . A film incapable of being overpraised and one that should be seen by every discerning film-goer .
This is one of those films that are released in January and the critics say en masse that it is destined to be one of the best films of the year . In this case they are right on the money . Like Germany Roumania is turning out some world-class films and this is arguably the cream of the recent crop . It's already attracted several positive comments that have covered the storyline in detail so it would be superfluous to say it again ; over and above what is essentially a simple story about an everyday problem the recent regime is being harshly examined ; it is not for a non-Roumanian to comment on this but I can and will echo the praise heaped on the director and two lead actresses , Laura Vasilu and Ana Maria Marinca ; all three are superb as is their film . Ten Out Of Ten .
Though I love Chekhov the better a production of one of his masterpieces I see the sadder I am that I am still missing wonderful nuances because 1 ) I don't speak Russian and 2 ) I have no Direct , or Primary Source if you will , knowledge of Russia and so have to rely on reasonably extensive reading which is , of course , no substitute . So in effect I know no more of Stalinist Russia than I do of , say , Wonderland , the Wonderland from which I selected my Summary for this critique but the fact that I cannot speak Jabberwock doesn't prevent me from enjoying Alice In Wonderland and nor does my lack of Russian prevent me from savouring this wonderful evocation of a totally corrupt regime viewed largely through a prism of innocence if not ignorance . In many ways there is a feeling of late Chekov here in the scenes of a languorous summer afternoon viewed through the eyes of an ex-aristocratic family gathered on a Chekhovian dacha in which they have succeeded in keeping reality at bay . Those with a taste for metaphor will find it in the delivery driver going around in circles before eventually being shot and those with a taste for acting of the highest quality will find it in the Writer-Director and Leading Man , Kotov , in his nemesis Mitya , and even in his own real-life daughter , Nadya . Love , Death , Pain , Laughter , Tears , Joy , Anguish , Bitterness , Despair are all present and correct in this exceptional melange which is too rich to savour at one sitting and requires multiple viewings . Did I say masterpiece ? In spades .
