This was a horrid , overdone , over-sentimentalized , over-written piece of garbage . Russell Crowe was terrible in this ! He came off like he was trying to prove something , and in so doing seemed to swagger across the screen one minute , and drunkenly waltz back , the next . His delivery of dialog was as plastic as anything in the Barbie World , and he seemed to be lost and confused throughout much of his performance . Quite honestly , his screen time seems to be a total waste , this time around . This was a complete waste of time and resources , but I won't grieve the time it took for me to swallow this terrible film , nor the time I wasted writing this review . This was a REAL stinker . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Dog the Grinch if you must , but it was LIGHT YEARS ahead of this muddled mess ! ! They were so worried about Carrey coloring the role of the Cat in the Hat , that they hired an actor who has one basic personality which he dresses with different costumes . This was nothing more than Mike Meyer's " Dr . Evil " character in a cat suit . He uses the self same gimmicks in his shtick as the maniacally irresponsible Cat , as he did as the irresponsibly maniacal Dr . Evil . There's very little difference between the two and what difference there was , he comes off as a very poor comic this time around . The creation of the city was quite nice and Dakota Fanning was a joy . The boy who played her brother and the fish were decent characters , but Mike Meyers ' interpretation of Dr . Seuss's Cat was extremely sickening . He was very under dramatized ( and must have been cememted in " Dr . Evil " ) for Cat in the Hat . While Dr . Evil was a likable character in the Austin Powers movies , he had no place in this work . Hindsight being worthless , they should have hired Jim Carey and not been concerned with the " Grinch " comparisons . He , at least , would have played DR . SEUSS'S character and not Mike Meyers ' character . The Universal Studios ad right in the middle of the movie was the least tasteful thing in a virtual sea of tastelessness . I actually PAID to see a Universal advertisement . I have just been violated . No . Really . Ah well , this will be remade in a few years , anyway . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
This flick is filled with cheesy dialog , horrid direction , deplorable acting performances and the most inane script I've ever experienced . I fail to comprehend the cult following this flick has generated . This " work " is nothing short of absolute detritus . It doesn't even fall into the " Attack of the Killer Tomatoes " genre of good camp . This is suppoed to be an " arthouse " parody of " B " horrors . It isn't " arthouse . " It isn't anything but completely unintelligent , over-rated drivel . Having been written and directed by the cinematic equivalent of the Three Stooges ( Directed by Stephen Chiodo and Written by Charles Chiodo & Edward Chiodo ) , I expected nothing more . Good thing , because this attempt gives nothing more than the most disgusting display of pre-pubescent idiocy to which I have ever had the displeasure of being exposed . The producers and director in charge of these hokey , horrid , and even STUPID effects should have all been BURNED AT THE STAKE ! It doesn't rate a rating , but here goes . It doesn't deserve this much , but I'll be generous with a from . . . the Fiend : .
What has become of the grandeur of Disney ? ! This is the worst CGI muck I've seen since the Hulk ! I can't imagine what the Disney Corporation was thinking in approving this disgusting display of amateurish CGI animation , except to make a buck . And yet , they went on and released it ? ! I'm virtually in shock that this movie has received a 7 . 1 ( for now ) rating here at IMDb , making it the most over-rated piece of detritus in the Disney vaults . I must say it is THE single worst Disney presentation I've ever seen . I'd come to expect bad animation and horribly neglectful illustrations from Disney sequels , but this was no sequel ; it was a feature film ! We saw what could be done through CGI with Monsters , Inc . , A Bug's Life , Finding Nemo , etc . This is more the quality I would have expected at the very beginning of the CGI age , not presently . I was very disappointed with this attempt , and would admonish Disney to do better next time ! It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Sorry Fulci fans , but I could not get through this one . The soundtrack was about as annoying as they come , the acting was puerile , the story has been done and done , and the direction was non-existent . Massacre honestly looked like a children's film project . But I've seen some of those , and they actually look better than this did ! It appears to have been so underfunded they couldn't afford . . . ANYTHING ! Not a DoP , not a director , no one who even remotely had a clue what acting was . It was a very poor cinematic experience ; one of my worst . This was about the worst suck-fest I've seen , next to Terror Toons which is second only to Killer Klowns from Outer Space . I've nothing else to say about it . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
I'd like to give this a higher rating , if for no other reason than Paul Bettany's performance . He is exemplary here , and contributes a top notch performance . HIS Performance rates a . Billy Boyd was also a delight . This movie doesn't rate a rating . This was dull , boring , uneventful dreck , made as a vehicle whereby Russell Crowe could show off his talents . I have to admit that this movie does just that . It is lackluster , flaccid detritus , as is , in this reviewer's opinion , Crowe's acting talent . This was a prime example of perfect casting . This film would have suffered , regardless of who was in the lead , but Crowe's presence herein is a SERIOUS detractor of any and all enjoyment one could derive from said work . The pacing is dead , and the dialog delivery was like those horrible Dudley Do-Wright cartoons ! I'll save you , Nell ! ( Dudley voice ) That's how stiff and unoriginal Crowe was throughout . Frankly , I hated this . I had no expectations , so there were none to beat , and it STILL failed miserably . As usual , I'm in the minority , but I thought this was an entire waste of film , except for Bettany and Billy Boyd . Sorry , but this rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
This is a prime example of what not to do with CGI . I found the movie itself to be very good ; entertaining , well written , inspiringly directed , professionally portrayed , and creatively conceived . But the CGI Hulk monster killed the entire production , for me . This brings us back to the already old issue of CGI and its place in the industry . When dealing with multitudes , such as the goblin / Orc armies in LoTR , or the Army of Anubis in The Mummy Returns , CGI is wonderful . It enhances a good story and generates millions of members of a group , creates magical places , gives excellent lighting effects , etc . When dealing with a single character such as the Scorpion King in The Mummy Returns , or the Hulk . . . CGI alone is not an adequate execution . . . obviously . LOOK at the finished product . Do either of these characters look . . . real ? No , they do not . Makeup effects will be a lost art by the end of this century , and is so under-used now with the " perfection " of CGI , that the industry is almost solely relying on this medium . That , in my humble opinion , is a horrendous mistake . Look at Karloff's Frankenstein's monster , and then look at the computer generated Scorpion King . What you see is the difference between a quality make up artist and a really bad rendition of a would-be god . The Hulk , to me , appeared to be only one step above the claymation creations of the early eighties . That is NOT a good thing , if you ask me . The story ? What story ? It was lost in the shadow of the horrid computer effects and ill-conceived generation of what was once an icon in the field of comic book heroes . All in all , this movie was horrible . What it could have been fades in the light of what it is . . . terrible computer generated monster , which overshadows anything else this movie contained . It is far less than the sum of its parts , and a complete waste of time and film . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Some say you can't judge a movie by its box office take . And for the most part , that is true . I've seen many worthy films , which never made back their budgets , let alone advertising dollars . However , in this case , the box office equates the performance and the worth of this work . Budget : $87M ( estimated ) Gross : $66 . 1M ( Worldwide ) This is a low-rent , under-classed gangsta rapper's dream , and I'm sure the weekend action fans will love this and no doubt rave on and on , but in truth this work was superfluous to the original work , thereby negating its own creation . In two words ? It stinks . Frankly , I was not impressed with any element of this film , and that's not usual for me . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Pardon me , but I'm still in a mild state of shock . Based on Dickens ' work this . . . film details a young homeless South African in his search for a family . Okay , I get it . This is quite odd in its execution , but as a modernized remake , it's not all that bad , but it certainly is not the art-house film it was intended to be . Some of the performances are quite good , while others leave a bad taste in your mouth . This is entertaining , though a muddled mess of an adaptation . The elements here are both English and South African , but there seems to be some other subtexts hidden within . It would intrigue me if it were better done than it is , but as it is , I will not waste the time . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
If I'm conflicted in my review , it's simply because the story itself is conflicted , along with its characters , their choices , and their decisions . This was one heck of a family mess , and while I won't detail every nuance , this work seems to endorse adultery as a means of martyrdom , while forcing the adulteress to sacrifice her own life for her " sin , " by the ghost of her mother and the force of her own conscience . Lost yet ? You will be , if you try to muddle through this mess . It's not that the story is so intelligent that it " lost " me along the way , it's more like the characters choices are so idiotic as to make you wonder what in the WORLD these people are thinking . I know nothing of the Mexican life or culture , but if this is what it is like , I'm glad I live in the US of A . ( That's not a racist dis , either . ) It rates a from . . . the Fiend : . Ick .
This was a bit darker . A little more atmospheric . A tad bit more intelligent . But not by much . Leprechaun in the Hood was a running joke when it came out . It continues the tradition of Leprechaun movies which really bite the big one . As good as these could have been , with all the lore and information available about Leprechauns , and this is the best they could do . At least this time there were some decent kills , but if that is the only thing good I have to say about it ( and it is ) , then that does not count for very much . It stereotyped young AfricanAmericans as unscrupulous , confused potential thieves who would rip off their own mothers to get ahead . Venued in the ghetto setting , cast very carelessly , and scripted by someone who apparently had classic ADHD and was on crack , simultaneously , this attempt should be the death of the franchise . Fitting and deserving end . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
George Clooney should have never been cast in the role of Batman . He blew it from the instant his character appeared on the screen . His acting here is horrid , and introducing him in full regalia and in the throes of battle did nothing whatsoever to hide the fact that he was agonizingly deplorable . The addition of ice skates in the boots of the super heroes was as lame as anything I grew up with in the 60's and 70's TV show . All in all this was a horribly disappointing movie , complete with standard Hollywood fare : trying effects ; cheesy dialog and absolutely no build up to the story line whatsoever . The characters were underdeveloped , and over dramatized . The scenes were shot as if a ten year old snuck away to the mall with daddy's video camera and shot them ; the effects were the worst sort , and the dialog was reminiscent of a kindergarten stage production . Joel Schumacher should be forbidden to have anything at ALL to do with everything even remotely Batman related from this point on . Seriously , he has just about destroyed any chance of redeeming this wonderful series of movies . The heroes fly about on snowboards propelled by . . . . what ? Their gadgets , now totally hi-tech and possibly the lamest of all four movies thus far had me rolling my eyes before the first ten minutes of the movie were completed . In comparison to the 60's cars used throughout , it was highly out of place . A seriously lame anachronism . Mr . Freeze's dialog was obviously geared for the target audience of 9 year olds ( not to insult any 9 year olds out there ) , and his character was so underdeveloped , I remember the audience asking throughout the theater , " Who's that ? " Furthermore , his character never achieves the appropriate dominance required to be a convincing " bad guy " of this caliber . His character was a weak , flaccid excuse for a villain . No fault of Schwarzenegger's , I'm sure . Again , I blame the direction . His thug-some gang of hockey / skater punks just made me laugh . Lame , lame , lame . Mr . Freeze left me feeling a bit . . . cold . Sorry , it's the movie's influence . Uma Thurman's performance was excellent as Poison Ivy , although her character was even less developed than was Mr . Freeze's . By the time they got around to trying to give you any history at all concerning the two villains , it was far too little and way too late . By that time , the audience just didn't CARE about their history . They had already lost the viewers ' interest by failing miserably to properly introduce the characters . And by attempting to foist George Clooney upon us by shoving him into an action scene at the movie's open was a shoddy directional device not even worthy of a first year film student . " Bane " was played as infantile and was another factor which led to my loathing of this movie . Bane was a force to be reckoned with in the comic books . Whether you're a fan of that medium or not , this has to matter at least to some degree . His character was either written , directed , or portrayed ( I really don't care which ) to be about as bright and interesting as a rock . No , I take that back . I've seen some rocks which interested me greatly . His character was reminiscent to me , with his inane growling and total lack of intelligence , of the villains portrayed in Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles 3 . That's NOT a good thing , people . The Eye Candy turned out to be more like Eye . . . Sores . The circus-like atmosphere throughout the movie was inappropriate as a " Dark Knight " setting . I could not believe how horrible was the direction of this flick . As a fan of the comic heroes and the first two installments of this series , this movie was a complete let down . The dialog throughout is trite and campy ; they tried too hard to be witty and clever and failed horribly . Instead of hard and edgy , fresh and foreboding , George Clooney's Batman was soft , weak and ignorant . I hated him as Batman . Put him in Jurassic Park 4 . Cast him as living bait for ANYTHING carnivorous . That would be the perfect role for him . Alicia Silverston as Batgirl was a horrible casting choice . Meg Ryan would have made a more convincing Batgirl . Seriously though , almost anyone would have been better cast in this role . Her assuming the role as Batgirl degrades the character to mere fluff , instead of the gritty , edgy presence that issues from Batgirl's character in the comic books . Meanwhile , back at Mr . Freeze's lair : The ridiculous show tunes he forces his henchmen to sing for his amusement have even the henchmen casting confused looks at one another as if to say , " This is not the movie we auditioned for . . . is it ? " I really don't have anything good to say about this movie . I wanted to when I sat down to write this , but as I watch it , I simply cannot find it in myself to do it . If Mr . Schumacher's goal was to recreate the campy drivel of the original TV series from the 60's & 70's , then he succeeded completely . Much to my dismay . With the announcement of Batman Begins due to be released in 2005 , I refuse to even begin to get my hopes up until I see who will direct it . The late Michael Gough obviously won't be Alfred , either . He was about the only good thing this movie offered . As a true Schwarzenegger fan , I just don't have the heart to say anything more . Uma Thurman and Michael Gough were the only bright lights in this otherwise horrid installment of modern day Batman movies . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
This is done well enough to satisfy the most indiscriminate , but even those children in my acquaintance who were above the age of nine were dissatisfied with this animation , citing rough edges , and a complete disregard for detail where backgrounds and set props were concerned . The story is the familiar story of most movie-goers ' childhood , hidden deep , but it is in there , about a chicken who , when hit by something from the sky ( pine straw , perhaps ? ) proclaims the sky is falling , much to the amusement of the other barnyard residents of the chicken's fair village . This has , of course , been Disneyized , made into a father / son thing , and child characters were invented for the further Disneyization to be complete . This is not great , and offers little for the family , OR adult audiences . This was aimed mostly at the kiddies , and only the younger ones will ( at least in my experience ) typically enjoy this . Probably because the " dad " in this is a self-centered , faithless mook who cares about no one but himself . Even after he shows support of his son , it's all about " look at me , look how supportive I'm being ! " instead of Chicken Little and HIS accomplishments . He sucks as a father , and who wants to see that ? There are too many in real life , who suck , for this to be enjoyable . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
I have to say that I did not hate this movie . I can understand the 3 . rating here at IMDb , but I cannot understand the poor reviews . Kyla Pratt is awesome in this work ! She is really coming into her own , AND she can sing like a bird . The script is where the fault lies . You have a bunch of kids who must save a ranch , which is going out of business . This vehicle is so overused it has become cliché , and it sure did feel old , musty , and stale , in spite of Kyla Pratt and her stellar performance . Some have suggested that they needed Murphy back for this installment to make it work . I say Murphy isn't necessary in ANY of his later films . What they needed was a good screenwriter , and producers who knew better than to approve a bucket of schlock as this . It could have been great . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Because Disney more often than not , ignores the animation quality and a need for a good plot in their sequels , this was actually a nice surprise . I don't know why Disney does not pay more attention to their sequels . The graphics quality is always inferior ; no backgrounds worthy of the name Disney , inane plots , and worse dialog , with little or no attention given to the actual story , and the caricature drawings are almost always worse than Saturday morning cartoons in detail and quality . The animation quality is still poor when compared to Disney originals , and the dialog is quite trite , the story line and overall execution was really quite enjoyable . While it is not as captivating , it does not completely fail to capture the charm and / or mystery from the first . There is some hint of it , tucked away here and there . The children will like it , at any rate . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
This was a disappointment in comparison to the first Deuce production . Not that the original was a masterpiece , because it was FAR from that . But this second installment wasn't even that good . I watched it , and I was mildly entertained by it , but I must say that the laughs were half-hearted , as were the performances . Rob Schneider dialed in this performance , and as bad as this guy is , that's really saying something . In comparison , this movie made me reevaluate Hot Chicks a bit . At least in that one , he tried . Honestly though I can't say which I liked less-when he tries , and when he doesn't . Frankly , there really isn't that much difference . I enjoyed the first Deuce movie , but I'm honestly hoping this one will be the last . It was a great disappointment . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
The idea behind the Leprechaun series was that this was going to be a serious horror line . The first installment of the run , however , comes off more a horror / comedy than actual horror . The low budget and cheap effects , dialog and performances , character stereotypes and screenplay all combine to give you the complete " B " movie experience . It is one of those " B " movies that tries so hard , it can't help but fail . I really wanted this line to do better than this . I did not want - this - to be how I remembered Warwick Davis . As beautiful was Willow , is as wretched is Leprechaun . Unfortunately for the line , the studios kept churning these out . As the stories became more creative , the one-liners and stupid asinine wise cracks got worse . . . and worse . But somehow , you can find laughter and a wee bit o'suspense . You have to really look for it , but if you can let yourself go and enjoy it , it is a guilty pleasure for some . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
This work does amuse , though it IS overall , rather stupid . Two friends decide to " save " their friend Silverman from his fiancé Judith , a gonads-busting psychologist who plays him like a flute . Saving Silverman is less about the aforementioned premise , and more about two idiots who can't seem to let their friend grow up , go his own way , and survive without their disturbing influence and interference in their friend's life . This is meant to be a feel-good movie , hence the really weird ending ; however , it manages more to point out the importance of making wise choices where the selection of one's friends are concerned . I think I would have to commit murder , were these two scabbed onto the swollen , herpes-infested backside of my life . I wasn't really entertained , but I was dryly amused . Unfortunately , it is more like watching a train wreck caused by idiots , wherein only those idiots are killed . . . darkly amusing , yet unpleasant at the same time . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Okay , so this has been done and done , but quite delightfully done was this attempt . I did not , however , enjoy the fact that Cary Grant's character lies throughout this film . It was very off putting to see Cary Grant just boldly and clearly lying to his wives scene after scene . That having been said , getting past that off-putting element , the performances are witty and clever , delivering a natural human feeling , even when in tongue-in-cheek mode . The twists are eye brow-raising and cleverly written , incorporated in an otherwise enchanting story . All in all ? I wish they had written these characters more forthright . The comedic elements could still have worked , and it would not leave fans wondering how much of the dishonest elements should be associated with their favorite star ? I like this , but cannot love it . As such , it rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Now , my intention here is NOT to dog this movie but rather give an honest review of the premise . I won't talk about Cameron Bright's " deer caught in the headlights " performance or the fact that you can literally SEE his eyes moving along the cue cards ( whether they were on set or in his head I guess we'll never know ) , or the fact that Robert DeNiro could be doing something else ( ANYthing else . . . PLEASE ! ) . I will do my best to refrain from these topics during this review . POSSIBLE SPOILERS ! ! ! In my opinion , a science fiction should ( in theory ) contain some good science . While this attempt does feature a scientific theory , its science is horribly askew . This movie , instead of hitting on the SCIENTIFIC issues of cloning , takes the Mad Scientist route . Now I'm an avid horror fan , so I've no problem with the Mad Scientist premise , however . . . this movie could have been more socially responsible in bridging the cloning issue . I realize every movie is not aimed at the social issues , but merely seeking to entertain , however a movie of this magnitude , with this cast and this level of hype really should have had mankind in mind when the screen play was still in its creative stages . Had they made this movie more socially reactive to the implications of cloning ITSELF , rather than the mad scientist route , it would have been FAR more successful . Had it had GOOD SCIENCE , rather than a decent story , it would have blown OUT the box offices . Another way they could've gone which would have settled better in my mind than their way , is to have approached the religio-spirituality based issues at hand . If a soul is assigned to us at birth ( or in utero , whichever ) , where does a soul come from for clones ? Do they have souls ? Or are their souls merely the shadow of the donor's soul ? Does this stretch the donor's soul thin and cause problems of a supernatural / paranormal kind ? DEFINITE SPOILERSInstead of throwing in DeNiro's tampering with the cell , they could have featured the possibility of Adam's insanity having more to do with replication degeneration or even an incomplete stem cell or any number of things which could ( and have ) gone wrong in the cloning process itself . Would Adam still have gone insane ? Or was this a product of the cloning process ? Or could his insanity have been because he now carried TWO souls attached to him ; the soul of the Adam who once was - and - the soul which was assigned to him , as a person , at birth ? Or possibly no soul at all , leaving the human host body wide open for any type of spirit to possess and operate it . Either way would have made for a much better endeavor , IMHO . This just felt . . . flat . They had a bit of distracting CG-Eye Candy and some nicely shot sequences , but neither was enough to distract my mind from the wasted opportunity that is Godsend . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
This was a cute movie . That's about all I really can say for the movie itself . It was witty without being clever . It was amusing without being downright funny . It was neither cutting edge nor creatively inspired ( George Burns starred in Oh , God ! in 1977 ) . But after nearly thirty years of being preached at ( The Ten Commandments by Cecil B . DeMille in 1956 , and on and on ) , it was nice to be able to sit back and laugh about something most people get totally uptight over . From this release in 1980 , we received Mel Brooks's , " History of the World , Part One . " Now I'm not saying that Brooks copied this , or ripped it off . It is obvious that he did not do either of those . These are two totally different movies about different issues . Wholly Moses is about Moses's " brother , " Hershel ( an invention ) and is set during Biblical times . History of the World Pt1 is just that : a very witty take on the ancient history of the world . While sometimes they do cross paths , they never run completely parallel . While I absolutely LOVE HotW1 , I still enjoy watching Hershel dork his way through life . If you enjoyed History of the World , you may enjoy this one . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Many reviewers have compared this work to Tom Hanks's Big , wherein a young boy wishes he were " big , " and the wish is granted . However , this work is the anti-thesis of that work , as an adult portrays a young child , physically , which thrusts Jack into the same venue as Martin Short's " Clifford , " which was done some two years prior to this work . That not withstanding , Clifford was a holy terror , while Jack is a mother's dream . While both works require a total suspension of belief in order to enjoy them , Jack is endearing , sweet , sentimental , and entertaining . There is nothing endearing , sweet , or sentimental about Clifford . Jack is born with a genetic disorder which causes him to age 4 years for every 10 , thereby causing him to appear as a 40 year old man at the age of 10 . Many have bludgeoned Coppola's involvement in such a scheme , citing his prior " masterpiece " works while bemoaning this one . The fans seem to forget that artistic people who do not spread their wings , and plant their feet on strange ground , never grow as individuals and artists . Some found this work " insulting " due to the premise . It is called unintelligent . But not all films are based on intellect , and not all movie-goers care to have to think in order to enjoy a movie . And there is the added benefit of the heartwarming sentiment carried by this work . It did well in the box office , nearly doubling its budget , worldwide , and is generally under-rated here at IMDb ( if only mildly so ) , which says that word of mouth ( that this film wasn't as bad as the critics said ) carried this film further than the negative reviews would have liked . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
While this movie was more popcorn and cheese than I would have liked , Hellboy still presents us with some endearing character portrayals , outstanding effects , solid story line and good direction . The premise is . . . that after having conjured a demonic imp-like being , the Nazis are disturbed and their small faction defeated by the US . The paranormal adviser who is aboard the US mission lures the lil guy to his side with Baby Ruth candy bars , and he therefore adopts him as his " son " of sorts . Once grown , the imp - who is now on the side of good having been raised sixty years by a good-hearted and wise human - fights evil in all its forms . The imp is enamored with a firestarter who is also in the group , out of the group , back in the group , and so on . Good thing that the big red guy's flame retardant , or he could be singing the Doors from the other side . " C'mon baby light my fire . " chuckles The meridian / merman was beautifully done , portrayed and executed . Great incarnation of a highly intelligent and sensitive race . The one-liners and zingers flying about were more likely to put an eye out than make anyone laugh . In that area , this movie tried too hard to be witty and just came off seeming a bit anorexic . Unfortunate , as this could have been much more enjoyable , had they pulled it off . However , all that taken into account , I was still amused and entertained by the premise and the actual story . Some critics have accused this attempt of having no story whatsoever , but that just is not the case . The story is of love , life , blind faith , imagination and intelligence , and ultimately loyalty both to family and friends . Even when delivered through a basely stereo-typical chauvinistic tough-guy personnae , these qualities do not fail to shine through . The action sequences were fun , with a strong accent on those one-liners . Nevertheless , they were still entertaining . Importantly , the effects were excellent and did manage to carry the movie through a couple of tough spots . A good thing , too , as I never even noticed the score . All in all , it still rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
It's an odd phenomenon , that of the box office . I'm finding as I have reviewed literally hundreds of movies here at IMDb , that those which gross highest at the box office aren't necessarily the highest rated films . That in itself is peculiar , in my opinion . Take for example , Mission Impossible 2 . It had an increased budget ( $125M as compared to MI1 which had a budget of $75M ) and took in $545M ( as opposed to MI1's $452M worldwide estimate ) , yet MI2 rates a 5 . 7 while MI1 rated a 6 . 6 among users here at IMDb . Isn't that interesting ? It made more money , sold more tickets , yet was an inferior movie . " Sequels , by definition alone , are inferior films . " Randy , Scream 2I found this work playful , innovative , and fun . It was not , however , as edgy or fresh as the first . MI2 tried too hard to be " hip , " or cool , and it just came off as another ghetto flick in spite of the stellar performances , well choreographed and executed action sequences , and interesting plot turns . This sequel obviously rode the coattails of its original in the hopes that MI1 was strong enough to carry a weaker installment . Obviously that tactic worked . My question is , " Will MI1 also be expected to carry MI3 ? " I surely hope not , or the next installment could be the death of the franchise . This rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Darkness Falls is an inspired modernization of an old fairy tale , with great monster effects by Stan Winston . Most fairy tales come from a darker source , so the idea of taking an older fairy tale back to its origins and adding in a new twist , is NOT new ( Ever After , Snow White : A Tale of Terror , the Brothers Grimm ) . But it IS every bit as good as those aforementioned works , though widely less appreciated . It is my opinion that the cause for this movie's plight springs from the actual base source material , rather than a result rendered by a lack of talent , story , action , or quality . This work concerns an innate fear of the dark . . . and the tooth fairy ; albeit a rather nasty incarnation of the beloved childhood icon . . . But the term " beloved " does not actually work where the tooth fairy is concerned , as it does for say . . . Santa , the Easter Bunny , or Mother Nature . I believe this is the sole reason for this movie's failure to please . Oddly enough , I have to say " to please , " as this work did NOT fail at the box office . Unfortunately for Skye McCole Bartusiak , this phenomenon also scarred " Boogeyman , " which followed 2 years later ; Alone in the Dark ( also 2 years later ) ; and that wonderful Robert DeNiro / Dakota Fanning collaboration , Hide and Seek , also of 2005 . While the subject matter of these films is different from that of Darkness Falls , the attitudes generated by Darkness Falls negatively impacted those other works , causing a general sharing of those attitudes by casual movie-goers , who almost unerringly expressed feelings of " more of the same , " where these movies were concerned . But . . . at the end of the day , what really matters is how relative the viewer feels in relation to the movie's story line and character development . As a child , I had a closet-dweller - - - an under-the-bed - " gotcha , " so Boogeyman was ( for me ) , at least a familiar fear with which I could identify . Most young children afraid of the dark will tell you that it is not so much the dark itself they fear , but rather what is IN the dark . This work adequately depicts one possible antagonist , which could be IN the dark , and while unlikely , it IS creative in its concept and adequately executed . All in all ? If you had ( have ) a fear of the dark , or of what is in it , this may strike a familiar chord , rendering this work more personally frightening that it will be for a viewer without that fear . All that having been said ; however , I personally know no one who is afraid of the tooth fairy , before or after having seen Darkness Falls . I was , on the other hand , entertained . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
This is another unfortunate jaunt into the world of Comic Book Land . I wasn't in a hurry to see this movie . I've seen the Matrix . This was not the Matrix ; however . It is dark , stars Keanu Reeves , and even has some of the same " feel " as the Matrix , but this story is completely different . Although I was disturbed by the not-so-latent homosexuality of Satan , I found it quite enjoyable . KR plays his part well and Rachael Weiss is excellent as the supporting female lead . I have no qualms about this adaptation , or this production as a whole . The art of adapting comic books is quite difficult and requires a real understanding of the universe from which you are creating a new work . This attempt left me feeling like well , at least they tried . While it lacks the dynamics of the X-Men franchise , it is far more bold than other substandard comic book / video game lines ( Daredevil , Hulk , Doom , Streetfighter ) and pulls itself up well with no support from anywhere except the DC comics upon which this is based ; specifically , " Dangerous Habits , " the edition in which John Constantine contracts lung cancer and then negotiates his way out of it . Check out the nod to Alien 3 with the " dog-alien " face lick and what appears to be a little bit of the musical score from that same movie . I really enjoyed Constantine and can't wait to own it on DVD . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
This is not an original premise , nor is it an original movie , but it IS sweet , funny , and entertaining . I enjoyed this flick , though it is only a flick , and it does have some cute elements . While this IS just another RomCom , it aptly entertains anyone whose mindset is to enjoy and / or seek out this type of movie . If you're already in the mood for a PG-13 romantic comedy about a shy biochemist and a shy biologist who dabble in love through alchemy via a Gypsy's love potion , then this is definitely the movie for you . On the whole , it rates a . As a RomCom , it rates a . That's an average of 5 . 8 from . . . the Fiend : .
I can honestly say , this is the funniest of Rob Schneider's career . It's unintelligent , idiotic , stupid fun . Deuce Bigalow is the epitome of white trash . He's a professional fish tank cleaner who finds himself lion fish-sitting for a professional gigolo . When things to awry and Deuce needs some cash , he decides the only way to acquire what he needs is to follow suit and sell his " services " as a man-whore . The script is unintelligent , yet amusing . The portrayals are common stereo-typical banalities , the direction is uninspired , and the finished product is some weird kind of chemistry which completely belies the sum of its worthless parts . It's rude , crude , and socially unacceptable , but in some conflictingly enjoyable kind of way that I don't wholly understand . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Back in " the day , " Rutger Hauer had potential ; he could have been a contender . With the proper handling , he may have had a career as successful as Sly Stallone , for example , or Harrison Ford . Alas , but that opportunity is now gone . He has done far too many " B " stinkers ( though they arguably did not stink because of HIM ) for that opportunity to survive . After a while , two names became synonymous with the " bad B action flick , " Rutger Hauer and Eric Roberts . If you see those names , the channel is usually turned , and quickly . But , as I said in the beginning of this review , Nighthawks was done " in the day , " when everyone waited expectantly for Hauer to " be somebody . " His performance in this is exemplary , and this is ( in my opinion ) Sly's best performance as a cop , and he's played plenty of cops . To round out the trio , we have Billy Dee Williams in a pivotal role as Sly's partner , ergo the second good guy in the scenario , which involves a global terrorist ( Hauer ) and the New York detectives who are after him ( Williams & Stallone ) . All in all ? This features some great action , a few truly tense moments , a solid story , and believable dialog delivery ( something lacking in most cop flicks of this time ) . It was fun , interesting , and kept me watching . But in a word , this is dated , dated , dated ! but don't remake it , please ! Frankly , there were worse ( and better ) movies , which rate a remake . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Kevin Bacon is a " crystals and angels " spiritualist who leads a pack of teenage boys into the mountains , and then pulls some really weird stuff in an attempt to teach them to be men . Sean Astin is quite young here , and demonstrates his incredible acting talents , even then . In fact , all the performances are exemplary , and the story is interesting . The photography is absolutely beautiful , and even the score is wonderful . The rock songs don't seem to quite belong , but in the 1980's , that didn't seem to matter much to anyone . This used to serve as a motivational movie for me , but lately , I find I get more motivation from Monster Squad . For one , you do have to suspend your belief for prolonged periods , knowing all along that things would not have worked out as they did . All in all , it's a good Sunday afternoon movie , but not much more than that unless you're a film student . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
This is NOT the best cop / dog movie , but it IS superior to the Chuck Norris / pooch flick . Personally , I found Turner and Hooch to be superior to this work , but it is still enjoyable , and comes in second to my favorite . HOwever , this is witty , and funny enough to be endearing , without resorting to Jim Belushi's usual tactics , although he does employ the beginning of those posturing and chest-beating tactics here . But they are not so dominant that the movie suffers . In fact , they play well in this situation , though it IS sad to watch a grown man who is romantically jealous of a dog . This fails any Oscar possibilities , but I do not honestly believe that would surprise those involved with this work . The bottom line : This is a fun movie . It fails to warm the heart as well as Turner and Hooch , but does not make you feel sorry for the dog like some other movies have , along this venue . It is entertaining and fun , and rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
This feature was a bold attempt to capture the magic of the first two Lethal Weapons , only this time with Goldie Hawn rather than Danny Glover . While it does fail to attain the same chemistry , it carries a different chemistry all its own . Mel Gibson portrays Rick Jarmin , whose character plays about 8 different " personalities , " which effectively demonstrate his incredible depth and range as an actor . Goldie Hawn is her usual , adorable , professional self . Goldie is a rare breed , indeed , as she is quite the professional while maintaining that girlish quality that the masses do hold dear . The plot is simple , but the sub-plots are more than enough to entertain . Rick Jarmin has turned state's evidence against ex-DEA agents-turned-drug-dealers . Since , he's been in the federal witness protection program . But when he is spied and cornered by an ex-girlfriend ( Goldie Hawn ) , he realizes he must relocate once more . Upon discovering his agent has retired , and the new one is a treacherous worm , he must go on the run , find his address book , and locate his old agent for help , all the while he's being chased and hunted by current DEA and FBI agents and the two men against whom he's testified . It was a lot of fun watching Gibson's personalities change as his character went from one life to the next looking for help , and making his way towards his address book . The action sequences were quite good , the comedic presence was well timed and expertly delivered , and the movie runs to a satisfying conclusion . While it is far from Oscar-worthy , it is really quite entertaining . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Well , the possessed doll is back , and this time , he's got a new face and it's much better animated . This installment has a little bit better feel to it than the first . Perhaps it's because we , as an audience , are more comfortable with the concept of a killer doll with foul language , and a little boy who is a gutsy unwilling victim . Also , while the first one was campy , the second has some seriously funny moments . However , the camp is still quite prevalent . But , as the human soul is indestructible , so is Chucky . It's the soul of Charles Lee Ray , which animates him , after all , and until they figure out how to destroy a soul , we're going to be " blessed " with Chucky movies . from . . . the Fiend : .
We saw this at Movies on the Parkway , Sevierville , TN . This movie was poorly advertised from the beginning . The ads hyped a dragon on dragon war wherein mankind was at risk . And it was , but not as implied , and thereby disappointing some movie goers who expected good dragons versus bad dragons , utterly destroying a big city . I won't detail the story , but let me correct some poor reporting : There IS a story - a very rich story , at that ! But it was not the story indicated in the few ads that were run . This is a story - and effects-driven vehicle wherein the South Korean tale of the Imoogi is told via memories of our lead character . It could have been a well-balanced work , adding in the character-driven plot lines ; however , the acting herein was so poor , as to drive this film down into the annals of the " B " action / horror flick . The effects are awesome ! The treatment of the Eastern Dragon after transformation was nothing short of a pure work of art ! This is not just another monster movie . The story line and overall finished product far outweigh any Godzilla movie of which TOHO ever dreamed . However . The film quality is poor . A better quality would have lent a great deal to this work , but even the best quality would not have overridden the stiff performances and fake smiles . Though it did not detract from the overall effectiveness of the work , it did lessen the enjoyment somewhat . Frankly , the Lord of the Rings / Star Wars-worthy CGI combined with poor acting quality and brilliant style , left this production feeling more uneven and unprepared for filming , as if the actors themselves did not have their hearts in this work . All in all ? We were highly entertained by both the story and the visuals , but we cannot decide whether this should be rated as a fantastic " B " flick , or a decent " A " film . It rates a on the " B " Scale , which is about a on the " A " Scale , from . . . the Fiend : .
This features a top row performance contributed by Tony Curtis , and was the second Poirot movie I found to feature the inner-inner circle of Hollywood big-wigs , and their sycophantic hangers-on . This time in Acapulco , we are given " movie stars , martinis , and murder . " I found this highly entertaining , though it was mildly difficult to solve . Breathtaking vistas , another all-star cast , and fine direction by Gary Nelson ( Get Smart , Get Smart Again , and Alan Quartermain and the Lost City of Gold , to name but a few ) , make worthy contributions to this wonderful adaptation of a great Agatha Christie mystery . All in all ? This was not rated , but made for television in 1986 , so I think I can safely say it is suitable for all audiences . Great Sunday afternoon / rainy day fare . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
AKA : The Very Thought Of YouThis has been done many times before . You take a basic fish-out-of-water story , and try to put your own spin to it , in an attempt to make it seem like a " fresh " idea , and hope no one notices . I'm happy to say that this time , it worked . Tom Hollander and Monica Potter are delightful as the would-be couple . Monica Potter is the fish out of water , as an ex-Minnesota resident cum Londoner . This is delightful , and quite smart in places , giving this production an overall slick execution , while not pushing the envelope so hard , as to detract from the work . This is quite enjoyable , in spite of the cliché level of the base premise . The two key performances are quite endearing and sweet . This one grabbed me , and pulled me in , in spite of myself . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
I'm a fan of horror . I'm also a fan of Eddie Furlong . II'm not typically a fan of Christian horrors / thrillers , although some of the very best have been of that sub-genre . The Exorcist line stands as a shining example . This work comes across more like it wants to document than entertain . Normally , and under the right circumstances , that would be acceptable , but considering the subject matter this work presents , I found it both disturbing and reminiscent of the Blair Witch Project . However , the low budget is a contributor to this otherwise preachy Bible-thumper , which attempt to document , but can only amuse . At least . . . that is as the situation appears on the surface . Once the movie draws to a conclusion , you may find a better ( if not greater ) appreciation of this work . With a few good ideas , and the endurance of a two-hour sermon , I'm not sure the casual movie-goer can stomach it . This one takes a die hard fan of the sub-genre of Christian horror / thriller to find this really engrossing , but there IS a compelling story , some great performances , and artful cinematic brilliance by DoP Glynn Speeckaert . Honestly , Speekaert's contribution is the one shining light of this production . The story is simple . Miracles are being worked in the small town of Antioch . The question is , " By whom , how , and why ? " Well , whomever he turns out to be , he's wearing Eddie Furlong's face . This was fun , though not greatly so , and rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Awesome story , intriguing plot , and excellent portrayals mark this work as superior to its ratings . Actually it is quite fun , shows at least a margin of cleverness , and a high level of entertainment . The premise is adventurous and intelligent , and the overall work is highly enjoyable . Performances are on par with what is expected , and the overall execution is quirky and fun . This plays almost like an adult version The Goonies . It is eccentric and at times impossible , yet manages to retain some level of believability in spite of itself . Regardless of the violent aspects peppered throughout this work actually comes off sweetly as a black comedy with a rich story and beautiful execution . This was a pleasant surprise all the way around and I am immensely happy to have seen it . All in all ? This is a couples movie . It holds enough skin and action to mildly satisfy the man's man , yet carries enough of the romantic comedy to keep the gals happy . Probably not a good Friday / Saturday night movie . . . it's not blockbustery and does not hold enough appeal on either side to make it great as the potential suggests it could be . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Matthew Broderick , Helen Hunt . An Air Force pilot rescues smart chimps from lab experiments at a strategic-weapons research center , but then has to figure out what to do with them . This film will break your heart , if you have a love for animals . You are introduced to the chimps ( they're given CHARACTER development , if you can dig it ) , then you are shown what happens TO the chimps in this research center , and then you are shown what happens because of this treatment . Once you are emotionally invested in the premise , the tension of the surrounding atmosphere begins to build until the climactic crescendo . This is actually not as bad as I remembered , but not as good as I hoped , watching from a more mature perspective . The performances are typical of the time , perhaps a tad better , but this work is horribly dated , as is practically everything from that era . I wouldn't say it rates a remaking , as it's fine as it is , but someone will in order to carry a " fresh " message that what goes on in these laboratories is wrong . Eventually , we'll see posters and ad blurbs for Project NeXt or something like that . All in all , it's good for a rainy Sunday , but don't set your hopes real high , and . . . in spite of the levity , heartwarming moments , and the kid-friendly ratings , this is NOT for younger ( or tender ) children , who could be traumatized for years by the treatment these chimps receive . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
As a " B " movie , this production is quite entertaining . It was a Johnn Laroquette , Bronson Pinchot movie from the late 80's based around a psychic ( Pinchot ) , the psychic's " handler , " and the lawyer who represents them ( Laroquette ) . They are a crime solving team who end up in some very funny situations . The effects were corny but entertaining , the story line / plot is very cohesive , and the sub-plot is intelligent and interesting ; something I didn't expect from a low budget production like this . If you liked " Vibes , " " Witch Hunt , " or " Ghostbusters 1 and 2 , " you will enjoy this movie very much . Rent it , settle down on a weekend night with a bowl of popcorn and amuse your sense of humor . It gets a from . . . the Fiend : .
THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS FOR ALL FOUR MOVIES ! ! 1 - was fresh , innovative , edgy and hard . It had everything a good action movie needs to make it successful ; excellent character development , imaginative direction , professional performances by the cast and crew , a clever and witty screenplay with intelligent dialog , and action . . . lots of good fast-paced , well-delivered action . It had a fresh comedic element without ever turning to camp or juvenile antics to solicit a chuckle from us . The comedy was educated , intelligent and expertly-delivered . The characters were lovable , and we got the feeling that we " knew " them , cared about them , wanted them to succeed . Riggs's character felt less like a character and more like a person , due to the high-level of development his character received . True , the " gun handling " left a lot to be desired , but the vast majority of audiences would not realize that you can not get 20 shots from a 16 shot clip . Nor would they realize that you can't just leave those empty clips on the ground ; they cost MONEY and no CoP would do that because law enforcement officers are typically not highly paid . That aside , this was an excellent movie with wonderful entertainment value . One of the best of its kind . 2 - gave us Joe Pesci's character , Leo Getz . Because of Getz , I honestly found this film to be rather endearing . Getz is one of the best characters to have been introduced to this series . Unfortunately , the edge and freshness is toned down way too much , and the action is really rather predictable . I thoroughly enjoyed bearing witness to the further development of the relationship between Riggs and Murtaugh , and was not in the least bored with that aspect . It is still a good movie , even though its edge is shelved for a more " marketable " product . 3 - is just as good as 2 . Riggs now has a new love interest and it seems as though all will be well and all manner of things will be well . It is still a few months away from the press release concerning the Glover / Gibson signing for 4 & 5 , so it seems the series has wound down , rather than up . The action is still quality , though there are fewer and fewer unpredictable moments . The comedic aspect which was enlightened and intelligent is now a bit puerile and tired . And while the performances are still professional , it seems as though Riggs and Murtaugh both are well on their way out . 4 - is the perfect ending to this series . Honestly . The characters have developed as far as I can bear to witness ; Murtaugh misfires his gun in the locker room of the precinct , Riggs gets his butt kicked by a rookie cop in the boxing ring , and Riggs and Murtaugh are both just too old for this action thing anymore . ( Gods help us with 60-something-year-old Harrison Ford in the upcoming " Indiana Jones 4 . " ) Their CHARACTERS speak constantly of being too old , and I'm not talking about Murtaugh's well used line , " I'm getting too old for this sht . " It is far beyond that . And now , with Riggs's marriage to Lorna , Murtaugh's daughter's marriage to Butters , the new babies and all the smarmy crap at the ending . . . enough is just enough . 5 - should never happen . I don't think I can bear to see anymore smarm from these two . The characters we all loved are already gone . Like in " Invasion of the Bodysnatchers , " they've been stolen from us . The edge from Riggs's character is gone . He's a bit hapless now , and sad rather than the lunatic mayhem we want and NEED from his character . The only way to pull off a 5th installment would be to kill off Lorna's character , the baby AND Butters . Either put Riggs back where his character was in 1 & 2 , or don't bring him out of the moth balls . PLEASE . I loved these movies , but for the love of Mike ! NO MORE ! If you liked any of these movies , I highly recommend " Tango & Cash , " an excellent , much-overlooked , highly under-rated " Buddy-Cop " movie . 1 . . . . from . . . the Fiend : .
This is another rom / com based on the Cyrano Hercule Savinien de Bergerac premise . Like Roxanne , this work holds much charm , some great performances , and not a small amount of charisma . I do find it amusing that many male reviewers of this work find it " disgusting , " and " deceitful , " where the women in the movie are the antagonists , yet men did not find Roxanne ( where the men were the antagonists ) anything but entertaining . Noelle is a model / would be news caster . Abby has her own radio show about pets and how to care for them . Abby chose radio because she is intelligent , yet by standards set in today's society , she finds herself unattractive . Noelle is her polar opposite . She is beautiful and thin , yet can barely hold her own against a fifth grader , conversationally and intellectually . " You know ? Between the two of us , we make the perfect woman ! " Uma Thurman as Noelle With the comparison to Cyrano de Bergerac in my opening statement , I'm sure you can deduce what happens when a handsome photographer is introduced into their lives . This is not exactly sweet , as are most rom / coms . But it is enigmatic and holds a strong draw to see how it finishes out . It was fun , even if it did create an ethical stretch mark on the rom / com sub genre . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
When this was first released , I loved this movie . At the time of its theatrical release , I remember that the line for tickets went around the building ! While this production is now heavily dated and yes , there are campy moments , and the unbearable clichés , this was a state-of-the-art production in its time . I saw this movie on the big screen when it first came out . The lines went out and around the entire theater building in the city where I grew up . Around the building and back to the front where another line formed . Many were turned away for another showing of this blockbuster hit . However good it was then , it has lost a bit of its luster over the years . The invention and subsequent refinement of CGI has vastly dated this move . Outdated it , in fact . I cannot WAIT to see Peter Jackson's newest project ; the remake of King Kong , due to be released in 2005 . I bide the time in great anticipation . Jeff Bridges was a real star in this production . His character was believable and honest and his portrayal was extremely professional . I loved the way his character always got the best of Charles Grodin . It made me laugh countless times . Although the hair styles are indicative of the 70's ( Bridges's makes him resemble a Wookie ) , as are the clothing styles , I still find this movie quite endearing , adventurous , and entertaining . The shots of the island are absolutely breathtaking . Much like the beginning shots of Jurassic Park when you first arrive . The characters were developed quite well , and the story itself is timeless . While this endeavor does start off a bit slow , the necessary character development has begun , and takes place along the way . Perhaps you can distract yourself with Lange's striking figure and half-exposed body during this time , while you get to know the characters , or let Bridges's Wookie-like appearance endear him to your heart . Dwan ( Dwan ? ! - Lange ) is a treasure ; a pink lady from another world , and the natives who found her have decided that she is the perfect offering to their god ; a colossal ape they have come to call " Kong . " In the opening scenes featuring the introduction to Kong , he is really quite well done . You can actually believe he is a 30 ' ape absconding with the pismire Dwan in his hands . Later ; however , the effects go wrong , with the use of animatronics . They lost the realism they had achieved , specifically during the fight scene with the giant snake . When his oil-finding expedition goes bad , Fred Wilson ( Grodin ) learns that the petroleum present on Kong's Island needs a little more time ; just a tick of the clock , geologically speaking . In just around ten thousand more years , it will be productive petroleum . For lack of a cash cow to justify this farciful journey , Wilson determines it would be best to bring back Kong , rather than return to his New York investors empty handed . The plans of mice and men ; however , are sure to twist , crumble , and fade . Be sure to make note of the scene where Charles Grodin finds himself in a hole which turns out to be Kong's footprint . It shows you where the writers / directors of " Godzilla , " 1998 ( the Roland Emmerich one which I like to call " Jurassiczilla " ) , got the idea for a nearly identical scene in that movie . The musical score is quite compelling and lends quite a bit to the feeling of mystery and wonder this movie captures , though it is classic 70's score . The sets and costumes were quite original and creatively done . I especially thought the native costuming was well designed and manufactured , with a true Polynesian feel to them . And , while some of the scenes between Lange and the ape are campy and filled with cliché after cliché , they were still endearing and heart-warming . With tongue-in-cheek , my mate has just quipped , " This movie just proves that anybody can fall in love with a rich white girl . " I included that because it was the sum of the underlying camp throughout . But it somehow does not detract from the richness of the production . This movie is far greater than the sum of its parts . " King Kong : the Legend Reborn , " does breathe new life into the ' 30's classic , as I hope Peter Jackson's remake does , and bring to it at least some of the magic he achieved in his " Lord of the Rings " trilogy . Once back in New York , Grodin's character is largely under foot as Kong escapes and begins to find his way back to Dwan . Of course , if you even momentarily try to imagine the mayhem that would be generated by such a massive beast loose in New York City , you have to stop and ask yourself if the residents there would even notice . In true Godzilla style , Kong grabs the subway train in which Lange and Bridges are escaping , and unceremoniously rips the top off of it just in time to see his beloved Dwan running away with that other man . . . again . Needless to say , he is not a happy camper . And , just like Godzilla , Kong quickly learns not to play with power lines . Regardless of your nationality , please pay special attention to the last scenes of this wonderful production . The NYC Twin Towers are prevalent and , though I never viewed it from this perspective before 9-11 , they are now the real stars in this movie . I had no choice but to view it with a certain melancholy sadness . All in all , although admittedly not as much as when it was first released , I still greatly enjoyed this work and highly recommend its viewing ; especially in light of the upcoming remake . They've changed the character's names , rearranged the story , and forgotten the dinosaurs . But in the genre of monster movies , it is a definite must-see . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Excellent movie . Christopher Walken is excellently cast as Johnny Smith , coma survivor . But when he awakes , he finds he's no longer alone . Truly spooky , thought-provoking theological theories instill in us , the viewers , the possibilities of things unimagined , as well as things undesired . I won't drone on about the plot . I've already outlined the basics of the movie , and every other comment gives you so much that there's no longer a NEED to see the movie , so I won't do it , too . Rent it , Watch it , Buy it . This is one of the few theatrical ventures which lives up to the literary works of horror by the Master himself , Stephen King . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
This production starts out with . . . " This story is based on events which occurred in Point Pleasant , West Virginia . " Does that mean this is a true story ? Hardly . It says it in plain English . " BASED ON . " That means it contains actual elements , but these elements have been adapted to fit the producers ' ideas of what sells . BASED ON . Not that this movie depicts true occurrences ; but that this screen play contains elements which actually happened . Remember " Amityville Horror ? " BASED ON , not that the entire story is fact . Like . . . the Lutz's , the house in Amityville , and Amityville itself actually exists , and nothing else was real . Get it ? Got it ? Good . moves on to the review . My opinion ? This would have been OH so much better with Harrison Ford in the lead . This is the kind of movie he needs to be doing now that he's just too " mature " for action . Gods help and forfend when he stars in Indiana Jones 4 . Richard Gere was good , even believable , as the " Times " reporter who ends up in West Virginia to do an investigative piece on mysterious happenings there , but Harrison Ford would've been brilliant in this one . Some horror fans are of the mistaken impression that the creature element in this movie is a " new monster . " In fact , this is a very old monster , which has received very little press , so to speak . While this is a very good story which is nicely done and contains some good suspense elements and a lovely plot , it is not a wholly true story , by all accounts , but I enjoyed it , and that's what good entertainment is all about . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
I'm going to start this review by saying point blank and period that I liked this . It lacked a certain finesse , but had its own style and form . It felt more like Romero went back to the original Night of the Living Dead , and attempted ( successfully in my humble opinion ) to capture the suspense of that brilliance . He may not have completely succeeded , but the suspense is tangible , nonetheless . The acting has been hit pretty hard in other reviews , but aside from the usual stereotyping to which this type of film almost always subscribes , the performances were pretty believable . . . IF one can suspend belief long enough to enjoy a feature length film , that is . As far as zombie films go , this wasn't bad . It was entertaining , visceral , and made me squeal ( yes , the Fiend squealed ) at least twice , to my chagrin . There are a few " scare you " moments , and a lot of " things jumping out at you " moments , with some " gotcha ! " s and a couple of red herrings . As far as Romero goes , this was bread and butter . It rates a on the movie scale . It registers a on the Romero scale . It rates an on the splatter scale from . . . the Fiend : .
As usual , I'm in the minority . I love this movie . Chevy is so funny as the step dad to Jonathan Taylor Thomas and would-be husband to Farrah Fawcet . I loved Chevy in this . He plays characters completely off the cuff , and I found his character endearing , but what I really liked about this movie was Farrah . She still shines after all those years , in a completely engaging performance . Jonathan Taylor Thomas is perfectly precocious in his role as Fawcett's son , a boy who lost his father , and refuses to accept Chevy as an adequate substitute . It's funny , heartwarming , and genuinely sweet . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Considering the base nature of this screenplay , I'm surprised that I could find it enjoyable on any level , however , there is a large amount of enjoyment to be had . An elderly showbiz aristocrat arrives for a visit , slips and falls , and ends up appropriating the home of his host couple and their children , the house staff , the telephone , and everything else right down to the entire first floor . Of course , he's not as injured as he has led everyone to believe , and upon ( finally ) discovery , he flees , only to slip and fall once again on the way out the door . Lovely performance by all involved , but especially by the beautiful and young Bette Davis . Simply timeless , is her beauty . I have yet to see a Bette Davis performance I did not love , but her performance herein is simply delightful , irascible , and feisty . I love it . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
This starts out interestingly . The set up is quite interesting , and the story is better than the reviews would lead you to believe . Okay , yes , the story does begin with a bunch of college-age kids , and you know from the beginning that most of them will not survive , I'm not spoiling anything with that disclosure . But the action is quite good , mixed with a nice little bit of Vodoun , some competent performances , and a solid story line , this was highly enjoyable . This film works hard to deliver some excellent suspense , and it succeeds , leaving you on the edge of your seat here and there . I must also add that the effects , and killing devices were very well done , and while the clichés were present , they did not detract or lessen the work . I liked it , and it WILL find its way into my DVD collection . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
I had no expectations surrounding this work , as I had no exposure to ads , trailers , etc before my initial viewing , so this was a cold viewing , which is rare for me . There are two impressive elements with this film . The first is Michael Gambon . If he was making the attempt to counter any type-casting associated with his Harry Potter character , Albus Dumbledore , he was 100 % successful . This performance is gritty , hard , and even rough . But he is also great in this role . The second impressive element is the story itself . It generates enough intrigue to hold your interest . Usually with a plot such as this one , I need some suspense to do that , but this story generates the interest enough without the suspense . I found that refreshing . This work is a bit reminiscent of the feeling found in Things To Do In Denver When You're Dead , though lacks the same intensity . All in all , I was intrigued and thoroughly entertained . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
You know , when it comes to remakes , directors just can't win . When the change one little thing , fans of the original go nuts . Yet when they fail to make those changes , fans still go nuts and state there wasn't a reason to make a remake , because they didn't change anything . Honestly , in the venue of contemporary remakes , Hollywood just can't win . But let me tell you now . . . This IS a faithful and effective remake . As far as this movie goes , it was far above par and highly exceeded my personal expectations where it was concerned . I have to say that Liev Shreiber is no Robert Mitchem , but he was well above adequate as Damien's Father . Mia Farrow is a darkling joy , and Sir Michael Gambon turns in a brilliant performance . Frankly , Mia and Gambon were the only reasons I bothered with seeing a remake of this worn out old gas station dog of a franchise in the theaters . Otherwise , I would have waited for the extended edition DVD release . This line ( if you don't already know , crawl out from beneath your rock ! ) is based on the Mark of the Beast of biblical myth . I am genuinely tired of the Christian heresy angle . I would much rather see something based on the older systems . But that is neither here , nor there . If you're a fan of the franchise , you won't be disappointed . The action is well paced , the effects are NEVER over the top , and the performances are astounding . That's all I have to say . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
A Fantastical Quest Through the Labyrinth of Time . This Henson / Lucas production isn't quite what you'd expect from these legendary directors . Somehow , it's better . The genius of Henson and Lucas shines brightly as Jennifer Connelly and David Bowie perpetuate this wonderful tale of fantasy written by Dennis Lee and Jim Henson . Henson's son , Brian ( now the head of the Henson Empire ) , even gets in on the act as the voice of Hoggle . The story opens in the present , this world , this plane . Sarah ( Connelly ) is a spoiled rotten little drama queen who thinks she is the center of the universe and the sun around which the world revolves . In a brattish fit of colossal immaturity , she stumbles upon the correct words to summon Jareth the Goblin King ( Bowie ) to take her little brother to the Goblin Realm . Once done ; however , she realizes how angry her parents will be and decides that it's more prudent to go " rescue " Toby rather than allow his assimilation into the Goblin fold . Jareth gives her 13 hours in which to find her way through an impossible labyrinth , fight her way through the Goblin City , and puzzle out the staircases of the Goblin Castle and save her half-brother . She is punished for arrogance , beguiled in her naivety , confused in her indecision and imprisoned for her quick , thoughtless decisions . " That's not FAIR ! " is one of her most used and best delivered lines ; used again and again , until it FINALLY sinks in that life just isn't fair . It is a warm , funny and enriching tale , once started . It's about growing up , accepting responsibility for your actions and choices and making them more wisely in the beginning , rather than cleaning up your messes as you go along . In the end , Sarah realizes all the infantile tantrums and childish toys are nothing but detritial remains of her otherwise out-lived childhood . She begins to stumble upon the reality that the important things are family , friends , and the responsibility that comes with making mature decisions . She throws away her immaturity and child-like selfishness to save her brother and thereby sets her feet back on the right path to adulthood and maturity . It's a wonderful " coming of age " movie , and perfect for its target audience : girls 9-13 . But I must say that children and adults alike love this movie , worldwide . It's not ONLY for girls , but for anyone who loves fantasy . This movie is far superior to what most consider to be your standard " Muppet Movie . " It's one of my favorites . This movie gets an from . . . the Fiend : .
As far as the Muppet line goes , however , this is not the best , nor the second best . This was marketed towards the kiddies , but has some dark , and emotionally upsetting adult moments , to which parents may not wish to expose their children . One of which showcases Miss Piggy going " postal " in a jealous rage , which lasts basically throughout the duration of this work . Beyond that , however , the story is progressive , and highly entertaining . One scene in which Joan Rivers and Miss PIggy go berserk in a department store is simply hilarious ! And there are other parts of this work which contain the same level of levity and fun . I like this very much , and enjoy it still today . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Based on a true story from the late 70's and published in the LA times were articles concerning young people were dying while in the grips of a nightmare . This is to be one of the freshest innovations of the horror genre of the 1980's . These articles detailed a particular young man who , after his death , was found to have hidden a coffee pot in his closet ; utilizing caffeine as a means to keep him awake rather than facing his nightmares . He had even told his family that these nightmares did not " feel real . " Written and directed by Horror Maven Wes Craven , this series took on a phenomenal success rate with this first installment in what later became the " Freddy Franchise . " He incorporated a man from one of his early childhood memories in the characterization of his newest nemesis by giving Freddy the characteristics of this stranger who had frightened him as a child . As a risky endeavor , this film turned out to be one of the surprising innovations in the slasher sub-genre of Horror . Indeed , this film was extremely risky for New Line , as they had a credit limit of around $100 , 000 . 00 and was forbidden by the bank to use a dime of that in film production and had to raise the money to begin production on this endeavor . As a variation on the news paper articles , this attempt needed something which would bring in the ladies , to widen the target audience and give it a stronger feeling of reality . The element of " Beauty and the Beast " was written in and played upon in such a darkling twisted way that this film was pivoted into the horror movie Hall of Fame , so to speak , by recreating the modern myth of the ultimate battle between good and evil . Another credit to this production is that it does not take itself too seriously . It pokes fun at the horror genre itself , thereby lending a solid reality base to the fantastical subject matter . Something which was also done in Craven's later slasher trilogy , " Scream . " This vehicle does more than provide the element of humor , it also sets up the audience and commences the process of drawing them into the story by giving them various points with which they can relate to the lead characters . It also homages other horror greats , as many movies will later homage this one . The character development here was extravagantly done . You felt like you knew them and thereby it mattered what happened with them . The process was never slow , tedious or boring , always drawing you in and making you feel like you were a part of the " team . " Starring Heather Langencamp and John Saxon , this movie has the distinction of introducing Johnny Depp in his first screen role at the age of 21 . While these performances were nothing Oscar-worthy , they were way above and beyond what the average movie goer would expect from a low budget teen slasher movie . It seems that Johnny Depp was destined for stardom as his portrayal , even then , was that of a polished professional . The camera work here was creatively done , but the real achievement in this department goes to the lighting crew . The shadows and lighting choices here were an integral part of what created the incredible atmosphere of foreboding this movie held . Using split-mirror shots and an innovative eye for shadow and light , you never seem to notice the low budget aspects of this film . The liberal use of blood shows the audience that this villain is not afraid to get his hands dirty . Nay , he revels in it ; hungers for it ; exists for it . The sets were realistically designed ; the Thompson house felt like a home ; the police station felt authentic and that boiler room . . . Great sinister feel , it had . This movie had a beautiful element of suspense ; dark and foreboding tension which builds with a rhythmic fretful crescendo to the climax . But does it scare ? I have to admit there are several scenes which made me literally jump . Some were predictable , but most were honest thrills . All in all , while this is not THE best of the many horror franchises of the 1980's ( That distinction goes to the Hellraiser run , in my opinion ) , it is definitely one OF the best , and second only to Hellraiser . ( Some would class Halloween in here somewhere , but in all fairness , it was released in 1978 and therefore does not qualify as an " 80's film . " This first installment rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
This film is gritty . It is . . . explosive . Dramatic . There is little to warm your heart , but there is a great deal of connectivity with the troubled youth of today . Don Cheadle is 100 % convincing in his role as Dr . David Monroe , which was a genuine , but delightful , surprise . Lyle teaches us that society and societal issues drives us , shapes us , and sometimes misshapes us down deep , where it matters . The problems of his friends and fellow in-house residents cuts the meat this film is made of , while demonstrating aptly how our messed up society produces messed up individuals . They teach us to believe in the Easter Bunny , Santa Claus , the Tooth Faerie . . . and then they tell us it was all just a lie . But we're not supposed to lie . So do we hate those who have lied to us ? Hate the lies themselves ? Or adapt and accept ? This demonstrates the fight or flight instinct within us all , and aptly so . All in all , this is a great film which is deserving of your time , however , it may be a bit too darkly depressing for a Friday or Saturday night flick . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
This is a well-done venture into the buddy-cop venue , by Seagal . With the help of Kennan Ivory Wayans , Seagal pulls off a decent attempt at this new line . As a Buddhist cop from New York , Jack Cole ( Seagal ) has a very dark past . Transferred from his last assignment to assist in the capture of the latest social disease known as " the Family Man , " he is teamed up with Detective Jim Campbell ( Wayans ) , in the task force assigned to that feat . As a psychological thriller , this movie was not nearly as good as Se7en , Identity , Fallen , or Silence of the Lambs . . . as it appears these movies are what this one attempts to compete with ; however , it still has a strong psychological edge to it . It does not contain the level of suspense associated with Copycat or even Red Dragon . The socio-religious implications are almost classic Stephen King in that it beats you over the head with Christian dogma , yet it fails to ascend to the stigmata achieved in Exorcist or even . . . Stigmata . As an action movie , it is top row . The action is some of the best of Steven Seagal's style , demonstrated effectively with that fluid style and grace that we have come to expect from Seagal's characters . Bone-crunching , blood eliciting non-stop quality action . As a buddy cop venture , this is not Lethal Weapon quality ( they even used a character named " Rouso " from internal affairs , see LW3 for the reference ) , but surpasses Tango and Cash in that there are no clichés throughout aside from the fact that Seagal himself is a walking cliché . Outside that , there are no glibly-delivered puns and precious few one-liners , making this a more serious , more intelligent action / comedy . The plot demonstrated within this endeavor is quite well written , nicely-paced , and exhibits a fluid control which I found quite enjoyable . Its elements , while not remotely original , are creative , intelligent , and well presented . The sets are average . The soundtrack is average . Neither lend anything creative to this production though , strangely enough , these shortcomings did not manage to lessen the finished product . As the plot unfolds , things are not looking good for our Detective Cole . From that point on , the action and intrigue begins and carries us quickly through to a satisfying end . All in all , this is not a bad attempt , but in my opinion , Seagal works best when working alone . I enjoyed the comedic aspects and intensity contributed to this work by Wayans , but I prefer Seagal a la carte . I still thoroughly enjoyed this production and found it to be highly entertaining . The final product is greater , it seems , than the sum of its mere parts . This movie rates an from . . . the Fiend : . .
Picking up where Halloween 2 left off , ( as though 3 never existed , thankfully ) this sequel goes a long way in living up to the first two Halloweens . First of all , Danielle Harris is pure talent ! Secondly , Donald Pleasence is as excellent as he ever was ! Regardless of what some critics will say , this critic says this sequel is very worthy of the Halloween line . Michael has been transferred out of the institute and Loomis's care . Of course , he escapes and is on the rampage once again . Our trusty Dr . Loomis is hot on his trail . Michael has to get back to Haddenfield so he can play slice n dice with Laurie Strode's daughter , Jamie ( a completely professional performance by Danielle Harris ) . One thing of note in this installment of the franchise is that director Little used some interesting lighting in many sequences here . I enjoyed the photographic perspective employed here . It lent to a much better endeavor . I must say that this bore a compelling story which ran well with the Halloween time line . It is solid and well done all around . The portrayals were decent , the direction was wonderful and the editing was fluid , leaving no choppy spots . I also must say that I found the change in Michael's mask to be a bad change . I realize that at some point they had to get rid of the William Shatner mask , but the new mask is rather stark and detracts just the tiniest bit from the atmosphere . That having been said , the atmosphere is GREAT ! This is a prime demonstration of suspenseful , edge of your seat fare . This particular vein of the Michael Myers story is really a quite interesting take on the whole affair and Danielle Harris is the freshest innovation to come to the series so far . I can't wait to see what she does with her career in the future . That little girl is fantastic ! ! While the Carpenter / Hill idea to have a different story every Halloween was a grand idea , they should have done it with the first sequel . That would have made it much more acceptable from the fans . But either way , welcome back , Michael . Just like the original , this rates a solid from . . . the Fiend : .
I thoroughly enjoy this animation / CGI production , although the quality is not up to par with what we have , today . The main characters are well developed and easy to adopt as focal interest points . The story is quite well-written and delivered , the colors are bright and crisp , and helped to sell the DVD media to the average civilian . Even today , the content is still better than that of , " A Bug's Life , " which just basically has a few characters bouncing one-liners off each other . At least this movie has a STORY ! Woody Allen's character is the star . . . and an Ant . He was classified " worker " as larvae and he's having a few problems with that classification . He feels inadequately judged and pigeon-holed by this assignment , and lets the whole world know it via Allen's nasal whining . There is something better in the world for him , and he is sure he could find and attain it , if only he had the chance . Finally , he realizes that he has to take the chance ; opportunity doesn't come on its own to the normal people . There is a nice sub-plot and a strong main plot ; well developed characters and a star-studded cast of voice and likeness donors in this adventurous and entertaining story . All in all it earns an from . . . the Fiend : .
The Dark Half is more about duality of human nature , demonstrated here by the metaphor of a supernatural Being . We all have a " Dark Half . " We all have those things which are hidden . Sometimes they are hidden so well , we manage to hide them from ourselves . We all have masks which are put on and removed , like Eleanor Rigby with her face in the jar by the door . There are things of which we are not proud , do not speak , think or express , except through the idiosyncrasies we develop . Our inner guilt and pain . While some would-be martyrs wear these as a badge of honor , those of us who are private people keep these things close to ourselves . We keep our own council and therefore develop , nurture and foster our Dark Half . George Stark is a metaphor for Thad Beaumont's Dark Half . George Stark has different habits , mannerisms , and ideals , than does Thad . When Thad writes as Stark , he becomes a man his wife barely tolerates and hardly knows . Because Stark is Thad's Darkness , his closeted self ; his Shadow . On the surface , this production is viewed as a supernatural thriller , but in my opinion , it is a psychological one . A very well-written and highly intelligent psychological thriller based on the personification of that inner guilt and pain , and the resulting hatred and violence which sometimes issues from the closeting of these feelings . However you wish to view it , this is possibly the best adaptation ever done , of King's many brilliant novels . Probably because King himself did not write the screen play . As a novelist , King is a genius . But as a screen play writer , he falls flat on his face with every adaptation he has ever written . George A . Romero , who brought us " Night of the Living Dead " and " Monkey Shines , " is a legend in the field of Horror . And , like Kubrick , with the original release of King's , " The Shining , " he used his own creativity to bring out the very best of King's novel , rather than attempting to make lame paper-to-film translations . Let's face it . Things which are scary when read are oftentimes . . . not , when translated to the visual . In my opinion , that is one of the main reasons this is such a good ( in fact , one of the best Stephen King ) adaptation . Watch this movie and when you do , let out your Dark Half . Give it the car keys . Let it Ride ! It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
The world of the Supernatural seems to be back en vogue . I really wish this trend paid off for Jeff Goldblum . His series , " Raines , " was great , and I looked forward to it every week . That not withstanding , however , all things paranormal have made a comeback , whether you are talking about aliens , other dimensions , or ghosts . . . They are all the same anyway , are they not ? They all come from other dimensions , whether you are talking about the other side of the universe , or the other side of the Veil , inter-dimensional travel is all the rage these days . Scientists have lately proved that Magick works , but more importantly , they have proved WHY Magick works . ( That's Magick with a " K " for you uninitiated , to show the separation between magic , which is stage magic and Magick , which is spiritual Magick . . . or . . . the result of manipulation of energies around us to affect a change . ) So , as exciting a time as this is for many , it can be frightening for those who experience these events , with no knowledge or ready information concerning what the phenomena IS . This movie plays on not only that fear , but a few new ones . It takes the viewer into a new direction , and actually manages to be a plot-driven movie with strong character-driven tendencies . Your two principle characters are phenomenally well done , both in creation and execution , and I found nothing more for which I would ask of this movie . It is extremely easy to follow , with a solid premise , believable dialog , and a tremendously powerful finished product . All in all ? This makes for GREAT Friday / Saturday night viewing , though the initial violence may be a bit much for some of the girlfriends . Do not watch this movie in the room with young children . There are some scenes both enacting AND promoting wanton physical violence . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
At the top of my list of favorite comedic actors , right next to Gene Wilder and Steve Martin , is Bill Murray . These three comprise over of my entire comedy collection . This movie was beautiful . It was funny , not clever , but it was not intended to be an intellectual film . This is pure comedy with a little sci-fi and a bit more spirituality thrown into the mix , making for a great comedic effort . I was , and am , happy that their references to the Hebrew God were few . Far too often in films of this type , the dialog is riddled with too many references to religion . Here , they failed to do that , and made for a much better film , in my opinion . Dan Aykroyd is another of my favorites , and his performance in this production is one of the reasons why . I love his ability to portray a serious straight-man to the comedic efforts of the films in which he stars . He stands there , straight-faced , and allows the laughs to rebound off his lines , his facial expressions , and himself . He is a quality actor , and he demonstrated that quality in this work . The script was creative , the dialog was funny and endearing , and the performances were professional , top row comedy . I will refrain from detailing the story line here , as most everyone else has done that already , and I do hate to be redundant . So rent it , watch it , then buy it . It's definitely one for the collection . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Psychological and psychedelic testing produce some amazing results . Now those results are walking and talking and very unhappy with the agency who created it . Delightfully triumphant , wonderfully destructive forces are about to be tapped , honed and unleashed against the government who has created and now hopes to utilize these frightening powers upon the world . Charlie McGee ( Drew Barrymore at the age of 9 ) is the product of psychological and psychedelic drug experiments performed by the US government upon her parents before her conception . After witnessing the murder of her mother , she and her father are on the run from the mysterious bunch of gun-carrying miscreants known only as " the Agency . " Her father ( David Keith ) is also a telepath as a result of these experiments , who enjoys telekinetic abilities as well . These abilities help , but not well enough . Will Charlie be able to save her father ? Herself ? Will they make it through this , or be forever torn apart by the Firestarter ? Excellent movie . Excellent performances by Drew Barrymore ( if a little hesitant and deliberate at times ) , George C . Scott ( hated , Hated , HATED his character ! ! that must mean he played it very very well lol ) , Martin Sheen and David Keith . The effects were quite good , though in post-StarWars 1984 , I had hoped for better ; as was the plot and storyline . As Stephen King adaptations go , it varied from the book just enough to make it one of the FEW adaptations of King's work through which I don't find myself cringing . It gets a solid from . . . the Fiend : .
Will Farrell is a talented actor , in my opinion . After a decade of meaningless , inane , and even stupid roles , he has finally found a proper vehicle by which to showcase his talents . . . Stranger than Fiction is a beautifully blended , well-adapted chronicle of the life of a hapless victim-cum-quintessential hero . It has often been said that we all ( humans ) carry within us the traits to be a hero in times of darkness , via the character Harold Crick , this is demonstrated with a great style and panache . The plot is wonderful and the narration by Emma Thompson is inspired . This will touch your heart without leading you down the smarmy path of melancholy . It seems Mr . Farrell has gone the way of Steve Martin in that this time he chose the role of the " straight man " ( to use comedic vernacular ) in a rather intelligent romantic comedy , and to let the story carry the comedy rather than his antics , pratfalls , and the like . While this is not your typical Will Farrell comedy , I sincerely ( and without hesitation ) hope to see him in more roles such as this one . He came off as thoughtful , intelligent , and sincere in his performance . I always knew Will had talent . I'm just glad the rest of the world got to see it . . . finally . All in all ? This was great ! It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
This could serve as the concluding chapter of the Santa Clause trilogy , or a deserving sequel to a longer franchise . Personally , I'd not mind a franchise in the least . I love these movies , and they just keep getting better and better . The second installment was lesser to the original , but this third chapter surpasses even the beginning . Martin Short , Ann-Margaret , AND Alan Arkin ? ! How lovely ! They are so funny , and contribute such wonderful aspects to this film . It has become one of the family favorites in our growing list of Yuletime " must watch " films . But I'll watch this in July , too . Spencer Breslin may be growing too old to portray an elf for The Santa Clause 4 , but he's still adorable herein , and a delight to watch . I hope they continue on with this franchise . It would be a shame to stop now . I would actually love to see this run on and on as a tradition , but Tim Allen , et al is a mandatory must . I think he's GREAT as this new generation Santa . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
This is one of my favorite Schwarzenegger actioners . I was afraid this movie ( along with the long line of Kid titles and inane comedies ) would lead him down the path trodden so deeply by Eddie Murphy . Thankfully , that was not the case . He took another path to banality . That having been said , this is one witty , exciting flick which doesn't take itself too seriously . If it did , I missed it , at any rate , as this movie is just pure fun . The drama is not compelling , but interesting enough . The comedy is not in your face , but common and amusing . The action was entertaining if not exciting , but the cast turned in wonderful performances . Tom Arnold's best role to date is featured herein , as is Arnie's . Jamie Lee Curtis is ALWAYS a joy , and True Lies is no exception . If you haven't seen this one yet , I highly recommend a viewing . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
If you're looking for a serious martial arts film , this isn't it . But if you're missing that old classic Jackie Chan style , this is more than deserving ! ! ! Jackie Chan's brilliant blend of slapstick comedy and very capable martial arts has brought him another winner with " The Medallion . " This wonderfully fun action / comedy is a sheer delight to witness . To appreciate Mr . Chan's style , you must first understand that he does not endeavor to deliver a serious martial arts movie . In his attempt to not live in the shadow of Bruce Lee , he developed his own wonderful style by combining slapstick with martial arts , and the result can be seen in most of his productions , especially those over which he has retained choreographical interests . And for this attempt , he has shed those few extra pounds he was carrying around , and is back in top form . The only problem I had with this film was their use of Lee Evans from " Mousehunt " in such a prominent role . Though his Cockney accent really was quite good , he was almost completely unbelievable as an Interpol agent with that accent . He is almost too well known as a character actor to be taken seriously in any other type of role . Also , his attempt to pull off the earnest but bumbling inspector bit from Peter Sellers's hit run of Pink Panther movies just did not work . Peter Sellers , he is not . However , the wonderful story of the Living Budda more than made up for Lee Evans's shortcomings , and ( thankfully ) Mr . Evans did finally produce , as the movie went on . The Golden Child is in danger , and it's up to Jackie to save him . Complete with a resurrection by the Living Budda , and a magickal charm which extends some of the gods's abilities such as invincibility , immortality and the ability to practically fly , our hero is on the job . Snakehead , portrayed by the very capable Julian Sands , is the " bad guy " who is after the Living Budda . This is almost reminiscent of the Highlander movies in many aspects , combined with Eddie Murphy's " Golden Child . " But a far superior effort , in my opinion . This is an excellent premise , and is executed extremely well by Chan and Company . Also present among the cast members is our favorite " dwarf , " John Rhys-Davies . Adrian Lee's musical score is a bit uneven , however . Excellent one minute , horrid and wrong the next . Notice the cat's cry when the two femme fatale's are about to go at one another . That was just wrong . Cute , but wrong . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
This movie is fantastic on many levels . While it is highly entertaining , it is just as disturbing . The thought of someone knowing your life , your routine , the most intimate details of your private world . . . how genuinely perturbing . This production is very thought-provoking , extraordinarily written and the direction is surprisingly coherent , considering it was done by Joel Schumacher , the guy who DROPPED THE ATOM BOMB on the Batman series ! ( the badly done Batman Forever and the horrid Batman and Robin ) . The characters were well developed enough to allow the audience to care what happened to the lead , and the talents of the thespians involved were very well used and displayed . Though , in my opinion , Forest Whitaker's was above and beyond any other performance in this entire production . I could go on and on , but I will refrain . I do not even intend to outline the plot here . If you appreciate a good psychological thriller / suspense , then by all means , see this movie . It gets an from . . . the Fiend : .
Excellent psychological thriller . Nice work , Robin Williams ! I was a bit hesitant to critique this movie . I've read the reviews and frankly I don't understand why it's not universally liked . The only reason I can conceive is that Robin Williams has been the underdog / hero for so long that perhaps people are having a hard time accepting him as the villain . These characters were well developed , the story was creatively written , the direction was strong and the plot was rather edgy . This was an excellent attempt and greatly boosted my estimation of Robin Williams's future career . I enjoyed this movie tremendously and look forward to Robin Williams's next endeavor with a level of anticipation that I have not felt about his movies in a very long time . I thought he was quite good in this . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
This was very well done . Not surprising for National Geographic , but exciting that NG would sponsor such a documentary . The documentarians do not attempt to prove or disprove the legend . They merely lay out all the evidence , give you both sides of the ideology formulated from the evidence , and allow you to make up your own mind . I found that approach rather refreshing , after all the other preachy documentaries concerning Bigfoot I've been forced to sit through . They expose hoaxers , and present the evidence they consider plausible , tell you why they consider them as such , and then sit back and let you draw your own conclusions , but after you've seen this report , you'll feel that the conclusion you begin to formulate at least are now based on INFORMED opinions , rather than simple belief or disbelief . This was very well covered and argued from both sides . All in all ? I enjoyed this stylized documentary , and felt that I learned something in watching it . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
As usual , I must say I'm in the minority with my critique , but I really enjoyed this one . My local hometown theater Movies on the Parkway in Sevierville , TN , actually experienced a decent turnout for a Monday matinée . We expected to be the only two in the audience . We were surprised . I can't say Roland Emmerich has found his way back to the beginning , because it is rather unclear what the beginning would consist of , but he HAS found his way back to favored and familiar ground . This ran , for me , like a secret prequel to Stargate . Honestly , the only thing lacking was a Stargate standing 3 mounds away in the distant background . For some , this may seem like a bad thing , but for me , it was delightful . While anthropologically ridiculous it IS a lot of fun , and the use of the word " demon ? " That word wasn't invented for another 11 , 000 years . While I will not even try to point to any specific historical data to substantiate Emmerich's vision of woolly mammoths assisting in the building of the great pyramids , the Shakara texts ( though written eight thousand years later ) DO indicate the presence of " great beasts of burden " at that time . Not that I would attack or defend this element . I found it beautiful , whether accurate , or not . So regardless of the probability that one should not learn from this film , one can still derive some level of entertainment from it . But there are many elements here I found common with Stargate . Here are the ones that rise a bit above commonality , which is shared with many other movies . The cultures appear nearly identical between the boy in the mountains and the people the Stargate travelers found . Baku and the mentally challenged boy in Stargate obviously acted as the movie " mascots . " The battle scenes had a stand off in front of the pyramid with guards between the hero ( es ) and the God . Sha'uri's brother's hair and that of the boy from the mountains ( D'Leh ) were done in nearly identical fashion . They both used children ( Stargate ) and a blinded child-like people ( 10KBC ) as attendants of the God . There are more , but that's enough . I loved it . It had the look and feel of a wonderful period piece . It felt like a period romance , actually , though brutal in places , and downright gritty here and there . I was pleased overall . Although I was expecting more mammoth and saber-tooth scenes , I enjoyed it immensely . All in all ? This is going to work hard to find its niche . The guys may not care for the smarmy romance elements and the girls may not care for the " women as property " elements , but truthfully , there is something there for most everyone . We really enjoyed it , and rate is as a for Friday / Saturday night viewing . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
This is a completely different animal from the original , 2001 : A Space Odessy . With this second attempt , you get a completely straightforward science fiction film , which stands alone , and does not need the muddlement that was its forbearer . Peppered with good performances , some mysticism , a little intellectualism , and one of the greatest on-screen villains ever conceived , this stand-alone sequel greatly surpasses the original in enjoyability , watchability , and entertainment . You are served the solutions to the problems and questions posed in the original , but without going back to find them . Beautiful . Unfortunately , this is one of those " genius films " which fans and foes alike will search far too deeply for hidden symbolism and metaphors ; thereby making it seem far more intellectual than it really is . It was reminiscent of my 10th grade English classes in that respect , and yet I still found this a much more enjoyable endeavor . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
This not only gives you an honest look at old Western Deadwood , but an insider's dream view of the inside of the Homestake Gold mine in Lead , SD . This is highly informative and totally educational . It details every aspect of life in Deadwood of the Wild Western days , and shows us how things worked , looked , sounded , and were . This series is passable , but this particular episode / documentary was well done . I was surprised at the depth the producers went to in scripting this one . I have to say that it was a pleasant surprise . Actually , I lived in Spearfish , SD , and didn't learn as much about the area taking the various tours , as I did by watching this documentary . What more can I say ? VERY well done ! It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
This movie presents , if nothing else , a rather unique theory on the origins of Vampyres . But there is oh , so much more to this movie . Julian Sands . Loved him in Warlock 1 & 2 , Tale of a Vampire , WitchHunt . Loved him in this one too . His performance was dead on and he was perfectly cast in his role as Nick Hardaway . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Joyce Reardon ( Nancy Travis ) is an obsessive control freak who cautions her group not to take offense if she is a bit " crazy " on the subject of physical data concerning her latest obsession . . . The Rimbauers . She is so obsessed , in fact , that she's sleeping with the great grandson of the original owners in order to gain access to that house . The house is a beautiful , wonderful work of art ; set after set having been meticulously created and artistically designed . The atmosphere of the house was every bit as dark and real as that of the Hotel in the Kubrick's adaptation of " the Shining . " I would have liked to have seen more of it , actually , but what I got was enough . This , another of many Made-For-TV adaptations of King's work , stands alone . This is wonderful work with wonderful actors portraying close personalities to those created in the original work , without coming across as smarmy or hollow . Reardon's Department Head is dead set on booting her from the Psychology Department of their university . Parapsychology isn't his thing , you see , and he wants her and her co-spook hunters out of the university for good . This house , Rose Red , is the only chance she has to produce real , physical proof that the supernatural world exists and thereby save her career . She assembles a rather impressive group of psychics to go into that house and possibly " make it come back to life . " Against the warnings of her would-be boyfriend , Steven Rimbauer , she insists on including Annie Wheaton to the group . Kimberly J . Brown is a compelling and shining star in her role as Annie Wheaton ; an autistic child with high clairvoyance , telekinesis , telepathy and powers which far surpass anything imaginable . " The others are candles , but Annie Wheaton is a SEARCHLIGHT . " Joyce Reardon . What happens once that house is reawakened , is the rest of the movie . It's well written and marvelously directed , and another feather in King's cap of successes . I highly enjoyed the scares in this movie , and experienced more than a few edge-of-the-seat moments on its first viewing , but it is an odd blend of the original " The Haunting " and the " The Haunting " remake . There are obvious aspects of both to be found here . I bought it . It gets a solid from . . . the Fiend : .
The opening animation is shaky , at best . This is devoid of Disney Magick AND Disney talent . But once it goes live action , the Disney charm shines through , and holds you throughout . Medieval-Victorian Fairy Tale meets Aquarian-Age New York . I must admit , I was a bit turned off by this premise . Every Rom-Com endeavors to weave the Fairy Tale in a modern-day setting . Some succeed , but most fall flat . Enchanted does not attempt to weave a Fairy Tale , it IS a Fairy Tale , and a darned sweet and entertaining one , at that . All in all ? This is definitely a Friday / Saturday night movie for the family , children worried about a " wicked " stepmother , or dating couples , though probably not one for " the guys . " I cannot say there is something here for everyone , because frankly , if you have a cynical eye for romance , this work will probably cause you to long for some Visine . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
My favorite version of this work is the 1978 Philip Kaufman work featuring Donald Sutherland , with Jeff Goldblum and Leonard Nimoy . But that is because I am a fan of those actors . As far as the actual WORK goes , I must admit I am blown away by the atmosphere , the caliber of performance , and the overall execution of the premise herein . Wow ! I grew up with the 1978 version , as that was my mother's favorite , too . I had never seen this original until recently . This original work is far more suspenseful than its subsequent remakes . This work bears a much more realistic feeling to it , and while it is terribly dated , it still feels more fresh than the 1978 remake . This review is , however , being written without viewing the most recent Kidman remake entitled The Invasion . All in all ? This is pretty atmospheric and tense . Surprisingly good for one so dated as this . Many times , the age of a film can cut into the suspension of belief factor , but this film does not suffer that malady . I was thoroughly immersed , and highly entertained . It rates an on the B & W Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
This is one of the few cult classics which deserves its status . It is a fun popcorn movie which does not take itself too seriously . A teenager-oriented flick , as was the norm of the 1980's , which holds fond memories for many of that era . It's become trendy to point out all the discrepancies in the science of this sci-fi / comedy , but they do not matter one bit to the casual movie goer , who will plug in this flick with a bowl of popcorn and lean back in that recliner for an hour and a half of good , wholesome family fun . And , frankly , they don't matter to me , either . This is not one of those sci-fi movies which demands that the science be put into the story in order for it to work . This works beautifully for the - lack - of the science . There is nothing to muddle the pace , mess with the timing of the comedic delivery , nor throw off the dramatic sequences . It is a very satisfying " coming of age " movie . All in all this is a very enjoyable and entertaining film which rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
This was an old favorite for many younger baby-boomers , who were teenagers and in their twenties at the dawn of the personal computer age . This one was a bit more than amusing , though . It opened many eyes to both the potential and the dangers we faced while coming into the computer age . The government had these marvelous machines and the internet by which they communicated for decades before the public was given access from these ancient Commodore 64's , Amigas , and Atari home computers via phone line , back in the late 1970's . While this work is entertaining , it also bears a valid warning , even today . Broderick and Ally Sheedy both were 21 , playing 17 year olds , competently . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
From time to time , Disney deviates from the typical formula , and generates something new . . . something fresh . Atlantis was one such movie , without the first usual musical-ish feeling or element . It was a grand movie , with a beautiful feeling about it . This is another of those deviations , but without the same final effect . Something was lost in this translation , as it lacks much of the same old Disney feeling we've come to expect . It was prevalent throughout the atmosphere , story , and execution , but what struck me most of all was the lousy and often cheap-looking animation . The animation found herein was more what one might expect to find in a Disney animated sequel in that the backgrounds were haphazardly done , the principals were cheaply done , and the effects bore no concern or care in their design or presentation . The story , however is still quite compelling , while the elements of the story are darker than usual Disney fare . This was far darker than most Disney animated features , and may not be suitable for younger children , as the atmosphere is rather dark and foreboding . All this said , because of the story itself , this is not only in my collection , it stands as one of my Disney favorites . I AM a horror fan , after all . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
The campy , carnival-like atmosphere above ground , while utter insanity in the guise of the Penguin stalks the city , beneath . Sounds intriguing to watch , doesn't it ? But Gotham City just isn't what it used to be . Gone , are the beautifully designed Gothic structures , replaced by gadgetry and standard , disappointing Hollywood fluff . There is plenty of eye candy , but that does not distract you from the fact that so much else is lacking . Has Burton lost his edge ? I wouldn't think so . But in this attempt , he resorts to obvious fifth-grader tactics to amuse us ; ie : the Penguin drooling black filth from his mouth throughout most of his scenes ( what WAS that crap , anyway ? ) , and killer clowns ( which were oh so reminiscent of the detrital film , " Killer Klowns from Outer Space " and the 60's camp of Adam West ) . While this production was still quite entertaining , it held none of the wondrous edge from the original masterpiece . I did , however , love the performances of the principal actors ; Michael Keaton as Batman ( Bruce Wayne ) , Danny DeVito as The Penguin / Oswald Cobblepot , Michelle Pfeiffer as Catwoman / Selina Kyle , Christopher Walken as Max Shreck , and that wonderful Michael Gough as Alfred Pennyworth . Their portrayals were quite professional ; the character depth was well developed and everyone contributed what I feel was their very best . What lacked here , in my opinion , was that lovely darkling nightmarish feel from the first . The Dark Knight having been turned into the Light Grey Knight , Gotham ( Gothic ) City was dismayingly morphed into a Carnival Midway , and the allowance of the horrid 60's camp at which we all groaned and rolled our eyes to creep into this otherwise darkly amusing production was just purely wrong . Sorry , but I fail to find having my gag reflex triggered to be entertaining . Honestly , I was still amused by this flick . DiVito's talent for acting is above reproach , though I found his constant black drool to be completely repulsive and it turned me off of his character totally . Again , that falls into the area of directing , and in no way cheapens his performance . Michelle Pfeiffer's Catwoman was mildly reminiscent of Eartha Kitt's portrayal and thus endeared the character . While she delivered her own style and talents to the characters of Seline and Catwoman , she portrayed Catwoman beautifully as a witty , intelligent seductress . Hers was a wonderful performance and I loved the perpetuation of the romance between Batman and Catwoman . " It's the so-called normal guys who always let you down . Sickos never scare me . At least they're committed . " Seline to Bruce Wayne . The attempt to humanize Bruce Wayne was a serious mistake . Gone is the edgy , almost sinister feel to the Gothic hero , the " Dark Knight . " Enter , instead , the comedic equivalent ; this reincarnation of a masterpiece . It didn't work for me on any level . Bruce Wayne , cracking jokes , forgetting his coat over some piece of fluff girl , and snapping off one-liners to the bad guys as he pretends to kick their butts . What a disappointment after the last Burton attempt . I found the change to be sad , rather than fresh or edgy . There were several points of this production that I found to be quite unoriginal . Penguin's plan to kidnap / kill the first born sons of Gotham was rather Biblesque and lame . The James Bondesque music during Shreck's party was rather tasteless . As I mentioned before , the whole movie had a " Killer Klowns from Outer Space " feel to it beneath the failed attempt to be Gothic and dark as the original from which this spawned . The voice designated to Penguin's computer alert system at the climax of the movie was very V'ger-like ( Star Trek : the Motion Picture ) , bordering on identical . And I've got one question . If the Penguin's army is penguins , and he himself identifies with penguins . . . WHY is he driving around in something as infantile as a rubber duck ? Just another contrived and trashy element I found disturbing and unattractive . " How outstanding ! You're Beauty AND the Beast , in one luscious Christmas gift-pack . " Penguin . While this production fell short of the first , it was still a fun and enjoyable movie , if only for the performances of the main players . I am frankly glad that Burton will not be directing the next installment of this , the " modern " Batman series . I am looking forward to Jim Carey and Tommy Lee Jones's performances . But Val Kilmer in the leading role ? We'll just have to wait and see . This one rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Okay , I agree with the " professional " critics on this one . It is not the same caliber as the first installment of this would-be franchise . The first was more along the lines of Lethal Weapon & Tango and Cash . This one was a more serious action , rather than the comedy most of us expected . Not meeting the expectations of the fan base is solely why this movie was rated so badly . This is NOT a bad attempt , by any measure . The car chases were not obligatory car chases , they were well written and believably executed , rather than mindless crashes and explosions . The gun fights were not just the typical Saturday afternoon at the matinée fare , there was a reason behind it . The one liners were used less , and the meaningful dialog was used more . This film has been dogged for being racially prejudiced , homophobic , and just plain bad . I disagree . I found Betty White's lines in Bringing Down the House to be far more offensive than this . The porcine woman with the tremendous breasts telling Smith and Lawrence , " Y'all mofo's need to find Jesus ! " is the typical kind of closed-minded bigoted harassment most gay men are subjected to by the Christian masses . Many times by their own families ! That was nothing new . That does not in any way excuse that horrible behavior , but for the most part , the homosexual community at large does possess the ability to laugh at themselves , and those who are ignorant enough to say such things . So get over yourselves . The " bad guys " were all of other national origins than American . Is that racist ? Not when most of the police officers were of origins other than American , as well . I suppose that was racist , too ? You can't have it both ways . This attempt was fun , with quality action , a creative dialog , and a very entertaining fast-paced story which moved right along to a satisfying ending . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Wild irreverence is the head liner here . There are many hilarious scenes , characters , story elements , and one-liners herein , which elevate this work above the television series . The charm is rich with potty humor , and standard South Park fare , but the culmination and execution of the movie is far richer and more intelligent in its execution than the series . Not to say that the series is unintelligent . It's not . Showing no respect for anyone or anything , including the standing cast of South Park , this work exalts itself IN its irreverence , if you can dig it . Trey Parker has shown an integrity that few have equalled , in that he bows down to no one in the South Park parade of shame . You go , Trey ! All in all ? This is great entertainment , though not for the kiddies . This rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
The Burton / Depp combination has really paid off with a truly chilling top notch production . This is by far Depp's best work ( until the 2003 release of Pirates of the Caribbean : Curse of the Black Pearl , that is ) , and I have had to completely re-evaluate my opinion of his talent . This , the latest remake of the old classic , " The Legend of Sleepy Hollow , " briefly entitled " Sleepy Hollow " is a true masterpiece of Gothic horror . Burton showed us what sinister darkling treasures resided within himself with his initial production of " Batman , " and his liberal use of Gothic architecture throughout the city of Gotham . I LOVED that single installment of the Batman franchise strictly because Burton knew what to DO with the Dark Knight . Well , he knew what to do with Sleepy Hollow , as well . The performances by all involved were wonderful , the sets and designs were awesomely constructed and executed ; and the direction , camera angles , shots , film quality , and even dialog were absolute perfection . Overall , this is a marvelous endeavor which I have enjoyed watching over and over . Additionally , Johnny Depp " adopted " Goldeneye , the one-eyed Andalusian horse who played Gunpowder , Ichabod Crane's steed , thereby saving him from the glue factory . Just thought I'd mention that . It raised my estimation of the man's character a bit , upon reading that here at IMDb . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Now , I was not an immediate fan of the first movie . I didn't hate it ! But I was not happy with it at first . But with an added budget ( the studios actually LISTENED for once ) , and a better , more cohesive story , this second installment is quite entertaining ! It combines top of the line CG-Eye Candy with natural dialog and some dark twists to bring you wonderfully dark story sequences and some bone-crunching action ! It was practically non-stop action from start to finish and Milla Jovovich's tom-boy style really served her well this time around . The direction was superb ! The shots and layouts ; the sequences and colors ! I could easily compare the use of color and cutting sequences with the over-touted Suspira , but . . I just did . This was a GOOD Resident Evil MOVIE ! ! Great action , great story , great portrayals . On the downside , the extras playing zombies must have all missed their mommies so much ! ! I'm telling ' ya ! Those in the background had that " gotta wave cuz we're on camera " thing going on , and it almost distracted Me from this otherwise GREAT flick ! I mean , put on the eggs cuz the ham's already DONE ! The " creepy kid sitting in a chair with his / her back turned who doesn't turn out to be a totally healthy lil kid anymore " device has been used and abused . In fact , this tactic should have been retired to a shoe box the second Scary Movie 3 parodied it so well . The fight between Nemesis and Alice was . . . well , it looked GREAT on film , but . . . okay , there's NO WAY it would've gone like that . But okay . Just one small contrivance to help further the movie , and it can be forgiven because it really - does - look great on film . This is not a " thinking man's movie , " nor is it classic horror fare . This attempt falls short in both of those departments because it is , above all , an action flick with horror - elements - . It is not meant to be scary . It - is - meant to be suspenseful , which it certainly is . This production utilizes brilliantly choreographed fighting sequences and some great style , without taking itself too seriously . It is played straight from the vest , with little humor ; just as it should be . The drama was a tangible entity . Some consider the cemetery scene in this movie to be a " Plot Hole . " Their contention is that the T-Virus would not ( or could not ) affect those already dead and under ground . While I agree with this particular vein of thought , I must explain that this sequence was an attempt to romance the fanboys . Call it an " homage , " if you will , to the cemetery segment of the wildly popular video game , " Resident Evil 2 . " The argument has also been made that Alice , being who and what she is , would never have led them through such a dangerous area - as - the cemetery . Again , I have to say that it was ( however contrived ) an attempt to win over the fanboys who all but killed box office receipts of the first installment of this line . IF you're a zombie fan , a fan of the game , or just like freaky deaky dark lil horror flix to snuggle your best girl by , this is the one for YOU ! ! ! This is definitely an " A " scale production which has surpassed its first installment and earned nearly three times the initial estimated budget ! It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
The work herein was far above par . The animation was well done , and the story was remarkable . I found this a most enjoyable addition to the Turtleverse , and highly recommend it to anyone who was disappointed in the live action series . Our favorite turtle characters were beautifully conceived with loving execution on the big screen . The story was a pleasant surprise in that it played well from beginning to end , included the more endearing characters of the live action series , and gave you an intriguing plot with competently engaging sub-plots . The " boys " were amazing in design and animation , lending a dark reality to the Turtleverse possibilities , carrying this smoothly from whichever is your favorite live action Turtles movie , into this next chapter . The action was beautiful . That's all there is to say . It was most excellent , and I thoroughly enjoyed every aspect of this work . It was well worth the wait , and I hope it does phenomenonally at the box offices to ensure a following installment . And I just can't resist . . . COWABUNGA , DUDES ! It rates an easy on the Animated Feature Film Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
This movie presents excellent direction , a cleverly-written screenplay and possibly some of the best acting of Sigourney Weaver's career . This is another movie I've watched over and over for the sheer entertainment quality . I highly enjoy its marvelous character development and the tense feeling this whole production generates . Sigourney Weaver portrays a criminologist who specializes in serial homicide . After years of lecture tours on the subject and the serial killers themselves , she is attacked and traumatized so badly that agoraphobia takes a firm grip on her psyche . As time goes on , the intensity of her condition increases to its worst degree . Now , more than a year later , she comes face to face with her worst nightmare : a new incarnation of Daryll Lee ' Killer ' Cullum . Ripped away from everyone she can trust , everyone she has allowed even nominally close to her , she is totally alone and at the mercy of her greatest fear . As her tormentor's plot develops , you will find yourself literally on the edge of your seat . Killer Cullum is portrayed in a startling manner by Harry Connick , Jr . His follower ' Peter Curtain Foley ' is convincingly portrayed by William McNamara . While the cinematography of this production was little more than average , the settings and scenery were creatively executed . You never get the feeling that they shot this movie in five rooms that they kept redecorating , as you do in many films of this type . The direction was very well done , and Sigourney Weaver is absolutely convincing as the ' pill-popping , juice-head , hyperventilating , agoraphobic @ sshøle . ' ( Inspector M . J . Monahan , played by Holly Hunter ) This is a great movie , and one of my favorites . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
First of all , Martin Lawrence , while great when carried by a good supporting cast , does not at first seem to belong in this production . His speech patterns are very off-putting - so off-putting as to render Boog the bear nigh unlovable . It takes some time before Lawrence actually " becomes " the bear . However , after he ( or is it the audience who . . . ) achieves some level of comfort , he really settles well into the role of Boog , allowing the viewers to form an attachment to the character . It happens somewhere near the midpoint of the film . This work bears some highly entertaining elements ( I LOVE what they've done to the rabbits ! Call me a sadistic thing , if you will ! ) through to a surprisingly satisfying ending where Boog achieves self-discovery and Elliot finally has to accept his fate - he's an animal , he lives in the woods . The things the animals do to establish their safety zone are ingeniously creative . We laughed SO HARD . All in all ? We had a blast watching this , can't wait to get it on Blu-Ray , and watch it very often . It's great fun for all ages , although there are abandonment issues raised herein , of which parents should be aware . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Everything , the musical score , the performances , the story line , the dialog all felt right with this production . The attention to the finer details given by Hitchcock was what really set this movie to rights , but it did not hurt that there was real charisma there between Stewart and Novak . Stewart , who was Hitchcock's ideal for the " average American guy , " was nothing less than stellar in his Vertigo performance . His range of talent shows an outright absence of inhibitory characteristics . He goes from the warm yet aloof " Scotty " to the angry and downright mad " Scotty " in such a pure believability that his performance alone is one of the major factors in My assessment of this film as one of Hitchcock's very best . But where would Stewart's performance be without the full-figured and capable talents of his leading lady ? Kim Novak was arguably one of the best talents of this film era . She was perfectly cast in the role of the mysterious yet earthy type lady of wealth who had a slight . . . problem . But , while her performance here was nothing but pure perfection , I must say I liked her character more in " Bell , Book and Candle . " This story is one for the arm-chair psychiatrists out there ; fraught with twists and turns , switch-backs and double-meanings , you could easily find yourself lost if you look away only for a moment . This is definitely a movie for the thinkers , and not the busy-bodies who enjoy watching a movie while doing other things . This story deserves nothing less than your full attention . While not considered Hitchcock's best work , or even among his best work , while he was still working , this endeavor has come to be known as such since his demise . To look at this now , so many years after its making and see it for the brilliance it was takes only a couple of hours and an adult attention span . He was so far ahead of his time , that his audiences just did not " get " the cruel irony of this attempt and as such , we nearly lost for all time one of the greatest masterpieces of suspense ever made . Only through the hard work and great dedication of those involved was this brilliant work restored . We are , indeed , fortunate as a society that this was even possible . IF YOU HAVE NOT WATCHED THIS MOVIE , THERE ARE MAJOR SPOILERS AHEAD ! ! I loved the cruel irony of the ending . The fact that she had played him so freaking well only to die as her predecessor had . I thought that Hitchcock tried his best to use a fear common to many people ; IE : the fear of heights , in order to draw his audience in . I enjoyed watching Hitchcock's demonstration of Scotty's slow mental spiral as everything began weighing on his subconscious ; all the little details , all the tiny pieces that were swimming around in his head . It really looked as though he would snap , when in reality , he was quietly placing each piece into the necessary slot to make the picture come together for him . I also must comment on the use of the gray suit used by Hitchcock and worn by Kovak . It was used , IMO to make her all the more stunning in the evening gown she wore when Scotty first laid eyes on her . Everything else she wore after that was black , white or grey , to heighten the beauty of her in that one scene . Grey is usually a bad color for blonds . It washes them out and makes them look like they're wearing green pan for a black and white oldie . But Hitchcock did that on purpose as effect . Speaking of effects , the camera work here is simply stunning . That and the whole movie was nothing more than a parable teaching us to face our fears rather than surrender to them . This was the best in his suspense line . I loved Psycho , too , but I always considered it more the first in the slasher sub-genre rather than suspense . This movie rates a solid from . . . the Fiend : .
I've been a fan of horror throughout my entire life ; introduced to Dracula in the late 1960's , I've always been fascinated by the Vampire mythos itself , as much as the theatrical interpretations of those legends . While I believe Bela will always be the actor most commonly associated with the role , I also believe that Lee was the BEST Dracula . Unfortunately , this director considers himself to be an " arthouse " worthy stylist , when in actuality , he ends up wasting at least 15 minutes of every film with his " arthouse " shots , which are usually superfluous and lend nothing whatsoever to the plot he is supposed to be shooting . Fortunately , this time , he didn't bother with that mindless activity , and delivers an awesome bit of horror . Is this the best Dracula MOVIE ? Well , not in my opinion . I'm one of those " story+great effects over atmosphere " horror fans , so in my book the best Dracula movie so far has been John Carpenter's Vampires because the effects were mind blowing and the story was just plain GOOD . So why am I reviewing THIS movie ? Simply because Lee's performance more than rates your time . If you are a Lee fan , or if you're a Dracula fan , or if you're a horror fan in general , this movie is worth the 2 hours ' viewing time just to take in Lee's brilliance . As I've said , in my opinion , this is by far his best performance . ( Loved him as Sauron , but this is still his best . ) Check it out , if only for Lee's Performance . You won't be disappointed . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
The characterization of 1930's depression-era New York was hauntingly beautiful , authentic , and inspired . The recreation of the shanty town on the city outskirts was beautifully morose . 1930's NYC's careful reconstruction included the Pepsodent commercial billboards and the famous AlHambre Theater ( in which Kong is later displayed ) . Naomi Watts was brilliant as Ann Darrow , an excellent casting choice who turned in a stunning performance , which added new dimensions to the character . It is obvious that Jack Black was miscast in this role , but he certainly rose to the occasion ! He was a wonderful Carl Denham . In character or out , Black is convincing as a bllsht artist . Adrian Brody is NOT a romantic lead ! He is a capable actor who contributed a compelling performance , but his nose was in Naomi's EAR ! when they kissed ! They had to film him at a - profile to get a straight shot on his nose ! Miles of superfluous footage was shot and left IN the film ; art-house dreck which did not belong , resulting in a major loss of atmosphere . The arrival upon Skull Island was quite dramatic ; the structures were immense and spectacularly filmed , and the huge legendary wall was reminiscent of Helm's Deep . Their landing and approach to the deserted city began with a nice voice-over by Evan Parke ( Hayes ) , and it lent a nice eerie feeling to the work-up of the Island sequence . This was backed up by loads of wonderful set design and prop details which did more than just " back up " the intro , they helped create the whole atmosphere he tried to generate on the boat-trip to the island in the first place , IF you can force yourself to let go of the hour and fifteen minutes ' set up time . It does seem that Jackson's contractual screen-time obligations are what made the audience sit through a dragging hour-long introduction to the island . The CGI native pole-vaulting from rock to rock to the U . S . S . Venture looked like a lesser video-game character . I've seen Video Games which were better illustrated . Kong's entrance was extremely unremarkable . The wonderful lead into the scene offered little in the way of immediate pay off ; however . . . Kong himself is now a giant silver-back . He is magnificent and it is obvious Jackson developed him with the same love and care as he did the LotR saga . THIS is an awesome Kong ! Unfortunately , the dino pile-up scene demonstrated staggering CGI . CGI so ill-used and poorly edited that it was sloppy ! The scene was quite intense , but the CGI was just plain nasty . You could make out the blue screen lines around some of the characters where they were placed in front of the dinos . BAD ! The shrunken heads found everywhere really reminded me of Gollum . The skulls were shrunken , but every one had huge eye sockets which immediately reminded me of baby Gollums . I wonder if that was Jackson's attempt at a self-homage . . . ? ? If so , it failed . The dinosaurs were excellent . Jackson didn't rely on previous interpretations of these predators , he designed his own . All of Jacksons dinosaurs were top row . Their design was different from what we've come to expect from the movies we've previously enjoyed , and that did change the feel of the film . . . in a positive way . His premise that the dinos would look different , having evolved in an utterly isolated habitat , far from any other dinosaur-populated area ; that was the basis for his restructuring the head ridges and hides . The raptors got a whole new design altogether , and the T-Rexes were darkly sinister . I also loved the saber-toothed were-bats . They were excellent ! However , the giant bug scene was a bit much . It was totally unnecessary and lent nothing to the story . Naomi's neck and spine should have snapped in two at least 30 times , while Kong was whipping her around . There is no WAY anyone would have survived that ! Unfortunately , the first time Kong scoops her up , she would have been a paraplegic ( at best , but probably a quadriplegic ) ! Also , the CGI in that scene was horrid . You could tell that was most certainly NOT a human being in Kong's hand . Thankfully , the natives were not depicted as retro south side Chicagoites with huge afros and Geri curls this time . Instead Jackson went for cannibals sporting exotic body modifications and extreme facial piercings ! One stereotypical cliché after another . The " beautiful " scene on the Island bears a bad spot on the film located at the top right quarter of the screen . I couldn't believe the sloppy editing ! I mean . . . for $207M , WETA could have afforded a decent editor ! Please don't misunderstand . Although there are CGI disappointments , this is one of the most visually stunning films I've ever seen ! The cinematography is beautiful and inspired , and the Kong graveyard was a very nice , sentimental touch which gave you some insight into the haunting sadness visible in Kong's eyes . In spite of the high level of entertainment , the ending was flaccid . No matter what the other problems are , or what they do to the DVD " fix " later , the ending is still gonna be weak , IMO . When Jackson's Kong dies at the end , Watts just watches him slip off the Empire State Building ! ! It was like . . . " Well , he's dead . How sad . Let's go . " It was far too subdued for my tastes . I enjoyed it , but it was NOT the $207M masterpiece it should have been . It rates a ( HP4 Scored Higher ) from . . . a somewhat disappointed Fiend : . EDIT : I have to say that the Director's Cut DVD has fixed the problems , and the addition of just 2 seconds of exposition at the ending has cleared away that problem , too . The Director's Cut Edition rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
This is a moving , yet disturbing tale of a mother whose son is lost , and the search to find him . The story walks you down the darkened aisle of racial strife , drug abuse , suspense , and the sad and frightening places the human mind can go . The performances herein are quite realistic , grand kudos go out to Julianne Moore for her contribution . Her portrayal of a mother in shock and denial is one of the best and most realistic depictions of that state I've ever seen . Samuel L . Jackson is perfection as the detective Lorenzo Council ; a conflicted police officer who genuinely cares about the people and the area he was assigned to protect . The direction contributed by Joe Roth is knowledgeable and creative , with beautiful visuals and sequences which were darkly conceived , and richly executed . The story was a good one , well told , nicely enacted , and thoughtfully executed , without too much preponderance , thereby contributing to nice even pacing throughout . All in all , while the subject matter here is very dark , I found it entertaining , and potent . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Scott Caan , Jeff Goldblum , Shawn Hatosy , Kelly Lynch . Two friends ramble aimlessly through life , while one plots a scheme and the other searches diligently for a way into a better life , while he obtains therapy from his mother's lover , unbeknownst to the patient . This sounded like a convoluted mess , but I'm a Goldblum fan , so I decided to give this a shot , anyway . Goldblum's part is not as prominent as I would have liked , but he is a constant , and prominent enough for his fans to be able to appreciate his talents herein . The story here is quite gritty , emotionally soliciting , and interesting . There are some dull moments , yes , but for the most part , this film completely engrosses , draws you into an emotional investment in the lead characters , and waltzes you through the manly maturation hazing to the bitter end . I liked this mainly due to the follow your dream message , Goldblum , and exemplary performances by the main four cast members . This is gritty , and gives a moral lesson , without preaching , or selling itself too hard . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Let's face it . No one cares that this remake was too close to the 1931 original . No one cares that Bogey did better movies . No one cares what the box office performance was , or how long the movie is , or how YOU define film noir , or how YOU differentiate film noir from detective noir . This is the quintessential Bogart performance , hammered home by a similar performance in Casablanca . This is how we all ( the baby-boomers ) remember Bogey , and THIS is the Bogey we love . Did we love him as much as the submissive and sometimes mousy boat captain in " African Queen ? " Well , of course we did . Did we love him as the gritty adventure-seeker in " The Treasure of the Sierra Madre ? " Well , of course we did . But we love him best while he's wearing the hat belonging to Sam Spade . I love this , even today , and watch it often . It rates a on the Black and White scale from . . . the Fiend : .
The Ring did three things no film of late has done . It took the genre of Horror seriously without going over the top . It is derived from a superior story and translated to American film superbly , regardless of what the naysayers say . And , while it starts off typically , it ascends into a beautiful , darkling , twisted , genuinely creepy story , which holds you through to the end . Gore Verbinski's style is unmistakable . He has left this work well marked with his stylistic shots , and suspenseful progression . Actually , I found this far superior to most horrors done in the last thirty years or so . A lot has been said about Ringu , the work from which this was adapted for American cinema , and inevitable subsequent comparisons made , however , that is certainly NOT the case . That argument is moot , as this work was based on the novel , " The Ring " by Koji Suzuki , so if you want something to which an honest comparison may be made , I would suggest you read the book , and leave Ringu where it belongs . Personally , I found the American adaptation much more to my liking than Ringu . This is one twisted little creep-fest ! It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
While this movie was not quite the same brilliant combination of effects , cast , characters and magic Spielberg delivered in the first production , I still found this sequel just as enjoyable as the first . The cast members are just as professional , and while they did not have the same original cast ( a mistake most sequels make ) , Dr . Ian Malcolm ( Jeff Goldblum ) does return . That was fine by me . He as my favorite character from the first movie , anyway . Joined byJulianne Moore as Dr . Sarah Harding and Vanessa Lee Chester who brilliantly portrayed Malcolm's daughter , Kelly , they attempt to recreate the magic of " Jurassic Park . " While they did not quite succeed in accomplishing the totality of the first , they did present the world with an excellent finished product which I found extremely fun to watch and highly entertaining . Plot : John Hammond is at it again , but this time , he is on the side of the environmentalist . InGen has been taken out of his control and he must stop his nephew from exploiting the dinosaurs kept as breeding stock for a possible second attempt at Jurassic Park's opening . Hammond already has a team on the island to observe and ensure that his nephew does not interfere with the island's inhabitants ; ie : the dinosaurs created by Hammond and the InGen team of genetic scientists . During the course of his conversation with Dr . Malcolm , whose reputation is now ruined because of the controversy behind his tales of the disastrous trek to Isla Nebular , Hammond discloses that the new team is not on Isla Nebular , but on a secret island developed as " Site B , " called Isla Sorna which is 87 miles south of the original site . Naturally , Malcolm refuses to go ( who wouldn't ! ) and is on his way out when Hammond reveals that Malcolm's girlfriend , Dr . Sarah Harding , is already on the island as part of the research team . " This is no longer a research mission . It's a rescue mission , and it's leaving right NOW ! " Dr . Ian Malcolm . The dinosaurs were done just as wonderfully in this fine sequel , as in the original ; the dialogue was just as witty and clever ; the characters were just as believable and well developed ; and you honestly did not have to be witness to the first movie to fully enjoy this one . The only things that were lacking , for me , were ( 1 ) the wonderful cinematography ; those excellent landscapes which were prevalent in the first . This one felt more deliberate ; less spontaneous , than its predecessor . That was due to ( 2 ) one badly-developed , poorly portrayed character , and unfortunately , he was one of the leading characters in the script . Arliss Howard as Peter Ludlow , John Hammond's egocentric nephew . I am unsure as to whether his acting quality was trite and stiff , or his character was written that way , but whatever it was , it did disrupt the quality of the movie , in my opinion . These two things combined , lowers my opinion of the movie , but only in comparison to the original , and only a little bit . This is still a very good sequel which stands alone without depending on the first plot to carry it . It earns an from . . . the Fiend : .
Steve Martin has walked in the Valley of the Kings . He has faced some pretty amazing obstacles , and he has stood in some pretty big shadows . Let's face it . Although his rendition of , " The Out-of-Towners , " was amusing , he's no Jack Lemmon . While I LOVE his Sgt . Bilko portrayal , he's not Phil Silvers . Cheaper by the Dozen wasn't horrible , but he's not Clifton Webb , either . He's Steve Martin . You may not appreciate his style of comedy , but the Peter Sellers-venerated character of Inspector Jacques Clouseau made for the best use of Martin's prolific use of pratfalls , ironic wit , and in your face sarcasm than any other character he has tackled previously . I went into the theater thinking this was going to stink . I didn't WANT it to , mind you . I am a life-long fan of Mr . Martin's . But I was sure it would . You can't top Peter Sellers in the role of Inspector Jacques Clouseau . That's it and that's all . I'm glad I was wrong . Martin did not attempt the characterization of Clouseau from a " Martin Does Sellers " perspective . He approached this role as a fresh character which had never been done before . He was simply . . . Martin . And he was simply spectacular . this work basically took the first three Pink Panther movies and combined the peripheral and supporting characters , and generated a new storyline . Simply Wonderful ! I'm sure there will be haters merely because he is not Sellers , but I fail to care about them . This was a brilliant performance and a highly amusing work which bested the original . I loved it , and cannot wait to add it to my Pink Panther DVD collection . POSTSCRIPT : My little hometown theater is not populated with demonstrative people . Rarely do the audiences applaud , or walk out of a movie . It happens , but the last time I saw anyone walk out of a movie was during AVP , and the last time I was present at a movie where the hometown audience cheered was Return of the King . They applauded Star Wars III , but that's not the same thing . When this movie was done and the credits began to roll , this audience rose to its feet , and gave a hearty round of applause . Well deserved applause . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
This was a stylish production back in the 1970's . The cast was cleverly chosen , and the production itself bore a slick style , an atmospheric execution , and a compelling story . The cast was well chosen ; so well chosen , in fact , as to assist this now-dated remake in besting the original film . This film has become an icon of popular culture , prompting millions of married individuals to state the intent to " go look for pods " whenever their spouse behaves abnormally . Besides the vast popularity of this work , it also features phenomenal performances , and some of our favorite stars : Jeff Goldblum , Donald Sutherland , Leonard Nimoy , Brooke Adams , and Veronica Cartwright , with cameos by Robert Duvall and director Philip Kaufman ( The Outlaw Josey Wales , and writer of Indiana Jones and the Raiders of the Lost Ark ) . I love this film , and watch it often ! It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Frederick Lauren has rented the house for a party for his wife . He is offering a staggering amount of money ( for 1959 ) to anyone who could last the night . It was his wife's idea that the guests arrive in funeral cars . This was a low budget thriller produced and directed by William Castle back in the late 1950's . This shows not only what an inspired and talented team can do on a low budget , but it demonstrates some real talent as well . The house featured in this endeavor is the Ennis-Brown House in the prestigious Los Feliz area of Los Angeles . Other films featuring this house are " Black Rain , 1989 ; Blade Runner , 1982 ; Grand Canyon , 1991 and the Rocketeer , 1991 . I will digress a moment or three to give a brief description of this house for you . Set up the atmosphere , as it will . If you know Me at all , you know that I appreciate a well-designed set . Not to mention a well designed house . This house has a history . Designed by Frank Lloyd Wright , this was a masterpiece of architectural genius . Visited by architects from around the world , this house is a National Landmark house which enjoys constant restoration efforts . Mr . Wright used 16 " stone blocks to construct the home , Mayan designs throughout and fixed the window glasses , doors and framing work to be lighter at the bottom and darker at the top to invite a feeling of warmth and light to the occupants of every room . But now , back to the movie . This story was clever and full of intrigue . As a suspense , this is one of the greats . This is the movie which fathered the haunted house sub-genre , and boy , was it good . There are some scenes in this movie which still get my blood pumping . LOL The performances are never over the top , always professional , totally believable and extremely enjoyable and in my opinion , this is one of Price's best . When a scene hits a slow spot you can count on the character interaction between Price and Omhart to darkly lighten the mood . Their banter seems to be the comedic relief element , although the humor is dry , dark and deadly . As you watch this brilliant endeavor , you will recognize scenes , characters , even lines from the more recent renditions of this story , regardless of the title . Everything from Amityville to Stephen King's Rose Red seems to have taken a bit from this landmark horror , and it seems to have been beautifully parodied ( along with about 10 other films ) in Neil Simon's " Murder By Death " in the late 70's . As with all of Price's work , there are plot twists and elements which require thought . Those are what I love most about his movies . And as with all low budget endeavors , there are some plot holes , but rather than listing those here , I'll just let you enjoy the movie for yourself . It rates an easy from . . . the Fiend : .
The epic saga continues , picking up right where the first left off , complete with hand sewn banners hung throughout the Golden Hall of Rohan , hand-fashioned armor and elves ! These works are perhaps the best I have ever seen . In the genre of fantasy , this series is seriously in danger of having replaced Star Wars as my all-time favorite movies . The direction was of the very best quality . The sets , designs , props and backdrops were realistic and without flaw . I highly recommend the extended edition , released in November 2003 . The scenes fully restored to their original glory before having some of the detail and story line left on the cutting room floor , this production is as " epic " as they come ; far larger than life . A task this formidable requires dedication , staying focused - both on the task at hand and in the creativity department . Neither were lacking here . I honestly found not one moment of wasted film , not one single element which should have been edited out or omitted , not one performance which was lacking in any way . While there WERE adaptations made to Tolkien's original literary work , I stand behind the creative decisions made , allowing that there were contractual obligations to be met , and fully and thoroughly enjoyed this darkling fantasy-filled adventure . This work , with its story set at the edge of the fall of Man , was dark and twisted , yet leaving us with hope for Mankind's future . I thought Jackson's work to be frightfully clever and wholly engrossing . This movie ( especially the extended version ) is absolutely wonderful ; a true credit to the whole industry . Too bad for us that Hollywood is not as bold . As did the Fellowship of the Ring , the Two Towers rates a full from . . . the Fiend : .
Monty Python takes a bit of getting used to , as their comedy company is somewhat of an acquired taste for most Americans who aren't accustomed to the dry British wit featured in these movies . However , they are absolute geniuses of comedy , as is demonstrated here in their first full-length feature film , " Monty Python and the Holy Grail . " There are excellent and memorable lines , hilarious dialog , and intentionally cheesy acting , combined to give you the laugh of the Dark Ages . King Arthur and his lowest-budgeted knights set off on their legendary quest for the Holy Grail . What they find , instead , is series of mishaps , antics , and outright hilariously idiotic stumbling-blocks . I highly suggest seeing this on the Special Edition DVD ( KILLER RABBIT-ON ! ) . There are added features you will undoubtedly enjoy . " I . . . fart in your general direction ! Your mother was a hamster and your father . . . smelt . . . of . . . ELDERBERRIES - ! Now go away , or I shall taunt you a second time ! " ( John Cleese as the French Taunter . ) It rates a smooth from . . . the Fiend : .
Before this documentary , I truly detested this installment . I couldn't stand it , and refused to accept it under any circumstances . However , this Making of documentary truly gives you all the answers to everything from the big problems to your most trivial questions in such a way as to help you understand why each decision was made , how it was expected to affect the work , whether it did bring about the desired result , and what they had as a back-up plan . In fact , it completely changed my opinion concerning the value of the film . I highly recommend this documentary to anyone who has issues with Alien : Resurrection ( Alien 4 ) , as a means of understanding the issues behind the scenes which effected and affected this installment of the Alien Quadrilogy . Completely inclusive and definitive , this is truly a documentary work of art . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
