It would be hard to imagine this film being anything more than a parody of the sci-fi , horror and mystery genres . It's got a government secret agent more inept than Maxwell Smart keeping tabs on mobster Renzo Capetto ( Antony Carbone ) who's a Humphrey Bogart wanna-be , and a crew member who can mimic any animal he's ever heard perfectly . This he does rather often , though no purpose is served other than to provide comic relief in a film that relies heavily on it . Throw in attractive Betsy Jones-Moreland as a love interest for both Agent XK 150 ( Robert Towne ) and Renzo , and you've got the makings for about as much nonsense as can be packed into a seventy minute film , if you can stand it for that long . As Renzo places his services at the hands of Cuban refugees and a strongbox filled with gold , he intends to kill off members of the exiled group while filling their heads with tales of a mythic sea monster . This story of robbery , double cross and murder is interrupted by the appearance of a real creature , looking very much like Cookie Monster on steroids . Meanwhile agent XK occasionally reports in to Washington with his observations , usually stating that the case is about to break wide open . Roger Corman whipped this gem out on the shoestring that followed " The Last Woman on Earth " , filmed in the same location and with the key players appearing in both films ( Towne , Carbone and Moreland ) . One can only imagine the state of mind of the actors coming out of these two rather inane offerings . Roger Corman has certainly done better , and these two could have been phoned in more effectively . As another reviewer pointed out , these pictures would best be viewed in the company of some wacky friends with just enough attention span to pan the living daylights out of them .
OH . . . MY . . . GOD ! ! ! " Teenagers From Outer Space " actually exists and I just finished watching it ! Now don't get me wrong , it's not a worst movie ever candidate , it's too campy and oddly entertaining for that . This is " Father Knows Best " meets " The Outer Limits " with no pretense to be anything other than 1950's grade " Z " sci-fi . In fact , there are times when it's played just a bit too straight and could have used a bit more tongue in cheek , but the goofy dialog in the second half manages to pick up the pace . Alien beings from another planet land on Earth in search of a world on which their Gargon livestock can graze . That the Gargons resemble lobsters is no surprise , since the aliens look just like human beings with perfect command of the English language . Fortunately , no pseudo scientific jargon is offered to explain how this could be , a welcome relief from more " sophisticated " science fiction . Alien Derek ( David Love , short for C . R . Kaltenthaler ) tries to save Earth from lobster fest and divert the ship to another planet , but his peers will have none of that . While Thor ( Bryan Grant ) attempts to track him down , the viewer is treated to just a sampling of the invaders ' awesome power ; their ray guns reduce living beings to mere skeletal remains . So devastating is the effect that newspaper reporter Joe Rogers ' ( Tom Graeff ) response to seeing teenager Alice's skeleton at the bottom of a pool is - " Holy Mackerel " ! ! ! I was impressed by the advanced design of the alien aircraft , when the hatch opens one is visually graced with the futuristic technology of space age hammer and nails . NASA could take a lesson here , since they had to rely on duct tape on their last space mission . The hit of the film though has to be Grandpa Morgan ( Harvey B . Dunn ) . With alien murder and mayhem abounding , Grandpa's afternoon nap won't be denied ! Awakened by reporter Rogers ' arrival , he surmises that granddaughter Betty ( Dawn Bender ) and Derek must be off to the cave of the captive Gargon - " . . . that's where they must have gone , those crazy kids ! " " Teenagers From Outer Space " is no " War of the Worlds " , but that doesn't mean I wouldn't recommend it . At the very least , " surface readings register above minimum requirements " . What truly moves the film into science fiction territory though is Dr . Brandt's first appearance on screen - he's about to make a house call !
I put together my Top Ten Worst Movie List some time ago , and find that it's going to be difficult for newcomers to bump any of those titles for the privilege . But " Doomsday Machine " looks like a definite contender , to the extent of making even " The Beast of Yucca Flats " look pretty good by comparison . I've read most of the other reviews on this board to know that I'm not alone on this , in fact it's pretty much an entirely one sided view that this groaner sets the standard for space junk in a vacuum . Interestingly , the only other place I've ever heard the word ' azimuth ' was in another sci-fi space turkey , and wouldn't you know it , it popped up here in an early conversation aboard the Astra . Keep your eye on the clock that records the elapsed time following blast off , you'll note that it goes , 2 : 58 , 2 : 59 , and then 2 : 60 instead of 3 : 00 , which makes perfect sense considering all the other goofy stuff that was going on . Like the selection of astronauts for the mission . Wouldn't you think that the men selected for this flight would have been among the most highly disciplined and talented that NASA had to offer ? So how does a guy like Major Mason ( Grant Williams ) go from seasoned professional to a raving sex maniac ? Not a whole lot of thought was put into this . No sense belaboring the point , this was one sad effort in the name of science and cinema . While I'm trying to make up my mind about that aforementioned Worst List , I'll have to reconsider another flick with the same destination . Up till now , I thought " First Spaceship on Venus " had a lock on interplanetary travesties , but now I know better .
As a collector of old time Western movie posters , I'm compelled to get my hands on a copy of the film corresponding to the titles I've gotten . My Monte Hale poster comes from " Ranger of Cherokee Strip " , so therein lies my motivation to see this film . Believe me when I tell you , the poster is better than the movie . Hale portrays ranger Steve Howard , on the trail of Joe Bearclaws ( Douglas Kennedy ) , recently escaped from the Kansas Penitentiary and heading for Oklahoma's Cherokee Indian Territory . Bearclaws maintains his innocence , and is intent on reaching Chief Hunter ( Monte Blue ) , before the chief agrees to sign a lease agreement giving local cattlemen the right to cross Indian territory with their herds . Bearclaws is aided along the way by friend and sheriff Jugs Mason ( Paul Hurst ) , who believes in his innocence . The writers of the story obviously took great liberty in overlooking basic human emotion in their development of the characters . For example , when ranger Howard first catches up with Bearclaws , they duke it out in wild fashion . Feigning a knockout , Bearclaws lies motionless on the ground , and as Howard checks his condition , the Indian knocks him out with a good sized rock . The fact that he didn't crack the ranger's skull open is one thing , but in their very next scene together , Howard more or less just brushes it off . He arrests the Indian again , but doesn't restrict him in any way , or even take away his gun ! After riding a sufficient distance , Bearclaws and the sheriff simply turn the tables on Howard once again . This kind of nonsense goes back and forth for most of the film . When it comes to Bearclaws ' meeting with Chief Hunter , Howard okays a delay in the Chief's signing extradition papers for Joe , and actually lets him leave to meet with his fiancée Mary Bluebird ( Alice Tilton ) at the Eagle Junction Cherokee school . While he's gone , the local heavies under the direction of main bad guy McKinnon ( Frank Fenton ) frame Joe for the murder of Chief Hunter . This time though , ranger Howard along with Sheriff Jugs hatch a plan to exonerate him and bring the villains to justice . Don't get me wrong now , I'm a major fan of the " B " Western genre , but this movie is pretty much a mess and seriously defies credibility . There isn't much believable here , not the least of which is an Irishman portraying an Indian - major casting faux pas ! I recommend the poster .
It's true what they say - I started with " Reefer Madness " and " The Marijuana Menace " , and gradually worked up to the really hard stuff - " The Cocaine Fiends " . But I have to tell you , if you watch this film under the influence , it will make just about as much sense . I was generally able to follow what was going on in the story , but there were so many dropped frames and jump cuts I wasn't sure if anything significant might have been left out . The real head scratcher comes near the end of the picture when Dorothy Farley's father is revealed as the top kingpin in the drug rackets at the same time that he's trying to keep his daughter ' sweet and clean ' . The scene exemplifies how poorly the film was in terms of building upon earlier events to tell a coherent story . Of course that probably was not the intent ; this was one of those ' educational ' films that tried to get it's anti-drug scourge message across during a much less sophisticated era . After seeing a handful of these flicks recently , it's safe to say that on that level , they probably had no impact at all . For all it's evil connotation , the actual use of the word cocaine only occurs a few times in the story . Instead , the drug is routinely referred to as ' headache powders ' by the malevolent dope dealer as a way to hook potential victims . By the time one becomes a ' hophead ' , he's ready and willing to sell his soul for just one more shot . The film does a good job at least of showing how drug victims go downhill quickly , usurping all motivation except for getting that high just one more time . But for all that , the picture never does show anyone actually snorting the stuff , it's all done by insinuation and after the fact . Kind of ironic if the mission was to show how unglamorous taking drugs is . The hardest thing for me about the movie is trying to wrap my brain around the fact that it's OVER 70 YEARS OLD ! ! ! That , along with the perspective that's offered relative to what value things had back in the Thirties . Imagine a six dollar cover charge for the privilege of sharing two gin fizzes ( $1 . 50 ) and two highballs ( $2 . 00 ) ; with tax , a total of $9 . 79 . On Eddie's ( Dean Benton ) twenty five dollar pay week , it was unnerving to see him squirm at the prospect of forking over almost half his paycheck for a few minutes of fun at the Dead Rat Cafe . Geez , who would name their place the Dead Rat ? !
The 1939 " Buck Rogers " serial clocks in at just about four hours , and though " Planet Outlaws " is just a bit over an hour itself , the repetitious nature of it's programming makes it feel almost as long as the original . I wasn't counting , but how many trips did Buck ( Buster Crabbe ) and sidekick Buddy ( Jackie Moran ) actually make between Earth and Saturn ? The film's limited budget really shows through in virtually every scene , and is never more apparent than in the shots of the space ships themselves . Keeping in mind that " King Kong " was made six years earlier in 1933 should give one a good idea of what kind of shoestring this must have been made on . In the story , Buck and Buddy go into suspended animation for a period of five hundred years after their dirigible goes down in an Arctic region in 1938 . Amazingly , a record of their original mission still exists , which helps with their credibility once they're discovered . The villain of the piece is one Killer Kane , attempting to rule the world , the universe and anything else beyond that . As Kane , Anthony Warde doesn't have that larger than life charismatic evil of say , a Darth Vader , or even a Ming the Merciless . What he does have though is the technology to render an entire ' Robot Battalion ' of captured enemies to do his bidding . Interestingly , whenever a good guy removes a helmet from one of the slaves , the mind control connection dissolves , even when the helmet is immediately put back on ! Well , I guess it doesn't have to make sense . Buck Rogers was the product of a simpler time , when forays into outer space science fiction was a wide open experiment , along with the relatively new medium of talking pictures . Viewed in that context , the film has a unique perspective to offer if one can refrain from being too critical . Have some fun with this one , space ranger .
The East Side Kids had a couple of films going by " Spooks Run Wild " and " Ghosts on the Loose " , but this one seems even better suited to a ghost story than the other two . It's got some atmospheric creepy sets , a long dungeon like room , and someone even dons the white sheets unlike the aforementioned films . What hampers the story though is some really shoddy writing and a make it up as you go sensibility that just about kills any interest in the story once it's under way . For me , this was not one of the better East Side Kids efforts . It starts out with a familiar premise ; get the boys out of the city to keep them out of trouble , under the watchful eye of Danny's ( Bobby Jordan ) big brother Knuckles ( Dave O'Brien ) . The core group this time out includes Muggs ( Leo Gorcey ) and Scruno ( Sunshine Sammy Morrison ) , with a little help from Peewee ( Donald Haines ) and Skinny ( Frankie Burke ) . Burke looks every bit the young Jimmy Cagney here , maybe even more so than he did as the young Rocky Sullivan in " Angels With Dirty Faces " . If you're not used to it , the racial connotations to Scruno's character get a workout in the film to the point of embarrassment . In the bouncy car ride to the country , he complains of getting bruised ' black and blue ' ; at Briarcliff Manor , he's the only one served a huge slice of watermelon and he fairly dives right into it . Scruno takes it all in stride as in all of his appearances , also making the most of the bug eyed stereotype whenever something remotely scary might happen . The surprise of the film for me was Minerva Urecal , she's really got the sinister housekeeper act nailed in this outing . The next time you see Cloris Leachman in " Young Frankenstein " , she's doing Minerva's Agatha character from this film , I would bet on it . Once things get going , the film gets some mileage out of the old sliding bookcase trick and the occasional sound of sinister organ music . The murder mystery itself is handled a bit sloppy , especially when the unknown character under the Manor turns out to be from the District Attorney's office . The revelation that Judge Parker's bodyguard was a member of the Maury Gang who wanted him rubbed out seemed a bit curious after the fact . Didn't anyone have an idea what Maury's guys might have looked like ? Best line of the film this time around goes to Leo Gorcey - " Say , what's the Thin Man got that I ain't got ? "
First off , Fred MacMuuray is not my idea of a Western action hero , so seeing him here is more of a novelty than anything else . The picture was reminiscent of the style of a Walt Disney flick , but there again , that convention is turned on it's head when a young boy is shot and killed by an Indian arrow near the finale , a sit up and take notice moment that was more shocking than necessary , story line or otherwise . I guess the picture lost it's fascination for me by the third time the wagon train passed the same mountain on a painted background , which I found to be curious , since the rest of the story took place in the great outdoors . So why the set piece ? - I just didn't get it . As far as the story goes , there's a mid course correction regarding the destination of the disguised cavalry officers along for the ride . Initially commissioned to thwart British designs on the Oregon Territory , Captain Wayne ( William Bishop ) is dispatched to a mission on the Mexican border . At least the story managed to insert that ancient history lesson regarding ' or Fight ' , it sounded cool , but viewers today might be left scratching their heads . The film is pretty much an entirely sanitized affair , made almost laughable during the Arapaho raid on Fort Laramie , when soldiers and Indians bypass each other repeatedly without striking out at each other . To my mind , half breed Shona ( Gloria Talbott ) killing the Chief was really asking for trouble , and all it provided was a reason for Shona to renounce her Indian heritage , when renouncing her white father ( John Dierkes ) would have made a lot more sense . Sorry folks , can't go out on a short limb to recommend this one . I can't think of even a minor reason to tune in here , other than the curious casting of the principals , and the appearance of old time black and white character actors like Henry Hull and John Carradine in a color picture . Ultimately though , even that doesn't save this flick from being much more than a curiosity piece , and I'd be much more curious about something else .
I first became aware of " Santa Claus Conquers The Martians " when I saw the Dell Comic Book adaptation of the movie . That was about a dozen years ago , so when this film showed up on the Mill Creek / Tree Line compilation of fifty sci-fi classics , it was the capstone to an outrageous mix of mostly goofy flicks that every ' B ' movie fan should own . Now the thing is , despite it's poor production values and stodgy acting , there's an endearing quality to the film that comes through with it's message of joy and fun that all kids hold dear . That perspective is provided by the way Martian children are programmed from birth with adult minds , so they never have a childhood . When the children of Martian leader Kimar rebel , they're displaying the cranky behavior we all would if we didn't have anything to laugh or care about . So much for the psychoanalysis . There really are some far out story elements here that defy logic . For example , Kimar is eight hundred years old , but his kids Girmar and Bomar are eight and ten , the same as Billy and Betty Foster . They're the Earth children kidnapped by the Martians along with Santa Claus ( John Call ) . These kids seem to be pretty emotionally stable , as they never seem to miss home for a minute . All your classic stereotypes are on display here . The evil Martian villain is Voldar , with a Jamie Farr lookalike as a sidekick . The comic relief character is Dropo , who's desire to become a Martian Santa Claus earns him the job by the end of the story . The use of a giant cardboard robot named Torg to capture Santa at his toy shop was a neat touch , especially when the big guy turned the tables and rendered him harmless . Hey , how about that goofy polar bear ! Curious how all the instructions on the Martian space ship were written in English . True , one wouldn't understand them otherwise , but they could have labeled the Radar Box ' % $ @ $ ! X ^ + ' and who would have been the wiser , they still would have called it the radar box . And come on now , I know you chuckled just a bit over the Martian-mallow joke . Hey , how about if this Christmas , the programming execs at one of the cable networks replaced " A Christmas Story " with this one for it's twenty four hour holiday marathon . Can you just see it ? " Jingle Bells " has a different ring to it when sung on a Martian spaceship !
If Richard Simmons had been part of the cast , this could have easily passed for an extended episode of ' Sergeant Preston of the Yukon ' , the Alaskan style TV Western of the late 1950's . The story dealt with a quartet of villains after a cache of valuable animal furs , but manages to sidetrack into a badly cliché ridden exercise in just about every imaginable Native American stereotype one can think of . Maintaining balance , Texas Ranger Panhandle Perkins ( Guy Wilkerson ) trades Hows ! , Ughs ! , war whoops and a smoking of the peace pipe with I . Stanford Jolley , one of the bad guy henchmen in an embarrassing display of Indian caricature , which if made today would be greeted by swarms of boycotting protesters on line at the theater . The story only gets slightly better from there , as fellow rangers Tex Ritter and Dave O'Brien keep Panhandle in line long enough to finger the bad guys and come to the aid of Miss Ellen Williams ( Lorraine Miller ) , daughter of the fur trader who meets his demise earlier in the picture . There are a few anomalies along the way ; for example , when Tex is falsely arrested , where does he get the guitar to strum a melody while stuck in the calaboose ? And say , when the phony Indian ( Jolley ) convinces Miss Williams to go out to her father's cabin , how is it they wind up back at the Bear Settlement general store ? Speaking of which , I can't think of another Western that features as many wide missing punches as thrown in the scuffle there . That this was a Public Releasing Corporation picture explains a lot as far as production values and short cuts in execution go . The Texas Rangers were PRC's answer to Republic's ' Three Mesquiteers ' series , after a six film failed attempt with a mediocre ' Frontier Marshals ' series . The original Rangers included James Newill , O'Brien and Wilkerson , with Ritter replacing Newill after fourteen pictures . Ritter had already achieved genuine stardom with pictures for Grand National , Monogram , Columbia and Universal . Tex and his trusty horse White Flash signed on for eight pictures , lending a much needed boost to the mix , but they weren't enough to compensate for the shoestring budgets and shoddy production values . It shows even more now than back in the day , but that of course , depending on your point of view , is part of the fun .
By now I've seen most of John Wayne's Westerns for Lone Star Productions , and this one so far ranks just above " The Lawless Frontier " as the poorest of the bunch . Interestingly they were made back to back in 1934 in about the middle of the run , both directed by Robert North Bradbury . Plot points and continuity didn't seem to mean much back then , but you know what , they're still pretty much fun to take a look at every now and then . The story has a Canadian setting for a change , featuring place names like Fort Minnetaki and Wabinosh , along with the prerequisite French accents of the villains . The two main heavies are LaRocque ( Robert Frazer ) and Benoit ( Earl Dwire ) , and they even have a nasty female accomplice named Marie ( Iris Lancaster ) , who might have been a red herring in Rod Drew's ( Wayne ) quest to find the missing daughter of a man who died years ago . In the movie's opening scene , the man who sets Drew on his mission surmised that his long lost niece might have been named Marie after her mother . Missing from the credits this time around are Gabby and Yak , so Noah Beery Jr . fills in as Rod Drew's buddy from college , teaming up with each other after Wabi ( Beery ) is framed for a murder aboard a train . Once on the run , the pair have everything they can do to remain on dry ground . Wayne's character winds up jumping into a river no less than three times including once on horseback . This is the only time I've seen Noah Beery Jr . and Sr . together in a film , though it happened a few times in their careers . The elder Beery runs a trading post in the story , along with his adopted daughter Felice ( Verna Hillie ) . It made me wonder why Newsome ( Beery Sr . ) offered Marie LaFleur a job to straighten out his books instead of having Felice do it . Just one of those story points that wasn't thought out too well . Another was when Drew and Wabi find the cave with the gold from the map they found in a deserted cabin ( complete with skeletons of two former partners who killed each other - nice touch ! ) . One of the dead men from the cabin was Felice's real father , brother of the man who asked Drew to look for his niece . Along with a small sack of gold the men find , there's a photo of an adult Felice just as she appears in the story . How would her father have gotten that picture if he died before she grew up ? ? ? Keep an eye on the canoe scene when Drew and Wabi leave the cabin with the rescued Mountie . When the Mountie is shot by one of the villains , he falls backwards toward Wabi , but in the very next scene he's lying in the other direction toward Drew . By the time the good guy and bad guy posses head for the finale , I wound up scratching my head as to where all those riders came from . Most of the time LaRocque had only Benoit and another henchman around , but during the shootout he had at least a half dozen . While the Mountie outpost in the middle of the Canadian wilderness only had a handful of men on hand , by the time they rode off with Drew in the lead there were probably a couple dozen riders on the chase . Well I guess that's why it's such a blast watching these early John Wayne oaters , it's fun just to catch all the goofy stuff going on , in addition to the often exciting chase scenes and horse dives off a cliff . This one also boasted some pretty impressive scenery , most notably that mountain valley view when Wabi points out the way to Wabinosh . If you stay alert , you'll also catch some pretty interesting product placement for Buffalo Lager Beer and industrial size Karo Syrup - I wonder if they had to pay for those ?
Did you ever play that game where someone starts a story and then turns it over to the next person to carry it forward , and so on ? Well that looks pretty much how " The White Gorilla " was put together , with this requirement - each story teller has to introduce a new person , and must include either a lion or an elephant in their segment . That would explain characters like the trunk riding elephant boy and his mother who acts insane to control the tiger men ; really , I'm not making this up . By the end of the story , there's no resolution to the fate of these characters , they just drop out of the story along the way as if someone forgot all about them . Ray Corrigan is certainly no stranger to ape films of the 1940's , he appeared as the man in the gorilla suit for a whole slew of these jungle epics . Here he's actually top billed for portraying both the outcast white gorilla and the story's narrator , Steve Collins . It's genuinely comical that Collins describes the on screen action from the vantage point of a treetop or some other hidden location . The technique allows him to see through jungle forests and the walls of caves as if he had X-Ray vision . Of course the reason for this , as I've come to learn from this forum , is that the film was spliced together with scenes from the 1927 silent film , " Perils of the Jungle " . Ray Corrigan and director Harry L . Fraser both made their marks years earlier in a fair share of ' B ' Westerns each . Oddly , this film was the only time they crossed paths . Fraser managed to direct John Wayne in two Lone Star films in the 1930's - " ' Neath The Arizona Skies " and " Randy Rides Alone " . When the film's " ultimate " battle between the titled white gorilla and a fearsome black gorilla eventually occurs , it's very much a disappointment . They wind up sort of wrestling each other in a contest that has no resolution , in fact it happens a couple of times . Corrigan's turn as a gorilla in " White Pongo " on the other hand had a genuinely creative slug fest against his opponent , using uprooted trees as weapons , definitely a livelier contest . For that reason , I'd have to give " White Pongo " the edge in viewer satisfaction over this film . In fact , I'd probably have to give virtually any other ape movie the edge over " The White Gorilla " . I say virtually , because there's at least one that's definitely worse - " King of Kong Island " .
I've never been at a loss to describe a film , but this time I think I've met my match . With no idea of what I was in for , " Maniac " managed to turn a mere fifty one minutes into a hallucinogenic experience without the drugs . With lines like " What I want is a victim with a shattered heart " , and " What was IN that hypo ? " , this X-rated " B " movie is in a league of it's own . That's not to say the film was bad , or even in the " so bad it's good " category . There are worse movies , believe me , if you've seen " The Beast of Yucca Flats " you'll realize that . However this film has some of the most bizarre elements you'll ever see , and they just keep coming at you . If the demented Dr . Meirschultz ( Horace B . Carpenter ) doesn't wake you up with his " bwa-ha-ha " maniacal laugh , then you'll certainly be entertained by the eye popping cat scene , and that's meant literally . If you thought it couldn't get any more gross , well just wait a second , and you'll witness mad doc impersonator Don Maxwell ( Bill Woods ) munch it down for maximum effect . You've got things here you never expect to see - cats chasing mice , cats fighting each other , women fighting each other in a different version of cat fight , hypodermic needles , a dead body bricked up behind a wall , and more , so much more you won't believe what you're viewing . Oh yes , and there's a bare breasted woman too , so nonchalantly and provocatively inserted that you'll have to rewind to be sure you're not imagining it . All this from a film that starts out like your standard evil scientist creating life movie . There's even a dead woman brought back to life , which by the time the film is over , you realize is one of the more believable elements of the story . Chalk this one up to one rare movie going experience . If I ever host my own late night Elvira fest , this will be the one to debut the series . It's " Reefer Madness " without the weed , and one weird ride into bizarro land you'll never forget , as hard as you may try .
I'm not a devotee of these action kung fu flicks , but every once in a while they're a neat change of pace . This one is almost entirely fighting from start to finish between a core trio of antagonists , Master Ma , Little Fatty and Chun Wu . Little Fatty appears to be the central character , owing his martial arts ability to a life long study of frogs and toads . The bandit Wu is portrayed by Tiger Yang , who the opening credits claim was Muhammad Ali's martial arts instructor . Funny , but I don't recall ever hearing of Ali having an interest in the martial arts . Honestly , at almost two hours , this one was a bit much for me , but I stuck it out to the end just to be fair about it . At some point , it must have been revealed that Master Ma was Little Fatty's father as the credits on this site state , but that was lost on me ; I recall in an opening scene that Ma revealed himself to be Fatty's uncle , and Fatty remembered him as such . Ultimately , Little Fatty proves victorious against the bandit Wu , but it was two against one for a good part of that battle , and it ended in quite gruesome manner with Fatty bashing Wu's head with a good sized rock . I'm glad they didn't show that . For me , the film was redeemed somewhat by the presence of a pretty Chinese girl who spent her screen time being rescued from Wu . Best line of the film : Fatty to Ma - " Master Ma , I'll put your leg on for you " . You'll just have to see it for yourself .
" In Society " presents Abbott and Costello as a pair of inept plumbers who manage to get themselves invited to an upper class weekend party , where they get to hob nob with the hoi polloi and solve a mystery in their usual frantic manner . There's some fairly standard fare here , including the Bagel Street / Susquehanna Hat routine , while the romantic chores are handled by future TV Sky King , Kirby Grant wooing the lovely Marion Hutton , who goes by the unlikely name of Elsie Hammerdingle . Her character is a female taxi driver , and along with the boys , rides out this comedy in a case of mistaken identity . When an expensive painting depicting " The Plunger " winds up missing at the society affair , the boys become likely suspects when their plumber identities become known . The painting is recovered following a well choreographed chase scene in which Bud and Lou hop aboard a conveniently placed hook and ladder rig . There's some innovative stunt driving featuring a handful of near misses with oncoming traffic . When it's all over , the weekend hostess quite proudly proclaims - " You may be plumbers , but you're wonderful plumbers ! "
Add " Tormented " to the list of 1960's " B " list films that with a healthy dose of present day technology and a credible rewrite , could actually turn out to be a pretty good psychological thriller . The basic plot involving a jazz pianist dumping one love affair and about to marry someone else takes a turn for the worse when jilted lover Vi ( Juli Redding ) falls to her death from atop a lighthouse landing . Former boyfriend Tom ( Richard Carlson ) could have saved her , but because he didn't , he now suffers guilt over her demise . There are actually some interesting and haunting elements to disturb Tom's psyche , the third set of footprints in the sand and the record that makes it's way over to the turntable to play itself . Those however are offset by apparitions of Vi's head talking to Tom and her disembodied hand feeling around the floor for the new girl's wedding ring , each conspiring to elicit a chuckle from the viewing audience . As if Tom's conscience isn't guilt ridden enough , it doesn't take him long to decide to really kill someone when a boater named Nick ( Joe Turkel ) attempts to blackmail him over the missing Vi . He really loses it when he seriously considers doing the same to the nine year old sister of his fiancée , who witnessed his clubbing of Nick . Poor Sandy ( Susan Gordon ) , only a kid and she witnesses two violent deaths as Tom himself takes a header into the ocean from the same spot as Vi , poetic justice I suppose . Watch for a couple of goofs in the final scene when the bodies of Tom and Vi are recovered from the ocean . As they're placed on the beach , Vi's arm crosses Tom's chest as if to simulate a hug , but by this time she had already been dead a week - no rigor mortis or decomposition ! Also , earlier in the film , a lady named Mrs . Ellis was introduced , a friend of Tom's who was blind . But at the same beach scene , she reacts as if she sees the bodies , with a look of horror on her face . This is the only film I've seen from director Bert I . Gordon , but judging from the comments of other reviewers , I'll have to give some of his other movies a try . Not that I'm a glutton for punishment , I try to find something positive in everything . Oddly , his daughter Susan portrayed the young girl Sandy in the film ; she also appeared in one of my favorite episodes of " The Twilight Zone " , as a crippled girl named Jenny who comes up with a plan to outfox a couple of policemen from another planet who arrive on Earth to bring their king back home . In retrospect , her performance may have been the best one in " Tormented " .
Oh boy , where to start ! For a cowboy hero , Gene Autry sure takes part in some questionable and seriously folks , unethical behavior , in this Republic oater , in the interest of saving his inherited meat packing company . I don't know which was worse actually , faking a marriage to a fourteen year old girl , or beating the tar out of an opposing company's lawyer to get back an already signed contract selling his business ! Can you picture him running the California Angels using those kinds of tactics ? You've really got to chalk this one up to being a product of simpler times , way , way simpler , when movie viewers didn't put too much thought into their pictures . Helping keep things in a lighter perspective , Smiley Burnette's up to his old tricks as Frog Millhouse , but I think he might have been upstaged in the comedy relief department by that glib suit salesman ( Joe Frisco ) . The guy was so smooth I think he used double talk that I was able to understand , and that's pretty smooth . Smiley walks away with an armful of haberdashery and I don't think he had a clue . But you know , Smiley earns his nickname when he takes that hop into the swimming pool at the Randolph party ; he actually looked like a frog ! I also got a kick out of Autry's save on that runaway dynamite wagon , keep an eye on that scene and you'll see it takes place on two different terrains , mountainside and desert . That Gene sure knew how to steer ! I was a little curious going in about the film's title , but it had nothing to do with Gene as a cowboy , but with his being a novice as a businessman . He gets to sing the title song while riding on horseback with the Randolphs , and I'd really like to believe the setting of the movie was somewhere in Texas . That would make sense ; if you listen closely to the scene at poolside during the Randolph party , you'll hear Ann Randolph ( June Storey ) call out to Mr . Bush ! ! !
I'm surprised by the number of negative reviews of this film , though I know it's a far cry from the best the spaghetti Western genre has to offer . My main complaint would be in the long exposition that took place in the first half of the story to set up Father John's murder at the hands of Sam Clayton's ( Jack Palance ) gang . That was more than offset however by seeing three greats of the genre in a single flick together , Palance , Lee Van Cleef and Richard Boone . Van Cleef's dual role was a neat device the way it played in the latter half of the story . Richard Boone's role as sheriff of Juno City seemed a bit disjointed however , since he disappeared for a while and didn't really participate in the finale . What I didn't catch in any of the other reviews on this board was mention of what I'd consider an homage scene to one of Van Cleef's best performances opposite Clint Eastwood in 1965's " For A Few Dollars More " . Right after Van Cleef , as Lewis , guns down a handful of Clayton's henchmen , a man named Mortimer thanks him for all the money he won in a bet on who would be victorious in a show down . Upon which Lewis shoots his hat , and then one of the outlaw's guns into the hat resting on the ground . A similar scene , but more intense , had Van Cleef against Eastwood in the earlier movie ; in ' Dollars ' , Van Cleef's character was named Mortimer . Something else I caught that was interesting - in the opening scene , when the Clayton gang rides into Crane City to rob the bank , there's a barn to the right of the bank with the sign ' JC McCormick , Blacksmithing , Wagon Repairing ' with a large wagon wheel in the center . Later in the movie , when Lewis describes his past to young Johnny ( Leif Garrett ) , there's a flashback scene to Abilene . Outside the Abilene Gambling Hall , right across the street , there's a barn with the same sign ! You would think that in movies like this done on the cheap , somebody could have remembered to take it down the second time around . So for me at least , " God's Gun " wasn't a complete waste of time as the nay sayers would have you believe . The puzzler though is the Italian / Spanish translation of the title , ' Diamante ' means diamond , and ' Lobo ' is a wolf . Somehow I don't think ' Diamond Wolf ' would have made much sense to theater goers .
You'll probably wonder as I did some time into the picture as to where exactly the ' range war ' of the title might be . Not really a problem , as almost any Western title from the 1930's and ' 40's had nothing at all to do with the story . Billy the Kid himself is presented as the film's hero rather than the famous outlaw he became . Portrayed by Bob Steele , ' The Kid ' is noticeably older than he ever got to be in real life , having died around twenty one years old ; at the time of the picture , Steele was thirty four . Bob Steele appeared as Billy The Kid in a half dozen films for Producers Releasing Corporation in the time frame , just prior to getting a call from Republic Pictures asking him to be part of the Three Mesquiteers . Al ' Fuzzy ' St . John appeared as his sidekick in these stories , and continued in the series when Steele was replaced by Buster Crabbe . The Billy character was generally presented as a good guy caught up in situations where he was wrongfully accused of some misdeed . In ' Range War ' , an outlaw impersonates Billy in a scheme where local town boss Williams ( Karl Hackett ) attempts to rid a stage line competitor from winning a mail contract from his steamship company . Conversely , Billy the Kid impersonates a henchman hired by Williams to sabotage the construction of a stage trail . I guess it sounds a lot more complicated than it plays out on screen , as Billy gets the goods on all the bad guys in short order to save the day for the stage company run by Ellen Gorman ( Joan Barclay ) . Fuzzy St . John is an effective comedy relief character backing up The Kid , getting a lot of mileage out of his trusty slingshot . He has to take his lumps too , as he gets belted hard a couple of times , including a hefty knock out blow from Billy early in the picture . Fuzzy's a trooper though , and proves a loyal ally to his partner . You'll catch a lot of the era's mainstays in the picture on both sides of the law - Carleton Young is Billy's friend , Marshal Jack Carson , while Rex Lease , Howard Masters and Buddy Roosevelt make appearances as villains or henchmen . Ultimately , the story itself winds up largely forgettable , but at least while you're watching , you'll have a good time with the story and it's characters .
It's 1900 , and Teddy Roosevelt's Rough Riders have returned from Cuba . Roy Rogers and friends Rusty Coburn ( Eddie Acuff ) and Tommy Ward ( Ray Hatton ) seek work as border patrol agents , with the personal recommendation of Roosevelt himself . The border patrol captain is willing to take them on , especially since outlaw Arizona Jack is marauding the border passes and seeking refuge in Mexico . Adding drama to the plot is the presence of Dorothy Blair ( Mary Hart ) , as the daughter of the owner of the Amco Mining Company . Rogers has orders to detain her , but when a fight breaks out in the cantina she escapes on a Mexican stagecoach , only to be captured by the bandits . Roy Rogers has the uncanny ability to walk into any situation , no matter how grim , and pick up a guitar to sing a song . This happens twice in Roundup - first in the unfriendly environs of the local cantina , and then again when captured and secured in Arizona Jack's bandit hideout ; it's not very believable given the situation . Be attentive for a continuity goof in a chase scene in the second half of the film ; as Arizona Jack's gang pursues Roy and Rusty on horseback , the good guys string a rope across their path to knock the first two riders off their horses . But as the bandits get up to dust themselves off , the rope is back in place again . " Rough Riders Roundup " moves along at a brisk fifty eight minute pace , and as mentioned , has the obligatory fisticuffs , chase scenes and gunfights expected in a " B " western . One overlooked detail though - Roy appears to ride his trusty palomino Trigger in the film , however Trigger is not top billed as " The Smartest Horse in the Movies " in this flick . I assume he fired his agent before the next picture !
I kept picturing what an effectively done remake of this movie today might come up with , because it had all the neat elements needed for a thriller combining air travelers trapped with gangsters in a confined space with no way out . But in the 1940's it seems , and even later , there wasn't very much in the way of creativity to keep the suspense going for a sustained period of time . Can you imagine a henchman any more bumbling than Ryan ( Richard Clarke ) getting distracted by a pretty face , or losing a gun in his very first skirmish ? And he came highly recommended ! " Desperate Cargo " actually isn't all that bad , though the print I viewed was distractingly full of annoying jump cuts and quick scene changes . Most times continuity wasn't lost , but you had conversations sometimes interrupted in mid sentence . It was amusing to hear the island town of Puerta Nueve pronounced differently by at least three characters in the story . Ralph Byrd heads up the cast as purser Tony Bronson on a Trans-Caribbean Airways cruiser , quickly paired off with Ann Howard ( Julie Duncan ) , one half of a singing sister act , the other half being Peggy Morton ( Carol Hughes ) . You know , it would have been a nice touch if they actually got to do a number in the picture , I kept waiting for one . I really couldn't wrap my mind around the story's romantic angle for her and newspaper reporter Jim Halsey ( Jack Mulhall ) , but let's give credit to Halsey for trying . It seems I . Stanford Jolley found some time in between a corral full of Westerns to appear here as the lead villain Carter ; I liked the wheel chair gimmick , nice touch . All in all , as another reviewer on this board has noted , the film is largely forgettable once it's over , but the ride to the finale is entertaining enough . I've only seen one of Ralph Byrd's ' Dick Tracy ' films , but he has the distinction , through no fault of his own , in having appeared in one of the movies on my all time Top Ten Worst list - " Blake of Scotland Yard " . If you're faced with a decision , go with " Desperate Cargo " .
What boggles my mind is why Howard Hughes would even attempt this garbled retelling of the story of three legendary Western figures . With Hughes ' generally obsessive attention to detail in his aeronautical career , you would think that at least some integrity would be maintained with names and dates for historical accuracy , but nothing about the film makes any kind of sense at all . Only Jack Beutel as Billy the Kid comes close to matching his character's age at the time of events in the story . In 1881 , Pat Garrett would have been thirty one years old , but Thomas Mitchell was fifty one when the movie was made . An even greater disparity exists with Walter Huston's Doc Holliday ; at fifty nine , Huston was almost twice his character's age of thirty . And with all that , the grave marker showing Billy the Kid's ' death ' on July 13 , 1881 ( he actually died on the 14th , but that was Doc Holliday in the grave ) , how would one explain Doc's resurrection to take part in the Gunfight at OK Corral ( / 1881 ) ? In all , just a complete mess regarding history . What's not a mess is Jane Russell's film debut as Rio McDonald , Doc's girlfriend turned Billy's lover . Oh baby , how hot was she ? At nineteen , it's a toss up as to who had the more sizzling screen presence , Russell here or Lauren Bacall in her first picture , " To Have and Have Not " . I'm willing to call it a tie . But there again , Hughes had to go for that over the top close up of Russell's lips about to kiss Billy , it almost demands a laugh out loud reaction . And how about all those goofy Warner Brothers type cartoon music moments ; didn't ANYONE have a clue that they didn't fit with the story ? You know , I'm usually the first to dismiss reactions to a film dealing with alleged homo erotic subtexts , but I have to agree with other reviewers on this board regarding the relationship between Doc and Pat Garrett . There's that conversation between the two just before Garrett takes out Holliday that's just mind blowing in it's suggestion . Just another element that digresses the entire story into never-never land . I think what might have given this picture half a chance would have been to keep the famous gunslinger names completely out of it . Then at least you could have made a case for a somewhat offbeat Western . Still , I don't care how you might attempt to rationalize it , there's no way anyone in his right mind would take a strawberry roan in trade for Jane Russell .
Just a couple of weeks ago I caught a flick on the Monster HD channel called " The Brain Eaters " , so when this one followed I just had to be there . There's just something dreadfully intriguing about pictures this cheesy , and if you watch enough of them , you really get to form a weird perspective and insight . For example , when I first saw the skeleton that washed ashore in an early scene , I couldn't help but wonder if it was the same one that was used at the bottom of the swimming pool in the following year's " Teenagers From Outer Space " . You watch enough of these and you can put together all kinds of connections that your friends and relatives will marvel at . Now if I didn't know better , I'd also be wondering if Omar's ' Rosebud ' raft was an inadvertent tribute to 1941's " Citizen Kane " . Geez , I can't believe I even came close to that one . But you know , this flick has it's share of great lines like the one in my summary above . Or how about Murdoch's excellent analysis of the stranded islanders ' situation - " Let's face facts Professor , we've stumbled onto a living horror " . Here's what I'm thinking . You take the basic set up , a number of people of diverse backgrounds on an isolated island in the middle of an ocean . Let's say you've got this professor , a washed up actress full of herself , a hot looking assistant that the viewer can immediately relate to . Throw in a rugged good looking hero , and as a foil , come up with a beatnik character for the young set . You might also want to add an eccentric wealthy couple whose money is no good in their current predicament . I guess there's no way of knowing which work came first or which one inspired the other , but in " Gilligan's Island " , the laughs were at least intentional .
Probably one's only interest in seeing this movie would be to catch Leonard Nimoy in his first starring role , no mean feat as the actor had only two prior roles in film , one of them uncredited . The story itself is entirely uneven , and one is kept constantly off balance as to what Paul Baroni's ( Nimoy ) intention and motivations are . I had to do a double take as the opening credit introductions rolled , and we learn about the ' Billy Goat ' gang , of which Baroni and his pal Angelo are members of . There's not one shred of difference between Angelo and the Daily Planet's Jimmy Olsen , as portrayed by Jack Larson . As for the gang itself , they looked like they could mop up 106th Street and 3rd Avenue with the Dead End Kids , even with Leo Gorcey at the helm . I guess my main problem with the story is that there's never any real compelling reason for the decisions Baroni makes . For example , what was behind his desire to sing in the church choir , thereby alienating himself from the rest of the ' goats ' ? How does one run away from almost killing a priest , only to turn up in the headlines of the local sport pages - couldn't the authorities make a connection ? And above all , how do you double cross the bookmakers and then get to do it again with even bigger money riding on the outcome ? Which by the way , got the biggest ho hum reaction from a trio of losers I'd ever seen after dropping twenty grand . If only Mr . Spock could have foretold his future stardom he might well have passed on this groaner , but then again , who's to know - one has to start somewhere . Still , the first time you see Nimoy straight on with that goofy make up job of a nose you'll double over . Did anyone else get the impression that it was about to fall off ? I'm impressed though , that two Star Trek alumni got their start by actually starring in full length film roles . The other would be DeForrest Kelley , who did the same in a somewhat better picture , a psychological thriller called " Fear in the Night " from 1947 .
" Nightmare Castle " has one of the best opening lines of any film I've seen - " At this rate you'll destroy all the frogs in the entire county , my dear . " So says Muriel Arrowsmith ( brunette Barbara Steele ) to her pseudo scientist husband Steven ( Paul Muller ) . When Steven discovers his wife being unfaithful , he sends her and lover David ( Rik Battaglia ) out in a blaze of glory . To maintain the huge estate left behind by Muriel , Steven schemes to marry Muriel's sister Jenny ( blonde Barbara Steele ) . Borrowing a plot element from 1958's " The Screaming Skull " , Steven intends to drive his new wife slowly insane with the help of lover Solange ( Helga Line ) , an ageless beauty thanks to the scientist's youth inducing blood transfusions . Hampton Castle is the perfect setting for the grim proceedings in a film that has some trouble finding it's real purpose . The movie is rather busy with the ghostly appearances of Muriel and David , the mental unraveling of Jenny , the blood transfusions to keep Solange young and beautiful , and the quite macabre ways Steven uses to dispatch his intended victims . It's all done in a rather disjointed style that probably wasn't helped by the print I viewed , with unrelated scenes following each other a number of times . For her part , Barbara Steele has a unique blend of skeletal proportions that she brings to the screen , from the gaunt expressiveness of her face to the long spider like fingers that clasp Steven around the neck just before displaying the hideously rotting features behind her long dark hair . It's a great counterpoint to the diabolical scheming of husband Steven who gets his own comeuppance in a fiery finale .
When it comes to 1950's sci-fi , there's good bad , and bad bad ; " Phanton From Space " isn't bad , if you know what I mean . There's an interesting back story about the alien's arrival , your typical lab scenes played out with scientific endeavor , and an invisible alien that comes to play on the viewer's sympathy once it's learned that all he's trying to do is survive in Earth's atmosphere . I got a kick out of some of the governmental jargon thrown around . There's Washington , D . C . ' s ' Central Bureau ' , the 1950's version of an early warning system ( hey , it's got a yellow and red alert ! ) , and the mysterious apparatus known as the Communications Commission . The best though were vehicles Mobile # 1 and # 7 , rigged up with those goofy roof top antennas ; how did they make it through tunnel overpasses ? There were some clever bits thrown in to keep you guessing about the alien , Dr . Wyatt ( Rudolph Anders ) refers to him as ' superhuman ' . Some fuss was made over the creature's spacesuit , it couldn't be cut and was resistant to flame and acid . Pretty comical though when the Major ( James Seay ) tried to rip it apart with his bare hands , how scientific was that ? Fortunately , the Randall's dog was on hand to keep everyone on track , what do you expect from a canine named Venus ? Also imaginative was the ultra violet light gimmick used to expose the alien's footprint and human like hand . His full disclosure at the end of the story is amazingly similar to descriptions of alien beings today , compliments of writers like Whitley Strieber . How curious is that ? The cast by and large is a group of relative unknowns , though I did get a kick out of seeing Michael Mark as the oil refinery watchman . He would graduate to a top billed role as the beekeeper / inventor in 1960's " The Wasp Woman " . One final thought - the various folks trying to sort out the alien mystery often refer to him as the ' X-Man ' , pre-dating by a decade the beginning of one of Marvel Comics ' most popular titles . I'd be interested to find out if this was the first time the term was ever used - Anyone ?
A secret London society agrees to disperse the assets of it's deceased members to the remainder of the group . It doesn't take long for the victims to start dropping off one by one . Enter Sherlock Holmes ( Reginald Owen ) , brought into the case by the wife of victim number two , upset that there isn't even the hint of an inheritance coming her way . Adding to the mystery , the group communicates via cryptic ads placed in a London newspaper . " A Study in Scarlet " is a credible mystery that gives the viewer a few false leads , but is ultimately solved by Holmes in uncanny style . The title of the film originates from the name of the clandestine group - the Scarlet Ring . There is a familiarity to the plot as each of the victims receives a poetic message referencing the number of members still left alive , as in the Agatha Christie based " And Then There Were None " , even though that film came a dozen years later in 1945 . I must say , after viewing Basil Rathbone in the title role as the Sherlock Holmes archetype , it takes a bit of getting used to Reginald Owen depicting the sleuth ; he's got a little too much padding . Conversely , Warburton Gamble's Dr . Watson doesn't seem to have enough , a la Nigel Bruce's portrayal . That aside , " A Study in Scarlet " is worth the effort , particularly for it's dark and moody atmosphere , and Sherlock Holmes ' deft use of the English language .
This could have been another cheesy 1950's outer space sci-fi flick , but the participants were going in the opposite direction . So instead , this is a cheesy 1950's subterranean film , starring an underground submarine called a cyclotram . It's mission is to discover a habitable region where the world's population can take refuge when the upper world is destroyed by a nuclear holocaust . The film opens with a voice-over describing the new Atomic Age and it's promise of a more abundant life . However Dr . Jeremiah Morley ( Victor Kilian ) sees the danger associated with those who would use this power for corrupt purposes , and his warnings earn him the nickname " Prophet of Doom " . It seems to me that Morley was the film's dominating presence , yet Kilian's performance is actually uncredited here . His " Society to Save Civilization " disbands after a year for lack of financial backing . Enter wealthy playboy Wright Thompson ( Bruce Kellogg ) , admittedly jobless and happily so , and looking for adventure . He hooks up with Morley's scientist friends and offers to finance their underground journey , as long as he can come along . With renewed energy , Morley , Thompson , and a group of five additional explorers board the cyclotram to seek humanities ' last chance for survival . What this viewer was left wondering for some time into the picture was when something exciting would happen . There are brief diversions involving bouts of toxic gas and semi dangerous spelunking , but that fearsome cave dinosaur never shows up . In a particularly nonsensical scene , a frayed rope is repeatedly shown as the cyclotram navigator Andy climbs up a rock face after rescuing Thompson . Andy actually makes it up to the top of the cliff ledge when the rope snaps , and he falls to his doom - bad timing ! With repetitive nuance , the cyclotram forges ahead ( or below ) , marking time at 850 , 960 , 1100 , and finally 1640 miles below sea level , where Thompson fashions a directional marker pointing straight up to New York - that may have been the film's innovative high point . Upon finally reaching the subterranean promised land , the group is dismayed to learn that conditions there make their pregnant bunny sterile . So much for the advancement of civilization . " Unknown World " held the promise of so much more , but doesn't deliver . The cyclotram never finds itself in a situation that it can't handle , and the path it follows conveniently plays along an underground fissure practically the entire way . When it finally reaches a depth of 2500 miles at the earth's core , the cyclotram floats it's way up to the surface world in what seems like no time at all ! But the biggest mystery to me would be how seven of the world's pre-eminent scientists could undertake such a momentous journey , and no one thought to bring a camera !
" Japs Bomb Honolulu During Peace Talks " is the headline that opens this World War II era mystery thriller , featuring Bela Lugosi as a Nazi plastic surgeon who turns six Japanese members of the Black Dragon Society into replicas of American fifth column industrialists . When Dr . Melcher is rewarded for his efforts by imprisonment to contain the deadly secret , he uses his surgical kit ( which somehow escaped detection ) to magically remove his beard and transform himself into a fellow prisoner who looks exactly like Bela Lugosi . So how were two identical looking prisoners explained away by their Japanese captors ? This plot point obviously didn't bother the film makers , so I won't let it bother me beyond mentioning it . Otherwise , " Black Dragons " is a fairly entertaining diversion replete with murder and mayhem , as Melcher , now Dr . Colomb arrives in the U . S . to systematically remove each of his creations . They wind up as corpses on the steps of the Japanese Embassy in Washinton , D . C . , each with dagger in hand , as if in ritual suicide , but obviously as murder victims . Along for the fun are Joan Barclay as Alice Saunders , niece of host industrialist William Saunders ( George Pembroke ) , and future Lone Ranger star Clayton Moore as a government agent . You'll recognize his voice before his face , and you might not at that if you don't realize he's in this film . For his part , Bela Lugosi uses the Dracula stare several times in the film to send a departure message to his victims . Gone is the over enunciation of his early film days when he was just beginning to learn English , though the rhythmic quality of his voice is still there . Maybe I'm reading a bit too much into the the film's final scene , but when Dr . Saunders finally comes out of the room where he was kept immobile by Dr . Colomb , he emerges completely wrapped in a dark blanket or cloak . Unveiling himself as a disfigured old man , I couldn't help thinking - " Darth Vader ' !
" Riders of the Whistling Pines " is a cool sounding title , and the story itself is not your run of the mill Western . Set in ' modern ' times so to speak , automobiles and airplanes are very much in evidence , and there's even a reference to World War II . After being exonerated for the accidental death of a forestry agent , Gene Autry's character is ready to give up his newly formed sportsmen's club and move away . However when his singing buddies ( The Cass County Boys ) admit they tampered with his rifle sight , Gene decides to stick around to find out if the death of Charles Carter might have been murder . It seems to me that Gene found himself on the wrong side of an environmental issue in this one though . He repeatedly defended the use of DDT to control a larval outbreak that threatened the forest , and by extension , the area's logging industry . Every time he stated that the spray was safe for animals and fish , he sounded like an apologist for the chemical industry . If filmed today , Gene might have turned out to be the villain of the piece instead of lumber company owner Henry Mitchell ( Douglas Dumbrille ) . Instead , Mitchell employed two henchmen to do his dirty work , one of them being a virtually unrecognizable Clayton Moore hiding behind an unkempt beard . No matter how tough things get , there's always plenty of time for a passel of songs , and for a film coming in at just over an hour , Gene knocks out five tunes while the Cass County Boys add another ; and let's not forget the tune by the Pinnafores trio . For this viewer , there were two major sit up and take notice events in the film . In an early scene , the forestry agent Carter and henchman Wright arrive at the Cedar Ridge Sportsmen's Camp requesting to use the phone . At the time of this posting , the part of Carter is listed by IMDb as Jason Robards Sr . However if you view that scene closely , you will easily recognize the face of Bob Hope ! The other giveaway is Hope's unmistakable voice , especially when off screen attempting to make that phone call . And the other ? When Gene sets up Mitchell with word that his buddy Joe will be able to identify the man who shot him , Mitchell and his boys make for Gene's camp to do away with him . Mitchell shoots who he thinks is Gene in a rocking chair on the porch , but it turns out to be a life size dummy of Gene ! Now why would Gene Autry have one of those ? ? ?
Let's see , Wade loves Marianne , Dick loves Marianne , Laura loves Dick , Marianne loves Val , Val loves himself . By film's end , Dick loves Laura , Marianne loves Wade and everyone lives happily ever after . Despite the opening comments , " The Bad Sister " is not that hard to follow , even with it's soap opera feel . Bette Davis in her first film role displays some of her future star quality as Laura Madison , but here she's quite timid and demure , much unlike her many portrayals to come and definitely not the bad sister . That role is left for Sidney Fox , who as Marianne Madison displays all the manipulative , spiteful and bitchy behavior you just love to hate in a character . Marianne plays everyone for a fool , but sinks to an all time low when she forges her father's signature to a letter supporting a questionable business venture by the slick Val Corliss ( Humphrey Bogart in his fourth film ) . Corliss skips town , leaving John Madison's partners as well as Marianne literally holding the bag . Up to that point , the film offers a fairly respectable and tense drama , but literally implodes when the ailing father offers to take the rap and cover for Marianne . In a total reversal of character , Marianne admirably confesses , and the businessmen seem satisfied that her father will make good on their bad decision . But in an entirely too simple and unrealistic ending , the " reformed " Marianne is shown smooching with the bumbling Wade , while inviting all the rest of the happy family into the Madison home . It's a feel good ending that doesn't work for all that went before .
It's unfortunate that this film doesn't have more of a reputation . Had it not been for a four movie DVD compilation from Diamond Entertainment , I would never have come across it . The story involves a scheming wife out to murder her husband , a plot that backfires when her lover botches the job and winds up dying himself in a fiery crash . Poetic justice there , but the follow up is where things get interesting , as jilted protagonist Walter Williams ( Brian Donlevy ) spends his time trying to sort things out while keeping his real identity a secret . Helen Walker turns in a strong performance as the two faced Irene Williams , a character you'll love to hate as the story progresses . She showed she could think on her feet when being tailed by a detective and when her husband unexpectedly shows up after his three month disappearance . It's somewhat of a surprise then when one of the ' keys ' to her undoing winds up in her coat pocket . I couldn't quite warm up to the romance between Williams and would be mechanic Marsha Peters ( Ella Raines ) . Even in her garage gear she's an absolute knockout , and to be smitten with Donlevy's character seemed to be a bit of a stretch . Fortunately though , she had the tenacity and energy to team up with Detective Clancy ( Charles Coburn , not that one , the other one ) . Credit Clancy with the suitcase connection that finally unhinged Mrs . Williams ' story . Everything about the late 1940's settings works well , from the busy streets of San Francisco to the bucolic trappings of Larkspur , Idaho . My own home town had the same type of fire department signal system used in the story while I was growing up , so that was a neat memory . I'm sure younger viewers will have no idea what the ' Klondike 2 ' telephone number is all about , and when was the last time your cab ride cost $1 . 15 ? Throughout " Impact " , I couldn't help drawing comparisons with another noir flick from a few years earlier , 1945's " Conflict " starring Humphrey Bogart and Sydney Greenstreet . In that one , the scheming partner in a murder plot is the husband ( Bogey ) , and the deed is done on top of a winding mountain road . It's got a clever twist that trips up the bad guy without using a trunk full of evidence . Both films suggest that some of the best noir efforts of the ' 40's and ' 50's had single word titles .
This fairly standard Western features cowboy star Tim Holt and perennial sidekick Chito Rafferty ( Richard Martin ) as a pair of ranch hands who spend a lot of time trying to prove a recently released ex-con is trying to go straight . They manage to get him a job on the Bar Circle Ranch owned by Gail Martin ( Joan Dixon ) , who eventually becomes the love interest for Dave Collins ( Ross Elliott ) . The main heavy is Turk Thorne , portrayed by John Dehner , trying to make one big score of a gold shipment on the train that runs through Trail Head , Arizona . Collins used to be mixed up with Thorne's gang , and that's what wound him up in the State Penitentiary . Thorne's plan is to spring him legitimately , and set him up in the telegraph office to intercept the time that a big payday will come through town . Holt's counter plan is to play along with Thorne's scheme , but be there with Sheriff Lacy ( Kenneth MacDonald ) to nail the bad guys and prove Collins is one regular fella . There are a few hitches along the way , but rest assured the good guys prevail , and the romantic duo of Dave and Gail hook up in the end . Richard Martin provides his usual comedic malapropisms as Chito , he has something to say about " tenderhorns " and " greenfoots " in this one . And as usual , he has a never ending eye for the ladies , but doesn't get to see many this time around . Tim Holt had a nominally successful career with a string of " B " Westerns with the coolest sounding titles , like " Storm Over Wyoming " , " Thunder Mountain " , and " Under the Tonto Rim " . However the most memorable film he ever appeared in was a neat little title from 1948 , starring Humphrey Bogart . You may have heard of it - " The Treasure of the Sierra Madre " .
By now , the formula has pretty much run it's course , Detective James Lee Wong ( Boris Karloff ) is called upon to help solve the murder of a shipping magnate whose signature steamship , the " Wentworth Castle " has burned at sea with four hundred lives lost . This time though , it's Herald newspaper reporter Bobbie Logan ( Marjorie Reynolds ) who contacts Wong , playing her hunch that Homicide Captain Bill Street has once again arrested the wrong man . In this case , the suspect Dick Fleming ( William Stelling ) was in the same room with Cyrus Wentworth ( Melvin Lang ) when he died , as the fatal shot that killed him was heard in the next room by young Fleming's father ( Guy Usher ) , and Wentworth's assistant Matthews ( Wilbur Mack ) . As in the famed Charlie Chan series of films , things are never as they appear when Oriental Detectives are involved . James Lee Wong's investigation takes him to the address of Wentworth servant Lem How who's disappeared ; as agent Kai Ling , he's been on a secret mission for the Tong Society to return to the U . S . from China with one and a half million dollars worth of gold bonds for safekeeping . Bobbie , Street and Wong find Lem How murdered , and Wong goes on to discover that Lem How and Kai Ling of the Tong are one and the same person . Before it's all over , Wong takes a bullet to the arm , and the elder Fleming takes a near fatal shot while trying to take the rap for his son ; it was young Fleming's stolen gun that fired the fatal Wentworth bullet . It would be a misnomer to say the butler did it , in this case it was the chauffeur , specifically Wentworth's chauffeur who was fired for drinking and took revenge on his former employer . He was in league with Wentworth's attorney , who had his own objective - the gold bonds aboard the Wentworth Castle that never made it to the Tong . This would be the fifth and final film that Boris Karloff would portray writer Hugh Wiley's character James Lee Wong . Funny , for some reason he looked more " Chinese " to me in this film than in his prior outings . Fellow horror icon Bela Lugosi appeared in 1934's " The Mysterious Mr . Wong " as Fu Wong , a totally different character , and the series ended with Asian actor Keye Luke in 1940's " Phantom of Chinatown " .
" The Chinese Ring " is a passable entry in the Monogram series of Charlie Chan films , notable for Roland Winters ' first time portrayal of the Oriental Detective . In a strange departure from the usual strong continuity between films , Victor Sen Yung is presented as Number # 2 Son named Tommy ; he was Jimmy in all of his prior Chan films with Sidney Toler . Number # 3 son Tommy was portrayed in earlier movies by Benson Fong . Mantan Moreland is on hand as Birmingham Brown . The intrigue involves the murder of Chinese Princess Mei Ling ( Barbara Jean Wong ) and her servant ; the ring she uses to introduce herself to Charlie Chan is inscribed in Chinese - " Long life and happiness " . Stunned by a poisonous dart , she manages to write the name of " Capt K " on a scrap of paper in Chan's study . The clue leads Chan and Sergeant Bill Davidson ( Warren Douglas ) of the San Francisco PD in two directions . Captain Kong of the S . S . Shanghai Maid brought the princess to this country , while Captain James Kelso is the owner of the Kelso Aviation Company . Both are in league with banker Armstrong , eventually revealed as the mastermind of a plot to sell , but not deliver airplanes to Mei Ling's brother , a field marshal for the Chinese Army . This is a reasonably paced entry in the Chan series , particularly for Winters ' first turn as the Oriental Detective . Louise Currie provides great support as reporter Peggy Cartwright , although she's embarrassingly pushed around by romantic interest Sergeant Davidson . The mystery is a lot easier to follow than prior Chan films , many of which had up to dozen characters to keep track of ; here it's all wrapped up pretty neatly by film's end . Added on / 08 - Monogram Pictures originally made this film in 1939 as " Mr . Wong in Chinatown " , with Boris Karloff in the role of the title detective . In that story , the ' Captain K ' clue differed by one letter - ' Captain J ' . Otherwise , it's pretty much the same story , even including a variation of my summary line above , citing a ' murder in the house of Mr . Wong ' !
The movie's title comes from the nickname of the captain of ' The Lair ' , John Nelson ( Hobart Bosworth ) - ' recognizing work as the only creed and brute strength as the one law ' . Nelson's bitter nature dates back two decades from the time his wife left him for another man . In a parallel coincidence , businessman Tom Walton ( Emory Johnson ) signs up for a voyage on The Lair after being spurned by his fiancée . Once at sea , Walton befriends Nelson after the crew attempts to mutiny , though they were provoked by Nelson's hoarding the ship's drinking water for himself . Landing on an uncharted island , Walton discovers the two lone survivors of a shipwreck some sixteen years earlier . The young Blossom ( Bessie Love ) was born on the island and raised by her adopted ' Uncle Billy ' ( Richard Morris ) after her mother died during childbirth . Once it's revealed that Blossom recalls her mother's name being Nelson as well , the pieces fall into place for the old Sea Lion . He discovers a Bible diary and learns that his wife was shanghaied away from him , a farewell note manufactured to make it seem that the captain's wife ran away from him . With feelings of remorse , Nelson reunites with the long lost daughter he never knew he had . The movie comes in at just over an hour , and despite the odds defying circumstances of the story , it's one that keeps your interest . One minor downside is the dark rendition of the print , there's a portion of one scene that almost goes entirely black . Considering that it was made eighty five years ago , it's a small inconvenience to observe in a relic dating so far back . A silent from 1921 , it's not the kind of movie you'll find on the rack of your local video store or by cruising the cable channels . However if you keep your eyes peeled , you might find it as I did as part of a ten movie ' Pirates ' themed set on three DVD's released by St . Clair Vision . The set contains mostly titles you never heard of before , but uniquely offers some early screen appearances by future stars like Errol Flynn , Bela Lugosi , and Lon Chaney Jr . For silent film buffs , there's another entry in the collection titled " The Black Pirate " from 1926 , starring an athletic Douglas Fairbanks .
Another entry in the Mill Creek Entertainment collection of ' Cult Classics ' , a neat compilation of twenty films from the 1930's focusing on exploitation flicks that sidestepped the Hays Code to offer scenes of sexual titillation or the evils of substance abuse . " Gambling With Souls " falls in the former category , telling the story of a married woman gone wrong by virtue of going after the finer things in life . I actually found it to be one of the better stories in the set I have with only a couple pictures left to see . One of the things I just don't get from movies of the era is the disregard for real time events as presented to the viewer . The story opens with a stunner , ' Beauty Kills Lucky Wilder ' the headlines proclaim , as we see a montage of newspaper stories devoted to the raid on a local gambling club . Assuming that it took at least some time to put out a newspaper , it would seem that Mae Miller's ( Martha Chapin ) husband would know about it before arriving at the district attorney's office during her interrogation in an early scene . Overall , the story is a pretty grim affair , as Mae , and then her sister Carolyn ( Gay Sheridan ) get sucked into a spate of gambling losses leading to prostitution to pay off their debts . It's all pretty sordid , with a momentary break of comic relief offered by the guy with the hat bit who's too much of a rube to realize that he's being suckered . The biggest kick I got though was the quick flash of a byline acclaiming Dr . John Miller's ( Robert Frazer ) ' New Technique for Brain Surgery ' ! What ? ? ! ! I guess you have to put critical viewing aside and just relax to take in a film like this . The fun is more in seeing how things were done in a simpler time than in paying close attention to the story . I couldn't help noticing the resemblance between actress Martha Chapin and Britney Spears , perhaps a cautionary warning from seventy years ago that history is doomed to repeat itself . Seriously , if you enjoy this kind of stuff , or just want to sample a handful , I recommend that Mill Creek DVD set . Just remember , it's not brain surgery .
Like the opening song says , Roy , Gabby and Ray Hatton are a happy go lucky bunch of punchers in this quick paced story that moves West to New York and back again to the Circle R to have Roy Rogers save his ranch from a gang of would be land grabbers . The bad guys are after the molybdenum found at Skeleton Canyon on Roy's property . The story is one of those modern Westerns where technology competes with the cowboy life , as in an early scene when the good guy trio block the road of a passing car with their herd of cattle . Did cows really have the right of way back then ? Gabby and Ray share a fair amount of screen time here with Roy , usually in some kind of a dust up between themselves but always in a good natured way . They're at their best when they start a brawl at a night club to divert attention from Roy , who has his share of trouble in the picture . Say , how is it when the trio jumped on the East bound train with only the clothes on their back , they're shown at the Valley Stream Steeplechase with new suits ? Especially since Roy needed an extension on the next mortgage payment for the ranch . I guess viewers really weren't supposed to notice things like that back in the Thirties and Forties . There's probably a few other things you weren't supposed to notice , like how Gabby and Ray made it to the end of the horse race finish line at the same time as the riders - but they were on foot ! Or the shootout at the cabin back out West ; Gabby's firing at the villains in the cabin , but one of his bullets shatters a light fixture on the inside wall that's in the same direction as the line of fire . The bullet would have had to make a one hundred eighty degree turn in mid flight at the very least ! But for all that , it's still a fun paced Western that manages to pack it's share of songs by Roy , along with a tune by a gal named Louisiana Lou . This would be a good one to catch with Ray Hatton's choice of refreshment handy , a ' sasparilly ' with a whiskey chaser !
I can't bring myself to call this a bad film . Going by the title of course , I was expecting a huge helping of cheese to go with the story , but there was something intriguing to this tale of black magic and mystical animals . You'll have to get past the casting of Raymond Burr as a Spanish plantation worker , but that's really no worse than Warner Oland or Boris Karloff playing Chinese detectives . Lon Chaney , who's had his share of physical transformations is on hand as Police Commissioner Taro , investigating the death of the plantation owner , Klaas Van Gelder ( Paul Cavanagh ) . Brought down by the timely coincidence of Barney Chavez ' infatuation with Dina Van Gelder ( Barbara Payton ) and the appearance of a poisonous snake , Taro believes there's more here than meets the eye . The Van Gelder's servant Al-long ( Gisela Werbisek ) doesn't go for Barney's indiscretions , and puts her mystical talents to work casting a spell on him . Now here's what makes the film interesting for me . Instead of turning Barney into an ape , her voodoo curse makes him think he's turning into one . That psychological angle is played out throughout the film . As Barney begins to find himself at home in the jungle , his perceptions become ever sharper as he finds other jungle inhabitants afraid of him . The other workers on the Van Gelder plantation fear a " succarat " , a legendary demon at work . The one time the film breaks continuity comes near the end when Barney is shown picking up the body of the fainted Dina . It's done in full ape guise , whereas most other scenes referencing his gorilla delusion show him seeing himself as an ape or turning into one . Interestingly , no other person ever saw Barney as a monkey man . Barney manages to leave two damsels in distress by the end of the story . Right up until he marries Dina , he's been having a fling with Mrs . Van Gelder's personal servant Larina ( Carol Varga ) ; this guy gets around . I was waiting for Larina to follow up her little temper tantrum when Dina was getting ready to leave the plantation , but nothing ever came of that . For her part , Barbara Payton's talents were accentuated with very close fitting blouses and numerous shots in profile . If you take a minute to watch the opening scene again after viewing the movie , you'll wonder why it was handled that way . With the voice over narration of Lon Chaney , the screen scans the remains of the Van Gelder home in utter destruction , as if it was hit by a bomb . There's really no reason why the demise of Chavez would have resulted in that chaos , especially since the Van Gelder home had a willing buyer when the newlyweds first decided to head to Paris . Perhaps it was the jungle's way of bringing Barney Chavez to justice .
There are enough song , dance and Harpo routines in " The Big Store " to classify it as a musical , and that's just including the numbers done by the Marx Brothers . Throw in some additional tunes by co-star Tony Martin , and you've probably got more minutes of music than not in this 1941 frolic . The story involves Martin's character Tommy Rogers and his inheritance of half of the Phelps Department Store , and his intention to sell that share so he can pursue his musical career and marry his love interest Joan Sutton ( Virginia Grey ) . Store Manager Grover ( Douglas Dumbrille ) has other plans though , and they include doing away with anyone who'll get in the way of his taking over the entire enterprise . Pretty serious stuff , but with the Marx Brothers on hand , it'll take more than a couple of inept goons to win the day . Serious fans of the Marx Brothers will find this film to be one of their weaker entries , but this viewer managed to find it entertaining enough . The movie offers the only time when Harpo and Chico perform a piano duet in a movie together , and Harpo's three way mirror routine on his signature instrument is done with a series of effective double takes . However the action that I was more than willing to rewind for was Virginia O'Brien's rendition of " Rock It , Baby " , a highly energetic song done in complete deadpan style . I can't recall ever having seen a routine like it before , and it's hilarious . Rounding out the cast is perennial foil Margaret Dumont as Martha Phelps , widow of the deceased department store owner . She tries to balance her affections between the conniving Grover , and Groucho's character Wolf J . Flywheel . It probably doesn't matter much that Groucho's character is a detective , when reducing the store to shambles with the help of Ravelli and cousin Wacky ( Chico and Harpo ) is just a matter of time . Gags , one liners , music and destruction - what else could you ask for in a Marx Brothers movie ? - it's all here !
By the time they were through , Abbott and Costello got to mix it up with just about all of Universal Studios ' iconic monsters ; here they take their mayhem over to England to exchange pleasantries with Boris Karloff and his portrayal of Dr . Jekyll and Mr . Hyde . Karloff has a turn at a variation of the Wolfman gimmick , becoming the Hyde monster whenever he injects himself with a drug designed to do just that . He's been experimenting with concoctions that turn people into animals , and before it's all over , Lou Costello winds up as a large mouse and a derby wearing version of Hyde himself . As in many of their films there's also a romantic angle , this time with Helen Westcott and Craig Stevens doing the honors , to the consternation of Dr . Jekyll . Vicky Edwards ( Westcott ) has been Jekyll's ward since childhood , and he fancies himself a candidate to be her husband . This May / December match up is not going to work , so Jekyll figures to make things rough for Bruce Adams ( Stevens ) in the romance department . The London police department is turned on it's ear in search of monsters showing up all over the city after Tubby ( Lou ) takes a syringe full of serum . Having seen this film many years ago as a kid , the one bit I remembered best was the rooftop scene with Slim ( Bud ) , Adams , and the two Mr . Hydes doing the gag around the chimney . It was just one of the many scenarios requiring orchestrated timing , a hallmark of their comedies . This was Abbott and Costello's second screen pairing with the legendary Boris Karloff , the first time was in 1949's " A and C Meet the Killer " . Oddly , Karloff did not reprise the role he created for " A and C Meet Frankenstein " , believing that spoofing his creation wouldn't sell audiences . Even in the Jekyll and Hyde movie , he seems to carry an air that wants to rise above the slapstick . For Bud and Lou though , the gimmicks don't run out until the very end , when in the final scene the police inspector ( Reginal Denny ) and four of his men all become Hyde monsters after taking a " wolfman " bite from Tubby - Yikes ! !
Knowing that a hellbender is actually a large type of salamander , I was weirdly surprised to see that the flag draped coffin bore a likeness of a salamander on it . The Hellbenders were a Confederate outfit in the film , with leader Jonas ( Joseph Cotten ) and his three sons attempting to revive the Southern cause with a million dollars in stolen money . The story starts out rather unbelievably as Jonas , with only two sons , wipe out a thirty man Union convoy from behind rocks and trees . Now that there's a ten thousand dollar bounty on their heads , their march back home to Nashville is fraught with peril on all sides . Jonas himself is rather a vile sort , establishing his authority early in the story , and when he yells jump , his sons know enough to ask how high . The development of the story allows enough time for son Ben ( Julian Mateos ) to come to question his father's autocratic supremacy , in no small part aided by a newly hired stand in daughter after maniac Jeff ( Gino Pernice ) dispatches the gold digging Kitty . However high stakes gambler Claire ( Norma Bengell ) is more than a match for Jonas when she pulls a fast one and has the group headed for Fort Brant where she insists her manufactured husband be buried . The whole time you wonder what evil plan Jonas will cook up for his ' daughter ' . There were a couple of clever symbolic moments in the story which left me wondering whether they were intentional . When the Indians appeared to seek justice for the death of the chief's daughter , it provoked a family Civil War , brother against brother with the outcome satisfactory to the chief . Anticipating a " Treasure of the Sierra Madre " type of ending , I expected to see the coffin release it's contents to the desert winds . The twist of course was just as satisfying , and led directly to an understated definition to the film's title . With time running out and the mission at a collapse , it was fitting to see the wounded Jonas slither across the parched banks of the Rio Hondo looking just like , well , a hellbender .
This is the first time I've seen a Lone Wolf movie , and I was struck by the similarity to the Bulldog Drummond series from the same era . Not only did the main characters have a canine nom de plume , but each featured a comic relief butler and a fetching female hanger on that can't wait to get married . In the Drummond franchise , the marriage just around the corner bit was carried from film to film , though I don't know how the Lone Wolf series handled it . I'll have to wait and see . The caper involving Lone Wolf Lanyard ( Warren William ) also hints at those encountered by Drummond , Charlie Chan , and Mr . Wong , to name a few other detectives of the era , even though Lanyard isn't a detective per se , but a retired safe cracker who appears to be on the right side of the law . I found it odd that he considered himself ' old ' at thirty five ; it gives one a sense of how far we've come as a society that puts a premium on perpetual youth . Can you picture George Clooney admitting that he's old ? The story involves a set of plans for a new anti-aircraft gun , with lead villain Gregory ( Ralph Morgan ) attempting to steal the prints and frame Lanyard for the theft . I couldn't shake the feeling that the whole thing was done pretty much tongue in cheek , as the Lone Wolf seemed to be the only competent character amidst a jealous girl friend ( Ida Lupino ) , bumbling henchmen , inept detectives , and an aspiring G-Man , er , Woman daughter ( Virginia Weidler ) who likes to stick up the butler in repeated scenes . You even get Rita Hayworth as a femme fatale , a pretty classy villainess I must say . It's too bad attempts at humor often fell flat , like the Charlie Fenton gimmick at the surrealist party . Speaking of which , you can see the folks behind this ' B ' grade mystery didn't have a big budget to work with , as party guests showed up with boxes or cellophane wrapped around their head , making Lanyard's tree branch outfit look almost creative . Hey , I did get a kick though out of that car chase around the coffee shop . By the third time around , someone figured out there should be a police car in front of it so the cops could give pursuit ! If you're a fan of the earlier mentioned mystery and detective flicks of the Thirties and Forties like I am , you'll be able to have some fun with this one . They're interesting diversions and offer a glimpse of what audiences considered entertaining at the time . Just don't hold them under a magnifying glass . $38 . 70 for lunch ! ! ! !
I was surprised to see the Warner Brothers / First National name attached to this film ; their many movies of the era often presented a social ill as a backdrop to a story headlined by one of their main contract players . " Shadows on the Stairs " seems to have been done with just entertainment value in mind , and it works , up to a point . Had the story finished as the mystery it set out to be I would have been much more satisfied . However the " twist " ending only insures that it never actually occurred , which leaves one feeling somehow cheated . With that off my chest , I'll agree that there were some interesting characters and a curious set up designed to keep the viewer off balance . The opening scene in particular had a Charlie Chan feel to it , complete with dark alleys and a dock scene involving some type of contraband . The denture challenged Miss Snell ( Mary Field ) and the comical constable ( Charles Irwin ) provided laughs both intentional and otherwise . The two questions viewers will ask themselves along the way are " What's in the box ? " and " Who's under the shawl ? " . At film's end they are both a moot point of course , but that still leaves one question . Why would the key of any occupant at the Armitage boarding house be able to open all of the rooms ?
I'm sure this was the wrong choice for a first time viewing of the fabled Tracy / Hepburn team , about a third of the way in I was scratching my head over just about everything in the film . With awkward pacing , stilted dialog and prolonged sporting sequences that eventually wear out their welcome , I had trouble reconciling the inadequacy of the script with the presence of it's principal players , under the direction no less of the talented George Cukor . The set up is plausible enough , allowing an athletic Katherine Hepburn to show off her tennis and golf skills while building self esteem and confidence to make the break from a domineering fiancée . Considering their entire lack of chemistry however , that didn't require much of a stretch . I found Collier Weld ( William Ching ) to be no less than completely annoying in every scene , made even more so by his uncanny resemblance to Peter Graves . The trouble is , I really didn't detect any chemistry between Mike Conovan ( Tracy ) and Pat Pemberton ( Hepburn ) either . When the most he could muster in the way of a compliment was " That sure is a pretty dress covering you " , I managed a silent groan , later to be topped by Mike's dismissal of Collier - " You are the wrong jockey for this chick " . Can you imagine Cary Grant being given lines like this ; I'm so relieved that he didn't appear in this one . And was anyone else as uncomfortable as I was when Hepburn had those ' licking ' conversations with Davie Hucko ( Aldo Ray ) and her promoter ? Even the theatrical trailers for this film wouldn't have enticed me to catch this back in 1952 . The animated teaser trailer plays like an era toothpaste commercial , while the Aldo Ray introduced clip would more likely convince me to avoid the movie altogether . Speaking of Aldo Ray , I'm sure he must have had something that recommended him for future film work , he was hilarious in 1955's " We're No Angels " . However here he's co-billed as ' that new sensation ' , but quite honestly , he comes off as a big lug . Back to the trailer , if you watch Ray's eyes , you can see him moving them back and forth as he reads his lines promoting the film . Probably the best thing in the movie for me was catching a slew of future stars making spot appearances throughout the film , starting with Jim Backus in the golf shop . By this time however , Carl ' Alfalfa " Switzer is almost totally unrecognizable from his ' Our Gang ' days ( he's the busboy who makes it to the police station ) . Chuck Connors has a prominent introduction in his first screen appearance as the State Police Captain , while a young Chuck Bushinski shows up as one of Conovan's questionable business ' investors ' . It's a nice little role for the future Charles Bronson . Keep your eye on the back wall of the police station , you'll be able to make out a set of instructions for dealing with intoxicated drivers - " Establish Positive Identification When Using the Drunk Repeater Cards " . Don't take my swipe at the film as a total put down , it's just that I didn't find a lot in it that worked , even for the early 1950's . Especially having just seen the decade earlier pairing of Hepburn and director Cukor in " The Philadelphia Story " . I understand that Hepburn wanted Spencer Tracy as one of the leads in that film , but as it turns out , I think it's better they waited .
If William S . Hart's birth date listed on the IMDb is accurate , and my math is correct , he would have been sixty one years old in the picture , which I find to be pretty amazing . Considering that his on screen sweetheart Miss Molly ( Barbara Bedford ) in the story is twenty two , I'd say that some of the early silents didn't let realism get in the way of a good story . Hart does show his age though in the opening minutes of the 1939 re-release version of the film where he opines about the death of the Wild West and his love of making movies . There are moments though where he goes for the melodrama and it comes across as almost comical yet sad at the same time . This is the only Hart film I've been able to get my hands on , and I'm glad to have been able to see the legendary cowboy in even this one effort . As far as stories go , it's all fairly standard and formulaic , but with some neat elements mixed in . For example , after viewing a few hundred Westerns over the years , not one in the bunch ever mentioned the positions of cowpokes in a cattle drive before . Here we're treated to a couple of neat title cards depicting a Pointer and a Wheeler , pretty cool I thought . As for action scenes , two instances involving Hart are worth mentioning as stand out . There's the pole vault he used to escape the ' Sooner ' stockade in the latter part of the film , along with that magnificent ride on horseback into the Cherokee Strip ; that race sequence looked phenomenal . Hart's sidekick in the film goes by Kentucky Rose ( Lucien Littlefield ) , with the gnarly bearded look that reminds one of those two ' Fuzzy's ' - Knight and St . John . He gets entangled in a somewhat unbelievable relationship with the pioneering Widow Riley ( Lillian Leighton ) , and it looks like he won't be a ' tumbleweed ' by the end of the story . Most of Kentucky's comedy relief comes by way of facial expressions ; for his part , it's a hoot to see how Hart deals with a frustrating cowlick . " Tumbleweeds " winds up symbolizing a way of life that was already disappearing by the time of the late 1800's , a life characterized by a constant roaming and search for meaning . Hart and Kentucky epitomize the ' tumbleweeds ' of the story , finding themselves out of place and out of synch with a country that wants to settle down , with Hart's character best expressing the sentiment evoked by the film's story - " The only land I'll settle down on will be under a tombstone " .
Like most of the Charlie Chan movies of the same era , it might help to keep a score card here to keep track of all the players . Mr . Moto ( Peter Lorre ) , true to characterizations in earlier films in the series , relies on his skills as an anthropologist as well as a detective to solve this , his final case . He's on the trail of a psychopathic criminal genius long presumed dead , coaxed out of hiding by the discovery of the crown of the Queen of Sheba on an Arabian dig . Not only does Moto don a disguise in the film , so does his adversary , the evil Metaxas , before the case is put to rest . The last couple of Moto films paired the Japanese detective with a comic sidekick , this time around it's G . P . Huntley as the Brit , Archibald Featherstone . His gimmick consists of outing Moto's undercover alias a number of times and taking numerous pratfalls . Someone like Reginald Denny might have been more effective in a less physical role , but hey , we take what we get in the Moto films , all of which are to be viewed for entertainment value and Lorre's understated portrayal . I got a kick out of the scene at the Fremont Museum in Professor Hildebrand's office when it's discovered the phone line has been cut . Instead of simply stating that , Moto offers - " Someone deprived this instrument of all utility " . Couldn't have said it better myself . It would have been cool to see Mantan Moreland show up in the Moto series , but instead Willie Best appears in this one as a driver with a few quick lines and a fender bender . He also had a few moments in the Moto adventure on Danger Island . The real surprise for this story is the appearance of one of the better known and respected veterans of the era , Lionel Atwill , usually cast as a villain or mad scientist . The finale almost has you hooked into believing him to be Moto's quarry , but of course that was just a red herring . I'm still thinking about how Moto solved this case , explaining that the scoundrel Metaxas ' footprints on the carpet changed from a walk to a limp when he entered the Professor's office . It sounds good , but how does one detect a limp in a footprint ? It might have made more sense to have the cane as part of that set up . Anyway , not to be too harsh , this film is just as much fun as any in the series , which in retrospect might have been all too brief . The Charlie Chan movies ran to forty two films , not counting a couple for which the prints seem to have been permanently lost . However three different actors portrayed the Oriental detective in most of those flicks , but one would probably agree that the only actor to own the Moto role would rightfully be the wonderful Peter Lorre .
" Any Gun Can Play " probably has more ' vamanos ' and ' andeles ' than any spaghetti Western out there , while mixing in it's share of black hats , stogies , beards and ponchos . The opening scene is a blast , it will make you sit up and take notice of some familiar , yet unfamiliar characters who aren't around long enough to worry about . The film keeps you guessing as to the relationship of it's three principals , as alliances are made and broken with tenuous regularity , with bandit Monetero's lady even switching sides when it suits her . I got a kick out of the way the self proclaimed ' Stranger ' ( George Hilton ) kept raising the ante on the reward for Montenero's ( Gilbert Roland ) capture , and wondered if the authorities were on the same page . Even though Edd Byrnes ' ' kookie ' persona kept intruding , he still managed to maintain a sufficiently duplicitous posture as banker Clayton . The slick move he pulled with the spilled drink to catch a reflection struck me as surprisingly clever . The best though was taking up the pugilistic stance to mix it up with the Stranger , that was hilarious ! The movie has some outstanding cinematography purporting to be the border of Mexico and it provides a great scenic backdrop to the action . The ' tres cientos mil ' dollars at the core of the story is never seen until the end of the picture when it showers the principals and even then , I had the impression that if the three hombres had it to do all over again , it might have gone an entirely different way .
" Frontier Pony Express " features an early starring role for cowboy Roy Rogers , one in which he acquits himself reasonably well . Set in 1861 , Roy's a Pony Express rider and acknowledged as the best in the business , so it would be a major victory for Senator Lassiter Calhoun ( Edward Keane ) to convince Roy to cast aside his Union loyalties and work for the Confederacy . Calhoun's plans however go beyond that , he's attempting to establish California as a separate republic , one which he will lead as it's president . Rogers can't be bought , and the dramatic tension is established early on a number of fronts . Virtually all of Roy Rogers ' films employ a sidekick , and this one follows the pattern . Ray Hatton portrays Horseshoe , a trapper whose running gag has to do with a brooch he acquires from Mrs . Murphy ( Ethel Wales ) for a valuable beaver fur made from jackrabbits ! Horseshoe spends the length of the story trying to get it back as it trades hands among different folks in the story . Roy's romantic interest in the film is portrayed by Lynne Roberts , going by the name of Mary Hart . She played opposite Roy for a number of films in the late 1930's , to be followed by Pauline Moore , Jacqueline Wells and Sally Payne before Dale Evans became a staple following " The Cowboy and The Senorita " in 1944 . Hart's character flip flops loyalties a few times before the story's over , but winds up getting together with Roy in the finale . Generally , Roy would get to do at least three or four songs in his later films . Here he does a couple , including the standard ' My Old Kentucky Home ' and another tune titled ' Rusty Spurs ' . I was curious as to the selection of the first song , since Roy was a Northern sympathizer in the film . Even more curious though was the role of Roy's horse Trigger in the film . It appeared that Trigger was a Pony Express horse that Roy used during the story and didn't personally belong to him . Nevertheless , Trigger had his own reputation of sorts among the Express riders , since he was often requested by name . A riderless Trigger winds up saving a pouch full of Union vouchers by diving off a cliff into a lake to escape a bad guy posse , thereby earning another gold star as ' The Smartest Horse in the Movies ' . I'm sure there are loads of ' B ' Westerns with the Pony Express as a focal point , though I've only come across a couple myself . For anyone interested , check out the 1936 film titled " Cavalcade of The West " . It explores the beginnings of the Pony Express , and offers Hoot Gibson in a featured role .
This is only my second viewing of a Terrence Hill / Bud Spencer collaboration , the other being 1972's " La Collina Degli Stivali " or " Boot Hill " , the title I saw it under . I've yet to see a Trinity film , so maybe my opinion will change , but I don't see a whole lot to be enthused about regarding their output . " God Forgives . . . I Don't ! " was better than " Boot Hill " , an almost unintelligible affair made more complicated by a dark and muddy appearance that contributed to it's being hard to follow . This one for the most part took place during the light of day , and even though the story had a decent continuity , I didn't find it all that special or intriguing . What's more , I don't recall either Hill or Spencer mentioned by their credited characters ' names , that of Cat Stevens and Hutch Bessey . Maybe they were , but the story didn't make it clear enough for me , and mentally I had to keep referencing them as Pretty Face and the ' fat guy ' . On the other hand , outlaw Bill San Antonio ( Frank Wolff ) stood out nicely villainous in contrast . He might be the best reason for tuning in . The other troubling issue with the film version I saw today on the Encore Western Channel had to do with some clumsy editing . The best example I can think of was right at the finale when San Antonio was about to face a showdown with Pretty Face and Bessey . Somehow Bill took down the fat man ( ? ) , whereupon the Face caps him in the knees forcing him to a crawl . With time running out , Bill attempts to disarm the explosive with his teeth , there's a clumsy cutaway and then all of a sudden an explosion and it's all over . Not too suspenseful and definitely not too satisfying . I don't know , maybe back in the heyday of spaghetti Westerns , this might have been something new and different , but there are still enough better ones around , particularly Eastwood's trilogy . In fact , now that I think about it , that's kind of how Terence Hill's character strikes me , sort of a poor man's Clint Eastwood , who's own take as the Stranger leaves just a little something to be desired .
It's interesting to see who Humphrey Bogart is paired up with in his films following the Warner Brothers days . This time out it's Lee J . Cobb as a French colonel and Swedish actress Marta Toren . The story takes place in 1925 Syria , as French forces operating under a United Nations mandate have a difficult time containing Syrian insurgents bent on governing themselves . The comparisons to " Casablanca " are unavoidable , but at least in that film , one has a general sense of history and can lay a finger on the Nazi villain . In " Sirocco " , it's difficult to empathize with either side in the conflict as neither is particularly sympathetic or likable ; perhaps in hindsight that's one of the strengths of the film . Bogey's character is a gun runner with a checkered past and without hint of morals or principles . While Rick Blaine might have been a ' citizen of the world ' , Harry Smith's political convictions don't carry him that far - he's up for the highest bidder . As such , he's not very sympathetic or likable either , receiving a back handed compliment from Toren's Violette - " How can a man so ugly be so handsome " . It would have worked the other way around too . Dingy underground catacombs give the movie a claustrophobic feel as Harry takes it on the lam following a grenade bombing in a café . Violette invites herself along to Cairo , and the way Smith caved in to her request seemed a stretch , it was like no , you can't go , you can't go . . . oh , alright let's go . The lack of urgency and any remote chemistry between the two wasn't convincing enough for this viewer to have her along for the ride . In any event , you won't think of dried apricots in the same way again . If the film's ending was meant to capture a particular poignancy , it's meaning was lost on me . Smith's demise seemed senseless and unnecessary , and then the story ends in a heartbeat . The fate of Violette is a loose end which just adds to the unsatisfying conclusion . " Sirocco " could have been much more and certainly had a cast capable of pulling it off , but putting a checkered bow-tie on Bogey was just asking for trouble .
The first half of the movie has a compelling set up that will remind you of " In The Heat of The Night " , a film made five years earlier . The story diverges pretty rapidly though in the second half , preceded by an ominous breathing pattern that heralds the first hint of the title character . By that time , you should have had enough hints to figure out who the " loup-garou " was , though for the life of me , I could have sworn old Hugh was talking about a ' lucaruk ' . No matter , when Louise Rodanthe ( Barbara Rush ) reaches for her brother's scholarly text on lycanthropy , you know it's only a matter of time before Andrew ( Bradford Dillman ) reveals his hairy side . The story makes use of some tried and true werewolf lore , like death by burning and silver bullets , and throws in some new ones like sulfur induced seizures . I particularly enjoyed the reference to Black Water Fever as an offshoot of malaria to describe Andrew's medical problem . However I don't recall Lon Chaney ever being this strong ; those iron jail cell doors were ripped right out of their brick wall moorings with no effort at all . If there were to be a remake of this made for TV flick , I would suggest they tone down the werewolf wardrobe a bit . The pressed slacks and fitted shirt were suitable attire for the daytime Andrew , but didn't really go with his after hour activities . Ditto for the well groomed facial hair and manicured nails . But then again , this was a refined Southern werewolf , so maybe it makes sense . " Moon of the Wolf " has some well known folks doing a pretty good job in their respective roles . David Janssen is suitably methodical in his investigation as Sheriff Aaron Whittaker , and unwilling to rush to judgment . Fine character performances are turned in by Geoffrey Lewis and Royal Dano , who look as comfortable in their bayou locale as in any of the Westerns they appeared in . With a stronger second half , the film might have achieved a more memorable name recognition than it has today .
Those familiar with the background of this movie know that it started out as " Charlie Chan at Ringside " , and was hastily re-cast when Warner Oland died . Keye Luke maintained his role as Number # 1 Son Lee Chan , and Harold Huber appeared as head of the homicide department , similar to the roles he played in a pair of Chan films just prior to " Mr . Moto's Gamble " . They included a New York City police inspector ( Charlie Chan on Broadway ) , and a French police officer ( Charlie Chan at Monte Carlo ) . In this outing he plays it just a bit straighter , though his character gets a little erratic as the film progresses . What was interesting to me was how the film makers managed to get in a reference to Charlie Chan , as son Lee extends his regards to Mr . Moto from his ' pop ' , and Moto graciously praises the masterful work of the senior detective . All the while I was trying to catch a hint of recognition in Keye Luke's facial manner for a reaction to Oland's passing , but that did not materialize . Also interesting , and maybe more so , was the way this film maintained the continuity of the early Twentieth Century Fox series of Charlie Chan films . The movie completed by Warner Oland and Keye Luke just prior to this one was " Charlie Chan at Monte Carlo " , and in that story , Lee Chan had a painting on exhibition in Paris . In ' Gamble ' , Lee is an aspiring detective taking one of Mr . Moto's classes , however officially he's enrolled as a university art student . I always found those subtle and clever inserts into the pictures to heighten my enjoyment of the films . As for the story itself , Mr . Moto becomes involved in the ' poison glove ' killing at the request of Lieutenant Riggs ( Huber ) , and is only too happy to oblige . He solves the crime in a more linear fashion than Charlie Chan would have , with enough clues along the way to help the viewer hone in on the killer - " To reveal a snake one must overturn a rock " . Along the way , ' Slapsie ' Maxie Rosenbloom provides some comic relief as a scatterbrained kleptomaniac , and it was cool to see Ward Bond as boxing champ Biff Moran . There was one element though that just didn't make sense . When it was agreed to lift boxer Steele's ( Dick Baldwin ) suspension so he could fight for the world title , THAT VERY SAME NIGHT ! ! ! , newspaper headlines around the country carried the story ! Just how fast could news possibly travel back in the 1930's ? Hey , when was the last time you could get ringside seats to a main event for $4 . 40 ? Obviously 1938 , but you'd pay more for a hot dog at the matches today . " Mr . Moto's Gamble " was the third installment in the Moto series at Fox , and once again , Peter Lorre blends his insightful analysis and martial arts skill into an effective effort . You might feel at times he's putting up with the clunkiness of Lee Chan and detective Riggs , which is what Charlie Chan would have had to do , but in the end you have a satisfying story that paces solid detective work in a sports setting .
The absurdist nature of the film doesn't hide the basic premise of the story - conformity to a herd mentality is to be resisted at all times if one is determined to remain an individual . The rampage of the rhinoceros ( es ) / rhinocerii ( ? ? ) may serve to distract the disengaged viewer , but if you're paying attention , you'll get it pretty clearly . Even Stanley ( Gene Wilder ) , seemingly immune to rhinocerization , in a way falls victim to his own brand of conformity - getting drunk on weekends to escape the fact that he ' can't get used to life ' . My question would be - where did Zero Mostel get the energy to pull off that rhinoceros transformation ? That was a pretty challenging and inspired piece of work . Can you just picture him over at the Bronx Zoo rhino pit evaluating the huge animal's every movement and idiosyncrasy ? They were all incorporated into that magnificent characterization that had to go on for a significant portion of the story . It seemed that even Wilder was entranced by the performance . As for Karen Black , I wonder whose idea it was for her to wear that front slit skirt to distract the audience ? Herd mentality at work , right ? It worked on me , along with those long , leggy shots in every imaginable contorted position . It's too bad she became a rhinoceros too , she had such promise . I had never heard of this movie before until spying the title on one of the cable channels today . The story description hooked me right off , leading me to schedule my day so I could catch it . I guess that could be a submission of sorts as well , but it was worth it to catch the principals in their prime in the sort of inspired lunacy that was considered their trademark .
" Find the murderer and you'll find the diamond " is uttered by Sherlock Holmes ( Basil Rathbone ) more than once in the early going , however the diamond is in Holmes ' possession the entire time . That would be the Star of Rhodesia , a 422 carat diamond , whose ownership over the years has resulted in unfortunate circumstances . The current owner , Margaret Carstairs , has hired Holmes and his bumbling companion Dr . Watson ( Nigel Bruce ) to protect the bauble on a train ride from London to Edinburgh . Carstairs ' son Roland is the first murder victim , and the hunt for the killer and the diamond is on . Director Roy Neill uses some deft sleight of hand by introducing a suspicious elderly couple uttering self incriminating remarks and nervous about the presence of a Scotland Yard detective on the train . When their crime is revealed as a stolen teapot from a London hotel , it momentarily breaks the tension , but why one asks would Inspector Lestrade ( Dennis Hoey ) find the need to perform an official follow up . Come to think of it , everyone on board the train acts rather suspiciously , but then again , that's the point . With a limited cast confined to a handful of compartments on board , Holmes needs to act rather quickly before the train reaches its destination and discharges its passengers . The brains behind the jewel heist is known to the viewer before Holmes breaks the case . Shades of Moriarty , it's a former ally of the nefarious villain , a self styled math wizard , which coincidentally is the profession of another passenger . It seems to me though that Major Duncan-Bleek , alias Colonel Sebastian Moran ( Alan Mowbray ) was established in the film as a long time friend of Dr . Watson . How would he not have been recognized by members of the law enforcement community , including Holmes himself ? Therein might be cause enough for a re-viewing . That aspect aside , the film was intriguing enough to keep this viewer entertained . I have often found the dialog in Sherlock Holmes films to be hard to follow due to a tinny sound quality , though this one fared well enough . The coffin ruse was an effective device as well , keeping one guessing until Holmes pieces it all together . Cleverly done and well recommended .
Watching " Santee " on the Encore Western Channel wound up leaving a lot more questions than answers for me on a number of different levels . The most troublesome aspect of the story was young Jody Deakes ' ( Michael Burns ) willing team up with Santee ( Glenn Ford ) following the confrontation and killing of his father . That seemed like just a little too much of a stretch from both sides of the coin . Putting myself in Jody's shoes , and even if my old man was an outlaw , I think at the very least I'd be looking to ride off and be glad I didn't catch a bullet myself . From Santee's perspective , there was always the distinct possibility that Jody could turn on him at a moment's notice , particularly after Jody made it an obvious threat . So there's that . But even before the showdown that took out the elder Deakes ( Robert J . Wilke ) , I was left wondering how much of a bad a - - Santee could possibly be that Deakes preferred to take it on the lam rather than have his gang mount a stand against him . There was ample time and distance to set up an ambush , even if Santee could have taken out a couple of them which would have seemed likely . I don't know , the whole story didn't seem to be set on a firm foundation , and I found myself scratching my head more than once . But it was cool to see Jay Silverheels in a non-Tonto characterization as Santee's friend and hired hand . He showed a much greater range of acting ability than we ever got a chance to see as Lone Ranger's sidekick . When he got misty eyed at the thought of Santee riding off to face the Banner's , I was reminded of that memorable anti-pollution commercial of the era in which Iron Eyes Cody shed a tear for a troubled environment ; seems to me that Silverheels might have been just as effective . And speaking of Silverheels / Tonto , I was intrigued by the appearance of John Hart's name in the opening credits . Though I couldn't pick him out in the picture as the character Cobbles , I was hoping to catch a glimpse of him and Silverheels in a scene together . Not many fans know that Hart appeared in a little over fifty episodes as The Lone Ranger when Clayton Moore sat out a season in a contract dispute . Another puzzling aspect of the picture had to do with the cinematography . As gorgeous and bright as the the daytime landscape scenes appeared to be , they were offset by the murky , almost muddy night time and darkened interior photography . I think a few other reviewers on this board might have offered an insight into that , as this was an early attempt to film with videotape . It wasn't enough to distract from the picture too much , but it did leave another one of those question marks . And for the biggest question mark of all - what was with that song ' Jody ' ? ? ? It sounded so out of place in a Western drama that I had trouble containing a compulsion to laugh out loud . Performed by Mark Lindsay of Paul Revere and the Raiders no less , not the creative association I would have come up with if I were producing this picture . But I didn't , so that's that . Anyway , Glenn Ford fans will want to catch him in one of his final leading roles , but that might be the single reason to recommend watching " Santee " . Even so , I had to wince a few times , that is , whenever he got up on his horse - I didn't think he'd make it . In addition to his arsenal , he was packing on quite a few pounds at this stage of his career . He may have had a feared reputation as a bounty hunter , but he sure was no Josh Randall .
The thing I noticed about thirty minutes into the picture was how complicated the plotting got for a movie from the early Fifties . Not what I was expecting from a title like " The Lemon Drop Kid " , whose title character is wonderfully performed by one of my all time favorites - Bob Hope . Hope is his trademark self most of the time with the snappy quips and one liners , but it wasn't just Hope playing Hope , indeed it appeared that Bob actually got into his character based on a Damon Runyon story . With any other actor , The Lemon Drop Kid might have come across as the smarmy con man that he was written to be , but Hope makes him a likable chap , even when he's robbing you blind . The other major curve that the picture throws at you about mid-way through is that all of a sudden , it becomes a Christmas story ! I wasn't really ready for that , and yet right from the opening sound of " Silver Bells " , it all seems to fit together perfectly around a con game to bring home the bacon for Nellie Thursday's Home For Old Dolls . Hope has just the perfect cast of characters to pull off this grift - Jay C . Flippen , Ben Weldon , and Tor Johnson among others , and it was especially cool to catch William Frawley in a role apart from his Fred Mertz character . I'm not so sure this bunch could have pulled off the caper in real life quite so easily , but I think you can cut the film some slack in that regard ; getting there was all the fun it could be . With any of these older flicks , I'm always on the lookout for reminders of simpler times gone by - how about a hot pastrami sandwich for fifty cents ! Say , I wonder too , if you can still get a salami gift wrapped for the holidays ? There's also the era preoccupation with getting as many profile shots of the picture's leading lady into view as possible . On that score , Marilyn Maxwell's figure never disappoints , strategically positioned whenever possible in conversation with Lemon Drop or Oxford Charley ( Lloyd Nolan ) . After a while I began to wonder why she ever stuck it out with The Kid , but I guess every heel has some redemptive qualities . I don't know if I'd make this a must see every year at Christmas time , but then again , it might not be the worst choice out there . It takes you back to a way simpler time than say , " Bad Santa " , and you won't have to screen out the language for young viewers . All in all , a fun picture and a fine effort from Bob Hope and his gang of usual suspects .
Even without the presence of Vincent Price , " Curse of the Fly " turns out to be quite the effective sci-fi horror thriller , and for me , a welcome treat courtesy of my local library , since I didn't know this third entry in the " Fly " series even existed until today . The picture effectively follows up on events of the original Price thriller , which I remember to this day as one of the all time great horror flicks to leave it's indelible impression on my youthful upbringing . Even if it doesn't have the audacity of ' Pleeeasee , help meee " , I thought the picture did a real fine job of spanning the generations utilizing the original teleporter gimmick . But gee , what's with the whole VE3TTF Montreal / G2FRR London business ? Did the Delambre's really have to go through all that protocol just to talk to each other ? It seemed pretty clever the first couple of times , but wore thin after awhile , and after all , who else would it be on the other end of the line ? But I guess that's part of what gives this flick it's unique character . What's really unique though was the way the picture opens . That was a head scratcher actually , I had to check the DVD sleeve to be sure I was watching the right movie . Escaping from the Fournier Mental Hospital ( nice set up ) , Pat Stanley traverses the Canadian countryside in her underwear until rescued , so to speak , by Martin Delambre ( George Baker ) on his way back home to Montreal . Now think about this - without ever questioning why she might have been traipsing around in her undies , the couple spends a week together before Martin pops the question . Not exactly the best recipe for a lasting marriage , but then again , there have probably been odder scenarios . The fact that you never even see a ' Fly ' in this movie shouldn't come as a let down ; the whole idea of the picture supports the premise of a Delambre legacy that resulted in tragedy the first time around , and continues to rear it's ugly head , or other mutations as the case may be . The creature effects are reasonably daring enough without going over the top , thereby helping to maintain suspense throughout . If I were rating the trio of pictures in the ' Fly ' series , I'd place this second to the original starring Vincent Price . Brian Donlevy is convincingly conflicted and creepy enough to take up the Delambre mantle as he tries to keep his sons in line with the scientific mission . Besides the principals , Burt Kwouk and Yvette Rees are convincing as the loyal Asian servants , but one has to wonder - Tai and Wan - Taiwan ? Who makes this stuff up ?
I always liked Burt Reynolds , but have generally seen him in self effacing roles that allow his humorous and devilish side come through ; that's probably why " The Longest Yard " is my favorite Reynolds film . I think he handles his movie Western roles well enough , but it's not the genre I prefer seeing him in . In " The Man Who Loved Cat Dancing " , Reynolds ' character is a driven man on the trail to retrieve his two children from a Shoshone tribe , left behind we come to learn , after he killed the man who raped his wife , the ' Cat Dancing ' character of the film's title . That he also killed his Indian bride in a jealous rage is a point that seems to be glossed over in the story , and doesn't square with the sense of honor and justice that Indian tribes maintain for their own personal conduct . I was left wondering why Jay Wesley Grobard ( Reynolds ) was even allowed to return to the Shoshone camp , and once there , why he wasn't called on to atone for his past . In fact , Grobard wasn't even an honorable character at the start of the movie , but a train robber who's gang is disrupted by the intrusion of a woman on the run from her husband . The story's twist is that her own name is Catherine / Cat , thereby completing the connection with the title character . Of course , Catherine's ( Sarah Miles ) husband hires on a tracker ( Lee J . Cobb ) to find his wife who he believes is kidnapped . You never get the impression that Crocker ( George Hamilton ) isn't a decent enough guy in his own right , only that his wife doesn't love him enough to want to stay married . With Grobard's gang , Catherine gets more than she's bargained for , having to fend off the lecherous likes of Bo Hopkins ' Billy , and Jack Warden's Dawes . Dawes in particular turns out to be the vile snake of the bunch , just check how many kidney shots he gives to old Billy Boy . Reflecting back on that now , the arrival of Catherine turns out to be the undoing of just about everyone in the picture . It was cool to see Jay Silverheels in one of his last movie roles , but gee , they went kind of heavy on the old warrior makeup to portray him as Shoshone Chief Washaki . The Chief had one of the better lines in the picture as he parleyed with Grobard - " The cigar was one of the white man's good ideas " - an interesting observation . But probably the best was Billy's description of Catherine after she cleaned herself up on the trail - " Well , if she don't look as fresh as a daisy next to an outhouse " ! What wonderful imagery .
Raymond Massey and Humphrey Bogart head the cast of this World War II epic detailing the role of the U . S . Merchant Marine , a film apparently convincing enough that it was used as a training film for the real military branch of that name . In fact , the action sequences are very real and convey a sense of what it must have felt like to be under fire and in peril most of the time the men were at sea . Bogart is Chief Officer Joe Rossi , and Raymond Massey is Captain Steve Jarvis , first of the ship " Northern Star " , and later aboard the more modern ship the S . S . Seawitch . The Northern Star was blown out of the water by a German submarine , the villainous Nazis shown ramming the survivors ' life boat and casting them adrift for eleven days before being rescued . Curiously , when the men are found aboard a raft , the remains of their ship is seen still smoking behind them in the background ; it seems to me this marker should not have gone unnoticed by search parties for almost two weeks . Bogie and Massey both have love interests back on dry land , actually Rossi has a girl in every port as his character is portrayed . Though in a whirlwind romance he manages to meet , marry and leave his wife Pearl ( Julie Bishop ) for active duty , all in what seems like a matter of days . Jarvis on the other hand , has had a long marriage to an understanding wife , capably played by Ruth Gordon . She has an atypical reaction to his next assignment - " To a sailor's wife , war is just another storm " . On the opposite side of the spectrum , Alfred " Boats " O'Hara ( Alan Hale ) finds refuge at sea ; he's been married a number of times and finds war safer to matrimony - " Those Liberty boats are sure well named " . He's part of a colorful supporting cast that includes a hot headed Polish seaman named Pulaski ( Dane Clark ) , and a dedicated cat lover who stows his pets aboard ship each time out . Probably the most curious thing about the film is how the whole rag tag bunch manages to stay together throughout the war . I'm curious as to the accuracy of the scene where the boys all sign up for a hitch together aboard the Seawitch . The second half of the movie offers an interesting cat and mouse game between the German sub and the Seawitch . With Captain Jarvis severely wounded , Rossi takes over command and hits upon a clever ruse to defeat the Germans . Setting his ship on fire to make a torpedo hit seem more disastrous than it really was , he directs the ship to ram the surfaced U-Boat , destroying the sub and it's occupants . As the Seawitch makes it's way into the Russian port of Murmansk , an American commander comments on their cunning - " It's not a miracle , it's American seamanship . " Not that it's all guts and glory for the Amercicans , the tragic side of war is conveyed effectively as well . For an early 1940's film , there are a number of battle scenes depicting bodies flying in the air quite realistically amid explosions and torpedo strikes . The poignancy of death is handled discreetly with a burial at sea presided over by Bogie's character . War time audiences must have found some solace in films like this , at a time when patriotism was still a respected ideal .
The parallels to the same year's " Angels With Dirty Faces " is unmistakable , right down to the character of Father Jerry , portrayed in this picture by Paul Kelly . I'm a bit curious about the opening scene in which the street sign marking 35th Street and 11th Avenue also states Hell's Kitchen ; I wonder if that was really the case . Or if it's the case today , I'll check the next time I'm in the City . This was actually a fairly compelling gangster / crime drama , centering on five friends who palled together as the Death Avenue Cowboys . Growing up on different sides of the law , they collide in a series of events triggered by Marty Malone's ( Victor McLaglen ) insistence on collecting a gambling debt . Events quickly spiral out of control when one of the O'Mara Brothers suspects foul play in the death of a gambler connected to Malone . Mike O'Mara ( William Gargan ) learns the truth behind his boyhood friend's connection to brother Joe's ( John Gallaudet ) death , culminating in dire consequences for each of the principals . The female member of the ' Cowboys ' is played by Beatrice Roberts , the adult Helen McCoy . I've seen Victor McLaglen in a few leading roles ( 1937's " Sea Devils " comes immediately to mind ) , and this might be his best effort as a headliner . Actually , he pretty much carries the picture , with William Gargan in a decent supporting role as policeman Mike O'Mara , attempting to get to the bottom of Joe's death . McLaglen's death scene doesn't evoke the same tear jerk response that Cagney's did in ' Angels ' , but it's still effective within the confines of his former childhood gang . For followers of the Little Rascals / Our Gang flicks , the opening scene will be reminiscent , but with a little harder edge , as Death Avenue Cowboys might suggest . The surprise in the film credits , for me at least , was seeing Wild Bill Elliott listed as gambler Brewster who welshed on his debt with Malone . The other puzzler involved the gang roster engraved in the wooden plaque at the beginning of the story ; why was Marty Malone , the leader of the ' Cowboys ' and the oldest member , listed last ?
Ann Savage gets my vote for the person I would least like to meet under any circumstances , much less as a hitchhiker at a desert gas station . Her character Vera in Edgar Ulmer's noir mind bender " Detour " sets a new standard for women of her disposition , those with a capital ' B ' . The film builds intensity as it's protagonist Al Roberts ( Tom Neal ) finds himself in a nightmare world , if not of his own creation , then at least one in which he shares major complicity . His character's voice over narration reveals a tortured mind , feverishly painting himself into a corner from which there is no escape , until events spiral out of control and strand him in an emotional twilight zone . It would have been interesting to see how any number of scenarios might have played out given some of the film's set-ups , such as the dying millionaire or the mysterious coughing fits suffered by Vera . Instead , her manic manipulation of the spineless Roberts suggests only one sure outcome , that at some point this powder keg must detonate . One might have expected a more direct confrontation , though Vera's demise is ultimately suited to her own unique propensity for evil . Sorry , wrong number . " Detour " is a strangely disorienting movie , with a reputation that transcends it's modest origins . Even it's ending , which seems like the end of the road for Roberts , leaves enough left open to the imagination to suggest that perhaps he can work things out with just the right roll of the dice . But what about Haskell , what about his dying father , what about Vera's corpse at the rooming house , what about Sue ? The movie leaves more loose ends than any other I've ever seen , and doesn't even seem to care . In that respect , it's a lot like Al Roberts at the end of his rope , with the viewer left to decide whether or not to kick out the chair .
I didn't know Turner Classics had a cult movie night until I scanned the listings yesterday to see what was playing . Even though it was showing at 2 : 00 A . M . , it was worth the trouble to stay up and tune into this bizarre flick , which might be compared to a politically incorrect episode of the ' Addams Family ' . You know you've got serious weirdness when the sanest one of the bunch is Lon Chaney Jr . , portraying a caretaker for a trio of siblings whose stock in trade is murder and cannibalism . But don't let that sentence put you off , this stew pot of a film is a blast , with a familiar cast of cult classic mainstays , chief among them Sid Haig as demented brother Ralph . I got a kick out of the dinner scene when talk turned to old time horror films , and when Chaney's " The Wolf Man " is mentioned , he comments - " There's going to be a full moon tonight " ! There's also a great nod to " Psycho " with all the stuffed birds in the Merrye mansion . It was also wonderful to see Mantan Moreland in one of his later movie roles , even if his screen time was abruptly ended . He was always fun to watch in those Monogram Charlie Chan films and zombie flicks of the 1930's and ' 40's . Come to think of it , he looked as good here in his sixties as he did back in his prime . Speaking of looking good , Carol Ohmart got a bit racy with her bedroom dance number , but did anyone else get the idea that she could have been Meryl Streep's sister here ? Her best known film role was that of Vincent Price's wife in one of my earliest horror films as a kid , " House on Haunted Hill " , gave me the willies for a week . Listen , if you've had it with the plethora of slasher / gore nonsense coming out of the mainstream media today , you owe yourself a viewing of this bizarre flick . It's impressionable enough to stay with you for days after a single viewing , and comes close to living up to it's tag line - ' The Maddest Story Ever Told ' .
Paramount Pictures bought the rights for the Broadway play ' Sabrina Fair ' expressly for Audrey Hepburn , coming off of the phenomenal success of her very first film and Oscar win for Best Actress the prior year in " Roman Holiday " . With a two million dollar budget and seven weeks of shooting in October / November of 1953 , " Sabrina " was filming even before there was a finished script . Director Billy Wilder even asked Hepburn to fake an illness on the day they were shooting a scene still being rewritten ! The result however remains one of the all time great romantic comedies , casting Hepburn against a pair of mismatched brothers , David ( William Holden ) and Linus ( Humphrey Bogart ) Larrabee . Linus in fact is such a corporate stiff that he's seen dictating a letter to his brother about reporting to work on time , while David seems singularly obsessed with fast sports cars and hit and run marriages . I found it amusingly interesting that the Larrabees were getting into plastics well before Dustin Hoffman could get that advice in " The Graduate " . Two years at cooking school in Paris transforms the waif like Sabrina into a fashionable young woman who's learned how to live . Responding to her father's constant lament that she should stop reaching for the moon , Sabrina counters that now . . . " the moon's reaching for me " . As a stand in for his brother , Bogey proclaims himself Joe College with a touch of arthritis as he begins to court Sabrina . But he does manage to pull off one of the smoothest moves of his movie career when he comments ' it's all in the family ' just before kissing her for the first time . One can just imagine how audiences of the 1950's might have been taken with the glamor and party life depicted in the film , unattainable as it was for the majority . Yet in the midst of it all , Audrey Hepburn exhibited a natural and quiet sophistication that endeared her to an entire decade of movie goers . Her self assurance in the role of Sabrina earned her a second Best Actress nomination in as many films . Stay attentive , and you'll catch Bogart's character request his secretary for a pair of tickets to ' The Seven Year Itch " . Ever the self promoters , Paramount was already getting audiences ready for their next big hit for the following year , also to be directed by Billy Wilder .
I usually find it helpful to keep a scorecard when watching a Charlie Chan film to keep track of all the characters , for this one , you need it just for the action . Yikes ! - it took about twenty movies in the Chan franchise to build up to four dead bodies in one outing , but here they pile up fast and furious . Mr . Moto ( Peter Lorre ) is not above dispatching a few himself , and just as he did in the first film of the series ( Think Fast , Mr . Moto ) , winds up throwing a man over board . There are other similarities as well , the biggest coincidence being the use of the name Marco Polo ; here it's the name of a bridge , while in ' Think Fast ' , it was the name of a cruise ship . By this time , we know Moto to be an importer operating as a detective , but here we learn that he's also an adventurer , explorer , soldier of fortune and one of the Orient's great mysteries . Or so he's described by businessman Tom Nelson ( Thomas Beck ) . In the story , Moto seeks to protect a missing scroll that when joined together with others to form a pattern , indicates the location of the burial place of Genghis Khan and a vast treasure . Of course , a host of others seek to own the desired scroll , as much as Madame Chung ( Pauline Frederick ) and her son , the Prince ( Philip Ahn ) are determined to protect it . Oddities abound in the film , as in the opening scene when Moto in disguise dispatches an assassin in the Gobi Desert , and proceeds to bury him - inside the tent ! John Carradine makes an appearance in the story as an antiques dealer named Periera , and for some unexplained reason uses the terms ' senor ' and ' senorita ' when addressing Nelson and Eleanor Joyce ( Jayne Regan ) . And say , could there really have been an American bar in China in 1937 called ' Mike's Place ' ? But you know what , most of it doesn't matter , because Mr . Moto is a bundle of energy uncovering the bad guys and tracking down the stolen Chung scrolls . He even concocts a romantic link between the main heavy Koerger ( Sidney Blackmer ) and Miss Joyce to create a jealous rage in Madame Tchernov ( Nedda Harrigan ) , thereby undermining the villains ' plot to discover the treasure . But the biggest shock of all is the way it ends , and for that you'll have to see the picture . With just a couple of the Mr . Moto films under my belt for now , it's quite unusual to see how differently he operates compared to the other Oriental Detectives of the era , notably Charlie Chan and Mr . Wong . Whereas the latter two solved their cases much more methodically , Moto combines clever analysis and martial action to achieve his results , and the results are entirely entertaining . Peter Lorre adds a distinctive flair to the Moto persona , and gets one excited about catching the next film in the series - Oh , so !
Humphrey Bogart excelled in crime , gangster and noir films , but he acquits himself reasonably well in the World War II adventure film " Sahara " . He portrays an American tank commander waylaid in the Libyan Desert with two comrades , radio man Jimmy Doyle ( Dan Duryea ) and machine gunner Waco Hoyt ( Bruce Bennett ) . With their trusty armored tank Lulubelle ( Lulubelle ) the opening scene has them following general orders to retreat in the face of a German advance that has them blocked on three sides . Running into the remnants of a British 8th Army unit , the sides hook up to form an international group of ragtag soldiers whose fortunes shift more than the desert sands around them . Besides the inherent story of good versus evil , and freedom versus Nazi propaganda , the film also serves as an effective psychological drama in it's one on one vignettes focusing on members of the group . Particularly effective is the cat and mouse game played out by Bogey's Sgt . Gunn character and his German counterpart Major Von Falken ( John Wengraf ) . At this point in the picture , Gunn and company had virtually nothing to lose in a desperate gamble to hold off the enemy until support could arrive . Or would it ? In a brilliant scene , two Allied soldiers pretend to lavish themselves with bathing water , when it's just about all they have to share among ten men . But take your pick . For a film that comes in at just over an hour and a half , it deftly details the backgrounds of it's principals and provides an insight into their motivations and humanity . Each of the Allies in turn prove to be heroes in their own way while maintaining a soldier's discipline . Even Italian prisoner Giuseppe ( J . Carroll Naish ) has a chance to shine in his eloquent argument against the downed German flier ( Kurt Kreuger ) , preferring imprisonment rather than fighting against an enemy he doesn't hate . Powerful ! The film effectively places the viewer in that most uncomfortable of elements , a vast barren desert where you can feel the searing heat with every awkward step in the sand . Needed light moments are provided by the side bets Waco and Jimmy have on the outcomes of their sergeant's decisions . When Gunn hands over Waco's winnings at the end of the movie , you wish that everyone could have come out a winner and a survivor .
Consider the casting for the three leads in " We're No Angels " - Humphrey Bogart , Peter Ustinov and Aldo Ray . It doesn't seem to work on paper , but in this film , the trio have such a comedic rapport that the film winds up a delight . The setting is Christmas Day 1895 , and all three are escaped convicts from Devil's Island with the notion of returning to Paris aboard a ship anchored in Cayenne harbor . What starts out as a casual afternoon to steal some money and kill some time , turns into a mission for the amiable villains . They spot a likely target , the shop of proprietors Felix and Amelie Ducotel ( Leo G . Carroll and Joan Bennett ) . Offering their help to fix the shop's roof , they eavesdrop their way into the lives and hearts of their hosts , which also includes daughter Isabelle ( Gloria Talbott ) . Leo G . Carroll plays his role along the same lines as his Topper character , amiable but somewhat bumbling . It's no wonder the shop makes no money ; Bogart's observation - " I got ten years for a better set of books than this " . To create just the right amount of tension , Felix Ducotel's cousin Andre Trochard ( Basil Rathbone ) arrives to take stock of the business , and can find no better fun than to spend Christmas Day going over the books . In tow is his nephew Paul ( John Baer ) , for whom Isabelle has nursed a year long crush . In a mock trial , the criminal trio find Andre guilty and leave it to their pet snake Adolph to carry out the sentence . " We're no Angels " is one of those rare films in which you find yourself rooting for the bad guys . The one liners are brilliant , and shared equally among the three rogues . With deadpan delivery , Ustinov's Character Jules lovingly refers to the Ducotel's - " People like that , how can you cut their throats ? " . At film's end , the strain of playing it straight with the Ducotel's causes the convicts to reevaluate their plans ; it would be much easier to return to prison where they can feel more at home . The dapper trio sport halos as they make their way back , with one more for good measure for Adolph . This is not your typical Christmas movie fare , but I can understand how it could wind up on your list of holiday favorites .
Wildly implausible plot elements are standard fare for " The Last Boy Scout " . No , no , I don't mean the corrupt Senator or the megalomaniac sports team owner , those are pretty much the norm for action films because they occur with such regularity in real life . I'm talking about a hard boiled private detective who escapes death with a monologue of fat jokes , and a thirteen year old daughter who makes a save with a handgun in her puppet . They just don't make ' em like that anymore . The thing is , if you want to be critical , this movie provides enough fodder for serious thrashing . However if it's a fast paced action adventure wrapped around a spirited buddy pairing , then you'll find it here , all wrapped up in quick one liners and snappy banter between Bruce Willis and Damon Wayans . The duo seems to share a monumental detachment from tragedy in their own lives and a commitment to provide the same for the opposition . But gee , how do you manage to walk around at the end of the day if you've been pummeled as much as these guys have ? Halle Berry fans will have to pay attention during her brief screen time ; her demise in the film is not a pretty picture . Taylor Negron is notable as a sadistic hit man , which reminds me of another implausible plot point . Just on the off chance that he might have survived the car crash into the pool , why would Joe Hallenbeck ( Willis ) leave his daughter there with the homeowner ? I guess the question's not so rhetorical , it's so she could be kidnapped to advance the story into the football stadium for the next round of mayhem . For Bruce Willis , this could have been with some modifications , an entry in the " Die Hard " series , as many of his films could be . His character generally remains the same from picture to picture , but if you're a fan , that's OK . The film earns it's title with the squeaky clean personal code of it's lead hero , reinforced by an autographed sports card from Wayan's character signed " To the daughter of the last Boy Scout " . Be prepared !
The title suggests a more whimsical tone , but " The Barefoot Contessa " is anything but , instead it's a dark and dreary examination of a doomed Cinderella who would have been happier if left undiscovered . Ava Gardner portrays that Cinderella , rising from an impoverished heritage in a dysfunctional family to a life of Hollywood glamor and parties on the Riviera . Not once though do you get the impression that she enjoys any of it ; even at her wedding the servants have more fun than the aristocrats . Told in flashback style through the eyes of three men close to the Contessa's career , the film is a savage indictment of celebrity phoniness and the corruption of money and power . Oddly , Humphrey Bogart's character , a screen writer and director , manages to make it through the entire affair with a semblance of dignity and respect . Battling his own alcoholism , Harry Dawes ( Bogart ) is believable when he challenges studio boss Kirk Edwards ( Warren Stevens ) and confronts publicist Oscar Muldoon ( Edmond O'Brien ) for the snake oil machinations of his occupation . Actually , O'Brien's performance is a mini standout for the picture , one that earned him a Best Supporting Oscar . Any scene involving his character makes you want to run for a shower . It may have been a line in the film , but if not , I like the comparison of Bogart's character as a ' fairy godfather ' to Gardner's Maria Vargas . Harry Dawes is at the same time a participant and a watchful outsider in Vargas ' career progress , with only his own good intentions for a reward . We get a good insight into his motivation when he pulls a fast one on Edwards by inviting three international film agents to a showing of the Vargas screen test . Now they all realize her star potential , virtually guaranteeing that she not be bullied into a one sided contract . Maria Vargas ' own dreams never seem to mesh with her meteoric rise to stardom , instead she always longs for solace in the arms of a life partner who can bring about a happy ending to the Cinderella story . Instead , the hopelessly naive actress settles on an arbitrary solution to carry on the Favrini heritage that virtually assures her doom . Ultimately , the film dissolves into a dark and utterly sad finale for a character whose life worked out as if it had been the subject of too many bad movies .
The setting is Comanche Creek , Colorado , 1875 ; a band of outlaws headed by Amos Troop ( DeForest Kelley ) breaks an unsuspecting jailbird out of the town lockup and kills the deputy . The gang then uses the outlaw as a front man for their other robberies . As the reward money on the bad guy escalates , the gang then shoots him and turns him in for the reward , all nice and legal like . Only trouble is , this time the victim was a member of the National Detective Agency gone undercover , and a close friend of Bob Gifford ( Audie Murphy ) . Now the job of infiltrating the gang goes to " Gif " , who insinuates himself into Comanche Creek society as a free spending high roller , as the agency creates a back story and wanted poster for " Judd Tanner " . The earlier Murphy Westerns usually cast him in the baby face role of a good guy ; in 1959's " No Name on the Bullet " , Murphy's character John Gant was a hired assassin , and even then his youngish countenance didn't seem to match his character . Here the older Murphy pulls off the outlaw gimmick a bit better , with wits quick enough to match the ever changing dynamics of his masquerade . When the cover is blown on the agency plant , Tanner maintains his cool , only revealing his identity to gang member Bill Carter , who's anxious to leave the outlaw life behind . With a lesser known supporting cast , the gunfight of the title eventually sets things right and settles the score against the bad guys , who have been masterminded by the sheriff of Comanche Creek , Marshal Shearer ( John Hubbard ) . DeForest Kelley is so closely identified with his Star Trek role as Dr . Leonard " Bones " McCoy , it's easy to forget that he appeared in a fair share of Westerns , beginning with a 1949 Lone Ranger appearance . He also turned up in episodes of " Gunsmoke " , " Trackdown " , " Rawhide " and a host of others . " Gunfight at Comanche Creek " winds up being a fairly intriguing Western , made so by the plot twists that keep Murphy's character on his toes . I found the background narrative a bit annoying though , as the story played itself out well enough without the commentary ( by uncredited narrator Reed Hadley ) . Otherwise it's a generally worthwhile hour and a half of Audie Murphy entertainment . Update - / 2007 - Apparently , this movie was a remake of the 1957 film , " Last Of The Badmen " , with Audie Murphy reprising the role of George Montgomery . Both movies were released by Allied Artists , even though the writers credited for each film are different . Check it out !
Though he drops a couple of notches in the screen credits from his first picture , " Sinners ' Holiday " , James Cagney still dazzles as a top mobster's second in command and hones the skills that will find him topping the bill for 1931's " The Public Enemy " . Funny how Cagney's smart aleck attitude and mannerisms got him stereotyped as a gangster right out of the block , and he made it seem all so natural . As for the story , Warner Brothers takes yet another stab at the menace to society theme with it's take on mob violence and competition between rival gangs . This was my first look at Lew Ayres , who heads the cast as crime boss Louie Ricarno . In an opening scene , he's out to ' teach a guy a lesson ' for being a rat , and from there he sees an opportunity to bring all the local big shots together under his own umbrella . Though generally effective in the role , I did find it somewhat humorous when Ayres went into that surly pensive mood from time to time throughout the story . I also got a kick out of the scene in which Ricarno fancies himself as big a man as Napoleon , and Cagney does a mock impersonation of the dictator to the amusement of Louie's girl Doris ( Dorothy Matthews ) . With the back drop of Louie going straight and retiring to Miami with his new wife , the film throws a minor curve with the autobiography he's writing . I thought for sure that police captain Pat Grady ( Robert Elliott - O'Grady in the credits ) had it right when he offered the suggestion - " Don't write the last chapter till the night you go to the chair " . Instead , knowing that there's no safe way out of the flop house he's holed up in , Louie gussies himself up for a ' handful of cloud ' . The finale is effective for Warners ' purposes , the fade out hones in on the rewritten last page of the Louie Ricarno story , the ' doorway to hell ' swings only one way . Keep a sharp eye and you'll catch a typo in the gangland slaughter headline of the newspaper Louie reads in the boarding house - it reads ' grewsome ' for ' gruesome ' . For an early talking picture , I found the film to be fairly well written and acted , most of that contribution coming from the main principals , Ayres and Cagney . I would like to have seen a better resolution of the Ricarno / Mileaway relationship , particularly since Cagney's character just disappears after his ' confession ' , and even more so because of his heavily implicated fling with Ricarno's wife - very risqué stuff for the 1930's . The scene in the cab when she removes her ring probably brought a few gasps to audiences of the time , don't you think ?
The opening of the story is a little disorienting , you have a city traffic scene and for a while , I was getting upset that the movie I was watching wasn't the one featured on the DVD sleeve . But then the opening credits offered the title I was expecting , so it was with an ' OK ' , this could be interesting , that the rest of the picture unfolded . Though nominally a Western , what you have here is an early sci-fi experiment in the concept of virtual reality with an 1880's back drop . The premise of ' Blood City ' itself , the Project as it were , was to choose a leader for an elite corps of killers in the real world . By weeding out the losers , project designers attempted to identify someone who could lead a military unit to victory based on their ability to make rational decisions in stressful situations , as well as survive the ordeal . What surprises me is that the concept was tackled in film way back in 1977 , thirty years ago , yet the timing only a couple short years after the end of the Vietnam War suggests that the search for ways of insuring victory in future conflicts was well under way . So much for theorizing . Except for the poor production values of the picture itself , I found the whole premise fairly fascinating . As the story progressed , the cut aways to the lab began to make more and more sense , particularly when Samantha Eggar's character began interjecting her own values into the game to affect the outcome . It would have been interesting to learn what became of the people who were ' killed ' in Blood City , the story didn't take it that far . As for Lewis's ( Keir Dullea ) decision to return after being terminated , the film allows for a quandary . Apparently , subjects chosen at random for the experiment didn't have recourse for a return to their former life , even if they could remember it . Of course , we don't get to see what happens when the machines are turned off . One thing I was left wondering about was why the identity cards with the murder scores on the new arrivals was introduced in the first place . That idea didn't seem to have any bearing on the story that followed , even if it helped set up the plot . Was it the point to establish the remaining kills needed to achieve ' immortality ' ? If so , that idea was negated by the fact that new arrivals could attain immediate citizenship with their first kill . Anyone ? I guess the reason I enjoyed the film as much as I did was because of it's way of asking more questions than it answers . Whenever I try to wrap my brain around the concept of virtual reality , a la " The Matrix " for example , it starts to make my head hurt . I don't even want to think about living there like Lewis . Hey , check this out - watch the scene where the camera cuts away from the dead Maxine for the last time - if you look real close , you'll see she opens her eye !
I picked up this flick as part of a double film DVD offer along with " The Hanged Man " for just a buck , and truth be told , both movies were a whole lot better than either had a right to be for the price . The title on this one was " The Gun and The Cross " , close enough to the original to get the message across . The title character wields both , as Marjoe Gortner is revealed to be gunfighter Ernie Parsons , masquerading as a preacher after he finds a real one who was bushwhacked . Donning the clothes of the dead minister , he arrives at the town of Castle Walk just in time to help the local folk deal with nasty town boss Ross ( David Huddleston ) . It's fairly formulaic , with nods to 1952's " High Noon " and 1973's " High Plains Drifter " , along with a preview of 1985's " Pale Rider " . However with it's own spin on things , it comes across both interesting and entertaining , particularly with the inclusion of Pamela Sue Martin as Gortner's love interest . Their scenes together are played both for romance and camp value , and I got a kick out of Sally ( Martin ) explaining how she wouldn't be the youngest widow in town if Parsons were to meet his demise . Along with the principals , you have some fine supporting players doing character portrayals you might have seen before ; Slim Pickens as a sidekick of the preacher , Geoffrey Lewis as a hired gun , and Estelle Parsons , who starts out somewhat annoying as Sally's mom . but then settles down a bit to accept the preacher and his mission . The ending comes as just a bit of a surprise , and you have to fill in your own blanks as to the town's reaction , especially Sally's , when Gortner's character realizes Billy's ( Pickens ) advice is correct . Though it's not likely to show up on TV again , it wouldn't hurt to check out the bargain bins at your local store every now and then to see if this one turns up .
Here's a fine gem from Columbia Pictures , offering Humphrey Bogart in his final film role . Much has been written of his failing health due to cancer of the esophagus , and in truth , Bogey does have a drawn and tired look around the eyes in this film , even though it rightly fits his characterization of sports publicist Eddie Willis . Eddie is drawn into the corrupt world of professional boxing when promoter Nick Benko ( Rod Steiger ) enlists his aid in trumping up phony stories about Nick's latest protégé , Argentine heavyweight Toro Moreno ( Mike Layne ) . Toro is " strong as a bull but green as a cucumber " , and is billed as the Wild Man of the Andes and the South American Heavyweight Champion . The film builds on strong emotions and sentiment , as the down and out of work Eddie Willis shuns newspaper pay just to stay alive , preferring a bank account instead . Jan Sterling verbalizes Eddie's unspoken conscience as wife Beth , who understands her husband's frustrations , but wants him to do the right thing by the poor hulking brute of a boxer Toro . Giving the film it's raw power and energy is Steiger's portrayal of corrupt promoter Benko , whose characterization approaches sheer villainy , building on the character he established in 1954's " On the Waterfront " as Charlie " The Gent " Molloy . Nick has no trouble agreeing to Eddie's squeeze for a written contract and a percentage of the take , knowing that he stands to make thousands with Toro's rise to contender status . Nick shouts out orders and expects no hesitation to his demands , and his henchmen jump when he says jump , so it's with all the patience he can muster that he tries to deal with Eddie's frequent bouts of conscience as he tries to look out for Toro . Giving the film additional credibility is the presence of two outstanding heavyweight boxers , Jersey Joe Walcott as Toro's trainer George , and Max Baer as World Heavyweight Champion Buddy Brannen , who threatens to butcher Toro in their championship match to prove the contender has been unfairly promoted . I got a kick out of Toro's tour bus , a schlocky attraction as it travels Western fight towns from California to Chicago . As it pulls into New York City , the vista presented is a veritable treat for nostalgia fans , with glimpses of 1950's era city blocks , and storefronts promoting an array of products ranging from Maxwell House Coffee to Admiral TV and Whelan Drugs . " Eddie , you are my friend , help me go home " is Toro's plea as Nick Benko's talons dig deeper into his troubled psyche . When Toro suffers a broken jaw in his final match with the champ , Eddie is brought back to his senses by Walcott's character - " Some guys just sell out , and other guys just can't " - referring to Toro's punishment at the hands of Buddy Brannen . Offering the boxer his own tainted share of Toro's winnings , Eddie boards him on a plane bound for Buenos Aires , so Toro can buy his mother a house and his father some new shoes . Benko's crooked financier Leo ( Nehemiah Persoff ) meticulously cooked the books to show that Toro's share of New York's million dollar gate amounted to a mere forty nine dollars . The film ends with a somewhat unsatisfying conclusion as Nick confronts Eddie in his apartment , threatening him with bodily harm for sending Toro back home , after Nick sells the fighter's contract to fellow boxing club member Wyerhause ( Edward Andrews ) . Eddie sets out with renewed purpose to fight corruption in the boxing game with his typewriter , the title of his expose - " The Harder They Fall " . By 1956 , Humphrey Bogart was no stranger to movies about the world of sports . Besides this offering , Bogey teamed with Edward G . Robinson and Bette Davis in another boxing themed film as far back as 1937 , with " Kid Galahad " , later remade with Elvis Presley . But for a real offbeat Bogey performance , try to get your hands on a copy of 1938's " Swing Your Lady " , in which he portrays the manager of a hillbilly wrestler , perhaps his goofiest role in a film that defies classification .
This obscure ' B ' Western stands a cut above most with some creative writing and rather good performances by the principals . The film also offers a number of elements that I hadn't seen before after reviewing almost three hundred Westerns in this forum . Though a standard feature for this venue , the barroom brawl here is one of the longest and best staged fights you'll ever see , initiated by cattleman Tom Waggoner's ( Eugene Palette ) response to a couple of cowpokes who reach for their guns ( see my summary line above ) . Once the fur starts to fly , you'll notice a couple of saloon girls join the action , and they manage to get the upper hand in their respective segments . Speaking of saloon girls , there was also a spirited song and dance rendition of ' When Johnny Comes Marching Home ' by an actress who wasn't the female lead , another rarity . For that role , it was a surprise to see Jane Wyatt in an early film appearance , looking rather gorgeous as the hotel manager in Broken Lance . She spends her time in the film balancing her affections between the picture's star , Richard Dix , and Victor Jory , portraying the brother of town boss , Steve Barat ( Albert Dekker ) . Jory always manages to succeed well in his roles , and is one of the few actors who can pull off hero and villain roles just as easily . In this one he straddles the fence for pretty much the entire picture , keeping you guessing on which way he'll turn by the finale . Speaking of which , one gets a fairly good impression that Jory's character didn't make it , but if this was a serial , he would have shown up in the next chapter . Then there's Willie Best in a comic relief role , used unfortunately to so much of the stereotype of a scaredy cat black man when facing danger . There was also an unfortunate line uttered by John Bonniwell ( Dix ) when he asked ' Bones ' to " Come here boy " . This was a pretty common occurrence in pictures of the era , and subliminally comes across as racist . With today's rarefied sense of political correctness , the comment was certainly noticeable , however Bonniwell treated Bones well throughout the rest of the story . As for the story , a couple other reviewers do a good job of explaining the basic plot , so I won't dwell on that . With my viewing , I was on the lookout for supporting and uncredited actors that often pop up in these oaters , and " The Kansan " is a gold mine if you pay attention . Robert Armstrong is a Waggoner cattleman behind a mustache , and Rod Cameron is on board as a cowhand . It's easy to miss George Reeves in that quick shoot ' em up opening scene as Jesse James , while Jason Robards Sr . operates as one of Steve Barat's bank tellers . The rest of the uncredited cast holds a whole pile of bit actors whose names pop up in Westerns all up and down the Forties and Fifties .
This film has taken a lot of heat for it's role as a prequel to the Paul Newman / Robert Redford classic , but I think if you give it a chance it stands on it's own legs fairly well . The uncanny part of the picture is the remarkable resemblance ( most of the time ) that Tom Berenger and William Katt have to the stars of the 1969 original . While some of the banter between the two might seem awkward at times , it has the feel of two future buddies getting to know and trust each other and therefore appears more realistic than forced . The nods to the original are apparent without being over done , and it's cool to see Jeff Corey reprise his role as Sheriff Ray Bledsoe , even if he looks older here . Future relationships with characters Harvey Logan and Joe Le Fors are also introduced , creating just enough interest for fans of " Butch Cassidy and The Sundance Kid " to keep tuned in to see what happens next . My viewing of the film last night was the first , having over the years shied away from it because of my fondness for the original , but you know what - it was entertaining and one could definitely do worse . I'd recommend a look , even if it's only effect is to make you appreciate the original even more .
I generally have some reservations about tuning in to a silent film , but once I do , they usually turn out pretty well . " The Black Pirate " was no exception , my first encounter with the legendary silent action-adventure hero Douglas Fairbanks ( Sr . ) . His swashbuckling feats of dynamic swordplay and athletic scaling of ship's rigging were genuine sit up and take notice moments , especially since he was doing all of his own stunt work . It wouldn't be too far off to say he does it all here , including the obligatory ' walk the plank ' as a result of trying to help a captive Princess escape her pirate captors . One downside of my experience of this film based on other reviewers - the print I saw was in black and white . Even so , there was enough going on to maintain one's interest , not the least of which was all the cutthroat pirate chicanery . I was surprised how the film intimated how a poor crewman was slit open to retrieve a ring he swallowed to prevent it's becoming booty . That was a nasty piece of business . The one scene that played out amazingly well both visually and the way it was choreographed was the underwater swim by the seamen who arrived by longboat to help Fairbanks ' character defeat the pirates . One thing though , once on board the Merchantman , didn't it seem like there was a whole lot more of them than could have arrived in the first place ? One curiosity , the pirate crew liked the idea of holding the Merchantman ransom for fifty thousand pieces-of-eight , suggested by Fairbanks ' character . However if you freeze the frame on the first part of the ransom note to the Governor , the amount demanded in Roman numerals is XXVII ( assuming that what looks like a ' C ' is actually a parenthesis ) . That would only represent twenty seven , as the word ' thousand ' is written out . As much fun as the film is , if you're really paying attention , a couple of plot points just don't make much sense . After Fairbanks defeats the Pirate Captain ( Anders Randolf ) in a sword fight challenge , the Captain falls on a sword and dies . Just like that , the rest of the pirate crew have no trouble accepting Fairbanks as part of their crew . So much for loyalty ! Another occurs at the end of the film when Fairbanks and The Princess ( Billie Dove ) declare their love and announce their wedding . MacTavish ( Donald Crisp ) suggests digging up the earlier buried treasure for a wedding gift . I don't think so . But let's not get too critical . This is a neatly done sea tale with a lot of well paced action and drama . A surprise in reviewing the cast list reveals Mary Pickford as a stand-in for Billie Dove in the ' final embrace ' scene at the end of the story . There really doesn't seem to be any reason for that , other than a chance for Mr . Fairbanks to get Mrs . Fairbanks into the picture . Trivia fans take note .
Within the Western movie category , there's a neat little sub-genre dealing with the subject of this film , the ultimate goal of proving that one man is the ' fastest gun alive ' . It's been explored numerous times , and my favorite up to this point is Gregory Peck's 1950 film " The Gunfighter " . I can also think of a TV Western episode that handled the subject quite well , an entry in John Russell's " Lawman " series called " Yawkey " , with Ray Danton as a feared gunman . What's interesting about this film is that it doesn't merely set up a confrontation between challenger and opponent , but instead explores the obsession of two individuals who feel that they have something to prove to the rest of the world , or at least to the world that is around to witness their showdown . In that regard , both George Temple ( Glenn Ford ) and Vinnie Harold ( Broderick Crawford ) come across as virtually maniacal , both taking their single mindedness to an extreme . At least Glenn Ford looked like he was in his prime , but Crawford in the role of the lead heavy was almost comical . I was surprised to learn that Crawford was only five years older than Ford at the time the film was made , at forty five he looked like he was at least twenty years older . So how many times have you seen the old ' shoot the coin out of the air ' routine in Westerns before ? What was really cool that I haven't seen before was Temple going for the ' drop the beer mug ' trick , that scene to me was pretty impressive . I don't think I would have liked to be the mug holder though , in the movies you don't get spiked with shattering glass but I think real life might be a little different . I don't recommend it . Almost every reviewer on this board has something to say about Russ Tamblyn's acrobatic dance number , so I won't be the exception . I really did enjoy that routine , especially when punctuated by the dancing shovels . I wonder if they did that all in one take . So the film had me hooked right up until the very end . The double count out ending was the puzzler though , not that Temple / Kelby wouldn't have wanted to put some closure to his brief stint as a gunfighter . What I couldn't imagine was that anyone who witnessed the gunfight and it's aftermath would have been willing to keep the secret that Kelby was still alive . It's a fine way to close out a film , but upon reflection just doesn't hold up to scrutiny . You see , another ' fastest gun alive ' would have been just around the corner .
I've probably seen James Caan more often as a villain than a hero , and the villain role suits him just fine . He goes from bad to evil to maniacal in the course of the story here , with a twist in the picture that comes out of nowhere that attempts to explain his hatred of the half breed Hudson Santeek ( Christopher Lambert ) . That he's a half breed himself serves no purpose other than to cause this viewer to go " Oh ! " , so I don't know why that element was even introduced . While watching the film , I hearkened back to my childhood days with ' Sergeant Preston Of The Yukon ' ; this could have been an extended episode of that show . Great footage of Alaskan sled dogs mushing through wind whipped snowy trails , not quite figuring out how competing sled teams didn't get all tangled up with each other . One thing Preston never had to put up with was getting shot and falling into icy rivers . Man , I can't imagine even being THAT cold ! I wonder if the actors got bonus pay for that . I caught this on the Encore Western Channel this evening , and I suppose the ' Western ' connotation has some bearing , even if filmed as an Alaskan wilderness adventure . It's got a typically ' B ' Western flavor focusing on an evil town boss ( Caan ) swindling local miners out of their gold claims and leaving them dead in his wake . I can't think of a Western that ever got the body / deed count as high as eleven like this picture did , which can only mean that Christopher Lambert was no Red Ryder or Durango Kid . For his trouble , the man should pour himself a brandy to warm up .
I'm not a connoisseur of the Marx Brothers films , and therefore take delight in reading some of the reviews from other posters for this and other movies of theirs on this site . What I can say is that I enjoy their pictures , and " A Night in Casablanca " is no exception . With such a title , I might have expected more of a connection to the famous Bogart film ( my favorite of all time by the way ) , but then again , that wasn't important . Sure it had scheming Nazis and exotic looking sets reminiscent of Rick's ' Cafe Americain ' , but the letters of transit intrigue is replaced by the search for a missing Nazi treasure , and even then , it's the antics of Groucho , Chico and Harpo that take center stage . There might be fewer gags and one liners here than in their better hailed classics like " Duck Soup " , but things get off to a quick start with Harpo's ' holding up the building ' gag in an opening scene . Groucho , ever with an eye for the ladies , remarks on a rear view of Nazi accomplice Beatice Rheiner ( Lisette Verea ) - " That reminds me , I must get my watch fixed " . Later , appearing the worse for wear following some more commotion - " What happened , I was stood up by a woman and knocked down by a car . " I got a kick out of the clever gag using the center leafless table during the packing / unpacking scene , featuring almost everyone in the story . It would have been cool to have a cameo or two by some of the principals from Bogey's " Casablanca " like Sidney Greenstreet or Peter Lorre , but since that wasn't the case , you have decent support from Sig Ruman as undercover Nazi big wig Pfferrman / Stubel and Dan Seymour as Prefect Brizzard . Verea introduces " Who's Sorry Now ? " in a singing number , sounding very little ( at least to my tin ear ) like the hit Connie Francis would make of it . All in all , the film is an entertaining hour and a half , and a pretty good send off for the Marx Brothers .
With it's epic sweep and stunning visuals , " Lawrence of Arabia " has earned it's position among the greatest films of all time . That's a subjective fact I can live with , but at the risk of offending some of the more eloquent supporters on this site , there wasn't a lot that I could warm up to in this movie . More than once I wound up saying to myself ' I get it already ' after repeated close ups of the baking desert sun and the limitless expanse of sand . Nor was I inspired to empathize with Lawrence's cause to unite the Bedouin tribes . One might contend that the story is far enough removed from modern history both chronologically and geographically to be of interest , but I would point to two films of the 1930's that took a similar tack and worked for me a whole lot better - 1935's " The Lives of a Bengal Lancer " and 1939's " Gunga Din " , both taking place on the Indian sub continent . Nor would I characterize the performances of the individual leads as less than significant . Peter O'Toole's portrayal of T . E . Lawrence is singularly noteworthy in capturing the essence of the man , while Alec Guiness , Omar Sharif and Anthony Quinn are all credible . Still , I had difficulty in relating to these characters , who seemed neither likable nor meaningful beyond their relationship to their tribes . What was essentially a defining moment in the story , the defeat of the Turks at Aqaba , seemed to be glossed over entirely as if the enemy simply rolled over and gave up . Perhaps the thing to do would be to give the film another chance , but at an investment of nearly four hours , I don't feel that's going to be a priority . I've considered the argument some have offered as to viewing the film on the big screen for it's maximum impact , but that opportunity doesn't seem likely . I'd like to keep an open mind about it , but for now , I'll have to remain a member of the minority on this film .
John Payne's character spouts all the native Indian racist and anti-feminist diatribes he can muster in this wild west actioner taking place on a pack train to Santa Fe . Kirby Randolph ( Payne ) and his partner Sam ( Slim Pickens ) look to redeem themselves from a prior scouting job that ended in disaster for settlers on a wagon train passing through Cottonwood Draw . This might be the first time I've seen an Indian tribe actually get drunk on screen , as Randloph's attempt to placate Chief Satank ( George Keymas ) only gets him fired up for revenge . Credit the film makers with a significant historically accurate scene in which the main street of a Western town consists of about six inches of mud . You get to hear Payne in his role as the wagon scout refer to men required for point , swing , and drag duty . The film also has a great action scene involving a horse stampede that threatens the Griswold party , full of colorful sequences and quite well done . At the center of the story lies a romantic triangle involving Randolph , his boss Griswold ( Rod Cameron ) and Griwswold's partner and expected future wife Aurelie St . Clair ( Faith Domergue ) . The revelation of St . Clair's heritage as daughter of a Kiowa mother brings out a few more Injun clichés before the story's progress brings Randolph full circle in his thinking about accepting individuals on their own merits . By the time the Kiowa's make their final attack , Randolph can say " I won't have a squaw who won't take orders " with a nod , nod , wink , wink , and have St . Clair accept it with an understanding smile . The one thing that kept distracting me though was the casting of Irene Tedrow as St . Clair's aide Ptewaquin . I never quite caught on that she would figure in one of the story's twist endings , probably because I kept trying to figure out where I'd seen her before . Checking out her career credits , now I know . Best line of the picture - Satank describes the Mexican Chavez ( Anthony Caruso ) , ally of Griswold - " Don't like him , stink too much , like dead buffalo . " It conjures up as colorful a picture as the traitor McLawery ( Leo Gordon ) winding up as buzzard bait .
It's a little over an hour into the film before the viewer has a pretty good idea of what's going on , and it wraps up in a total of eighty one minutes ! I'm going to have to file this one under best films I'd never heard of , although by the looks of things on this board , maybe it's just me . On first viewing , the story is bound to keep you wondering what the mystery of Black Rock is all about , as protagonist John J . Macreedy ( Spencer Tracy ) tiptoes his way through all the obstacles Reno Smith ( Robert Ryan ) and his henchmen throw his way . The film boasts an unusually strong cast , particularly with Ernest Borgnine and Lee Marvin in the credits . Interestingly , they along with Ryan would team up more than a dozen years later in " The Great Escape " . As heavies in this film , they attempt to intimidate Tracy's character into some semblance of submission , and fail miserably . You knew it was only a matter of time before the one armed Tracy would stand to defend himself , the only question mark would be how and when . I've seen Walter Brennan recently in some uncharacteristic roles ( " My Darling Clementine " for example ) , but here he plays closer to type as someone who can rise to the occasion with the right push . He doesn't start out that way though , as he admonishes Tracy's character with a warning - " They're gonna kill you with no hard feelins ' " . If there's any fault to be found with the story it would be the way it ends once the final confrontation between Macreedy and Reno Smith ends . Coley ( Borgnine ) and Hector ( Marvin ) are next seen in jail courtesy of turn good sheriff Tim ( Dean Jagger ) , but their incarceration is dealt with off screen , hardly the way most films would have handled it . Mostly , the movie keeps the viewer hooked with it's mysterious set up , aided by the inclusion of the name ' Komoko ' , which is later revealed to be instrumental in the town's deep , dark secret . I enjoyed it , as the Eastman Color format managed to add a modern sensibility to what might otherwise have been an out of place 1950's Western . Rounding out the main cast is the only female presence in Black Rock , provided by Anne Francis . Come to think of it , the biggest mystery of Black Rock might be how it even managed to survive at all until Spencer Tracy got there .
One would be hard pressed to point out a bigger con man in film than Cary Grant's character in " His Girl Friday " , but pitted as he is against Rosalind Russell , I'd say he's more than met his match . In fact , as a newspaper reporter , Hildy Johnson shows her own seamy side as she leads convicted killer Earl Williams ( John Qualen ) down a questionable path with her line of inquiry . That whole ' production for use ' business left me more than a little confused . For her part , Russell reminded me a little of Martha Raye from that frenzied scene when she was getting ready to take off on her honeymoon with Bob Hope in " Never Say Die ' . Here you've got Hildy all full of vim and vinegar ready to charge after that jail break story , with Williams ' life hanging in the balance . In the mean time , fiancée Bruce Baldwin ( Ralph Bellamy ) falls victim to all of Walter Burns ' ( Grant ) machinations , which you know he's done time and time again with other poor schleps . Can you imagine if Burns had ambition in law or politics - he would have easily eclipsed those two paragons of incompetence , Sheriff Hartwell ( Gene Lockhart ) and Mayor Fred ( Clarence Kolb ) . By the way , when did New York City ever have a sheriff ? If you're paying too much attention to the story , you might be put off by the whole ' colored cop killing ' that's making the ' Morning Post ' headlines in the story . Team that up with Molly Molloy's ( Helen Mack ) suicide leap and you have a queasy denouement that makes the story something of a downer . Kind of makes you wish the paper were covering something a little more upbeat . If you like the kind of energy the movie generates , it would probably be worthwhile to take in a second viewing for all the lines that whizzed by the first time around . In my case , I missed the ' Archie Leach ' reference . But give Columbia Pictures credit for allowing one of the funniest lines to remain in the picture . When Walter has small time hood Louie's moll tail Baldwin , she asks him what he looks like . The response - " He looks like , uh , that fella in the movies - you know , uh , Ralph Bellamy . " - Beautiful ! !
When " Cheyenne " debuted on / 1955 , " The Lone Ranger " had already been running for six seasons and had two more to go . Warner Brothers , specifically Jack Warner , tapped Clint Walker to be it's first TV Western hero , and raised the bar a considerable notch over the series made famous by Clayton Moore ( and John Hart for one season ) . Walker was a no nonsense but laid back hero , almost droll by comparison with ' B ' movie Western stars that preceded him , and that almost certainly added to his fame and popularity as Cheyenne . The Season I DVD compilation includes all fifteen episodes of the series ' first season . Series guest star James Garner appeared in three of them , as many as L . Q . Jones , who portrayed Cheyenne's map making sidekick Smitty in three of the first four shows . Garner's character was different each time out . Other notable guests in the first season included Myron Healey , Dennis Hopper , Barton MacLane , and even a young Michael Landon in an uncredited appearance . One of the interesting things about that first season is that two of the episodes were direct lifts of movies starring Humphrey Bogart . ' The Argonauts ' ( # 1 . 3 ) swipes scenes and dialog from " The Treasure of the Sierra Madre " in a similar story of greedy gold prospectors , but at least credits B . Traven as the author of the novel on which both were based . However ' Fury at Rio Hondo ' ( # 1 . 12 ) credits James Gunn with writing that story , but nowhere mentions Ernest Hemingway as the author of " To Have And Have Not " . Once again , the story's plot and characters parallel the Bogart film ; the Lauren Bacall role is handled by Peggie Castle , but she doesn't quite cut it as the sexy nineteen year old Bacall did in the original movie . For his part , Bodie was no Bogey . On that score , Clint Walker was competent as the laconic drifter Cheyenne Bodie , but like George Reeves in " The Adventures of Superman " TV series , he didn't have a lot to work with , and didn't rise much above the material , unless you consider his six and a half foot stature . Don't get me wrong , I like both Walker and " Cheyenne " and enjoy the shows , but if you consider the acting , the best you can say is that it was uneven . And the episodes , some were almost comical trying to be serious . Consider Episode # 1 . 11 , ' Quicksand ' , in which Cheyenne challenges a Comanche Chief in a battle to the death in a bed of muck . They start out standing upright , and slowly start to sink inch by inch until each proves the point that they would rather die than be proved a coward . Then , when the Comanche chief mounts his horse to ride away , he's no longer covered by mud ! As big as Walker was , it's interesting to see him cast opposite actors who came close to him in size ; Don Megowan comes to mind from Episode # 1 . 13 - ' Star in the Dust ' , as a sheriff who hires Cheyenne on as a deputy . That's one example , but it happened with some regularity . Kind of makes you wonder where all those big bad guys came from in the Old West . The Season I DVD set contains a nice ' Legacy of Cheyenne ' feature in which the seventy nine year old Walker talks about his early life and ' discovery ' by Van Johnson , who put him in touch with an agent . That contact eventually led to a role as a Sardinian Captain of the Guard in " The Ten Commandments " . Warner Brothers took an interest based on that role , and bought his contract from producer Hal Wallis with the Cheyenne role in mind . Originally , the show aired as part of an anthology series on the ABC network ; other posters on this board have done a nice job of outlining that history . My favorite show of the series - Episode # 7 . 1 , debuting the 1962 season , titled " The Durango Brothers " . Mama Hortense Durango ( Ellen Corby ) enlists her three renegade sons ( Jack Elam , Charlie Briggs , and Mickey Simpson ) to kidnap Cheyenne in order to marry him off to sister Lottie ( Sally Kellerman ! ! ! ) - it's hilarious ! Needless to say , Cheyenne finishes the show , the season and the series still single . " Cheyenne " began a great Western tradition at ABC , to be followed not only by that network , but CBS and NBC as well . Not many though , could ride as tall in the saddle as the original , and Clint Walker can rest easy knowing that there aren't many TV heroes that are admired as much as Cheyenne Bodie .
One of the definitive films of the early horror genre , " Dracula " still maintains it's classic appeal . From his first words muttered on screen - " I am Dracula . . . I bid you welcome " - Bela Lugosi sets the brooding , menacing tone that pervades throughout the film , heightened by each sinister close up as he measures his victims . What better way to greet agent Renfield , than to describe the howling of a wolf outside of Castle Dracula - " Listen to them . . . children of the night , what music they make " . The Count makes Renfield his first victim , who now swears allegiance to his Master , surviving the ship voyage to England by devouring ants , flies and other small creatures for their blood . Dwight Frye's portrayal of Renfield is accompanied by a diabolical , guttural cackle that portends more misery to come . Upon arrival in London , Dracula makes himself at home at Carfax Abbey , adjoining the grounds of the Seward Sanitarium where Renfield is placed upon his discovery as the lone survivor of the Vesta's ocean voyage . From there , he casts his sinister eye on potential victims . In turn , the Count's presence is signaled by a flying bat or the howl of a wolf , creepily suggesting unspeakable horror . Contemporary fans of modern day horror films may find " Dracula " slow moving and even boring , but I find the pacing to be measured and deliberate . Even Lugosi's speech pattern , delivered with over enunciation due to his newness with the language , is perfect in defining the Dracula character . You come to believe it when The Count proclaims - " There are far worse things awaiting man than death " .
Not only is " Rio Bravo " one of the greatest Westerns ever , but it's about the most fun you'll have watching one too . For that , you'll have to credit an eclectic casting decision matching Dean Martin as a drunken deputy with the Duke himself , and nineteen year old teenage heartthrob Ricky Nelson as a sharp shooting gunslinger who throws in with the good guys . Round it out with Walter Brennan's finely tuned stereotypical turn as a real McCoy deputy sheriff and you've got the ingredients for an entertaining Western . And oh yes , I don't want to forget Angie Dickinson as the romantic interest for Sheriff John T . Chance ( John Wayne ) , but at twenty eight , she didn't look like the kind of girl who'd go for the fifty two year old Duke , looking more like ten years older . I think if you play the picture in your head without her , you'd still have a decent outcome , even if someone else had to throw the flowerpot . Say , could you have picked two better Western character actors than Claude Akins and Myron Healey to challenge the Dude ( Dean Martin ) with the old coin in the spittoon trick ? You know , they weren't on screen very long , but if you follow the genre as a fan , it's always a kick to pick out the players in even the most minor roles . Then there's John Russell , someone I'll always remember first as the " Lawman " , but for some weird reason , I think I like him better as a villain . Trouble is , his screen time here wasn't nearly long enough to establish a sinister presence like the role of regulator Stockburn in Clint Eastwood's " Pale Rider " a couple of decades later . Still , I'll take him in a heartbeat if it means facing down the guys in white hats . The only thing that really catches you off guard in the story is when the good guys are holed up at the jail , and Dino breaks into song accompanied by Rick Nelson on guitar . Roy Rogers used to do that a lot too , even when he was behind bars ! It's a nice diversion even if not very believable , especially when Stumpy ( Brennan ) knows the words to the song too ! I guess what makes the picture work above all is the way Chance stays behind his guys through thick and thin , even when it looks like he's throwing them over . Especially effective are the scenes with Stumpy , played for comic effect , but always with some introspection and wise advice laid in between the lines . On the surface , it's not the kind of team you'd select if you were choosing sides for a pick up game , but when the dust settles , it's the one you'll have the most fun with and still win the game .
Bullets may not have bounced off his chest , but The Lone Ranger was every bit the symbolic icon to me as my other boyhood hero - Superman . He represented truth , justice and the American way in a classic TV Western setting , living by the principle that he would never use his gun to kill , while scouring the American Southwest with his faithful Indian companion Tonto to bring every single outlaw to justice . The advent of TV provided the perfect opportunity for a post War generation to find it's ideal in an enigmatic masked man who stood for law and order , while providing unparalleled entertainment for five seasons spanning almost eight years . Today I had the opportunity to view for the first time the complete three part origin episodes start to finish without the standard opening and closing sequences to interrupt the continuity of the story . For fans of the Ranger , this is the grand daddy of all Western sagas , telling as it does how Texas Ranger John Reid survived the ambush by the Butch Cavendish Gang , and how he was nursed back to health by an Indian friend from his childhood . Tonto ( Jay Silverheels ) declares his companion a ' trusty scout ' , and names him Kemo-sabe . I've read various interpretations of the origin of the term Kemo-sabe , but I'm satisfied with Tonto's explanation . Reading too much into it just detracts from the story , just like the English translation of ' tonto ' from Spanish , which I won't reveal , because it's just better not to know if you can help it . I thought it quite clever how the origin story created the mystique of the Lone Ranger , like the sixth grave that created the illusion that all the Rangers died in the box canyon ambush . You never see the face of the man who becomes the Lone Ranger , as it's always turned away or obscured to hide his real identity . Even the origin of Silver is handled brilliantly ; the voice of the story's narrator describing the wild stallion's sterling qualities . Would that relate , say , to sterling . . . , silver ? I got the biggest kick out of that . Of course with the passage of time , watching the Lone Ranger episodes today offers a view of how unsophisticated the show was beyond the origin story . Some of them are almost embarrassingly goofy , particularly when it comes to a Lone Ranger showdown when he shoots into the middle of a crowd of bad guys to knock a gun out of it's owner's hand . And how about that little wave he gives to Tonto whenever they're about to ambush the bad guys - it's always the same gesture , but Tonto always knows what it means in different circumstances . Then you have the episodes where Clayton Moore takes off the Ranger mask to don a different disguise to impersonate another character in service to the story . He even went under cover once as an actor portraying President Abraham Lincoln to uncover a villain , top hat and all ! Few fans that I come across ever know that actor John Hart replaced Clayton Moore for the season in a contract dispute that Moore had with the show's producers . If you ever saw that " Happy Days " episode where Fonzie idolizes his boyhood hero , you'll notice it was John Hart listed in the credits . It's difficult actually , to tell if you're watching a Hart episode or not , the key is to listen to the voice ; Moore's is so distinctive that it's a dead giveaway . If you ever get the chance to sample some of the final season color episodes , you're in for a treat . The renditions I've seen on VHS are absolutely gorgeous , although I don't know if commercial prints are available . Most of the black and white episodes around have been re-packaged by any number of distributors in different configurations , so getting your hands on those should be no problem . The must see of course is the three part origin , and if you don't watch anything else , this gives you all the flavor and excitement you need to capture the imagination of one of the West's most famous heroes . Hi-Yo Silver , Awaaaay !
Dr . T . S . Clitterhouse ( Edward G . Robinson ) is a cultivated and distinguished Park Avenue doctor , with a respectable list of clients . He's also obsessed with the workings of the criminal mind , and begins a research project that will help advance the cause of science and the medical profession in understanding the scientific basis for criminal action . As the film opens , the good doctor has just committed his fourth robbery , all jewel heists , and is now about to ingratiate himself with a mob , hoping to gain further insight . I found " The Amazing Dr . Clitterhouse " to be a blast , owing largely to Robinson's understated , almost casual performance as a master criminal . His random choice of a gang to work with leads him to Jo Keller ( Claire Trevor ) , and a short list of Warner stock players , including Allen Jenkins , Slapsie Maxie Rosenbloom , and Ward Bond as members of the mob . He's generally well received by all , especially after making Lieutenant Johnson ( Robert Homans ) sweat it out in a routine interrogation . The one thorn in Clitterhouse's side is Rocks Valentine ( Humphrey Bogart ) , who doesn't take kindly to the doctor's high society manner and scientific method . The fact that Jo might be falling for the doc is also a factor , though there is no chemistry to speak of between Jo and Rocks , their relationship primarily focused on the next big heist . What might have begun as scientific research begins to look a lot like enjoyment for the doctor , so after robbing a fur vault Clitterhouse decides it's time to take a break . He doesn't find it so easy though , as Bogie's character traces his identity back to it's Park Avenue origins and attempts to blackmail him . However the doc's knowledge of drugs give him the upper hand , and slipping Rocks a paradol chloride cocktail is enough to take him out of the picture . The cat and mouse game that follows between Police Inspector Lane ( Donald Crisp ) and Clitterhouse is well conceived ; as the doc is about to be arrested , the chance arrival of his lawyer offers an intriguing exchange that offers him a legal way out . With surprising calm , Clitterhouse learns that he's a megalomaniac , and as mad as a hatter if he thought he could get away with murder . The courtroom scene that follows turns into a three ring circus as the jury finds that Clitterhouse must be insane . One thing that surprised me though , is there such a thing as a " State Lunacy Commission " ? There are enough elements of each for this movie to be considered both a comedy and a crime film , with about equal parts of both taking center stage . Robinson's role is uncharacteristic of his typical gangster performances , here he's a cool and sophisticated operator ; he doesn't really believe he's doing anything wrong in his quest to advance scientific and medical science . Presiding over the final court room scene having given way to utter chaos , Clitterhouse calmly surveys the madness and can only comment - " Amazing , really amazing . "
I had forgotten what a satisfying little thriller this was from watching it a couple of years ago . The story builds suspense in the first half by slowly revealing the mystery of it's title , with scene after scene adding dimension to what will eventually be revealed as Pete Morgan's fifteen year long nightmare . As Morgan , Edward G . Robinson brings some of the subtler aspects of his acting side to the story , at least in the early going when he's a warm and caring guardian to adopted daughter Meg . Later he dissolves into paranoia , until virtually reliving the events of that earlier time when he accidentally killed his lover , the basis for his forced life of seclusion . When you watch the film again , take note of the scene when Robinson's character lights the candle upon first entering the Red House , there's a great transformation shot that makes him fifteen years younger , erasing the creases in his forehead as he remembers the house ' just as it was ' . That was just a great creative subtlety that worked amazingly well to establish Morgan's mental state . The film also works for the excellent characterizations of Judith Anderson as Pete's devoted sister Ellen , and Allene Roberts as their adopted daughter Meg . Meg becomes involved in a romantic triangle of sorts when she begins to fall for Nath Storm ( Lon McCallister ) , who in the early story is going steady with the local glamor girl Tibby Renton ( Julie London ) . You know , if you take a look at London's film credits , she sure does show up in the oddest places , like a jungle woman in her very first picture , 1944's " Nabonga " . Here , director Delmer Daves does his best to zoom in on repeated long glamor poses of both London and rival Roberts in close-ups that resemble screen tests . There's even a couple featuring Rory Calhoun's rugged good looks , even though he turns out to be a villain of the piece ; an oddly well selected choice for the role he has . Here's a puzzler - how did Nath know there was rifle in the closet ? And still a bigger puzzler - How did Pete Morgan ever get away with it fifteen years ago ? That was a point the film never adequately answers , even though it was mentioned that Meg's parents moved South and died in an accident to set up the adoption . Odd that no one from the town ever questioned their just disappearing and leaving a baby behind . But then again , the town seemed prone to rumor and half truths anyway , as established by the dinner scene when Nath was first hired by Morgan . Others on this board have mentioned the intense musical score , and the harrowing night time scenes in the Oxhead Woods , all of which border the film on a horror piece as well as a mystery thriller . This one is well recommended to get your hands on , even better for one of those dark , stormy nights with lightning casting a dim glow while watching . You'll begin to believe Edgar G . Robinson when he states - ' . . . you can never run away from the scream " .
Enchanting is the word that comes to mind to describe " Roman Holiday " . It's got that escape from reality wonder about it that might be envied even by royalty . Audrey Hepburn is luminous in her first American film appearance , allowing the viewer to believe that she really could pull off the disappearing act for twenty fours hours for the purpose of living life on a ' fun schedule ' . I was impressed by how much mileage Princess Ann got out of that five thousand lira note ; could one really buy sandals , a haircut and a cone of gelato all for less than a dollar and a half in 1953 ? That would have made Joe Bradley's ( Gregory Peck ) five thousand dollar payday close to a king's ransom , or at least a princess's . Bradley's put into a predicament when Ann comments on his sacrifice to spend the day showing her around Rome ; she describes it as ' completely unselfish ' . By that time , one gets the idea that just maybe he'll wind up doing the right thing . Slow to pick up on Bradley's non verbals , photographer Irving Radovich ( Eddie Albert ) bears the brunt of Joe's spilled drinks and takes a pratfall or two . Sadly , one of his remarks to Joe brought to mind the unending scrutiny suffered in real life by Princess Diana - " She's fair game Joe , it's always open season on princesses . " Odd how art imitating life , in this case predicting it , could end in such tragedy . It was heartwarming then to see how Joe and Irving turned their back on a story , and instead opted to reaffirm humanity . The finale is both uplifting and bittersweet , echoing one of Gregory Peck's lines to Hepburn earlier in the story - " Life isn't always what one likes , is it ? "
Just a couple of nights ago I happened to catch " Bandolero " on TV , featuring Dean Martin and Jimmy Stewart , so it was an odd coincidence that the Celebrity Roast sitting on top of my still unviewed collection happened to be Dino's ' Man of the Hour ' tribute to his co-star from that film . Perhaps even odder , one of the roasters , Senator Barry Goldwater , referenced the movie in his presentation . I find it very cool when a bit of cosmic serendipity makes it's way into my viewing pleasure like that . I caught a lot of these Celebrity Roasts back in the day , and marvel at the way all those top entertainers got together to honor one of their own without being vulgar or mean spirited . Sadly , many of the greats have already passed away , but their spirit and humor live on . Members of the dais for this installment included Mickey Rooney , Red Buttons , Henry Fonda , June Allyson , Lucille Ball , Janet Leigh , and Rich Little doing his Stewart imitation . The funniest bit though , in this and just about every roast in which she appears , was Ruth Buzzi in the guise of her ' Laugh-In ' character Gladys Ormphby . When she winds up with her pocketbook , nobody's safe , including Dino . She did however seem to take it easy on the guest of honor this time out . Throughout the laughs and digs at the expense of the Man of the Hour , you get a good sense of how well loved and revered Jimmy Stewart was for all his talented work for over a half century in film . It goes without saying that his was truly a wonderful life .
I remember the spirited controversy surrounding " Soylent Green " when it first came out and oddly , I didn't go to see it back in 1973 . I'm sorry I didn't , I was only about ten minutes into the picture today when I thought to myself that it was pretty remarkable . The opening scene was intended to portray what trouble would be in store for Earth and mankind some fifty years into the future , back when there were a couple billion people less on the planet than there are now . However the projection of New York City's population of forty million in 2022 isn't going to happen . Nice try though , and hey , present day environmentalists and global warming enthusiasts will no doubt find solace in the story's grim projections about the greenhouse effect and ' everything burning up ' . But only two years later , in 1975 , Newsweek Magazine had a cover story about the threat of global COOLING and the anticipated problems of shorter growing seasons and the possibility of worldwide famine due to crop failures . It all goes in cycles you see , and by the time the ' real ' 2022 rolls around , there will no doubt be yet another different spin on global climate change , when in fact , the Earth's temperature doesn't really vary much at all . Hey , how about ' Tuesday is Soylent Green Day ' ; I still remember the ads for ' Wednesday is Prince Spaghetti Day ' . You don't see or hear those anymore , in fact my local supermarket doesn't even carry Prince spaghetti anymore . How about Sol Roth's description of soylent - " tastleless , odorless , crud ' ! Speaking of Sol Roth , it was cool seeing Edward G . Robinson in his final film role , even if some of his dialog with Charlton Heston had me doing double takes regarding their masculinity . It reminded me of a Robinson role going all the way back to 1931 opposite James Cagney no less , screen legends who managed to confound this viewer with expressions of ' sweetheart ' and ' dearie ' in the film " Smart Money " . And holy cow ! , the film also featured the old Rifleman himself , Chuck Connors , as a bodyguard for the assassinated director of The Soylent Corporation . I sort of wished he had his tricked out rifle along but that would have changed the whole tempo of things . The Joseph Cotten appearance had me a little baffled , I think a little more time could have been spent on his ' willingness ' to be murdered . You know , the picture reminded me a lot of one of my favorite ' Twilight Zone ' episodes from a dozen years earlier , and I wouldn't be surprised if that story might have had a small impact on " Soylent Green " . In ' Soylent ' , if you're thinking ahead and don't know the ending ( kind of hard I know with the notoriety it's engendered ) , the first inkling you might have had about the title foodstuff would have come when the ' diggers ' were called in for the rioting populace . All those bodies being hauled off to an unknown outcome kind of gives you a hint that ' Soylent Green is people ' ! In the TZ episode ' To Serve Man ' , the finale is reached with a lot more subtlety and it hits you a lot more forcefully . For the uninitiated , the title comes from the story of an alien race that solves all of Earth's problems , and in return , appreciative Earthlings travel through space to visit the planet of the Kanamits . The punch line - ' To Serve Man ' was the aliens ' cookbook ! The only other thought I have has to do with the film's status as a sci-fi flick . Even though the concept is definitely in that league , others on this board have mentioned that the filming and effects utilized didn't distinguish it from some of the other memorable films of the era , for example , 1968's " 2001 : A Space Odyssey " , or 1971's " A Clockwork Orange " . Heck , even as far back as the 1950's , you had pictures like " War of the Worlds " ( 1953 ) and " Forbidden Planet " ( 1956 ) using much more in the way of special effects to tell their story . Even so though , given those apparent budget limitations , the picture is still a unique achievement and holds up pretty well after lo , these three decades . I'm sure a modern day re-make would add a few more twists , but then again , as with so many movies , there's nothing like the original .
I can't pinpoint exactly why I enjoy this film so much , I like to call it one of my favorite movies that no one's ever heard of . I think it might have something to do with Paul Newman's character reminding me of my own father . Not that my father stole snow blowers or ever hit the trifecta , but it's just that affecting manner that makes a senior citizen a respected member of the community by dint of a lifetime of being just a regular good old guy . There's also the methodical way of speaking and listening , and coming to terms with the life one has led , even if it means having never left the small town in which you've grown up . It might also have something to do with the location of the story , since I'm from a small upstate New York town too , but heck , this could have taken place in any Smalltown , USA and it still would have connected . The story has some great dialog , with Sully ( Newman ) having the best lines , like addressing his arrogant employer Carl Roebuck ( Bruce Willis ) - " I used to believe in brains and hard work until I met you " . Or taking on the wanna be big time lawman Raymer ( Philip Seymour Hoffman ) - " This is where a smart guy would get out of the truck " . You would have to have grown up in a town of sixteen hundred residents to know that every public incident is just that , public for the whole town to know about in the blink of an eye . You know , you can't pick your family , but you can pick your friends . The thing is , by the time the picture was over , Sully was able to pick his family as well . Son Peter ( Dylan Walsh ) figured out Sully wasn't such a bad guy after all , and grandson Will came to learn that being scared was OK . There are some lessons you can take away from a worn out retread like Don Sullivan , you just have to recognize the limitations - " I am hurrying , it just looks like slow motion . " Now that I think about it some more , Beryl Peoples ( Jessica Tandy ) could have been my own grandmother too . And every small town has a Rub Squeers , I can picture that guy from my past too , even though he's passed on now . The only thing that hurts to remember is how things have changed since this film was made , not quite two decades ago . Fifteen dollars for a traffic violation ! - I paid one this year for a hundred eighty dollars ! I should have brought a Toby Roebuck with me to court .
This film had a lot of interesting nuances , and it was clever the way things were revealed to make it even more so . For example , it was some time into the picture before you realized that the apparent drifters , Gil Carter ( Henry Fonda ) and Art Croft ( Harry Morgan ) were actually known by name in the town of Bridger's Wells . Then there was the misdirection with the runaway stagecoach and the appearance of Carter's former sweetheart , now married and trading inconclusive glances with the man she stood up . I was quite curious why an element that had no bearing on the story would have been introduced that way , though it did offer another layer of insight into the character of Carter . I had to do a quick re-wind on my DVD player a couple of times for a line uttered by Darby when Jeff Farnley ( Marc Lawrence ) and his partner moved to the other side of the bar . Farnley was hesitant to offer his opinion to Carter on cattle rustlers and strangers , when Darby stated - " They don't like ta ' talk about it except with fellas they sleep with " . Now I'm sure the context was meant to imply that good old boys stuck together and you didn't spill your opinions in the company of outsiders , but boy , it sure came out rather awkward . You know , if you're paying close attention , it would strike you about twenty minutes into the picture at Judge Tyler's home that the story could have ended right there . Deputy Butch Mapes states to Tyler that Sheriff Risley went out to the Kincaid ranch that morning , and that would have been BEFORE the rider came into town with the news that Kincaid had been killed . Had Mapes spoke up about that , it might have convinced the gathering mob that the sheriff had things under control . Instead , Major Tetley ( Frank Conroy ) manages to whip the crowd into a fever pitch with Mapes ' help , and the rush to judgment takes control . There's yet another clever nuance added to the story at the same time when the Mexican Poncho ( Chris-Pin Martin ) tells of having to sidestep three men with cattle carrying the Kincaid brand in a direction the town folk wouldn't have figured on . In his own way , Poncho was the lynch-pin that set in motion the events that eventually transpired . Performance wise , Henry Fonda was exceptional as always , a consummate actor who puts so much into his characterization that he gets lost in the role . Just check out his reaction and expression when Harry Morgan revives him from Darby's bump on the noggin with a pitcher of water . The other standout is Dana Andrews as the doomed rancher Donald Martin . I've seen Andrews in a number of pictures , including his well regarded performance in 1946's " The Best Years of Our Lives " , but I'd have to say his effort here is the best I've seen so far . He goes through an entire range of emotions that puts the viewer right in his shoes , making you wonder how you yourself would react to know that the end is near . I have to agree with a few other reviewers on this board who cite the idea that " The Ox-Bow Incident " transcends the Western film genre to stand on it's own as a classic morality tale . That it uses the era and location of 1885 Nevada to tell it's story is almost irrelevant , much like the the tale of human greed explored in 1948's " The Treasure of the Sierra Madre " . It's just another example of what makes the great pictures great , a timeless quality that relies on story and characters rather than distracting action and special effects that seem to characterize the output of most of today's pictures .
At one point late in the film , Walter Neff ( Fred MacMurray ) utters a line that could have been used to describe the movie , a ' crazy story with a crazy twist to it ' . " Double Indemnity " is hugely successful despite the fact that it reveals the killer at the very beginning of the story . The suspense comes from the intertwining webs that Neff and Phyllis Dietrichson ( Barbara Stanwyck ) spin for each other while they're spinning out of control . With it's casting , the film was one of the first to effectively subvert the idea of who could be a murderer , even if ultimately , they didn't get away with it . Fortunately , director Billy Wilder finally managed to convince the movie's principals to take part in the project . MacMurray , Stanwyck and Edward G . Robinson all initially turned it down , none of them wanted to do it . Not surprising for the first two , they would be seriously cast against type and didn't want to portray murderers on screen for what it might do to their careers . In Robinson's case , he was reluctant to take a supporting role , but his better judgment won out , convincing himself that it would be better to take parts with substance at this point in his career rather than take a starring role in a film of no consequence . Good decision . It's Robinson in fact that keeps the film's tension mounting with his unique ' man inside ' observations of the crime at the center of the story . Escalating Mr . Dietrichson's ( Tom Powers ) demise from accident to suicide to murder would have been a stretch for anyone had it not been for Barton Keyes ' ( Robinson ) deliberate method and cunning to smoke out the mystery . Even though he might have mis-stepped by fingering Zachetti , there was enough of a pause after stating " They'll be digging their own graves " when he takes a long look at Neff off screen to tempt the viewer into thinking that he in fact might suspect Neff as the killer . It would have been interesting to see the film go in that direction . By the time it was over , I couldn't help thinking that here was one mystery thriller that would have done justice to Alfred Hitchcock's repertoire ; it even had a train . Aside from the murder and the cunning cross and double cross of Stanwyck's character , I was probably most intrigued by the thirty thousand dollar price tag Neff put on the Dietrichson home . Now that would have been some investment .
There's an uneasy " is that all there is ? " subtext running throughout " Friday Night Lights " - it's there in the pre and post game revelry ; it's there in the storefront " Gone to the Game " signs ; it's there in the radio talk show snippets that alternately proclaim and shred the embattled coach , and it's there in the memories of those who either once lived or who want to live the dream of winning a championship . When I view a film like " Friday Night Lights " I'm more interested in the characters and their motivation than in the outcome of the big game , and on this score the movie delivered in a big way . For Coach Gaines ( Billy Bob Thornton ) , winning the state championship is not an option , it's a matter of where he and his family will live next year . The followers of the Odessa-Permian Panthers take their football seriously , as do all the fans of all the football teams in all the towns of East and West Texas . In that regard , the movie realistically depicts the rabid and obsessive fervor that grips the town on game day after game day . For the players , it seems that there is no time to relax , and life outside of football is virtually non-existent . Team quarterback Mike Winchell ( Lucas Black ) is in the game because he has the talent , but it's never quite clear that he even likes to play . Running back Boobie Miles ( Derek Luke ) has an ingratiating charm , you'd like to smack him for his cockiness , but he puts points on the board . Receiver Don Billingsley ( Garrett Hedlund ) faces a tougher opponent at home than he ever sees on the football field , his father ( Tim McGraw ) is a one time football champion himself , who can't crawl out of bottle or the memories of his championship season . When Don drops a pass in practice , the father's reaction is one of rage and humiliation , so much for positive reinforcement . The movie follows the Permian Panthers on the way to the final state championship game with all the highs and lows , wins and losses in between . It's a harrowing ride , particularly after superstar Boobie blows out a knee , and refuses to face the reality of life without football . After all , this was to be his ticket to the big time , pro ball and all the trappings that go with being a football hero . The locker scene between halves of the championship game is a defining moment . Coach Gaines can get into his players like no one else can , and he finds just the right words to inspire his players to do the undoable . You just know how this game will end . Or do you ? For me , the movie succeeds in challenging the viewer to re-evaluate one's concept of winning and losing , knowing that when the game's over you have to be able to look your fellow players in the eye and know that you did everything you could for the team . And once the game is over , the game is over , there's no going back and no do-overs . In that respect , it's a lot like life .
In anticipation of the movie , I read " Watchmen " just about a month ago , it was my fourth time . Each time , I came away with a greater understanding of the characters and story , in no small part due to the extensive narrative offered as backup to the panels one most closely associates with the comic book medium . To enjoy the movie , I don't think it's a prerequisite to read the book first , but I will say this - a viewer going in cold will have no idea that some of the scenes in the opening montage preface events in the story , like the young Laurie Jupiter watching her mother argue with her then husband ( who wasn't revealed by name in the movie version ) . I think having that insight only brings a greater satisfaction to the viewer who has an insider's understanding of where the story is going . What most impresses me with the film adaptation was director Zack Snyder's attention to detail , reminiscent of the same way he approached " 300 " , another graphic novel by veteran writer Frank Miller . Granted , the ending , which many devotees of Moore will find fault with , is somewhat different from the original , but I was left entirely satisfied with the way the movie handled it . So much so , that I was left wondering why Moore hadn't come up with a similar ending himself , it seemed to make a whole lot more sense given the attention to Dr . Manhattan's self imposed off planet exile . Even in the graphic novel version , the alien creature construct ( ' the squid ' ) , seemed clunky , perhaps more so in the artwork then in the concept . I say this after the fact of course ; upon an initial reading , the story flows quite logically in regard to Ozymandias ' scheme to defuse tension between the world powers . What truly amazed me about the movie was how the entire back story of the characters meshed perfectly with events happening now , with no disconnect to the chapters of the original graphic novel . That , and the virtually perfect casting of actors for the lead roles . The only character that I had some trouble with was Matthew Goode's portrayal of Adrian Veidt / Ozymandias , I was expecting someone a little older and perhaps a bit huskier in physique . But Billy Crudup , Jeffrey Dean Morgan , Patrick Wilson , and especially Jackie Earle Haley were perfect choices for their characters . Put Heath Ledger's Joker up against Haley's Rorschach and I think you'd be hard pressed to come up with a clear winner . The role of Laurie Jupiter could probably have been handled competently by any number of current young actresses , but with all said and done , Malin Akerman did just fine . As for the run time of nearly three hours , I might be in the minority on this , but I didn't have a problem with the length and pacing of the picture at all . In fact , I'm looking forward to the extended version when it eventually comes out on DVD . I don't understand why movie goers seem to have a problem with anything much over ninety minutes or so ; for my money , as long as the quality matches the content , more is always better by me . I mean after all , I'm going to a film to escape for a brief time from some of the lunacy going on in the world , so keeping me in my seat for an additional hour isn't the worst that could happen . With minor nods to the present , the " Watchmen " set in the mid 1980's doesn't seem like it would be much different from a fictional universe set in the present day . I'm thinking specifically about the notion of super power rivalry over finite resources and energy supply , and the ever elusive concept of a just and lasting peace between the major players on the world stage . In that regard , I'm reminded of a similar theme at the center of a movie that came out more than a half century ago . In " The Day The Earth Stood Still " ( 1951 ) , the Earth's major powers were faced with the threat of annihilation from an alien source if they persisted in continuing a rivalry that might lead to nuclear annihilation . The Ozymandias solution , for all it's intended ' good ' effort to sacrifice millions to save billions , in the end would never achieve success for the simple reason posited in the graphic novel by Dr . Manhattan , and in the movie by Laurie to Dreiberg in a closing scene - Nothing ends , nothing ever ends . . . " For all his effort , Adrian Veidt achieved only a temporary goal .
Just a great piece of Golden Age Hollywood entertainment , and this coming from someone who doesn't generally take in a musical complete start to finish . The ' Singin ' In The Rain ' number I could watch over and over again , it strikes a wonderful balance of joy , freedom and artistic expression . Besides that , it's flawless , making me wonder if it could have possibly be done in one take . Curious though , if you watch closely , you won't see any ' rain ' hitting Gene Kelly's face . Though it's primarily Kelly's vehicle , I was sure impressed by the little bit of dance time Donald O'Connor got . That ' Make ' Em Laugh ' number was funny and bold , and if I had to say , might have been the best part of the film . OK , for me it was , without taking away anything from Kelly , especially the numbers done with the exotic Cyd Charisse . Growing up in the Fifties and Sixties , one would see all of these greats show up on a variety show every now and then , but this movie puts into perspective just how great each performer actually was . It seems to me the film got away with quite a bit in the sly innuendo department , some cleverly low key and some right out there . The Kelly / Charisse flapper number gets downright steamy at times even while it looks as innocent as all get out . For a head spinning double take , you don't get much more brazen than Lina Lamont ( Jean Hagen ) - " Well I can't make love to a bush . " " Singin ' In The Rain " is one of those films that will continue to wear well and entertain audiences for a long time to come . It captures the grandeur of that Hollywood Golden Age without getting overly theatrical and choreographed , and with a great blend of romance and comedy mixed into the story . It's the kind of film they don't make anymore , and in a way , that's just a bit too bad .
I've seen this Western a couple of times before , but today I really watched it . It's surprising to me that it's not mentioned in the same breath as " High Noon " and " Shane " as icons of the genre . Gregory Peck delivers a solid and respectable portrayal of a gunslinger willing to give up his weapons if only time and circumstances would allow him to do so . Instead , Johnny Ringo ( Peck ) is persistently challenged by young toughs with something to prove , thereby providing a lot of sudden unnatural deaths in his vicinity . Like " High Noon " , the film delivers a slowly mounting tension , not as ominous as that of Gary Cooper's classic , owing perhaps to the ease with which Ringo disarmed the three brothers on the way to Cayenne . Nevertheless , there's a sense of unease that pervades throughout , as minor sub plots intervene to focus on the gunfighter as well as the man . Ringo's relationship with Marshal Strett ( Millard Mitchell ) is particularly compelling , as the former outlaws discuss their lives , Ringo lamenting the road not taken . Curiously , this was the second movie within a week I've seen in which the main character , at thirty five years old , felt over the hill and feeling life had passed him by . ( The other - Warren William's title character in 1939's " The Lone Wolf Spy Hunt " ) . Interestingly , the movie offers it's share of humorous asides ; I got a kick out of Ringo's request to Mac ( Karl Malden ) to get his saloon helper un-astonished . The others usually came at the expense of the punks Ringo is forced to throw down with , as when one of the barber shop crowd asked Eddie ( Richard Jaeckel ) if he could have his saddle if things didn't go well . Then there's Hunt Bromley ( Skip Homeier ) - " Well he was never much fun to have around anyway " . There's also the reaction to the marshal's declaration that Ringo's son Jimmy was partial to Wyatt Earp . The best though had to be the women's citizen committee getting to meet Mr . Ringo , just a well crafted scene bringing out the nuance and dichotomy of Peck's character . Unlike many of the posters for the movie on this board , I never got the impression that Peggy Walsh ( Helen Westcott ) was married to Johnny Ringo at the time of his arrival in Cayenne . That she called herself Mrs . Ringo at the funeral was a way for her to vindicate a life led in secrecy for which she now holds no shame or remorse . I guess one could look at it either way , but not once did any of the characters close to either ever hint at their being married , certainly Marshall Strett or Molly ( Jean Parker ) would have known . All in all , I felt this was a finely written story that deftly handled it's principal characters , even though the finale proves ultimately tragic for it's hero . One identifies with the marshal , who admonishes the cowardly Hunt Bromley with - " Get killed somewhere else " . Ringo , before he dies might have been even tougher on his killer , advising the punk that he'll eventually get exactly what he deserves .
