( Spoiler Alert ) Checking out all the facts about young Regan MacNeil ( Linda Blair ) exorcism , that cost the lives of both Fathers Merrin and Karres who preformed it , the Cathloic Church in Rome sends out to New York City the very reluctant Father Lamont , Richard Burton , to investigate the case and clear Father Merrin's name . There are rumors going around in the church that Father Merrin was in fact a devil worshiper . Father Lamont has had it with the exorcism business feeling that there's nothing that he , or anyone else , can do to stop the spread of " Evil " in the world . Still Lamont goes to NYC to see Ragen and if she has the ability to battle Satan's evil forces . As former African tribesman and now scientist and expert on the African Desert Locust Dr . KoKumo ( James Earl Ray ) told Father Lamont later in the film that Ragen can keep the locusts , the agents of Satan and his top man Pazuzu , from brushing their wings . Thus preventing Pazuza from turning them into gluttonous crop eating locusts into happy-go-lucky and harmless grasshoppers . What else can be said or added to this interesting observation that Dr . Kokumo tells us ? the story about the " Grasshopper and the Ant " ? Father Lamont becomes obsessed with this idea of using Regan as the catalyst to destroy Pazuzu and his hoards after he went to Africa after hearing Dr . Kokumo revelation . Lamont is so carried away with his obsession he's almost killed by a group of Africian villages for suspecting him of being in league with the Devil . Lamont meeting Dr . Kokumo has convinced him that Regan being the human version of the good female locust who can turn the " Evil " locusts into " Friendly " grasshoppers . Back in New York an almost deranged and driven Father Lamont is going to put Dr . Kokum's theory into practice ! The ending of the movie " The Exorcist Part II " is really too much with Father Lamont having it out with the " Evil " Regan who tries to seduce him and thus become corrupted by her . Meanwhile the good Regan , both parts played by Miss . Blair , just stands there on a ledge wondering what she's doing in the movie . As the battle between good and evil begins millions upon millions of locusts swarm all over the city of Washington D . C . All the action centers around the closed down and shuttered house where the exorcism of Regan took place four years ago . The scene with Father Lamont and the " Evil " Regan having it out in her bedroom is just too off the wall to watch without cracking up . Lamont looked as if he were drugged or drunk and acted as if he were a zombie throughout most the film . Lamont battling and ripping the " Evil " Regan's heart out has to be one of the most outrageous and ridicules scenes ever put on a movie screen . There's an even funnier scene earlier in the movie where Father Lamont and Regan had both their brains electronically synchronized , in a cheap hotel room in Washington Heights ! This brainless action was done so that Lamont & Regan could think alike in order to combat Pazuzu and his boss the one and only " Big Man " himself Satan . Richard Burton looks completely out of his head in most of his scenes in the film . I wondered if after making the movie Burton accelerated his drinking just to forget that he ever made it and thus also accelerated his untimely and early death in 1984 at the age of 59 . Linda Blair was a real knockout even at the early age of 17 . It's no wonder that after she survived from that disaster of a movie Linda became famous for playing roles of sexy frisky and hard hitting young women who can give as good as they take from the same as well as opposite sex in films like " Roller Boogie " and " Savage Streets " . Acadamy Adward Winning Actress Louise Fletcher , who played young Regan's psychiatrist and friend Dr . Gene Tuskin , also survived the movie , more or less , with her reputation still in tact . Fletcher happily got the roles in future films that her fine talents called for . Even more encouraging her role in " The Exorcist Part II " is almost totally forgotten by most of the movie going public . " The Exorcist Part II " was voted by both critics and movie goers alike the worst movie of 1977 . Watching it today , some thirty years later , the only thing wrong with that opinion is that it's not just the worst movie of that year , 1977 , but very possibly one the worst movie of all times .
SPOILERSMind boggling action movie that takes place on the eve of the British colony city of Hong Kong being handed over to the Red Chinese . The movie is about this group of Russian international mobsters who plan to blackmail the world with thousands of button , or micro , bombs . The Russians hide them in knockoff , phony high priced and name item , clothes and electrical equipment as well as toys . Then threaten to detonate them if they aren't paid , like cable TV , a monthly fee of 100 million dollars . Jean-Clude Van Damme is Marcus Ray a shady businessman who exports knockoff running shoes and jeans who gets involved up to his neck in the action . This happens when it's found out that his partner in crime the lovable and wise-cracking Tommy Hendricks , Rob Schneider , is an undercover CIA agent planning to get the goods on him , as well as his associates , in the illegal knockoff business . It soon becomes evident that knockoffs aren't the only headache on the minds of the CIA . It's found that their , the knockoff clothes and toys , are being used as explosives by the Russian mobster and suddenly Ray becomes a good guy in stopping , together with Hendricks , that from happening . Still Ray is hamstrung by ambitious CIA agent Karen Lee , Lela Rochon , who's playing double-agent in the film . This confuses both Ray & Hndricks to the point where all thee almost end up shooting each other . SPOILER ALERTIt turns out that the person behind this evil and grandiose plan is non other then the CIA chief in charge of covert Hong Kong operations himself chubby Harry Johnson , Paul Sorvino , who together with even chubbier Hong Kong crime kingpin Slim , Glen Chin , are working together with the evil Russians in this crazy and off the wall criminal venture . The mindless action is almost non-stop in the movie with Ray going from rickshaw races to food fights and warehouse shootouts and finally a showdown with the Russians . This happens on an outgoing freighter loaded with bomb laden ripoffs headed for US Pacific port cities to unload and , by remote satellite control , activate them . People in the movie seem to be killed over and over again coming back for more like walking dead zombies especially the Russian mobsters . Who have , for what at first seems like no reason at all , hoods over their heads . Later you realize that it , the hoods , were just there so you won't see or recognize them coming back to get themselves killed , by Ray & Co , all over again sometimes as much as three or four times . The leader of the Slavic mobsters himself is done in a number of times by both Ray & Lee only to come back for more . Thats until Ray , out of sheer frustration , finally finishes him off much like he would have done to a vampire . But not with the usual wooden stake driven through his heart but with a ten ton steel cargo container dropped square on top of his head ! All kinds of wild and far out zany camera angles make you dizzy following the non-stop action scenes with bad guy CIA turncoat Johnson getting the worst of it . Johnson gets knocked around all over the place then set on fire , with a bottle of deadly sulfuric acid , and then killed in a freighter explosion . Just when you thought the movie and Johnson were history he again killed in another explosion in his Hong Kong hideout . Johnson who at that point seemed to have come back from the dead has the same crazed and manic look in both scenes in both scenes that he was killed .
( There are Spoilers ) Stylish but very muddled and confusing movie about this British computer geek Steve Wilson , Ewan McGregor , known to his associates in a top and secretive UK government spy agency only as " The Eye " . The Eye gets involved with a woman serial murderess Joanna Eris , Ashly Judd , after falling in love with her , from afar . The Eye somehow mistakes or associates her with his long lost daughter Lucy who was taken away from Steve seven years ago by his estranged wife . Lucy for some strange reason is played in the movie by two actresses who may very well be twin sisters Anne Marie & Kaihin Brown . The Eye is a bit of a recluse as he has almost no contact with the outside world with the exception of his handler or controller in the spy agency this woman only known as Hilary , K . D Lang . Hilary gets a bit annoyed and angry with him when he drops what he's supposed to do , spying and getting the goods on corporate criminals , and spends the entire movie checking out and spying on the sexy Joanna from coast to coast , and head to toe . Joanna ends up in the wilds of Alaska in this God-forsaken place called the " End of the World Cafe " where she's a waitress . The Eye get's to find out all about Joanne's secret life as a serial murderess when he's spying on this executive who's embezzling funds from his company who ends up being murdered by her . For some reason The Eye convinces himself that Joanna is his daughter Lucy and spends the rest of the movie following her , in secret . The Eye follows Joanna In cities as far away from each other as Boston is to San Francisco covering up about a half dozen murders she committed . In the end The Eye saves Joanna's life from this drug-addicted psycho Gary , Jason Priestley , out in the desert of Coloardo . Gary for some reason went berserk when Joanna refused to share a needle with him . The Eye trying to find out just who Joanna is tracks her secret past down to a school for troubled girls in Boston run by a Doctor Brault , Genevieve Bujold . Dr . Brault not only seems to be as unstable as Joanna but also thought her everything that she knows about being a successful fugitive from he law which she is now . Joanna who's psychotic hatred of men seems to stem from her being abandoned by her father at an early age goes through the movie murdering every man she comes in contact with . The weird and creepy Steve , or The Eye , not only covers up her crimes but commits a number of other killings as well ! The Eye gets Joanna's fiancé the blind artist Alex Leonard , Patrick Bergin , killed by blowing out his limousine tires as him and Joanna were about to drive to the local church to get married . Later The Eye brutally beats up , with brass knuckles , the wild and crazy Gary whom he locked in the trunk of his car . Then put the car on auto-pilot as it drove around in circles aimlessly with Gary left to die in the burning Colorado desert . The movie finally ends in the cold and snowy wastelands of Alaska where The Eye finally gets enough nerve to meet and talk to Joanna who's working as a waitress in this Dead End Café . After , again , saving her from getting arrested by the FBI for a number of murders that she committed only to later get shot by her when she has another one of her many psychotic fit's when she's alone with a man . It seems that the bullet that The Eye took from Joanna was either a blank or missed him entirely since The Eye immediately recovers from being shot ! he then chases Joanna , who carjacked his car , on a motorcycle that just happened to be outside the shack that he was staying at . The ending is as ridicules as the rest of the movie " Eye of the Beholder " with Joanna surviving a car crash landing in the ice of a frozen pond with The Eye , who she just tried to murder , coming to her rescue . Battered and blooded with blood stains under her nose giving her the look of having an Adolf Hitler-like mustache Joanna and The Eye kiss and embrace each other as the movie suddenly and unexpectedly comes to an end , leaving the audience in a state of total confusion .
( Mild Spoilers ) The movie " Curse of Bigfoot " copies the earlier Bigfoot epic " Shriek of the Mutilated " with a Bigfoot hunter Norman Mason going out into the timberland country of Northern California with a troop of collage students to find the elusive man-like creature . Were first shown a number of film clips by high school teacher Dr . Bill Wyman about what Bigfoot-or Sasquatch-is really all about in his many sighting in both North America and the Himalayans Mountains where he's called Yiti by the natives who live there . It's then that Dr . Wyman introduces us , and his students , to a disheveled looking Norman Mason who's never been the same after he and his group of collage students encountered Bigfoot some five years ago . Were told by Mason that three of his students , as well as himself , have suffered deep psychological trauma after that shocking encounter and are now under constant and intensive psychiatric care . It's when Mason recites the story of his , and his collage students , encounter of the legendary Bigfoot that everything goes out of whack in that it isn't about Bigfoot at all ! It's in fact about this unrelated 100 , 000 year old Indian Mummy that he discovered outside the ghost town of Ivanpah California ! The Mummy came to life when it was exposed to the fresh air outside its tomb and , not having eaten in 100 , 000 years , started to search the countryside looking for a free , in that it didn't have any cash or credit cards , meal . The Mummy , not Bigfoot , ends up killing , and eating , a number of people but is later lured into a trap by Mason and his students as well as local Sheriff Walt where it's set on fire and burned to a crisp . The fact that there was nothing left of the killer Indian Mummy made Mason's story a bit unbelievable in that there was no proof at all that he ever had any contact with it or it even existed . Mason's story about three of the students with him ending up institutionalized also made no sense at all in that in his recounting of his amazing story they , the students , seemed to have been totally unaffected in their encounter with the Mummy . The film " Curse of Bigfoot " is actually two movie fused into one , like " They Saved Hitler's Brain " , being made some 17 years apart . The original film the 1958 unreleased " Teenagers Battle the Thing " had of course nothing at all to do with Bigfoot but the aforementioned Indian Mummy . The footage added on with Dr . Wyman was more or less an attempt to make the Mummy into a Bigfoot which turned out , after watching it , to be a complete and total failure . The most interesting thing about the film , far more than its depiction of Bigfoot , is that it has actor Ken Kloepfer in both the spliced together movies , some 17 years apart , playing the same role of Norman Mason !
( There are Spoilers ) Giving the mob a bad name by pushing coke / cocaine on the streets of New York City top mobster John Falcone , David Henry Keller , is called in and chewed out by the head man in the Mafia Don Ricci , Jake LaMatta . Falcone is told that from now on his drug pushing days are over and he's now back to shaking down and skimming off the pension funds of the city unions . Despite Don Ricci decision on his future Falcone has other ideas . Getting in touch with top New York public relations man Tod Barrett , Johnny Stoumper , to reinvent his image Falcone plans to knock off his replacement in the Mafia's drug operations Vince Petracco , Dan Lutsky . He also plans to take over the cocaine pipe-line from Columbia and the Columbia drug cartel in using a mercenary gang of ex-military men to take them out and then take over the cocaine trade in that country . The somewhat naive Barrett gets out tons of TV radio and newspaper spots about the " great humanitarian " John Falcone's work in his helping the poor hopeless and downtrodden of New York . Where behind the scenes Falchone starts a major and bloody gang war that results in dozens of people getting gunned down and blown up all over the tri-state area . With his top rival in the drug business Vince Petracco being blown to pieces , as he was getting his hair cut , at his favorite barber shop in downtown Manhattan . The mob gang war also effects the Columbian drug lords who came to the city to knock off Falchone in revenge for his having their cocaine operation taken over and men whacked . Which leads to them being easily wiped out as their more interested in getting high on coke then improving their aim and working in coordination with Falcone's enemy the Ricci mobsters . While all this is happening Falchone keeps Barrett in line by hooking him on coke-cocaine and later having his friend ace investigative reporter Marty Spostein , Steven Kaman , kidnapped and murder to bring the point home to the now terrified Barrett . Later after Barrett himself was kidnapped and tortured by Falcone's hoods he finds one of the Columbian mobsters stone cold dead in his refrigerator and his wife Whitney , Andrianna Mexwell , missing and possible kidnapped by the Falcone mob . Don Ricci himself escaping from being knocked off by Falcone's hoods lets out all stops to put an end to Falcone's reign of terror against the Five Mafia Famlies in NYC . But it's eventually the yuppie and nerdy PR man Todd Barrett , who reluctantly joins the Ricci Mob , together with part time boxer and Don Ricci hit-man Irish Mickey McCardle , J . Christian Ingvordsen , and Todd's wife Whitney who in the end does Falchone and his hoodlums in . Very violent but at the same time mindless gangster movie that has ex-boxing middleweight champ Jake LaMatta doing a good imitation of a Mafia Don and enjoying every minute of if . Johnny Stumper as Todd Barrett the PR man turned action hero is anything but convincing as he dukes , and shoots , it out with Falcone's hood at the conclusion of the movie . Todd uses up about as much ammunitions as a fully equipped German Panzer Division and not hitting anyone . Todd had to hit the gas tank of Falcone's car to finally put an end to this outrageously unbelievable but at the same time unintentionally funny gangster flick .
SPOILERS Working like a dog at his job as an advertising executive to make life better for his screwy wife Jessica , Erika Eleniak , and his two young children Katie & Joshua , Ashly Hale & Nathan Tipple , Russell Landers , David Millbern , never saw what was coming until it was almost too late . This in regards to a hair-brained attempted by Jessica to get even with him in her misguided thoughts of Russell cheating on her . Just because Russell was coming home late from work and almost passing out from exhaustion in bed Jessica thought that he was playing the field back in the office , with the many sexy women co-employees there , and decided to get even with Russell by having an affair of her own . Getting in touch , through the internet , with an old flame back in high school Marcus Declan , Michael Bergin , Jessica planned to meet him in a swanky restaurant in downtown Seattle and take up where she left off back some 15 years ago . As you would have expected the two hit it off right away with Marcus realizing that Jessica was bored with her marriage and wanted some real hot and heavy action which he was more the willing to provide for her . It was only after Jessica found out that Russell was breaking his back to get a major contract , worth over 20 million dollars , that would put both her and the kids on easy street that she changed her mind about him . But by then it was too late Marcus was stuck on her like a stamp to a letter and it would take a lot of hot steam in order to get him detached . After the breakup with Marcus things started to get a bit strained for Jessica with her and Russell getting phone calls at night with the other party hanging up and not giving his or her name and even later Jessica's car was vandalized and family dog Lucy , played by Buddy the pooch , poisoned . It also came out that Marcus was indited in a murder back in Dallas Texas of Nicole Kingsley , Anne Opensha , in which he was found innocent . Feeling that he murdered , even though exonerated in a court of law , once and will murder again both Jessica and Russell try to get Marcus arrested by the Seattle Police only to find out that he's got air-tight alibis where he was during all the troubles that they , Jessica & Russell , accuse him of causing them . It's not until later that this mysterious and somewhat spaced-out young woman Lisa Calders , Juliet Laandau , shows up at the Landers home that things really start to pop . Claiming to be the attorney who got Marcus off , from his murder charge , back in Dallas Lisa start to formulate this plan to get the goods on him in his attempted murder of both Jessica and Russell that she claims that Marcus is planning . SPOILERSIt didn't take that much to figure out that this Lisa was a fake and had ulterior motives in both screwing Marcus and the Landers and it all went back to Dallas Texas and the murder of Nicole Kingsley and the person who really was responsible for her death . Very predictable and silly crime drama that has you feeling absolutely no sympathy at all for it's star Jessica Landers . Jessica was both selfish and ridicules in her dealings with both her loyal husband Russell and new found boyfriend Marcus . Scerewing , figuratively not literally , both Russell and Marcus Jessica in the end not only put herself in danger but her husband and children , as well as the family dog Lucy , as well . MAJOR SPOILERSThe ending was about as off-the-wall as you can imagine with the killer coming out of the shadows and revealing himself only to end up blowing his , or her , plan in offing both Jessica and Russell as well as the by now almost brain-dead Marcus . The badly disabled Marcus , with a bullet in the back of his skull , in his own way saved the day by coming back to life when you , as well as the killer , thought that he was history .
SPOILERS Being literally brought back from the dead to battle the Germans for God and Country legendary English gumshoe Sherlock Holmes , Basil Rathbone , is now in modern , 1943 , Europe . Holmes is in Zürich Switzerland trying to get his hands on Swiss inventor Dr . Franz Tobel , William Post Jr , and his new and revolutionary bomb-sight and bring them both back to England to have it , by the thousands installed in the RAF's fleet of Lancaster bombers . Getting Dr . Toben out the the Nazi agents clutches Holmes has Toben as well as himself secretly flown out of Switzerland on a RAF plane and back to England only to later run into his mortal enemy the never say die , he's supposed to have been killed in an earlier Sherlock Holmes movie , Professor Moriarty , Lionel Atwill . Moriarty has thrown his support in with the Nazis not they their paying him the price that he wants for his services but that he can have another chance in having a battle of wits with the great Sherlock Holmes who's on the other side , England , of the battle line . Much too over-plotted with a number of incidents like Dr . Tobel always getting lost and into trouble , and Holmes having to risk his life to save the bumbling fool . " Sherlock Holmes and the Secret Weapon " is more of a propaganda and rallying call for the troops kind of movie then the usual brainy and intelligence detective story that you would have expected in a Sherlock Holmes film . The movie gets so carried away with it's patriotism that in the end it abruptly cut short almost in mid-sentence , probably with the screen-writers realizing just how ridiculous it is , a big speech by Sherlock Holmes in praising the allied cause and how great his country England is in standing alone against the Nazi Juggernaut . Which at the time that he's giving the speech England was allied with both the USA and USSR in the war against Nazi Germany ! Even though he's supposed to be a criminal genius Prof . Moriarty seems to be either too dim-witted or just blinded by his own misguided hubris to not realize that he's being taken to the cleaners by the far much more , in fact it a miss-match , intelligent Sherlock Holmes . Holmes in a number of occasions lets himself get captured by Moriarty's thugs only to have him blow his cover and get Scotland Yard on his tail in finding out just where his hideout is . Tricking Prof . Moriarty by letting himself get captured , into leading him to the kidnapped Dr . Tobel , Sherlock Holmes has his friend Dr . Watson , Nigel Bruce , and the police get to Moriarty's secret hideout just in the nick of time before the evil Prof . Moriarty drains all the blood out of Holmes ' body thus slowly and tortuously murdering him . Even this ingenious way of killing somebody had nothing at all to do with Prof . Moriarty brilliant , though evil and perverted , mind but it fact it was Homles himself who gave Moriarty the idea to do it ! Moriarty as you would expect , from his limited or almost no success at all in the film , again showed that he wasn't up to to it in facing his nemesis Sherlock Holmes by brainlessly trying to make his getaway , not knowing that Holmes set a trap for him , through the London sewer system . Only to fall 60 feet straight down into the sewer and to , well that's what were made to think , his death in the slime and and " YUCK " waste products , both human and animal , where that both treasonous and murderous slime-ball so rightfully and deservedly belongs .
SPOILERSHaving been released from a nearby veterans hospital for whats obviously , judging by his actions in the movie , sever mental problems Ralph Gordon , Anthony James , has become totally obsessed with a local teacher at the high school sexy Diane Marshall , Angel Tompkins . At the start of the movie we see Crazy Ralph following Diane around with his car a white and black hearse and constantly spying on her , as Diane sunbaths on the deck of her houseboat in the marina , with a pair of binoculars from an empty warehouse that he made his home away from home . Two local high school students Crazy Ralph's younger brother Lou and his best friend Sean Roberts , Randy Herrera Jr & Jay North , decide to check out Ralph's secret hideaway at the warehouse where Ralph , catching them by surprise , bayonet in hand startles the two boys causing his brother Lou to fall to his death . It's here where things start to get a little crazy , even for Crazy Ralph , with Ralph accusing Sean of pushing his bother to his death and then throughout the entire movie stalking him as well as Diane . , in one case with a ridicules-looking scuba outfit , unmercifully and almost driving the young man into becoming an alcoholic . Sean is also approached by his teacher the aforementioned Diane Marshall who seemed to have a crush on him for the three years that she's been teaching at his high school . Ralph already having it in for Sean over Lou's death is now even more nuts over his love from afar , Diane , choosing the young whipper-snapper Sean over him a seasoned combat veteran and , what he thinks he is , a sweet caring and sensitive lover . Shy at first when Diane just about throws herself at him Sean later raise to the occasion with a number of really hot and heavy , that stop just short of giving the film an X-rating , breathing sex scenes with the frustrated and dejected Ralph looking on with his powerful binoculars . It gets to where even Sean's parents and neighbors start to suspect that him and Diana are having an affair with the two going out night after night in local nigh-clubs and drinking themselves silly , even though Sean is underage , and necking like two love struck teens not caring who sees them even Crazy Ralph . Leaving for collage after the summer Sean seems determined to marry Daine , who's ten years older then him , no matter what his parents think . But just then a monkey wrench is thrown into the mix not only with Ralph getting more and more crazier over this , what's to him , sinful and unnatural affair but Diane's estranged husband Russ , Dick Winterstein , a barnstorming biker coming back to town to resume his role as Diane's macho and at the same time , he hasn't touched a woman during his three years of competition , sex-starved husband . The movie believe it or not is entertaining up until the last ten minutes or so when Ralph goes , as if he wasn't already , completely nuts kidnapping a terrified Sean and taking him up to his pad were for some strange reason he has besides an arsenal of weapons and a coffin that he sleeps in , like Bela Lugosi's Dracula , an upside down Yemenite flag ! Diane running to save her young lover Sean gets to the warehouse only to have the knife wielding and hot to trot Ralph assault her . After forcing himself on and raping Diana Ralph drops his bayonet where she quickly picks it up and runs the crazed psycho through killing him . Franticly looking for young Sean Diana finds him on the fire-escape dead strangled by the now also deceased Ralph as the movie ends in freeze-frame with Diana cuddling the dead Sean's head in her arms . The movie is not that bad at all until the depressing , and totally unnecessary , final death scene even though someone was already killed , Lou Gordon , earlier in the film . Ralph was just too unbelievable to take seriously with him popping up all over the movie with a frightening 15 inch bayonet in hand and no one but Sean seemed to ever even notice him like he was the invisible dead couple that only he like Topper , of movie and TV fame , could see . Jay North who was 22 at the time playing an 18 year-old did what was for him the best adult acting of his brief movie & TV career making anyone who saw him in the movie " The Teacher " forget that Jay was the utterly bratty and malicious " Dennis the Menace " ten years earlier on TV . Angel Tompkins was what every boy dreamed that their teacher would look and act , to them , like when they attended school and if that was a fact there would be no one ever skipping classes or plying hooky . But without a doubt it was Anthony James who stole the movie with his depiction of the psycho and sex crazed Ralph Gordon who really took himself , even though try as they might no one else in the film really seemed to , seriously . James came across as one of the most weirdest and off-the-wall movie villains since , another Anthony , Anthony Perkins put on a wig and dress impersonating his dead mother in Alfred Hitchchock's horror classic " Psycho " some fifteen years earlier .
SPOILERS Far out story about a crew of five very human-looking Martians led by their captain Dop , Tommy Kirk , who land on Earth and gather five very attractive healthy and child-bearing young women . To bring back to Mars to help re-populate that dying planet due to the low birth-rate of females there . Called operation " Sleep Freeze " the Martians have just a few days to achieve their mission . I was prepared to get a few laughs watching the movie " Mars Needs Women " just by what it's title indicated but was surprised about just how serious and intelligent the movie was . " Mars Needs Women " is , I think , the first movie to ever even mention much less explain what DNA , Deoxyribonucleic Acid , is : The unique and individual blueprint of every single human and animal that ever lived on Earth . This in a movie released in 1967 when most people never even heard of DNA . The Martians abduct a number of women through their use of hypnosis , stewardesses exotic dancers and home-coming queens , to take with them back to Mars . Where the Martians there are desperately waiting for and eagerly wanting to impregnate them in order to save their dying race . Yeah thats all the Martians want from the young and shapely earthling . Having a good time making out with the beautiful young ladies never crossed their minds for one second . Dop falls in love with the woman that he's supposed to bring back to Mars with him the pretty as well as brilliant young Dr . Majorie Bolen , Yvonne Craig , who's a Pulitzer Prize winning author in the field of DNA and extra-terrestrial genetics . Dop has a change of heart at the end of the movie and scuttles the plan " Sleep Freeze " at the expense of his safety and well being back on Mars . The movie is much like another film about aliens who come to Earth to destroy it . Then one of them rescues the doomed Earthlings by giving up his life to save them like the plot in the movie " Teenagers from Outer Space " . The movie " Mars Needs Women " is not what you might think it is , cheesy and erotic , but very serious and will surprise you in how ahead of it's time it is in the science of human DNA . How it makes up what we all are at a time when the word DNA was just three letters in the English alphabet in the minds of those who heard it .
( Some spoilers ) A bit more accurate then the usual war movie that was cranked out of the Hollowwood studios during the Second World War . " Corregidor " honestly portrays the heroic US and Phillipino siege of the island fortress known as " The Rock . Corregidor held off massive Japanese attacks from land sea and air from the time that Battan fell on April 9 , 1942 to it's eventually surrender to the Japanese imperial forces on May 6 , 1942 , a total of 28 days . The movie starts on December 6 , 1941 at Manoi in the Phillippines with Dr . Royce lee coming to the islands with her live-in maid Hyacinth , Ruby Dandridge , from New York City . Royce meets her long and forgotten , on his part , love Dr . Jan Stockman , Otto Kruger , and in less then 24 hours the two lovebirds get married . After The Wedding , December 7 , 1941 , the Japanese air force strikes the wedding party as well as all the US bases in the Pacific West of Hawaii , notably Perl Harbor getting the USA into WWII . The surprise Japanese attack Kills the presiding priest , Frank Jaquet , as well as Hyacinth among other guests at the ceremony . Going north away from the advancing Japanese army the two , Jan & Joyce , link up with a group of US soldiers and travel , through the jungle and over the waters of Minila Bay , to the island of Corregidor for the US army's last stand against the Japanese . We then have a really schmaltzy love triangle between Jan Joyce and an old flame of her's back from her medical school days in New York US Army Dr . Michael , Donald Woods . Dr . Michael dumped Joyce back then when she , being a blue blood and having lots of the green stuff , rented an office for Dr . Michael's medical practice on the fancy and prestigious New York's Park Ave . The guy could have evened things out by not charging fees to his clients for his services if he had such a violent dislike for making money . While on the island we also have another war love story between US Army nurse Hey-Dutch Van Doren , Wanda McKay , and her US Army boyfriend Cpl . Pinky , he's called Pinky that's because he'll so large , Mason , Rick Villin . Both Pinky & Hey-Dutch end up getting killed in the fighting . Hey-Dutch from a Japanese aerial bombardment and Pinky from being machine gunned , by a Japanese Zero fighter plane , that he also shot down from his tail-gunner position on the last plane out of Corregidor . On the island Jan changes his mind about getting married to Joyce , this after three short months , and dumps her , like Dr . Michael did , back into Dr . Michael's lap . Jan also solves the problem of Joyce being torn and divided between him and Dr . Michael by having himself get killed by a Japanese bombardment . Leaving Joyce free to marry Dr . Michael , but even that didn't go too well with Joyce being forced to leave the island as Dr . Michael stayed behind to be either killed or captured by the invading Japaneses troops . I found the love triangle and love story , between Jan & Joyce & Dr . Michael as well as Pinky and Hey-Dutch , far more interesting the the battle action scenes themselves .
( Some Spoilers ) " Candidate for Crime " is one of the most over-plotted of the Columbo series of TV movies that really doesn't make any sense after you realize how paradoxical it is . A candidate for senator in the state of California Nelson Hayward , Jackie Cooper , is so desperate to get elected in a special election that he concocts a scheme making the public believe that he's being targeted by organize crime for death because he's such a great crime fighter . It actually turns out that candidate Heyward is far better qualified to be a member of the Mafia then of the United States Senate . Hayward is also cheating on his wife Joanna , Joanne Liville , by having an affair with her private secretary Linda Johnson , Tisha Sterling . That greatly upsets Haywards campaign manager Harry Stone , Ken Swofford , who feels it would destroy his chances of getting elected if found out by by the media and his opponent in the race for the senate . Hayward thinks that the best way to get elected is to show the public that " The Mob " is out to get him and uses the excuse to check out of his hotel room , that's heavily protected by the police , by going to his wife's surprise birthday party . At the same Hayward has Harry impersonate him and end up at his , Hayward , beach house where he's secretly there and shoots him dead . Hayward does all this in order to makes it look like the person who murdered Harry , who's made to think that he's Hayward , was a Mafia hit-man . It looks like Hayward had Harry killed more out of him wanting to break up his relationship with Linda then anything else which was really foolish , and criminal , on Haywards part . Couldn't he wait until after the election , which was a week away , that he was projected to win by almost every political poll and then continue his affair with Linda ? Why murder his campaign manager and risk ending up not only losing the election but ending up in the San Quinten death house ? Let . Columbo , Peter Falk , who assigned to Harry's murder realizes that something just is't right in Hayward's whereabouts when Harry was murdered . It seems just too perfect for him to be at a birthday party for his wife Joanna at the exact time that Harry was killed . Also with Harry being such a good friend of the Hayward's why wasn't he not only invited to the birthday party but why didn't he even know about it , according to his personal diary . All these inconsistencies struck Let . Columbo odd and made him think that his murder was planned well in advance . It in fact wasn't a hit and run rubout by the mob who didn't know that the person that they whacked wasn't the person that they thought he was : Nelson Hayward " Champion Crime Fighter " . Columbo puts all the loose ends together and sets up the murderous and wife cheating Hayward but it's his very schemings , and paranoid , self that in the end seals candidate Haywards fate . It made no sense at all to me for Hayward to try to have himself get assassinated , by himself of course , at the end of the movie in order to gain sympathy from the public . At the time it happened the people of Califronia were already well on their way , according to the TV news reports , to electing him senator . Even if Hayward was behind in the vote it was already too late , with the majority of the vote already in , to swing the election in his favor anyway . Hayward was far to driven to get himself elected senator then having an affair with Linda . It made no sense at all for him to go as far as murder in killing his campaign manager Harry Stone , who was totally dedicated in getting Hayward elected to the senate , in order to continue his affair with her ! Peter Falk as Det Columbo had to keep himself more from cracking up then in getting the goods on Hayward . Which was as easy as pie for him in how ridicules Hayward was in single-handedly destroying not only his political career but his marriage freedom and Harry Stone's life as well .
SPOILER ALERT Overdone murder suspense / drama involving a former mental patient who ended up with a dead-end Job on the prestigious Oakville Tribune as it's obituary columnist . Denise Wilcox , Josie Bissett , has been working at the Tribune's obituary desk for some three years when something big finally opened up for her . That's when veteran ace reporter Stanley Morgan , Bill Lynn , suddenly collapsed and died of a heart-attack with his job expected to go to Denise . It came as a big surprise that the person getting Morgan's job , as it's star reporter , at the Tribune was non-other then Denise's ex-boyfriend Simon Casteillo , Grat Nickalls . The person who drove Denise to attempted suicide when she , and Simon , was a teenager ! We learn during the course of the movie , in a number of steamy flashbacks , that Denise's mother drove her insane when she broke up her relationship with Simon . This lead to her , after an attempted suicide , to be committed to the Cliffcrest Sanitarium . Recovered and out in the world Denise is now confronted with the very person , besides her mother , who was responsible for her mental problems Simon Castillo ! Not only that it's Simon who got the job , with him just being hired , that she always wanted ! This undoubtedly isn't going to help Denise's mental state which we soon see quickly deteriorate . It's just about the time that Simon shows up to work at the Tribune that things really start getting weird for Denise with her receiving on her computer messages of people who died , by being murdered , before they actually did . One of those persons is a woman whom Denise discovered murdered in the park while she was doing her morning jog ! It also happened that Denise possibly saw her killer who , running with a hood over his head , knocked her over while exiting the murder scene . All these incidents lead to Denise's sever mental problems resurfacing with only the Tribune's mail-room boy the kind and understanding as well as sensitive Luke , Craig Olejnik , trying to help her . Luke seeing what all this strain is doing to Denise goes out on his own in trying to find out who's sending Denise these strange message that by the time the movie is over lead to the deaths , that the massages predicted , of some half dozen persons . The last massage that Denise got predicted the death , by being murdered , of non-other then herself that's to happen at midnight the very next day ! We the audience are really left hanging , like Denise , in this muddled made for TV movie . There's so many potholes in the story that you feel like your walking through a desert minefield . There's an occult angle , Kali or Indian Tugee , to the murders that completely falls apart in that the person who comes up with it , and should have know better , occult store owner Zara , Julia Chantres , ends up becoming a victim of it . Zara's untimely death , by hanging , seemed to be an effort by the movie makers to not only kill her off but put Zara's cockamamie theories to who's been doing the killings finally to rest .
SPOILERS The only thing that seems to make any sense about the movie " Fog Island " is that the bitter and vengeful Leo Grainer , George Zucco , wanted to know for sure if any or all of the people that he invited to stay over at his home Alic Ritchfield , Lionel Atwill , Kavanaugh , Jerome Cowan , Syivla , Veda Ann Borg , and Emiline Bronson , Jaqueline Dewit , on Fog Island murdered his dear wife Karma . Finding out later in the film , at the cost of Leo's life , that Karma was murdered by his invited guests he could then die happily knowing that their greed would lead them right into the trap that he set for them . When Leo was framed by the above mentioned individuals for embezzling his company and sent to prison they not only looted whatever was still left in the company's coffers but in their mindless greed went to Fog Island . After not finding out from Leo's wife Karma where he stashed a large portion of his liquid assets , that they felt that he hid from them , they murdered her . His business bankrupt his wife dead and his future bleak Leo after getting out of prison had only one reason for living . That was to punish those who destroyed his life and murdered his wife Karma . At first you wondered why these people would take Leo up on his invitation to come and stay overnight at his home on the Island as guests ? They knew how much Leo hated them and how unstable and crazy he was . As you watched them in the movie you soon saw just how much their greed blinded them and distorted their reason from seeing this . Leo playing on their greed made them think that he had a large amount of liquid assets hidden somewhere on Fog Island . In the end Leo's guests didn't find any assets but got far more liquids that they could have ever hoped for . The good acting in the movie " Fog Island " by George Zucco and Lionel Atwill couldn't save the films very inane and uneven story . I could not understand why it was never really explained in the movie why Leo would hire an escaped convict Allerton , George Lloyd , to be his butler ? We always see Allerton snooping around the house and looking into every nook and cranny obviously looking for the money that he thinks that Leo has hidden there . Allerton is later confronted by Doc Lake , Ian Keith , Leo's former accountant and cell-mate . Doc gets into a fight with Allerton where he knocks him over a railing into the water and to his death . Leo who was in the background watching all of this seemed about as interested in what was happening as he would have been if he were watching the swallows flying north to Capistrano . There was also Jeff , John Whitney , who was not on Leo's guest list but who invited himself on the Island anyway . Jeff wanted to take Leo's pretty step-daughter Gail , Sharon Douglas , off the Island and away with him . The relationship between Jeff and Gail was so contrived and phony that you couldn't believe it for a second even if you wanted to . How did Jeff know that he and Gail would find a letter from Gail's mother , Karma , hid in a secret and hidden desk compartment insisting that she leave the Island immediately ? Did Jeff have a crystal ball that enabled him to see into the future ?
SPOILERS Somewhat silly crime movie having to do with a counterfeit ring being run out of a state prison and under the warden's , Warden Denby ( William B . Davidson ) , and his prison guards noses . The head guy running the ring from the outside is on the lamb fugitive Dice Mathews , Joe Downing . Dice together with his fellow hoodlums plans to launder the " hot " money by having it cooled off , three miles out to sea . Dice has this done at his ex-partner in crime the legit casino cruise ship operator Steve Parker's , Charles D . Brown , gambling boat the S . S Kismet . The job to find out who's responsible for both printing and laundering the phony cash falls on the heads of young hot shot Secret Service and Treasury Agent Let . Brass Bancroft , Ronald Reagan , and his comical partner and side-kick Gabby Watters , Eddie Foy Jr . The big break for the government agents comes when Parker sick and tired of being used as a laundry delivery boy , in cleaning up his dirty money , by Dice gets himself arrested . Parker does this by slugging a cop and ending up with a year , not the six months that he expected to get , in the can . Parker feeling safe behind bars then fingered Dice & Co . which had him and his boys busted by the Feds , while they were playing roulette on board the Kismet , and given long prison terms . It was Parker's misfortune that he ended up in the same prison where Dice and his boys were not in solitary confinement away from them where they can't get at him for being a snitch ! Getting a man on the inside of the Dice Prison Counterfeit Ring the Feds decide to sent Brass into the lions den to get to the bottom of who's behind printing up all this crooked money . Tough and more then willing to take chances , for the Dice Mathews Mob , Brass gets in good with Dice by taking the rap for a prison riot he instigated . Brass later ends up crashing out of prison with Dice and later is confronted by the real Mr . Big who runs the entire prison counterfeit operation . It turns out that Mr . Big , through his connections , found out about the Feds and Warden Denby's plan to infiltrate his gang and also who to the undercover US Treasury Agent Brass Bancroft's secret identity really is ! Ronald Reagan does his best to look and act tough as the tough talking and hard punching Brass Bancroft but ends up looking and acting ridicules . It's as if Reagan , as Brass , was an over-sized and over-aged member of the " Little Rascals " instead of a hard as nail G-Man . Even Reagan's clothes in the movie , as a convict , look at least three sizes bigger making him look more like a kid trying on his dads shirts and pants in his unsuccessful attempt to look like a grown up ! Reagan's prison cap is so big on him that it almost comes down to his eyes and ears ! In the end Brass does get the goods on the Dice Mathews prison counterfeit ring but only after getting shot a number of times , by Mr . Big , and sent flying , in a runaway automobile , to the bottom of a local lake . SPOILER ALERTSomehow surviving his ordeal , you couldn't say the same about Dice , Bass has Mr . Big exposed and then , in Mr . Big's attempt to make his getaway , shot to pieces by one of the guards at the prison . Uncharacteristically neither Brass or his goofy partner Gabby Watters get the girl Steve Parker's sexy daughter Peggy , Margot Stevenson , at the end of the movie . Peggy ends up getting hitched up to the manager of the S . S Kismet Gordon , Donald Douglas , who was shot and almost killed by Dice earlier in the film . As for the two Treasury boys they get their next assignment in tracking down and capturing the crazed and extremely dangerous ax murderer Butch Martin . The same Butch Martin who chopped to pieces a fellow government agent back in Kansas and swore to do the same to anyone else , like Brass and Gabby , who tries to arrest him ! P . S Besides the future Governor of California and later leader , as the Presiden of the United States , of the Free World Ronald Wilson Reagan being in the movie there's also the future TV Superman George Reeves in it as well . Mr . Reeves in a non-speaking part can be seen sitting directly behind Steve Parker as he makes his plea in court to the judge for leniency in his admitted crime of punching out a police officer .
SPOILERS Over-plotted and ridicules movie about a relic green glove that's the object of the films jewelry hunt up and down the mountains hills railroads and goat tracks of central and southern France . In the film Michael Blake , Glen Ford , sees the light in the end , or you can also say beginning , of the movie and returns the valuable glove to the Abbey of St . Elzear where it was lost for seven years during the last days of the Second World War . With that unselfish deed Michael made the Abbey's bells ring again . Long , even though the film is under 90 minutes , and senseless movie that stretches it's story with a snoozing train ride and a unintentionally hilarious chase up and down the steep and dangerous goat track by the St . Elzear Abbey . At that time Michael is persuade by Count Paul Rona , George Macready , and his hoods to get their hands on the green glove that's in his possession . The movie ends , like it started , with the bells ringing at the Abbey's bell tower as the green glove was returned to it . In fact the ending was not what you thought it was from what you saw at the beginning of the film . Michael got involved with the green glove when he dropped in on St . Elzear , back in August 1944 , as a US paratrooper . After taking Rona , who he caught stealing it , prisoner as a German spy the ceiling suddenly crashed down on him , after being hit by an artillery shell , with Rona fleeing and Michael ending up with the green glove . Michael left it , the glove , with some towns-people who had no idea what was in the satchel that Michael gave them as he took off to the more important grind of fighting and winning the war . Coming back to Paris after the war was over Michael tries to get things right by having the green glove returned , after he finds those who he gave it to , gets involved in a number of murders which he and his girlfriend and tourist guide Chris , Geraldine Brooks , were framed for by the devious Rona . Rona and his thugs followed Michael to France in order to get the green glove for himself . Michael also gets beaten up and knocked around with him falling through a glass sky-window . Later he almost drinks himself blind drunk in his effort to return the green glove back to it's rightful owners , the people of St . Elzear . Michael is reunited with Chris at the end of the movie and even with all the physical endurance and battering around that he went through in the film his hair is still oiled and so neat that not one single strand is left out of place .
SPOILERS After a rival trucker tried to run Frank Webster , John Ireland , off the road and ends up losing control of his truck and plunging to his death Frank was arrested and put in the local jail . Later with a group of the truckers friends about to storm the prison and lynch him Frank breaks out and becomes a fugitive from the law . At the start of the movie Frank is in a diner where he's spotted by one of the truckers Bob Nielson , Bruno DeSota , who are out looking to capture or kill him . As Bob pulls out a gun on Frank he gets flattens by him to the point where he's out cold for the rest of the movie . Frank takes off with one of the customers in the diner Connie Adair , Dorothy Malone , as a hostage as he drives away with her fast sports car . Frank ends up being on the run for the rest of the movie . Fast moving and well paced film with Connie at first resisting and doing everything that she can to alert the police about Franks whereabouts . Later when she realizes that he's innocent and Connie feels that he'll be rightly vindicated in the courts just like he told her . The movie revolves around a major race , the International , that goes from California to Mexico the country where Frank is trying to get away from the perusing police . With Connie entered and at the last moment banned from the race , because the race course had been deemed too dangerous for women drivers to participate on , Frank gets behind the wheel so he can get across the border into Mexico and freedom ; without drawing any attention or suspicion from the police and then as they say the race is on . With the police hot on his tail and with the Mexican border in sight Frank stops his car to save a fellow race car driver , who skidded off the road trying to get ahead of Frank , Frank gives up his chance to get across the border . Connie who's driving behind Frank comes to his as well as the injured race car drivers Faber , Bruce Carslisle , aid and feel guilty for calling the police who are on their way to arrest Frank . At the same time Frank feels that his running away from the law is over and that the courts , whom he trusts , will give him his freedom back . John Ireland & Dorothy Malone are fine in the leading roles in the movie and the car chases and racing action keep the movie going at a quick pace with an above average story for this kind of action film . " The Fast and the Furious " is also the first movie made by the then , 1954 , fledging AIP : American International Pictures studios . The studios that made a name for themselves over the years for making top-flight and innovative films with up and coming actors and directors who were given their first chance to act in and direct a major motion picture
SPOILERS An airborne homicidal lunatic is on the loose over the skies of America and has gunned down some half dozen passengers planes and their crews . The imminent psychiatrist Dr . Norris , John Elliott , has come to the conclusion , by treating WWI vets with combat-related mental problems , that the crazed pilot is a deranged WWI ace who's still fighting the war and trying to run up his score of kills in the air . Dr . Norris also deducts that the airman , dubbed Pilot X due to the white X makings on his plane , is also suffering from split personality syndrome making him look and act normal when he's not in his WWI fighter ace mode . Getting together with Jerry Blackwood , John Carroll , the hero of the film and US Aironotic inspector Gallagher , Willard Kent , Dr . Norris concocts this plan to trap and catch Pilot X by playing on his arrogance and bravado . Inviting the WWI aces in the area , feeling one of them is Pilot X , Dr . Norris is curtain that the killer would show up to throw off suspicion , on himself , and at the same time give him a chance to match wits and bullets with the other air aces , running up his score of kills against the best in the business , ace combat fighter pilots . The movie has Pilot X leave messages that has the other aces go in the air and meet him in air-to air combat with almost all of them getting shot down by Pilot X . USAAF ace Let . Douglas Thompson , Wheeler Oakman , was mistakenly shot down by the hero of the movie Jerry Blackwood when Pilot X secretly painted a white X on the side of his plane and then having him shot down by Jerry thinking that he was Pilot X . In the final sequence Jerry and nutty Capt . Saunders ( Pat Summerset ) , who himself already lost his mind , took off to take on Pilot X with Jerry's girlfriend Helen , Lona Andre , stuck in Saunders plane's back seat . Jerry shoots down the insane Pilot X and , later on the ground after his plane crashed , reveal his identity . Great aerial photography with the exciting air to air dog-fights between Pilot X and the flying aces of WWI made the movie , despite it's unbelievable story , worth watching . There was also a weird and hilarious scene with the off-the-wall Capt . Saunders completely flipping out of his head , over his experiences in the First World War , that ranks right up there with the great classic film crack-up scenes in movies like " Maniac " in 1934 and the great " Reefer Madness " in 1938 .
SPOILERS Surreal melodrama that goes in a number of different directions . Until you realize what really happened to defeated senatorial candidate John Waylan's , Peter Strauss , wife Kathy , Kathleen Quinlan . Who's been missing it what seemed to have been a boating accident . Newspaper reporter Nat Leming , Horthgar Mathews , is out to break the big story about John wife's mysterious disappearance at the house that they were living in by the lake in the woods . Nat tries to get whatever information about the Waylands that he can from those who knew them . Like John's campaign manager Tony Carbo , Peter Boyle , and Kathy's sister Pat Hood , Nancy Soral . But Nat gets nowhere and it also seems that he's in some way holding himself responsible , for what happened to Kathy . By a story that he broke about her husband John just days before the election . Finding out that John was involved in the infamous Son My massacre when he was a US infantry man during the Vietnam War Nat broke the story that broke the the back of Waylan steamroller that was well on it's way to put him in the US senate . With a 22 point lead evaporating over night John is left out of work without a job and a bleak future with the words " Baby Killer " stamped on his forehead . Were left a bit confused to what happened to Kathy and what John had to do with her disappearance , if at all . Most of all were shown what John has been going through not only since Vietnam but far earlier in his life when he was a young boy fascinated with doing magic tricks . At the time we meet john he looks like he's a shoo-in to get elected senator of the state of Minnisota . As his campaign falls apart , due to the revelation about his Vietnam experience , he turns inward and just gives up by living in a fantasy world that he created for himself . Were never really told what happened to Kathy , the viewer is shown a number of different scenarios . So in the end it's left up to the viewers imagination . One thing that isn't is that John is a very sick man who lost touch with reality . Due to the madness that consumed him , by the time the movie is over . One thing in the film " In the lake of the Woods " that was a bit too much to take was the conduct of Sheriff Lux's , Ken Pogue , part-time deputy Person , Stephen E . Mille . Person was so obnoxious as well as unprofessional that I wondered how the sheriff could put up with his actions , that were anything but helpful in finding the missing Mrs . Waylan . Since they crossed the line of investigating a missing person to the point of having him , and his boss sheriff Lux , brought up on charges for making false and unfounded statements about , of all persons , the distraught husband of the missing woman ! We , as well as John , even had to put up with the uncouth deputy Person belting him twice , not once , in the mouth in full view of a number of witnesses , including Sheriff Lux . With John doing nothing at all to provoke him ? Guilty or not John has the right of being considered innocent until proved guilty in a court of law . Persons actions would have made any trial of John be thrown out of court by the presiding judge . In fact John was never even arrested much less charged with Kathy's murder . All I could think of in explaining Deputy Person's uncivil behavior is that he must have had friends in high places in government for him to feel safe in acting that way .
SPOILERS The first of the Billy Jack quartet of movies that's the least sanctimonious and preachy of the bunch and the only one that doesn't have the name " Billy Jack " in it's title . Mr . Jack , Tom Laughlin , were given to understand in the films prologue has called it quits on society after coming home from " Nam " , South Viet Nam , with a chest full of medals as a member of the elite and tough as nails Green Berets . Mr . Jack , or Billy Jack , has since become a recluse minding his own business and living with nature , in his trailer , outside the seaside town of Big Rock California where he occasionally drives in with his jeep to get both food and supplies . One afternoon Billy Jack goes out of his way saving the life of a motorist who's being attacked and beaten by this gang of bikers known as the Born Losers , or Born to Lose . This ends up not only educating Billy Jack on what the outside world , beyond his home in the woods , is all about but makes him become an activist for among other things womens rights and the rights of self-defense . Billy ending up fined $1 , 000 . 00 , bankrupting him , and sentenced to 120 days in jail , that the judge dismissed , is outraged that the bikers who almost beat a man , the motorist that Billy saved , to death were given a much lighter sentence . Billy used a rifle , which according to the law is illegal , to save the man's life and the bikers used their fists as well as steel pipes and wooden clubs , which according the law is legal , to beat him into a pulp ! This incident at the beginning of the film " The Born Losers " sets the stage for the now arrogant and filled with hubris bikers going on a raping rampage grabbing a number of teenager , who in fact were invited over to their clubhouse , and brutally gang raping them . Among the bikers rape victims is also Vicky Barrington , Elizabeth James , who was just riding through town on her motorcycle with nothing but a florescent white bikini on . Vicky caught the eye of the bikers lead by the insect-looking , with those oddly-shaped black and white goggles on , Danny Carmody played by Jeremy Slate who just went wild over her . Looking like mousy Shelley Duvall from the neck up and voluptuously sexy Jacqueline Bissett from the neck down Vicky had that right combination of innocence and guilt , in the way she was flirting with the sex crazed bikers , that the bikers felt that she was asking for it and , despite her fending them off , piled on top of her . The local sheriff and D . A , Stuart Lancaster & Paul Bruce , were trying to make a case against the bikers but their victims , about a half dozen young women including Vicky , were just too scared to testify against them which in effect tied theirs as well as the laws ' hands . It was the bikers intimidation of the witnesses that really brought the best , or worst , out of Billy Jack in him doing what the gutless sheriff and his deputies were afraid to do , take the law into his own hands . Going from cold to hot an back again the violence avoiding and pacifistic Billy Jack purposely lets the bikers push him around so far that his adherence to violence , that he developed since he left the horrors of the Viet Nam War behind him , was slowly stripped away as he turned into the mad as hell , with his fists feet and guns , individual that he tried to repress for so long . Not just your typical biker movie " The Born Losers " in its own and amateurish way tries to tell it's audience how the law ties the hands of honest citizens by forcing them to give up their arms as well as refraining from defending themselves with anything , besides firearms , available to them . The police in the film are totally ineffective in enforcing the law in not just arresting the criminals , the bikers , and bringing them to justice but they can't even protect their victims who are needed to testify against them in court . Billy Jack who in the end saves the day , after having his skull cracked open , by putting an end to the bikers reign of terror in the little town of Big Rock ends up almost getting killed himself by the police whom he called to come to his rescue . Billy racing on a motorcycle to the hospital to see how Vicky , who was almost beaten to death by the bikers , is doing ends up being shot in the back by an overly eager sheriff's deputy who thinks he's one of the criminal bikers trying to make a run for it ! Despite all it's flaw's " The Born Losers " is by far the best of the four Blly Jack movies . This was only because the movie was made before it's star writer and director Tom Laughlin got too philosophical and sermonizing , in his screenplays , due to the amazing financial success of the Billy Jack films , which gave Laughlin complete control in making them , that followed it . " The Born Losers " at least stuck to a simple story that could easily be followed by those watching it . This made it a much better film then the three later Billy Jack movies that besides their confusingly mystic and American Indian philosophy themes also had so many sub-plots , which " The Born Losers " didn't , that you got lost watching them long before they were finally over .
( There are Spoilers ) Somewhat silly but still entertaining horror flick involving these aliens who've settled on and around the Trollenberg peak in the scenic Swiss Alps . Ater a number of mountain climbers end up dead or missing it becomes apparent to UN employed Professor Crevett played by a 30 year old Warren Mitchell , who looks at least 60 in the movie , that whatever is creating all this havoc is somehow hidden in the mist , or cloud , hanging around the mountain . Prof . Mitchell has his good friend Amerian investigator of the supernatural Alan Brooks , Forrest Tucker , come over to Switzerland to help him out . Prof . Mitchell together with Brooks determined that some kind of alien creature is using the cloud , that defies science , as cover to kill mountain climbers and then decapitate them ! It's never really explained in the film why these aliens are so hung with the human skull or brain ? The film " Trollenberg Horror " or " The Crawling Eye " goes on with both Prof . Mitchell and Alan Brooks getting the lowdown to what this , or these , creatures are really up to . This has to do with young Anne Pligrim , Janet Munro , who together with her older sister Sarah , Jnnifer Jayne , have a popular mind reading act . Anne in fact was guided to go , with Sarah , to Trollenberg by picking up wavelengths emitted from the creatures without them or her knowing about it . It's when mountain climber Brett , Andrew Faulds , came back from his climb that Anne realized that he was in not alive but fact a walking dead man . Bratt is being controlled by the aliens who had earlier killed and decapitated his fellow climber Dewhurst , Stuart Saunders with Bratt ending up with Dewhurt's severed head in his nap-sack ! Uncoordinated in his movements , due to being dead , a wild eyed and crazed looking Bratt attacks Anne only to get belted and knocked out cold by Brooks . Later while in custody after he murdered Trollenberg Mayor Klein , Fredrick Schiller , Bratt disintegrates into a blob of rotting and stinking flesh ! That's when the aliens , who are controlling him , felt that Bratt's no longer any use to them . " The Crawling Eye's " final fifteen or so minutes has the aliens finally revile themselves as they come out of the cloud and attack the few people still remaining in Trollenberg . Figurings out just what makes , and doesn't make , them tick Brooks together with Professor Mitchell in a last desperate move have the RAF , with the cooperation of the Swiss Government , come to their , and the few persons remaining alive in town , rescue . The RAF ends up giving these crawling and pulsating eyeballs a taste of their own medicine , in killing and dismembering human beings , by making things really hot for them in the confines of their new and adopted home ; The minus sub 30 to 40 degree temperatures of the frozen Swiss Alps .
SPOILERS Documentary-like crime thriller about a masked rapist on the loose at an , what at first seemed like , safe and crime-free condominium , The Woodside Housing Complex . A place where you can keep the doors of one's apartment and car unlocked with no fear at all of them being broken into and stolen . Moving in with his wife Michelle , Chelsea Field , from Michigan policemen Ray Dolan , Hart Bochner , gets his transfered to the Fulton County PD . There Ray's put on patrol outside of the apartment complex that he's living in . Within a week after the Dolan's moved in there's a rape at the complex that gets the tenants there very scared and immediately start to demand extra police protection . The rapes continue with Ray assigned by his boss Det . Frank Ferral , Joe Don Baker , to the apartment complex as one of the cops on the task force to catch the rapist . On the grounds outside the complex Ray spots the rapist and after a long chase he eludes him inside the condominium . This convinces Ray , and Det . Ferral , that he's living among the people that he's been terrorizing all these weeks . The chase and not capturing , or shooting , the rapist also has the tenants in the complex angry with Ray for letting him get away . There's another revelation that comes out later that has Ray feeling a lot like the husbands that had their wives raped . It has to do with Michelle , who's been keeping this secret from him ever since they were married . Michelle reviled it to him in order to gain sympathy and understanding for her almost destroys their marriage . Pretty good thriller with Officer Dolan fighting his own demons as well as trying to catch the serial rapist at the same time . The rapist who can be anyone in the complex engages in a number of vicious and brutal assaults . The last on a helpless woman as her young six-year-old son that is locked in the bathroom . The little boy crying for the rapist not to hurt his mom is about as shocking and disturbing as anything you'll ever seen in a R-Rated motion picture . What's even more disturbing about that scene is that " Complex of Fear " is a made-for-TV movie . Good detective work on the part of both Officer Dolan and Det . Ferral finally has the rapist tracked down just as he's about to strike his next victim Dolan's wife Michelle . A key piece of the evidence that eventually exposes the rapist is what football team he likes . It turns out that rapist comes from Chicago . H's a big Chicago Bears fan . Joe Don Baker as Det . Ferral is at his usual folksy best as the seasoned lawman who's a lot more clever and effective then you would have first thought and methodically piece's all the clues together to finally come up with who he rapist is . Hart Bochner , with a mustache , looks like a young Robert Taylor and is also very effective in his role as not only a dedicated police officer but a man who's troubled about himself in his work as a cop . Beautiful Chelsea Field as Michelle Dolan is excellent as the wife of a cop who at first thought that she could confide in him . It turns out that her husband Ray completely fall apart and doubted his own competence as a man and a husband . Ray was used to seeing this , rape , happening to people that he comes in contact with in his work in law enforcement every day . The act that it happened to his wife in a strange way make him a better , and caring , person . Not only to the rapist victims in the housing complex but to her , Michelle , as well .
( Some Spoilers ) A somewhat confused movie with a load of flashbacks that make you at times unaware if your in the past or present . It's Claire Forlani's performance as the undercover policewoman Monica that makes the film " Gone Dark " or " The Limit " more then worth watching . Inflitrating " the Crew " , a big city drug gang , Monica wins over the confidence of her boss Gale Carmody , Pete Poslethwilte , to the point where he lets her use his van for hours at a time to get " The Crew " lunch and dinner . Carmdy doesn't realize that Moni , as she's called by him , uses it to get in contact with the FBI that she's working with to get the goods on him . Moni also got addicted to heroin due to the stress of working undercover . One of " the Crew " members Eight-Ball , Billy Koury , is suspected by Gale to have ripped off 40 kilo's of " The Crew's " heroin and Moni is given the task to collect it from him . Almost getting killed " The Crew's " second in command Danny , Henry Czrney , come to Moni's rescues that make her totally trust him . Later when she finds out , from Danny , that he's also working for the Feds to set up Gale and his gang she moves in with him . What Moni later finds out is that Danny set up Eight-Ball to take the blame for the missing heroin . The movie starts out with May , Lauren Bacall , a resident at Moni and Danny's apartment house being told by the police that her next door neighbor , Danny , was found shot and killed and if she knew anything about the shooting . It turned out that May mistakenly got a number of letters and packages that were sent to Danny . Those letters and packages turned out to have valuable information about " The Crew " and Gale's involvement with the local Russian Mafia as well as Moni's undercover activities in Gale's organization . Moni trying to get her hands on the letters and packages at May's apartment gets very friendly with her in order to gain access to her place and get the important documents but as it turned out it would be a lot harder then she first thought . " Gone Dark " tells it's story with a number of flashbacks as Moni slowly starts to disintegrates due to her heroin addiction and desperately needing a quick fix . Moni who had all the cards , and gun , at the start of the film begins to lose her grip on May and goes into a gut wrenching withdrawal from her desperate need for a heroin load that by the time the movie is about over she's completely out of it . There's also " the Crew " waiting for her downstairs , they already found that she's FBI , and the only thing left for her is to violently die from severe heroin withdrawal syndrome or the end of the barrel of her 9mm automatic . A lot of twists and turns in " Gone Dark " that keep the movies storyline going but they do come together and show the audience how the whole story set itself up in flashback in May's apartment with Moni waiting for the end to finally come . A number of double-crosses on both sides , the crew's members Danny and the police and FBI , put Moni in a position where she was left out to dry all by herself . May who at first seemed unaware of what what's happening with the mail for Danny that she mistakenly got turned out to be very well informed of both Danny activities as well as her health coach Brian ( Joris Jarsky ) , who was always coming over to look after her , from the mail that she got from Danny . The movie slowly shows Moni fall apart from her addiction to and need for heroin as well as her betrayal by the FBI and Danny . In one of the most shocking demonstrations of a suffering drug addict ever , far more convincing then the famous one with Frank Sinatra in " The Man with the Golden Arm " , Forlina's acting is so unnerving and believable that you almost want to run to the nearest phone to call 911 to get her help . Forlina more then holds her own against , in fact she easily eclipses , the legendary Lauren Bacall in every scene she's in with her in the movie .
SPOILERS Investigation newspaper tycoon Arthur Kennicut , Ray Milland , wife's Lenore , Pat Crowley , extramarital activities private investigator Brimmer , Robert Culp , gives her a clean bill of health in not fooling around behind her husbands back . The fact is that Lenore had indeed been having an affair with her hunky and handsome golf instructor Ken Archer , Brett Halsey , but Brimmer had that lifted and expunged from the report . Trying to get an inside line to Arthur's wheelings and dealings , mostly in the appointment of federal judges , Brimmer shrewdly saves his wife Lenore from being exposed as an adulteress . That would have her divorced by Arthur and put an end to her life of luxury and around the clock fun games and partying . It's later that Lenore has a change of heart and confronts Brimmer at his beach-front home telling him she's going to expose him to her husband , as a sleazy blackmailing creep . The sparks really start to fly with Lenore getting smacked across the face by Brimmer and cracking her skull as she fell backwards on the coffee table killing herself . Brimmer trying to make the best of a bad situation put's Lenore's body in the trunk of his car and after driving to a deserted construction site dumps it there making it look like she was brutally murdered in a random assault and robbery . Lt . Columbo . Peter Falk , is put on the case and the first thing that he notices when he goes to see Authur at his mansion is a photo of his late wife , Lenore , wearing glasses ! Lenore being very vain about her looks never let anybody on to that fact ! Brimmer tying to cover his tracks get's involved in the Lenore Kennicut murder investigation since he handled Authur's investigation of her cheating on him just days before . The obvious reason for Brimmer taking such a personal interest in Lenore's murder is that he killed her . With him being right of top of the investigation Brimmer can lead it , and Lt . Columbo , away from himself as a suspect . Lt . Columbo slowly starts to see the inconsistencies in the case with the way Lenore was killed by a violent slap across the face , that left a deep ring impression on her chin . It's also very obvious to Lt . Columbo that she was moved by her killer to another place to throw off the police . Lt . Columbo also finds out that Lenore in fact was having an affair with Archer which made Lt . Columbo very suspicious of why Brimmer hid that fact from her husband Arthur . Brimmer sees that Lt . Columbo is making headway on who murdered Lenore and slyly offers the L . A detective a job at his agency , that pays triple what he makes as an LAPD detective , as an underhanded bribe to get Lt . Columbo off the case with him not falling for or taking the bate . Knowing that Brimmer , and his investigators , are watching every move that he makes Lt . Columbo later takes a chance to let out the fact about Lenore's contact-lenses . It turns out that Lonore may have lost one or both of them when she was actually murdered at her beach house , that Columbo didn't know at the time , not where she was found at a construction site . Getting an exhumation order from the courts Lenore's body is unearthed and , with Brimmer listening in , Lt . Columbo tells the person in charge of the exhumation that one of the contacts is missing being that it's still at the murder site . It also turned out that the car that Brimmer used to drive Lenore's body away and dump her had been sent to a local garage . This after Lt . Columbo secretly disabled it , for servicing . Concerned and scared Brimmer rushed to his beach-house and not finding the contact there broke into the garage and after a while he does find the missing contact lens . Brimmer is completely unaware that it was all a trap set for him to incriminate himself by Lt . Columbo ! There was no contact lens ! But Brimmer incriminated himself by falling into Lt . Columbo's trap by thinking that there was one , or maybe even two ! It looked like Brimmer was really and truly sorry for what he did in killing Lenore . After all it was really an accident and not premeditated murder , and may have wanted to be caught to clear his conscience . Brimmer also seemed to have lost his sense of self-protection by having his investigators constantly following and reporting back to him Lt . Columbo's whereabouts which they , these guys were pretty sharp , would realize that he was covering up and trying to impede the murder investigation making them accessories to his crime !
SPOILERS Outer space Rosemary's Baby-like shocker that holds together pretty well until the final few minutes when you would expect the movie to deliver the goods and only end up getting a second-rate and very confusing , or a complete let-down , surprise ending . Being sent into orbit on the space shuttle astronauts Spencer Armacost and Alex Streck , Jhonny Depp & Nick Cassavetes , are almost killed as their repairing the shuttle while in space . Being cut off for over two minutes , from the main NASA monitoring station in Huston , it was at first assumed that the two were killed in an explosion outside the shuttle . Later it was confirmed that both Spencer and Alex were all right and the shuttle mission was aborted with the two astronauts brought back to earth . Something happened up there to the two spacemen that was to come very very close to home , their wives , when they returned . Both of the astronauts wives Jillian & Natalie , Charlize Theron & Donna Murphy , at first don't notice any change in their husbands , Spencer & Alex , appearances or conduct only that their horny as hell . At the first possible chance the returning astronauts had had they , at least in the scene between Spencer and Jillian , pounced upon their wives like wild animals in heat and brutally make love to them as if they haven't seen or touched their wives , or any other woman , in years ! It's later at an out-door party that Alex , after having a fight with Natalie , goes berserk and collapses and dies from a massive heart-attack . Later Natalie despondent over her husbands sudden death commits suicide by electrocuting herself in the bathtub while both Spencer and Jillian are there at her home visiting and trying to comfort her over her tragic loss . Moving to New York City Spencer gets a job working for Jackson McLaren's , Tom Noonan , aerospace company and things just couldn't be better for the happy young couple . It's when Jillian gets pregnant and is later told that she's to give birth to twins by her physician Dr . Patraba , Samantha Eggar , that strange things start to happen to her . This all leads Jillian to believe that the person that she's married to , Spencer Armacost , isn't the man that she thinks he is in fact he isn't a man at all ! The movie quickly moves to from where Jillian has absolutely no suspicion of her husbands sinister plans for her and her future children to where she's terrified at just the very sight of him . Being contacted by former NASA insider Sherman Reese , Tom Morton , Jillian is told that her husband is not human and that his body and mind were taken over by some unknown and unseen alien force while he and Alex were in outer space ! A force that's anything but friendly towards her or any one else on earth . Jillian thinking at first that Reese is some kind of nut still can't dismiss the shocking and personal information that Reese knows about her being pregnant with twins . Reese also knew that Natalie was also pregnant at the time of her suicide , that was kept from the public , and she also was to give birth to twins ; how on earth could Reese have known all this unless he was telling the truth ? Reese trying to get all the secret and shocking information about Specer to Jillian , before he feels that he'd be silenced forever , information that proves that Spencer's not who she thinks he is from top-secret NASA documents , that Reese smuggled out before he was fired from his job . All of Reese's efforts come to a crashing end when he's intercepted by Spencer at a local New York City subway station where the drop , or pick up , by Jillian was supposed to take place and is never seen and heard from again with Spencer , instead of the out of sight and hidden Jillian , taking off with his briefcase . Getting a key from Reese in the mail it leads Jillian to a storage building where he kept as a back up , something he learned from working at NASA , information about the truth of Spencer's origins . Jillian now more then ever is convinced that her husband is not only not of this earth but later when Jillian finds out that her sister Nan , Clea Duvall , who was last seen at her and Spencer's apartment was missing she suspected that her once " sweet kind and loving " husband is a murderer as well . The movie looked like it was going to be a better then average thriller but fizzled at the end with a very convoluted final that destroyed all the tension that was building up in the film . Your left wondering what exactly the ending was all about with a complete turn around , as well as new hairdo , in what Jillian was actually trying to achieve in stopping her husband and his offspring's the evil space twins from gaining a foothold , so that they can later take control , of the US NASA space program .
SPOILERS 1940's child star Dean Stockwell in his first adult role as the crazy mixed up and madly in love 18 year-old Santa Monica high school student Jerry Vernon does a commendable job without the usual schmaltz you would expect in a 1950's growing up to adulthood Hollywood movie . Crashing a party with his friend Bob , Alan Dinehart III , just to be rebellious Jerry meets 17 year-old Emily Meredith , Natalie Trundy , and by the time the evening is over the two somehow connect without at first realizing it . It's later when , with her parents out for the evening , Emily invites Jerry over to the house that what at first was just a chance encounter , at the crashed party , not only becomes a beautiful friendship but blooms into a full fledged love affair . As Jerry gets serious about Emily his studies in school start to suffer and that gets his old man Mr . Sam Vernon , John Larch , as well as his mom Mathilda , Virginia Christine , very concerned about their son's future . Papa Sam has been breaking his back working all kinds of overtime , as well as days off , at the machine plant where he saved up $400 , 00 to pay for Jerry collage education . Now Jerry wan't to squander not only his education but the $400 . 00 to buy Emily and himself a pair of wedding rings and go on a honeymoon where they'll be hitched up , or married , in Mexico . Emily's parents Charles & Helen Meredith , John Stephenson & Barbara Billingsley , are just as determined as Jerry's are in not letting their daughter ruin her life by marrying so early before she can make something of herself by going to and finishing college . The final straw is when Jerry with his kid brothers Biff's , Bobby Hyatt , knowledge plans to elope with Emily . This is to be accomplished by Jerry forging his old mans name on a bank withdrawal slip in order to grab the $400 . 00 , that's exclusively for Jerry's education , and take off with Emily across the border into Mexico . Biff not being able to keep his mouth shut blurts out , at the breakfast table , what Jerry & Emily are about to do ! That leads Papa Sam to storm into the two's lovers hotel-room and have it out with his love-sick and at the same time ungrateful , for everything he did for him , son Jerry . Things get even more stressful for the confused and immature Jerry when his girl Emily , even though younger is far more grown up then he is , decides to call the whole thing , dash across the border and marriage , off . Left all alone and feeling like a real first class jerk with the hotel owner Mrs . Belosi , Elizabert Shifer , giving him 72 hours to clear out Jerry meekly comes back home to live with his parents and ask for their forgiveness for all the trouble he caused them . SPOILER ALERT In the end things turn out for the better for both Jerry and Emily in that they not only learned the hard facts of life but also that being in love is one thing but being married is quite another . Especially if you've never experienced life beyond that of attending party's and making out on then back seat of your , which our parents paid for , Chevy Convertible . P . S By the way Emily , like his parents , in the end forgives Jerry for his compulsive actions and not only agrees to give him her new address , at her parents summer retreat in Connecticut , but promises to write him every day that she's away .
( Some Spoilers ) Not as bad as it looks now some 25 years after it's release . " Hanger 18 " is the first major motion picture to bring on the screen the Eric Van Daniken hypothesis from his best selling book " Chariots of the Gods " and the recent , back in 1980 , revelations of the mysterious 1947 Roswell crash brought out in the William Moore's UFO classic " The Roswell Incident " and fuses the two subjects together into a movie . Out in space astronauts Bancroft Price & Gates , Garry Collins James Hampton & J . R Clark , are about to launch a satellite from their space craft when this UFO suddenly appears and hovers over their spaceship . Unable to prevent the launch it goes off and slams into the UFO . The explosion of the satellite cause Gates to be ripped from out of the craft and end up dead . The NASA crew monitoring the launch , back on earth in Huston , catches the entire scene on tape but it's soon deleted , or erased , by orders from higher ups and both Bancroft & Price are implicated in Gates death due to their negligence . With two weeks before the presidential election President Duncon Tyler's staff headed by Gordon Cain & Frank Lafferty , Robert Vaughn & Joseph Campanella , want the incident to be kept from the public in order not to hurt Tyler's chances for re-election . The UFO that caused all this nervousness in both the White House and the Pentagon wasn't destroyed by the space-crafts satellite it landed safe on earth in Bannon County Arizona with it's two alien pilots , or spacemen , dead of asphyxiation . The news of that amazing fact can well destroy Tyler's chances . President Tyler made a big issue of his opponent believing in UFO's now just 14 days before the election there's solid evidence that they do exist ! With both Bancroft and Price trying to find NASA deputy director and friend Harry Forbes , Darren McGavin , to exonerate them in Gates ' death Forbes , and his staff at NASA , are then sent to Wolf AFB in Midland Texas at the facilities Hanger 18 where the UFO is being held . Not knowing what's happening in the outside world Forbes & Co . were kept in the dark about what was going on with both Bancroft & Price . Forbes and his assistants Paul Bannister , Steven Keats , and Neal Kelso , Andrew Bloch , decipher the alien hieroglyphs and come to the startling conclusion that their not only studying the Human Race but in fact created it tens of thousands of years ago ! The aliens may well be the " missing link " between man and ape ! Forbes shocked at what he found out astoundingly says of the aliens to his stunned and shocked staff : " Were Their Children ! " Back outside Bancroft & Price who are trying to get to Wolf AFB and Hanger 18 are cased by government agents which results in Price , as well as four agents , getting killed . Finally Bancroft reaching the Wolf military base and getting in touch with Forbes , who found out about what was going on by listening to a radio , and his staff to go pubic with what's been happening at Hanger 18 and how the US government is trying to cover it up . Feeling that their control of the information about the captured UFO is slipping away from them and that it's only a matter of time before the US , and world , public will know the truth Cain & Co . have a jet , loaded with high explosives , flown into Hanger 18 by remote control in order to destroy the evidence as well as Bancroft Forbes and everyone else in there ; planes crash every day a diabolical Cain tells his fellow criminals and future cell-mates . Cain's scheme is only partly successful because what he didn't count on is that the UFO is not of this earth and thus not subject to the damage that the explosives on the runaway jet plane can do to it . Even more disturbing , to Cain & Co . , Forbes Bancroft and Forbes entire NASA staff were in the UFO at the time that the plane crashed into Hanger 18 .
SPOILERS With the terrible news of his father Mafia Don Poleiro Regalbuto sudden death young Frankie , Robert Foster , feels that the weight of the world was put on his shoulders and doesn't know if he could handle it . At a big Mafia conference in Las Vages the three mob families decide that all of the late Don Poleiro's operations should be put in the hands of his friend and fellow Mafia Kingpin Don Angelo Dimorra , Anthony Quinn , with Frankie being thought the ropes by him until he can do the job as a Mafia Don himself . There's foul play and treachery afoot with the greedy and back-stabbing mob Cosiglieri , Luigi Orlando , Charles Cioff , planing to use his recruited out-of-state hit men to start a bloody mob war between the three Vages Mafia families . Then , after the dust settles , Luigi plans to take over the entire Mafia operations in the city that's worth well over a billion dollars . Luigi get's his chance to get the war between the Mafia families started when he manipulated young Frankie into a feud with his new adopted father Don Angelo . Lugie starts a rumor that the fatherly Don was having an affair with Frankies girlfriend nightclub singer Ruby Dunne , Anglel Tompkins , this results in Ruby getting almost beaten to death by an outraged Frankie . Lugie's trickery also leads to Don Angelo sending out a hit team to knock off the love-crazed and unstable hood . The Don's brother and family Consiglieri Mitch , Louis Zorich , tries to talk his hot-headed brother out of it but not after the hit men gunned down Frankie's dad , the late Don Poleiro , Consigieri Vito Netherbourne , George Skaff . With a full-scale mob war now about to explode Frankie get's help from the Fargo brothers hit men for hire Tony & Vince , Frederic Forrest & Al Letteri . This causes so much damage to Don Angelo's mob empire , including the murder of his brother Mitch , that it lands him in a wheel chair after suffering a heart-attack and near-fatal stroke . The mob war really escalates when Don Angelo's boys trick Frankie and Vince into going to a meeting of the minds in a downtown Vages diner this results in a violent gun battle with Vince being gunned down . Tony then pulls out all stops and sends his men , the former Don Poleiro mob , out for blood that results in dozens of Don Angelo's men getting shot knifed slashed and , together with Don Angelo's legitimate business establishment , blown up . Frankie escaping to Italy is later set up in a trap where he's blown away but his fellow mobsters for his insane actions . This resulted in almost the entire mobs lucrative operations in Las Vages being blown to hell . It's not until Don Bernardo , John Duke Russo , is prematurely released from prison that the truth about Liugi's perfidy came to light from non-other then his abused wife , and Bernardo's secret lover , Marie , Jo Anne Meredith . Luigi now exposed by both Tony Fargo and Don Bernardo as the rat-fink that he is finally , together with Marie , get's everything that coming to him . Tony Fargo who at first wanted out of the world of crime ends up together with Don Bernardo as the top two Mafia hoods who have complete control of the city of Las Vages with it's billions in it's annual take of legitimate gambling dollars . Not that bad of a " Godfather " clone that was unfairly put down for trying to imitate " The Godfather " but is a pretty good film all by itself . Where some thirty years later it's almost forgotten and unknown to the movie-going public .
SPOILERS Released from prison after serving three years of a ten year sentence for the arson fire that burned down his boss ' music studios Steve Carter , Stephen Dunne , is determined to find out who the real arsonist was who also ended up framing him for the crime . Carter's girlfriend at the music studio Jane Darrin , Louis Maxwell , whom he two-timed before he was sent up the river is still crazy about him . Jane wants Dr . Robert Ordway , Warner Baxter , who testified to Carters sanity at his trial to talk some sense into his hot head before he does something foolish . Like killing the person whom he thinks famed him co-worker Carl Anson , George Meeker , and end up in the Sign Sing electric chair . Given his job back by a grateful Phillip Bellem , Dan Deddoe , who's business he was convicted in burning down but who always felt that he was innocent Carter make it a point to confront Anson and Bellems rival in the music business jukebox king George " Goldie " Harrigan , Robert Armstrong . Carter feels their the two persons most responsible for burning down the Bellem Stuidos . Carter going to see Harrigan for a job , even though he already has one , so he can find out if he , an ex-gangster , was the one who had Bellem's place torched . Later when Carter plans to meet with Anson a his place of business at the Bellem Studios things go a bit screwy for him : Anson is found found shot death with Harrigan , who Carter asked for a job , mad as hell at him for sealing his lover and private secretary Inez Gray , Adele Jergens , from under his nose and out of his office . On the run for almost half of the movie Carter now wanted for Anson's murder knows that he's been framed for a second time by whoever framed him in the Bellem Studio arson . Carter now more then ever needs Dr . Ordway , who always felt that he's innocent , to come to his aid . Shot by the cops in an escape attempt from Jane's apartment Carter is left in limbo and on the run with all the evidence pointing to him as being Anson's murderer . It turns out that Anson's killer overlooked a record being recorded by Bellems brother Pete , Whit Bissell , a engineer at his business establishment . Pete was thrown out of the studio by Anson , for playing his personal insipid and annoying record , just before he was murdered . The record not only exposed who murdered Anson but also exonerated Carter of the earlier Bellem Studio arson . The last of the " Crime Doctor " series that had a very tired Warner Baxter looking as if he wanted to retire , which he was in the movie . Baxter died two years later in 1951 at the age of 62 , in peace and quite and away from all the stress and demands as both a crime fighter and crime solver .
" Some Spoilers " One of the many films that Bela Lugosi made for Monogram Pictures as well as among the other bargain-basement Hollywood studios that he worked for during his " Lost in the Wilderness " , as well as heroin addiction , phase of his career during the 1940's and early 50's until he kicked his drug habit . It was also around that time that Bela met the great cult and bad movie director Edward Wood and made the movies , that we all know and love him for , that made Bela Lugosi the legend that he is today some 50 years after his death . " The Ape Man " is pretty standard stuff in the movies that studios like Monogram put out back in those days . A prominent scientist Dr . James Brewster , Bela Lugosi , makes a major discovery about the link between man and primate but not being able to test the serum that he discovered on human beings , for it's against the law , tests it on himself where he becomes a half man half ape " missing link " . Brewster finds out together with his associate in the discovery Dr . George Randall , Henry Hall , that the only thing that can bring him back to normal is human spinal fluid that if extracted from a person will instantly kill him . Dr . Brewster with the help of an ape , that he has in his laboratory , goes out at night and kills a number of people in order to get the valuable spinal fluid . All goes well until Dr . Randall refuses to participate any more in Dr . Brewster's mad scheme where Dr . Brewster in an insane rage kills him . Later in the movie Dr . Brewster with the help of his partner , the ape , kidnaps beautiful newspaper photographer Louise Currie , Billie Mason , but when Dr . Brewster is about to extract Billie's spinal fluid the love sick ape , who took a liking to Billie , attacks and kills Dr . Brewster during a long and bitter struggle . The ape chases Billie all around the laboratory until Billie finds the secret passage , with the help of her fellow reporter and boyfriend Jeff Carter ( Wallace Ford ) , and escapes into his arms as the police , who Jeff called for help , who blasts the ape with a hail of bullets that kills him . As the movie is ending we see both Jeff and Billie go off into the sunset , it was really moon-light , and I guess lived happily ever after . There's nothing really that great about the movie " The Ape Man " unless , like me , you're a Bela Lugosi fan and Bela does lift the movie up a couple of notches making it if it's not scary both cheesy and campy . Louise Currie is very nice to look at and the rest of the cast did a very good job with the material that they were handed . The guy who played the ape , Emil Van Horn , made a monkey out of himself wearing a gorilla suit with him flinging his arms and grunting during the entire movie . Van Horns , or the apes , fight in the end with Dr . Brewster , as Billie was trying to get away from the carnage that resulted from it , was both exacting and suspenseful . What really annoyed me about the movie was that skinny and goofy looking reporter , Jack Mluhall , who popped up in almost every scene in the film as well as acting like a jerk and spoiling any tension and surprises that there were in the movie . Mluhall also got somewhat of an ego trip in telling those of us watching , at the end of the film , that it was he who wrote the story that we just saw on the screen . At least someone like Alfred Hitchcock , a far better movie maker then Jack Mluhall , who was in almost all of the movies that he directed had nothing more then a cameo appearance in them , this guy wanted to be the star of the movie !
SPOILERS Kicked of of the faculty of the prestigious Oxford University because of his off-the-wall theories Prof . Timothy Flyte , Peter O'Toole , now writes for the supermarket tabloid Wide World News . You could imagine the surprise he had when one evening he was visited by these two FBI agents Hawtthorne & Wilson , Bo Hopkins & Robert Knepper . It seems that Flyte was on to something in his writings of mysterious disappearances all throughout history since the beginning of life on earth . The disappearance of entire civilizations like the Mayans in 610 AD the English colony of Roanoke in the new world in 1590 and even more recently the 3 , 000 Chinese soldiers who vanished without a trace outside the city on Nanking in December 1939 . This thing that was responsible , according to Flyte , for these strange phenomena has struck again and this time in the small town of Snowfield Colorado . Sisters Jennifer & Lisa Pailey , Janna Going & Rose McGowan , traveling to Snowfield , where Jennifer runs a medical clinic , from L . A . they find the town eerily deserted . When the two sisters check into Jennifers home they find her maid Helda dead . Looking from house to house and store to store in Snowfield they find that everyone in town had either died of some mysterious disease or were hacked to death . It wasn't until the local sheriff Bryce Hammond , Ben Afflect , and his two deputies Stu Wargel & Steve Shanning , Live Schriber & Nicky Katt , came on the scene that they all realized that something out of , or under , this world happened to the people of Snowfield . The only clue that they had was a message scrawled in lipstick on a locked bathroom mirror stating " The Ancient Enemy , Thimothy Flyte " . Even though the story is a bit hard to follow the film " Phantoms " does have it shocks and thrills with the human race battling this ancient enemy that has resurfaced again to claim it's share of victims like it did over and over on earth since time immemorial . Living off life on earth these " phantoms " are not only able to wipe out whole towns cities or even civilizations they can even mimic their victims and absorb their minds and memories as well as their flesh and blood . Which makes them almost invincible even in the face of modern scientific and military technology . The ending of the movie " Phantoms " was even more far fetched with Prof . Flyte coming up with this chemical component that has to do with cleaning up oil spills that does in the " Ancient Enemy " of all Mankind once and for all , or does it ? The movie has a very young and teenage-looking Ben Afflect playing not only the town's sheriff Bryce Hammond but also being a Harvard graduate as well as a former FBI agent who quit because he killed a little boy by accident and never wanted to touch a gun again . You wonder why Bryce would later get a job as a sheriff where he's obligated to not only carry but very possibly use handguns if he's so spooked by them ?
SPOILER In my previous comments on the movie " Detour " I wrote that both persons that Al was involved with during his hitch-hiking in the movie died of natural causes . I was right about Haskell who died in the car with Al from what was an apparent heart attack but I was wrong about Vera whom I wrote died from over drinking . In fact Vera was accidentally strangled by Al with a telephone cord when she locked herself in another room at the hotel where they were both staying at . That was when Vera threatened to call the police and tell them that Al was responsible for Haskell's death with Al trying to get the phone away from her . Being heavily drunk and with the cord slipping around her neck Al from the other room tried to pull the phone away from Vera and have the cord snap while he was pulling it under the locked door but ended up accidentally killing her .
( Some Spoilers ) Taking a trip to NYC to get an award from the American Bar Association Perry Mason and his private secretary Della Street , Raymond Burr & Barbara Hale , run into an old friend at a local restaurant the founder and editor of Metropolitan Magazine Lauran Jeffreys , Diana Muldaur ; not knowing that within the next 24 hours she'd be charged with murder and he'll be the attorney defending her in court . It turns out that Lauren after having a loud argument at the restaurant with rival fashion editor , of the sleazy tell all tabloid Suite 2000 , Dyan Draper , Valerie Harper , she came over to Dyans place later that evening . It was after Lauren left Dyan was found dead with her head cracked open on the floor . Perry as usual has his work cut out for him with Lauran not only being at Dyan's place the night of her being found murdered but having a motive in killing her . Dyan was going to print an editorial about Lauran taking bribes from fashion designer Marco Sabatini , GIanni Musso , in order to write favorable columns about him in her Metropolitan Magazine . Perry later at cross-examination of Dyan's eventual murder seems to have gotten the two magazines mixed . The mysterious murderer had the favorable columns about Marco written on Dyan's Suite 2000 Magazine personal computer . This was to make it look like it was written by Lauran who coincidently also turned out to be the mother of Dyan's assistant and one of her top fashion , or gossip , writers Julia Collier , Ally Walker ! Trying to track down the link , Designer Marco Sabatini , that can connect Dyan's murder to who murdered her Perry gives that assignment to his hot shot PI the very durable and punch-drunk Ken Malansky , William R . Moses . Malansky gets hooked up with members of the New York Mafia who were financing Marco's career in the world of fashion and who's boss is Marco's distance cousin Albert " Big Al " Nandone , George Dicezzo . Getting nowhere with " Big Al " and his top henchman tough guy " Brooklyn Tony " Loomis , Robert Clohessy , Malansky finally has Perry himself get to step in and get " Big Al " to open up only to have Marco . It's then while " Brooklyn Tony " is slapping the pestering an annoying Malansky around that Marco gets killed by a hit-and-run driver who later turns out to be the person who murdered Dyan . It takes a while for Ken Malansky to convince " Big Al " to keep his emotions from overtaking his logic in whacking anyone whom he as much as suspects murdered Marco . Malansky later finds out who was involved in Marco's hit-and-run death who also turned out to be the same person who murdered Dyan ! It also turns out that the double-murderer was working for Dyan herself and even more shocking Lauran knew who she was and wouldn't report him , or her , to Perry or the police ! Seething hatred revenge and a 25 year old grudge against Lauran lead to a maniacal plot to frame her for a murder that she didn't commit against a person , Dyan Draper , whom the killer should have been eternally grateful to .
( There are Spoilers ) Trying to go straight and raise a family ex-convict & car thief Jimmy Killmartn , David Caruso , gets back into this chosen profession by trying to keep his sleazy cousin Ronnie , Michael Rapaport , from getting his brains beat out by his demanding and not too kindly boss Little Junior , Nicolas Cage . Ronnie wants Jimmy to drive an 18 wheeler loaded with stolen cars for his chop-shop business . As you would expect Jimmy gets caught by a cop sting that results in one of the NYPD detectives Calvin Hart , Samuel L . Jackson , getting a bullet in his head but miraculously surviving . Even though Jimmy was set up and deserted by Ronnie he lives by an unbroken and moral code not to rat on any of his fellow hoods . But that's quickly broken when Jimmy's wife Bev , Helen Hunt , is killed in a car crash that Ronnie was responsible for . It turned out that instead of looking after Bev and her , and Jimmy's , infant daughter Corinna , Lindsay J . Wrinn , Ronnie was taking advantage of Bev while Jimmy was locked up . Also the day she was killed got Ronnie got Bev drunk and took her home to his place for both fun and games . Bev waking up from her alcohol-induced sleep ran out of Ronnie's place into her car and , still being under the influence , drove into an oncoming truck killing herself . Realizing what Ronnie did Jimmy agrees with the State prosecutor Frank Zioli , Stanley Tucci , to rat on his fellow car-thieves at a closed door grand jury implicating even himself in number of car robberies ; but slyly keeps Ronnie's name out of it . The news of the car-theft gang being ratted out by someone from the inside gets back to Little Junior from his mobbed-up lawyer Jack Gold , Anthony Heald . It's then agreed that it had to be Ronnie , since he was the only member who wasn't indicted , who ratted on his gang and in no time at all Little Junior pay him a friendly visit with a half dozen of his goons that turns out to be Ronnie's funeral . Having served his time Jimmy is released from Sing Sing Prison but the aggressive State procurator Zioli has plans for him to get Little Junior in a sting operation which will result in him getting a federal judgeship . Going to Little Junior's Baby Cakes strip club Jimmy having a wire planted on him by the police , in order to get evidence . Jimmy gets friendly with the mob boss only to be later shaken down in the clubs bathroom to see if he's working for the cops or not . Jimmy realizing what was going down threw away his wire before Little Junior and his boys got to him . As crazy as Little Junior is he still strikes me as a pretty smart cookie being able to sense if he's being set up in a sting operation , with a wiretap . But later he act's so stupidly that he guns down in cold blood an undercover federal agent Omar , Ving Khames , right in front of a shocked Jimmy who's got a wire on him . This in the end can lead to Little Junior to be indited and arrested for murder one . With Jimmy having the incriminating tape it looked like a slam dunk to convict Little Junior but his lawyer Jack Gold comes to his rescue having the evidence thrown out on a technicality ; Little junior killed a federal agent thinking that he was hood like himself and even more convincing it was in self-defense ! With Little Junior out free Jimmy , who's cover was blown , is now a marked man and with only Det . Hart , who's since become bonded with him , willing to help Jimmy it looks as if it's only a matter of time before he's history . But unknown to Little Junior as well as the double-crossing state procurator Zioli , who promised Jimmy that he and his family would be protected , Jimmy had devised a plan to keep himself alive . And that plan is to use the same method that get him into hot water to get him out of it : the wiretap . The David Caruso came across completely colorless as Jimmy Kilmartin showing in most of his scenes almost no emotion at all . The final scene in the movie showed that he , or Jimmy , also wasn't all that bright even though he miraculously survived a assassination attempt on his life . . NIcholas Cage as the mob boss Little Junior has a very serious asthma condition but looks and act in the pink of health . He even lifts heavy weights , as well as showgirls , 15 at a time without even breathing hard . Little Junior also viciously beats people up sometimes to death , very strenuous exorcise for an asthmatic . With the only sign of his asthma condition is the occasionally asthmatic aerosol spry that he uses to keep himself from possibly suffocating to death . Samual L . Jackson as Det . Hart is totally wasted as the good cop who risk his job and life in setting up his bosses in the federal government and NYPD . I also found it odd that Jimmy's wiretaps on both Little Junior and prosecutor Zioli had such an impact of bringing them both down to earth , Little Junior in jail and Zioli facing a serious ethics charge , that can also put him behind bars . When the wiretaps were done without a court order not only making them illegal but even criminal on Jimmy's part ? Just earlier in the movie a court ordered wiretap that resulted in getting evidence of the murder of a federal agent , by Little Junior , was thrown out of the same courtroom on the most flimsiest of legal technicalities . But these totally illegal and uncalled for wiretaps , on Little Junior and Zioli , were allowed to stand !
SPOILERS Said to be the ultimate weapon against crime or a terrorist attack on America the Blue Thunder combat helicopter is to be tested over the skies of Los Angeles against common street criminals . With LAPD copter pilots Murphy and Lymangood , Roy Scheider & Daniel Stern , as it's crew . Very early in the movie both officers Murphy & Lymangood realize that the newest weapon against crime , the Blue Thunder , is actually going to be used against the average law abiding American citizen instead . Those behind using the Blue Thunder are planing to create terrorist violence and then use it to keep the innocent public under control . The shocking truth comes out with the rape and mugging murder , that was a cover for an assassination , of the head of the L . A task force on urban violence commissioner Diane McNeely , Robin Braxton . Diane was about to release her findings that would expose those in the local city state and federal government of their real reasons in incorporating the Blue Thunder in all the big city police departments . It was found out by the McNeely commission that these high in government officials are secretly planning to stir up trouble in the ghettos and barrios of the city of L . A . If successful it would be an excuse for a major takeover of the country in instigating violence and chaos and then repealing the rights of Americans in the name of national security , sounds familiar ? Those behind the Blue Thunder are planning to suspend the US Constitution and Bill of Rights and create a police state and fascist dictatorship . Knowing that their marked men the two LAPD helicopter pilots tape a conversation of these secret government-types that includes Murphy's former partner and co-pilot in Vietnam Col . Cochrane , Malcolm McDowell . This leads to Lymangoods ' murder when he's first kidnapped and then after escaping his captors is run down and killed on the streets of L . A . Getting the news to where the incriminating tape was hidden , from the murdered Lymangood's telephone answering machine , Murphy hijacks the Blue Thunder and has his plucky girlfriend Kate , Candy Clark , retrieve it in order to bring it to a local L . A TV news station to be broadcast to the world . It's now a race against time as those in power planning to take over the government are themselves in a panic of being exposed by the tape . They do all that they can , using the L . A police and even the USAF , to shoot down and kill Murphy and Kate before they can make the secret takeover public . With everything that they do failing miserably to stop Murphy and his Blue Thunder helicopter the anti-freedom conspirators bring in their big gun Col . Cochrane to finally get the job done . Spectacular and breath taking aerial acrobatics high over the city of L . A has maverick cop Murphy evade and then shoot down a number police helicopters as well as a fully armed USAF F16 jet fighter . With all this action and excitement it almost overshadow the films basic story about crime and corruption in high places in government . The dog fight between Murphy and Cochrane is about as good as any air to air combat shoot him ups thats been in movies with much faster fighter jets as the two have it out blowing up almost half of the city . Playing an airborne cat and mouse game with Cochrane Murphy outmaneuvers him , doing a complete circle in the air , and then getting on his tail blows Cochrane to pieces before he sets the Blue Thunder down on a railroad track having it demolished by an oncoming locomotive . With that demolishing the hopes and dreams of those who wanted to use it , as an excuse for crowd control , in their planned takeover of the United States . P . S " Blue Thunder " was also 54 year old actor Warren Oates , who played Murphy and Lymangoods boss Capt . Jack Braddock , last movie .
( Spoiler Alert ) Dr . Jimmy Kildare , Lew Ayres , has his hands full in this movie in having to get his mentor Dr . Leonard " Barry " Gillespie , Lional Barrymore , to take a brake from his work so he won't end up in the hospital mortuary . Trying find a cure for pneumonia Dr . Gillespie has been working for weeks at a time with not more then two hours sleep a day . This is aggravating his already serious skin cancer , melanoma , condition . Dr . Kildare trying to get Dr . Gillespie to take a break from his work agrees to look after heiress Nancy Messenger , Helen Gilbert , who thinks she's suffering from a brain tumor . It in fact turns out that Nancy is in perfect health but her family nurse Nora , Sara Haden , has her brainwashed to believe that she's not . It also turns out that according to Nora Nancy's mom died of the same illness , a brain tumor , some 12 years ago ; her death was in fact caused by pneumonia . Dr . Kildare going to see Nancy as just a a friend of the family realizes that she's being convinced by this quack doctor Archley , Grant Mitchell , hired by Nora that she needs surgery for her " brain tumor " . This causes Nancy to to think that she's both going insane and losing her sight . Dr . Kildare soon blows his cover as a doctor in order to take charge of Nancy's treatment and convinces her , together with Nancy's concerned boyfriend Charles Harron ( Robert Kent ) , that she'll all right if only she can overcome her unfounded phobias that both Nora and Dr . Archley planted in her mind . This eventually get's Nancy back to normal in restoring her sight as well as has the bull-headed Dr . Gillespie who without his valuable assistant , Dr . Kildare , was forced to take a vacation which in the end also saved his life . A life he was foolishly squandering away in his hell-bent attempt to eradicate pneumonia from the face of the earthThere's also a little side story in " The Secret of Doctor Kildare " that has to do with his dad Dr . Stephen Kildare , Samuel S . Hinds , who like Dr . Gillsepie is a workaholic and is suffering , because of his heavy work schedule , from acute heart disease . Getting the two doctors in the same examination room , at Blair General Hospital , together was the best thing that came out of this whole movie . Dr . Gillespie was able to diagnose Dr . Stephen Kildare illness and prescribe the right medication , a long vacation , to get him back to good health and Dr . Gillespie was able to do it by being well rested , from his forced vacation , and having his complete faculties in good working order in order to do it .
SPOILERS One of the many slasher movies released in the early 1980's following the amazing success of " Halloween " the Canadian import film " Visiting Hours " has the distinction of both the killer and his victims not being in their teens or early twenties and partying day and night but grown ups holding down full time jobs . The psycho / killer in " Visiting Hours " has been troubled over what happened to his father when he was a little boy , which we see in a number of flashbacks that left the old man almost brain-dead and in a vegetated state . Working at his job as a janitor at the America Today studio Colt Hawker , Michael Ironside , gets infuriated over the shows host Deborah or Deb Ballin , Lee Grant , support of a woman who in self-defense crippled her abusive husband by pushing him down a flight of stairs . This reminds Colt of what happened to his father when his mom splashed a pan of boiling oil in his face as he was abusing her . The rest of the movie has Colt going after Deb with a vengeance and murdering some half dozen other persons , who got in his way , in the process . After slashing Deb in her home Colt spends almost the entire movie stalking her at the local hospital where she was admitted at . Even taking time to pick up a date Lisa , Lenore Zann , at a diner who he almost kills . The ending is more or less what you would have expected with a major role change between the hunted an the hunter as Deb turns the tables on Colt as she's being stalked by him in an almost empty hospital . The movie ends with a long long list of credits of the people in the movie , on and off the screen , about the size of the Montreal White Pages . Better then you would expect slasher film only because of Michael Ironside's creepy performance as Colt Hawker who comes across as someone who just doesn't give up . As he goes as far as slashing his left arm on a broken beer bottle in order to get himself admitted into the same hospital where Deb is staying at just so that he can get to her ; it just turned out that Deb got to him first . P . S . There's also William Shatner in the movie paying Deb's boss Gary Baylor who , despite his top billing , has about two minutes of screen time in the entire film .
SPOILERS Towards the end of the movie " Night Game " Houston Astro pitcher Sil Daretto , Alex Garcia , walks off the pitchers mound as the game is about to start and to the surprise and astonishment of all those on the baseball field and in the stands walks over to newlyweds Mike & Roxy Sever , Roy Scheider & Karen Young . Daretto congratulates them on their wedding and sincerely tells Mike & Roxy to enjoy the game , the nightmare was at last over for all of them . A number of young women were found dead in and around the beaches of Houston and Galveston and the one thing they all had in common is that they were murdered when Houston Astro ace pitcher Sil Daretto pitched and won a night game at the Astro-Dome . They also they had their throats slashed by some hook that the killer used . The movie " Night Game " mixes baseball with murder in this very unusual story about a disgruntled former Houston Astro player Floyd Epps , Rex Linn , who was cut by the team to make room for Daretto and on top of all that lost his pitching hand in a bus accident as he was leaving . Epps wants to upstage Daretto when ever he wins a ballgame by committing a murder that same night and getting the headline for his crime over Daretto victory . It's Epps ' insane way of getting even for what he holds Daretto responsible for ; the loss of his job being a pitcher for the Astros and his left hand . Roy Scheider sleep-walks through his role as a former baseball player now Galveston policemen and the movie is better then the average made for TV movie even though it isn't but should have been one . The ending was a bit ridicules with Epps chasing Roxy all over the catwalk outside a waterfront restaurant with Roxy not having the sense to get inside and thus not getting trapped by the insane hooked killer . In fact Roxy actually ran outside the eatery as she saw Epps and easily got trapped by him . Mike came to Roxy's rescue in just the nick of time with Rex hook and all getting dumped in the ocean below after taking a number slugs from Mike's revolver . Dopey but watchable film that was a bit too unbelievable not in the fact that Epps was a crazed former baseball player who felt that he got a raw deal from life and wanted to rectify it in his own crazy way . As you would have expected the local police as well as the Texas justice department were so slow and incompetent in realizing who Epps was when the evidence was right in front of them , the man the hook and the motive , but were just too blind to see it .
SPOILER ALERT Starts off as your average run-of-the-mill psychic helping the police solve a crime flick to later becoming something totally different . Something so strange and baffling that the local police chief Capt . Tucker , Cliff Robertson , starts to wonder if he's not the one who needs some kind of psychiatric therapy . Not the person he later suspects in Maggie Dawson's , Dianne Hull , murder self-confessed super psychic Franklin Wills , Joel Gray . After teacher Maggie Dawson was found murdered in her Volkswagen in a Laural shopping mall parking lot it became apparent that the killer covered his tracks very carefully . Leaving no fingerprints and having no one , in broad daylight , see him the case begins to run cold until out of nowhere Franklin Wills suddenly comes on the scene . Knowing things about Maggie Dawson's murder that only her killer and the police know Wills is taken seriously by Chief Tucker even though he really didn't , or up until then , gave as much as a rat's a about the occult or clairvoyance that Wills ' obviously has . Given all the leeway he needs by Chief Tucker Wills slowly uncovers more and more of the missing pieces of Maggie Dawson's murder . Wills is so good in his ability to track down the clues about what happened to Maggie that fateful afternoon at the Laural Mall that Chief Tucker starts to suspects that maybe , just maybe , he's , Franklin Wills , the person who murdered her ! The first half of the movie " Man on a Swing " is pure gold in it's buildup to what Franklin Wills is all about and what exactly he knows about Maggie Dawson's , and later in the film Virginia Segretta , murder . You get the impression , just like Chief Tucker , that Wills is the real deal not some phony trying to make both a name and money for himself masquerading around as a crime solving psychic . It's the last half of the movie that really gets a bit overindulgent in trying to cover all the bases , instead of tracking down Wills ' very accurate clues , in finding out if in fact Franklin Wills is really the real McCoy that he claims he is . Wills himself is anything but normal in his actions like going into spasmodic fits while putting himself under self-hypnosis , to find out who Maggie's killer is , but hell he's been right all along so why complain ? We have Chief Tucker go so far as to almost kill Wills when he's wife Janet , Dorothy Tristan , felt that he was somehow threatening both her as well as his life . Admittely Wills is somewhat off the wall and even a bit dangerous in his demanding that Janet accept his handkerchief to the point where she became terrified of him . It was as if Wills felt insulted or hurt by Janet in not accepting his gift ! Still Wills ' never goes so far as even laying a hand or even finger , with the exception of Chief Tucker in showing him how Maggie was strangled to death , on anyone but himself in the movie . SPOILER ALERTThe film ends on a sour note with the audience as well as Chief Tucker not really finding out if Wills is real or not in his ability to mentally solve crimes . We can only guess , like Chief Tucker , that Wills is really on to something in his crime solving methods but what that is anybodies guess . All we get from Wills , who's predictions in the movie were dead on , is a sinister grin in that he knows something that we don't know as the movie suddenly comes to an end !
Witty little British Whodunit based on the Frank Vosper play " Murder on the Second Floor " has everyone in the cast suspected of murdering one of the tenants of the Armitage Lodging House where they all live in , but who did it ? Joe Reynolds is found stabbed to death in his room and everyone in the lodge may have a good reason to have done him in . Ram Sigh , Turhan Bey , who we saw at the beginning of the film together with Joe , at the London docks , working for an organization to free India from British rule . Singh as a patriot and Reynolds as a profiteer . They later got into an argument at the lodge about the money , $500 , 000 . 00 , that was supposed to go to that organization . Singh is later attacked in his room by some thug whom he killed , who may have worked for Joe . Sella Armitage , Fredia Inescort , the owner together with her husband Tom , Milles Mender , has been having an affair with Joe . Tom earlier in the movie caught her and Joe embracing without them knowing about it . Did Tom kill Joe in a fit of jealous rage ? There's Lucy , Phyllis Barry , the lodge's maid who was also having an affair with Joe behind Stella's back . Did Lucy murder Joe because he broke it off and at the same time did Stella kill Joe for him two-timing her ? The last three person residing at the Armitage Lodge are Tom & Stella's daughter Sylvia , Heather Angel , playwright Hugh Bromilow , Bruce Lester , and spinster Phoebe Martis St . John Snell , Mary Field . On the surface the three don't seem to have any reason for killing Joe but there something in the past that we'll find out later in the movie that he did to one , or all , of them to make them murder him . All I can say is that even the great Sherlock Holmes would have a hard time solving this murder mystery much less the audience .
( There are Spoilers ) Somewhat overblown TV movie about a convicted serial rapist released on parole into an unsuspecting community and when his true identity is discovered it results into explosive consequences . After doing seven years behind bars for a series of rapes and robberies ex-con Eli Cooley , Michael Ontkean , is released into the quite little town of Fairvile . Eli has his brother Dwight , Sam Anderson , take care of his lodging and give him a job at his business establishment the " Dwights " hardware Store . At first Eli fits right into his new surroundings as a hard working likable and law abiding citizen . But soon things are to change abruptly for him and change for the absolute worst . We see Eli getting along with the friendly and neighborly people of Fairvil making friends with his next door neighbor single mom Annie Hopkins , Annette O'Toole , and her little boy Cody , Cameron Fife . Who just thinks the world of the tall strong and quiet type of a guy Eli Cooley and his pet dog Fred . Eli is also a big hit at his brothers hardware store as a cashier . Who with his kindly and honest manner gets the store , which was doing good before he came there , more business then ever before . Just when things couldn't get any better for Eli his neighbor Annie , who works in the Fairview Police Station as a secretary , comes across a police rap sheet about this just released multiple rapist and robber Eli Coolly ! Who just happens to be the nice sweet and caring neighbor who lives next door ! And whom shes been , what seemed like , very interested in going out on a date with ! The quite and sleepy little town of Fairvile explodes in a fury as everyone in it makes Eli's , as well as his brothers Dwight family , life a living hell with Eli's parole officer Wanda Gilmore , Pamala Reed , being unjustly attacked for allowing Eli to dwell among its fine good and law abiding citizens ! With , what they all thought , lust and the thought of raping their women , young old and in between , on his evil mind . Eli who you can at first sympathize with doesn't make his lot in life in Fairvile all that good either . Later when we see him at the local rapist rehabilitation clinic , just after the shocking truth about him came out , run by counselor Vonette McGee . Where a smirking Eli during Miss McGee's self-help sessions , when he should have known better , didn't at all show any empathy for his victims . All Eli did was just joke and act about what he did to them was nothing more then a number of totally harmless and childish pranks ! Eli trying to keep from being sent back to jail , for breaking his parole , soon loses his interest in staying out from behind bars . Since he now feels that he has more freedom inside , with the criminal element of society that he's used to living with , then outside . Eli then starts to really stretch his parole officers , Wanda Gilmore , patience's with him by doing things that would land him right back into the clink . The people of Farivile can in a lot of ways be as cruel as Eli ever was by killing his beloved best friend his dog Fred , who had nothing to do with Eli's life of crime , just to get under his skin . That almost had the heart-broken Eli go postal and shoot up the entire town . But it was Wanda who talked him out of doing anything so stupid and destructive risking her life in telling a very angry and distraught Eli that no amount of killing raping pillaging and and burning would bring Fred back ! It's when all these terrible things were happening to the by now mentally disturbed Eli that a number of rapes broke out in town with , you guessed it , Eli being the prime suspect . Turning even Wanda , who was very sympathetic to Eli , against him with one of the rapist victims being supermarket cashier Holly Benson , Robin Joss . The only person in town , besides Eli's brother Dwight , who was willing to even talk to him ! This made Eli , who of course didn't do it , almost become suicidal and in the end attempts to end it all in a weird and insane plan that he cooked up in his deranged mind . With an unsuspecting Wanda being part of it , of suicide by police , by giving them no other alternative for the police but to blow Eli away . Far too contrived to really take seriously the movie is just too pat in it's story and unbelievably unrealistic in it's ending . Even the excellent acting of Michael Ontkean and Pamela Reed , as released rapist and robber Eli Cooley and his parole officer Wanda Reed , can't quite overcome it's very simplistic storyline . Becides the two aforementioned stars watch for Annette O'Toole who had a very small role in the film as a rape victim . Annette spills her heart out at what happened to her to Eli after she found out about his criminal record . And just watch how Eli , at first not knowing just what to say , mindlessly responds to her and ends up putting both his two feet straight into his mouth !
SPOILERS One of the most unusual and unpredictable of " The Whistler " movies that has to do with burnt out industrial and banking tycoon John Sinclair , Richard Dix , who after working himself into an early grave , in making his millions , finds out that he'll soon and up in one if he doesn't get his act together and take a long vocation from his work . Going to his rented island vacation house off Chicago's Lake Michigan Sinclair has a sudden seizer and ends up in Chicago cab driver's , who gave him a lift , Erin Sparrow , Rhys Williams , next door hotel room . Despite his phenomenal success in the business world Sincleir never had a chance to develop any lasting relationships and is in fact , despite his many millions , all alone in the world . It's Sparrow , a former English lightweight boxing champion , who shows the clueless Sinclair , who now calls himself John Carter , what friendship is all about and how to make friends as well has his , Sinclair , ability in influencing people to invest in his banks and businesses . Having a new lease on life Sinclair easily makes friends with a number of people that he comes in contact with in Chicago including registered nurse Joan Martin , Lynn Merrick , who Sparrow introduced him to . Not really being that hip in Joan's future with her long suffering fiancée Dr . Fred Graham , James Cardwell , who's trying to open up his own practice , he works almost for nothing at a local charity clinic , Sincalir make Joan a proposal to marry him and move into his new home away from home a converted , with all the modern convinces , lighthouse off the coast of Maine . A destroyed Dr . Graham leaves Joan feeling that her marriage to Sinclair , with him not expecting to live for more then six months , so that she could inherit his money is incredibly greedy as well as unfeeling towards him . It's when Sinclair's health improves and his sudden death , predicted by his doctors , doesn't come to pass that things start to get a bit stressful for everyone involved including Dr . Graham . The doctor unexpectedly showed up at the lighthouse expecting Joan to come back to him , after her husbands John Sinclair's demise , as well as as also getting himself a piece of Sinclair millions . The movie " The Voice of the Whistler " then takes a turn for the worse for everyone involved with Sinclair and Dr . Graham plotting each others murder with Joan , who's caught in the middle of all this , not Sinclair's money being the ultimate prize . SPOILER ALERT FROM THIS POINT ONYou never know what's coming next but when it does it will shock your socks off . Sinclair for all his smarts let's the cat out of the bag in giving Dr . Graham the idea to murder him . It's that idea on Sinclair's part that leads to the double disaster at the conclusion of the film . If Sinclair was honest with himself he would have left Joan alone and not think that he could buy her like the many expensive , homes cars and yachts , items he bought for himself all through the years . In he end Sinclair overestimated himself in trying to outsmart Dr . Graham and giving him the opening that he needed to put him away for good and thus have Joan all for himself . It wasn't that Dr . Graham saw through Sinclair devious and murderous plan but that Sinclair , always feeling that he's in complete control , overlooked some very vital things , like the nailed shut lighthouse windows , that in the end lead to his downfall .
( There Are Spoilers ) Unintentionally funny crime film about these five misfits , one who joined after she was kidnapped by them , in a robbery spree that goes from New Jersey to Texas and ends up with the bunch foiled by this old geezer , he looked to be at least 90 , and his wife who's out of the way general store they were shoplifting in . Getting out of prison after serving three and a half years Frank , Jack Gwaltney , is picked up by his former cell-mate Bobby , Jeff Monalhan , and driven back home to New Jersey . Picking up Bobby's girlfriend Eve , Annie Golden , at a Brooklyn strip joint where she works the three later get to Franks late mothers farm and are met by his not to attentive and mind addled brother Snooky , Robert Turano . Frank to his utter dismay finds that the slow witted Snooky left everything in shambles while he was away in the pen and that the bank was about to for-close on the farm for non-payment of the mortgage . Working for Frank's former boss Walt , Michael Ironside , who was the reason for Frank being put away , Snooky was constantly ripped off and in many cases not paid at all by the unscrupulous Walt that led to the farms foreclosure . Frank and Bobby decides to go to Walt's gas station and garage to rob him of his payroll in retaliation for his taking advantage of the poor and doltish Snooky . The pantyhose hooded robbers , to their shock and surprise , found that Walt had just under $150 . 00 in his safe and only one dollar in his wallet ! Tying Walt up the bunch , with Snooky and Eve outside in the car , the robbers try to make there get-away but they find out that the get-away car is out of gas and also Eva has to go to the bathroom , probably because of all the beer she's been drinking . The not too sharp Eve is then grabbed by Walt , who untied himself , who puts a gun to her head and now he's the one with all cards as the helpless Frank and Snooky have to give up the robbery plan in order to save Eva's life . Walt turns out to be even more brainless then the two not too bright robbers since he failed to notice that the # 3 man , Bobby , of the gang was still outside . Catching Walt from behind by surprise Bobby blasts the befuddled gas station owner away as the four take off and take Walt's bookkeeper Besty , Isabel Gillies , hostage as she just happens to come on the scene . The rest of the film has the Frank & Bobby gang drive down south robbing hardware and convenient stores whenever they needed cash for gas or food with the cops , in about a half dozen states , totally clueless to whats happening . Besty who at first resisted the robbers , and who's boyfriend in a local sheriff , later begins to suffer from the " Stockholm Syndrome " and not only gets very friendly with the highway robbers but even joins them in their adventures . It seemed that the reason for the trip down south was a plan that Bobby concocted , while behind bars , to rob this curtain bank in Texas but at the last moment he chickened out . The crooks decided to knock off this broken down grocery store run by this elderly couple ; the robbery turned out the be the last time the bunch would rob , or try to rob , anyone . The movie " One Way Out " came across a lot like a Robert Altman directed film with lots of improvisation in the acting and what seemed to be no real script at all . Most of the scenes looked like out-takes that we used to see , put in just for laughs , during the ending credits of a Burt Reynolds movie back in the 1970's and 1980's . Also the music in the movie was so load and annoying that it made it hard to follow the story , whatever it was . There was a scene at a Texas bar late in the film that had the music played so load that it drowned out all the dialog that had to do with the impending bank robbery . Not at all believable with an ending that looks totally out of place to the movie that you watched up to then . How could Snooky & Besty get away Scott-free where in the case of Besty she was actively involved in a number of robberies with the gang ! Snooky who at least didn't participate in any of the gangs crimes , and to his credit tries to talk them out of committing them , was still with them voluntarily and as a willing participant in all their shootings and hold-ups all across the American north and southwest !
SPOILERS Walking around the almost empty streets in the dead of night " The Man " , Tom Conway , is almost hit by a taxi cab driven by pretty taxi driver Patty Mitchell , Ann Rutherford . It turns out that " The Man's " mind is as blank as a fresh sheet of typewriter paper with him in a complete fog to who he is and what he did and what caused that gash that he had on his head when Patty first picked him up . Seeing the evening papers " The Man " and Patty see the headline banner news of theater producer Robert Dilling being murdered in Oceanview where " The Man " was just hobbling around . The description of Dilling's killers matches the description of " The Man " right down to his pin-striped suit that he's wearing . " The Man " together with Patty slowly uncover his identity by backtracking to where he was that evening before he fell , or was hit , on his head . Putting everything together " The Man " at first finds that he's called " Step " by his friends . Later with the unexpected help of " Step's " forgotten friend and associate Mark Evens , Lester Matthews , finds out that his real name is Ted " Step " Allison and that he checked into the Recency Hotel where Ted and Patty just came from to check out who he was in the first place . Ted finds in his hotel room a letter from a friend of his , the late Larry Tenny , about a play that he wrote called " Two O'Clock Courage " and that the play seems to be the reason that Dillings was murdered . Ted himself is almost killed later in the film , as he gets too close to who the killer is , with a bullet to his head but it was that attempt on Ted's life that brought back his memory and with that the identity of the person who murdered Dilling . Ted really had some night for himself in the movie " Two O'Clock Courage " ; he loses and finds himself he ends up being arrested by the police for the murder of Robert Dillings talks his way out of being put behind bars and later solves the Dilling murder and the reason that he was killed . There's also the secondary emotional plot-line that erupts at the end of the film between the killer and his jilted girlfriend . To top it all of Ted meets falls in love with and marries lovely taxi driver Patty Mitchell ; all this happens to Ted before the night was even over . Besides Richard Lane playing the bumbling reporter Haley who in the end drove his boss news editor Brant , Charles C . Wilson , almost into the loony bin the police inspector Bill Brenner , Emory Parnell , on the Dilling murder case was even funnier in a dangerous sort of way . Insp . Brenner had a very bad habit of holding his revolver pointed at almost everyone that he came in contact with in the movie . It was sheer luck that everyone in the film made it to the end without unconsciously getting themselves shot or killed by this absent-minded policemen .
MAJOR SPOILERS It was bad enough for drummed out of the department and forced to retire police captain Tim Foster , Preston Foster , to get these three on the lamb hoodlums to pull off a million dollar heist of a Kansas City bank . What was even worse was Foster planning to later double-cross the hoodlums he hired and , like an arsonist pulling a fire alarm to throw off suspicion's on himself , then turning them in for a big fat cash reward . But by far the biggest mistake that Foster made was in framing the local flower delivery man Joe Rolfe , Tom Payne , in the crime that he and his fellow crooks committed ! You see Joe Rolfe loved his job delivering flowers and when he lost it due to his arrest by the cops for his alleged participating in the bank robbery the guy just blew a fuse . And that fuse ignited and blew to smatterings the well thought out plan that Foster , in his scheming and conniving mind , had dreamed up ! Even though released because of lack of evidence Rolfe was greatly pied off in him spending a few days behind bars and being worked over by the interrogating police . Joe Rolfe was even more then mad in losing his job , because of all the bad publicity , as a flower delivery man that he , in being the best in the delivery service company that he worked for , loved so much . Determined to clear his name and get his job back Rolfe tracked down one of the bank robbers Pete Harris , Jack Elam , in Tijuana Mexico who , after twisting his arm , spilled the beans on his fellow crooks . It turns out that they all , after laying low for a couple of days , are to assemble in this town , on the Mexican Coast , called Barados . It's there were they'll split the take that the got from the robbery back in Kansas City ! Unfortunately for Harris he never made it to Barados in him getting gunned down by the police , after resisting arrest , at the Tijuana Airport . Taking Harris ' identity and the one thing that can identify him , a half cut playing card , to his fellow crooks , who wore masks all during the bank robbery , Rolfe shot down to Barados to find out , besides the now deceased Harris , who framed him . Rolfe's sham as being Pete Harris fell apart almost as soon as it started with him being exposed as an impostor with the news of Harris ' death reaching Foster . Still the two remaining bank robbers ladies man Tony Romano , Lee Van Cleef , and psycho cop killer Boyde Kane , Neville Brand , were unable to do Rolfe in . Despite them knowing that he's not only ripping them off of their hard earned cash but very possibly setting them up in a police sting ! The very thing that their cohort in crime the mysterious ex-cop Tim Foster is planning to do to them ! SPOILER ALERT The slick and slimy Foster is himself compromised by the sudden arrival of his law student daughter Helen , Coleen Gray , who falls heads over heels for the tall dark and handsome flower delivery man Joe Rolfe . This all leads to a breakdown in Fosters plans to have Romano and Kane caught so he can collect the big reward , $200 , 000 . 00 , offered for their arrest ! It also has Rolfe freed to manipulate both bank robbers to do themselves in , together with Foster , by the time the movie finally ended ! P . S The films happy ending has Rolfe not only get his job back , and have those who caused him to lose it pay for it , but get a goggled eyed and madly in love with him Helen to marry him as well !
SPOILERS After listening to a lecture by Prof . Alan Driscoll , Christopher Lee , on the town of Whitewood Massachussetts back in 1692 where a local witch , Elizabeth Slwyn , was burned at the stake one of Prof . Driscoll's students Nan Barlow , Venetia Stevenson , decided to do a term paper on the subject . Nan drives to Whitewood to get whatever information she could get on the subject from whats available in the towns records dating back to the 17th Century about witchcraft in general and the Slwyn case in particular . Getting instructions from a reluctant local living in the area Nan drives into the town of Whitewood and checks into the Raven Inn where she meets the owner Mrs . Newlis , Patricia Jessel , and her mute helper Lottie , Ann Beach . Nan , unknowing to her at the time , was to meet a fate reserved only for someone like her , an innocent girl , that was needed for the Witches Holiday of February 1 , Candlemass Eve the Satanic mocking of the Church . Early Witchcraft and devil movie that predated " Rosemary's Baby " and " The Exorcist " but despite it's small budget is as good as either of those movies and the dozens of imitations that followed them . Eerie and spooky film about Witchcraft in New England that covers some 300 years from the Salem Witch Trials in 1692 to the beginning of the Disco Swinging era of the 1960's . The town of Whitewood is both in the dark and fog at all times in the movie with not a single ray of sunlight ever descending on it . This gives the town a really creepy look as well as unnerving everyone in the theater audience watching the film . It makes one feel that the movie was made in Northern Alaska during the time when it has six months of darkness instead of the state of Massachussetts . Gripping as well as interesting movie with a great ending sequence where good overcomes evil despite the overwhelming odds against it .
SPOILERS The movie " Disclosure " is more about corporate climbing and back-stabbing then sexual harassment like your made , by it's advertising campaign , to believe it is . There's the handsome and personable , as well as highly competent , head of manufacturing at the giant computer chip company Digicom Tom Sanders , Michael Douglas , being passed up for the vice president slot at the company for the very sexy and conniving head of operations Meredith Johnson , Demi Moore . Were informed very early in the film by Tom , to his fellow employees , that he and Meredith had a very serious sexual relationship years ago before he married his wife Susan , Corline Goodell , which makes Tom even more upset that his former lover will now be his boss at Digicon . Swallowing his pride and taking the whole thing , his being passed up for promotion , in stride Tom sees nothing suspicious in being invited by his new boss Meredith to her pad after work to discuss business matters . Before he can get to the bottom line of the weekly profit report Tom ends up being attacked set upon and almost raped by a very wild and aggressive Meredith , acting like a young filly in heat , that has him run for his life out of her apartment , almost tripping over himself , with his pants still hanging down to his knees . Back at work the next day Tom , who was willing to put the whole sordid episode with Meredith behind him , is slapped with a sexual harassment suit by Meredith which can not only cost him his job but his marriage and reputation and make him virtually unemployable in the computer software business . Trying to fight off Meredith's suit Tom counter-sues which if made public will prevent a planned merger of Digicom with Colney Electronics that will raise the company's stock price value to over 100 million dollarsThe stakes being too high for Digicom president Bob Garvin , Donald Sutherland , to ignore gives him two option in dealing with Tom and that's either to farm Tom out to his new plant in Austin Texas which will completely disrupt his , and his wife Susan and two children , life here in Seattle or just plain fire him with the stigma of being a sexual predator where he'll be unable to get a job anyway in the computer software business in a managerial , or any other , position . Having a hearing on his counter-suit , as well as Meredith sexual harassment suit against him , Tom exposed his accuser as being a very manipulative and driven young woman who uses her looks to entice and then destroy , like a black widow spider , those she feels are a threat to her or in her way , like Tom , from climbing to the very top . Tom really gets a big lift in his hard fought efforts to exonerate and free himself from the tight and suffocating strangle hold that Meredith has on him when he recovers a tape that was made when he called , or miscalled , someone from work Mark Lewyn , Dennis Miller , to confirm his meeting with his boss just seconds before the out of control , and hot to trot , Meredith assaulted him at her suite that recorded an X-rated ten minute blow by blow description of the entire shocking incident . It's then when you , and Tom , realize the real purpose behind Meredith's strange and bizarre behavior and it doesn't have at all to do with Tom's sexy goods looks , which must have come as a big shock and disappointment to him , but with him being in the position of exposing her even more stranger managerial habits and activities back at the Digicom main computer chip plant in Kuala Lumpur Malasya the year before that is now costing the company tens of millions of dollars , in lost revenue from defective computer chips , that the sneaky Meredith want's to have the unsuspecting Tom take the blame for but first she has to get him fired so he won't have access to the company's files and records to prove his innocence and at the same time Meredith's guilt . Somewhat decent , but very complicated , movie about the movers and shakers in the top positions of cooperate America and how they use their power and influence , and in the case of Meredith Johnson her very sexy body , to get ahead and stay on top using all the assets available to them to keep up and coming young hot-shots as well as those senior executives over them from unseating and preventing them from reaching and staying on their high perch in the company that their employed at .
SPOILERS With no money and no future to look forward to a young couple from the dirt-poor Texas town of Pine Alley Chad Bixby & Sarah " Salome " Davis , Robert Wagner & Natalie Wood , went out in the world to find a better life for themselves . With his abusive father , the town's minister , passing away Chad felt that he can now do what he wanted to do for so long pay his horn and marry Salome . Things got a bit strained when Salome turned out to be pregnant with Chad being the father of her unborn child . Salome running away from home runs into Yale Ivy Leaguer Tony McDowell , George Hamilton , on a train going north . Tony on summer vacation had met Salome earlier back in Deep Elem , the black part of the town of Pine Valley , under not the best of circumstances . Not having any money and with Tony having a slight acquaintance with Salome he pays her way to ride with him to New Haven Connecticut . During that long ride up north they fall in love with each other . Salome and Tony getting married and settling down soon have a new member of the McDowell family a son Peter , what Tony doesn't know is that Peter is not really his son but Chad's . Chad meanwhile back in the sticks strikes up a friendship with the burnt out former jazz great Ruby Jones , Pearl Bailey , who since her husband left her for a younger women , as well as took all her money , is slowly drinking herself to death . It's Chad concern and compassion for her that gave Ruby a new lease on life as well as it gave Chad the opportunity to show his talents as a jazz musician . In no time at all Chad made it big in the Big Apple's , New York city , nightclub scene . Salome now happily married and with a young child gets the news from her sister-in-law Catherine , Susan Kohner , about Clad's success in the music world . Salome talks Tony into going to New York in order to see his act which in the end opens up the old wounds , that both Salome & Chad had from their failed and sorrowful relationship back in Texas . Big budget soap opera that has both Chad and Salome trying to get even and hurt each other , over what happened between them back in Texas . In the end only hurting those who were nothing more then innocent bystanders as well as the only one's that really and truly loved and cared for them . Chad marries Catherine just to get back at Salome for leaving him . Cathy is driven to where she almost ends up killing herself by Chad's , being so obsessed to hurt Salome , total disregard for her and the love that she genuinely had for him . Salome is also guilt-ridden over the fact that her and Tony's son Peter isn't really Tony's and feels that if he ever found out the truth it would end up killing him . Clad is also hit with the double tragedy of Ruby dying from the effects of alcoholism and it's her sudden , but not unexpected death , that finally brings him back to earth in not just realizing what he did to Salome but what he did to his wife Cathy as well . When Tony is finally told by Salome the truth about their son Peter it hits him so hard that for a moment you would have thought that he would walk right in the middle of the highway in front of a speeding 18 wheeler and end it all . The movie " All the Fine Young Cannibals " does in fact have a happy ending that in it's own way counterbalances all the depressing aspects that are in the film up until then . Not as bad as you would think it would be from all the bad reviews that it got " All the Fine Young Cannibals " may be a bit too depressing to take at first but the cast does it's best to keep it both interesting and poignant . The ending , though a bit too artificial , didn't hurt the storyline that much in it's attempt to right all the wrongs that were in it at the conclusion of the movie .
SPOILERS Scary if a bit confusing ghost story having to do with two little girls . The first Sarah , Sophie Stuckey , who mysteriously drowns in the Irish Sea and the second the ghostly Ebril , Abigale Stone , who somehow comes back from the dead wanting to replace the missing Sarah as her grieving parents Adelle , Maria Bello , and James , Sean Beam , daughter . It's shown in the film that both Sarah and her mother Adelle didn't exactly get along that well with young Sarah once attempting suicide by downing a bottle of sleeping pills . Going to see her father James who lives in Wales Sarah seems at first to have gotten over her resentment , that's never really explained in the movie , of her mother . It's later that Sarah starts to act strange as if she's being guided by an unknown force that eventually leads to her disappearance under the waves of the Irish Sea . That's when the truth comes out about what happened that caused Sarah to lose both her mind and soul . Getting the story from Dafydd , Welch for David , the handyman at James house played by Maurice Roeves Adelle is told this incredible story about what happened there , on the Welch coast , some 50 years ago . This grieving father lost his young daughter to an unknown illness and would do anything to get her back . The young girl's , Ebril , body was taken out to sea by her father and sent under the waves where , in Welch / Celtic mythology , she was to enter the land of the dead a place called Annwyn or spelled in Welch Annwvn . Being the head of a religious Celtic cult Ebril's father conned his followers to commit mass suicide , with him of course not joining them , in an effort to get his daughter Ebril back to the world of the living . It's by , according to Welch / Celtic mythology , sending someone to replace the dead Ebril to Annwvn that she , in exchange , will come back from the dead . Getting his entire following , with the exception of young Dafydd who knew better , to gleefully kill themselves-taking all their earthly belongings along with them-by jumping into the sea did if fact do the trick in Ebril miraculously coming back to life . What happened later was something that Ebril's father never expected and which lead him to try , at the cost of his life , to exorcise the evil that his daughter brought back with her . It's this same Ebril that shows up later at James ' and Adelle's home that set into motion a number of weird and , in the case of Dafydd , deadly events . These events lead Adelle to believe that Annwvn is in fact real . A place of lost souls , like in the Catholic Purgatory , that are waiting to return to life . With the only way they can come back to the world of the living , Adelle is now fully convinced , is by replacing them with someone else ! MAJOR SPOILER ALERT Being told by a wise but troubled Dafydd to leave things the way they are and let Sarah rest in peace a desperate Adelle makes the same mistake that Ebril's father did some 50 years ago . In the end Adelle in fact does get her Sarah back replacing her with Ebril being sent back to Annwvn . It turns out that it wasn't Ebril who replaced Sarah but Adelle herself ! And even worst of all the Sarah who came back to life wasn't , like Ebril some 50 years ago , the same Sarah that both her parents Adelle and James knew before her tragic death !
( There are Spoilers ) Your usual private eye fear with the hard as nails Joe Dancer on the trail of a missing man who holds the key to his family's , the very politically active and successful Farinpours , dark past . That past if reviled will put an end to councilman Farinpour's bid for not only getting elected Governor of the state California but later on President of the United States ! Contcted by Tiffany Farinpour to find her missing brother David PI Dancer tracks him down in his trailer home on the California Mexican border . Trying to convince David to came back home , to Tiffany , with him David is shot dead on the steps of his trailer . With him now the prime suspect in David's murder Dancer , after putting Davd's body safely on ice , is on the run both from the law and the thugs who were hired to murder David . If you researched the family history of a now very prominent US political family you can't help noticing the very striking similarities of the fictional Farinpours and themselves ! Two far more striking things about those similarities is that the real political family in question was not only engaged , like the fictional Farinpours , in having business with Nazi Germany before the US was at war with that country but even during wartime ! The second and even more striking fact is that the the family , the real one not the Farinpours , was practically unknown to the American pubic when the movie " The Big Black Pill " was being filmed back in 1980 ! Private eye Dancer goes through the ringer with him being worked over by the two hired thugs Little Al & Big Foot who are two brawny professional NFL football players , Robert Phillips & Bubba Smith , in real life . Dancer finally gets to the truth to what all these secrets that the Farinpour family desperately want's to keep hidden , to the point of contract murder , from the American public really are . This all comes to life from the mouth of the murdered David Farinpour himself ! David knowing that he's marked for death had secretly made a video tape revealing the truth about his family history which was to be made public in the event of his death ! Dancer finding , on the dead and frozen David Farinpour's body , the key to the private mail box where the tape was hidden now had the goods on who not only who had David done in but why ? The only question now is if Dancer can get this explosive information out to the public before David's hired killers , or or the police , get to him first ! P . S Look for Robert Blake's , who played PI Joe Dancer , wife Sondra in the movie as Dancer's wheelchair bound Girl Friday Charlie .
SPOILERS The film is mostly known for being the first Lew Ayres-less entry in the Doctor Kildare series with Ayers unceremoniously dumped by the studio for refusing to take up arms , by declaring himself a conscious objector , against the German and Japanese in WWII . The fact that Mr . Ayres served his country risking his life as a combat medic and ambulance driver didn't seem to impress anyone in gong-ho and super patriotic Hollywood . In the movie Ayres is replaced by Dr . John Gerniede , Philip Dorn , who's a refugee from his native Holland after the German overran and occupied it . It's when clean cut collage graduate Roy Todwell , Phil Brown , was diagnosed by both Doctors Lenoard " Lenny " Gillespie and Ward Kenwood , Lionel Barrymore & Charles Dingle , as a dangerous psycho that he lost it all and became a homicidal maniac . It was just after the zombie-like Roy smashed his girlfriend's Marcia Bradburn's , Donna Reed , cute and lovable dog's skull in that people started questioning his mental stability . With Dr . Gillespie recommending that Roy get imitated psychiatric care he , in his very disturbed mind , felt the old guy was making fun of him , by declaring Roy to be a nut-case , and decided to murder him as an act of revenge ! As he was about to be committed to the Blair General Hospital mental ward for treatment Roy took off and ended up , for reasons known only to himself , in Detroit . It's there in " Motor City " were Roy murdered two innocent persons , a car dealer and his mechanic , just to prove to himself , but not anyone else watching the movie , that he's in fact normal ! Meticulously planning to murder the person-Dr . Gillespie - he holds responsible for all his mental problems-by diagnosing them - Roy goes back to Blair General in order to do the crippled old guy in ! Roy didn't expect that the hospital staff and NYPD were on to him by Roy sending threatening-and unsigned-letters to Dr . Gillespie's office . This not only showed that Roy , after already murdering a number of people , was not only a certified homicidal fruitcake but not , despite finishing collage , all that bright either . The movie had a lot more violence then you would have expected in a Dr . Kildare film and I noticed that both actors Lionel Barrymore and Philip Dorn just didn't click that well in the scenes that they were in together . As for the sweet and caring , for her nutty boyfriend Roy , Donna Reed she came across even more ridicules then even he-Roy Todwell-did . Seeing at first hand just how both crazy and dangerous Roy was why in hell did she let him sneak into Blair General , under the noses of its security staff , knowing full well what he had in mind to do ?
SPOILERS Having his mother raped by a vampire that resulted in his birth half human half vampire James Eastman , William Smith , grew up with a burning sense of revenge for his vampire father . That finally brought him as a collage student to prof . Crydons , Michael Pataki , classroom . It turned that Crydon was in an earlier incarnation the notorious 1930's New England serial murderer Caleb Croft who was killed in Boston , as he tried to run from the police , by stepping a a third rail . Living off the life blood of unsuspecting victims Caleb Croft was in reality a vampire and soon after his death rose from his grave attacking a teenage couple who were making out in the graveyard . Murdering the the young man Paul , Jay Scott , and then attacking and dragging into an open grave and raping the young woman Leslie , Kelly Vallachen . Leslie becoming pregnant seemed to feel that the father of her unborn child wasn't Paul but in fact he was the electrocuted serial murder Caleb Croft . Leslie's child like Croft turned out to be a vampire not like Paul , who's son she thought he was , who was a human being . Growing up to adulthood and knowing that he'll never be normal James only goal in life was to track down his father and make him pay for what he did to both him and his mother . Meanwhile Croydon not knowing that he has a son and that his son is out looking for him , in order to drive a wooden stake through his heart , is trying to contact his long lost vampire wife Sara who was burned at the stake in New England back in 1846 . It turned out that one of Croydon students Ann Arthur , Lyn Peters , is the person who is somehow connected to the late Sara's spirit and through her being involved in a séance Sara can come back to life by taking over Anne's body ! It also turned out that James Croydon long lost son is in love with Anne . Suspenseful and shocking final as Croydon and his long lost son duke it out in the middle of a séance as the other participants , with the exception of Anne who's life is saved by James , ending up murdered by the craze vampire . Not realizing at first that James is a Vampire like himself Croydon underestimates his ability to be able to stand up to him resulting in an almost unbelievable slug fest that last a full ten minutes ! James finally puts and end to Croydon's madness by pile-driving a wooden table leg through his chest . James now freed from his life long search to find and kill his rapist father has become a full-blooded vampire himself and instead of finding peace has become enslaved by his own savagery . No longer being able to control himself James must now go on living on the blood of innocent people becoming the monster that he for so long tried , and succeeded , to slay .
( There are Spoilers ) Stuck in the fogged in Heathrow Airport in London a number of very important people , V . I . P . s , are confronted with a major crisis in that if they don't leave Great Britian by midnight their lives will never be the same again . The movie centers mostly on British mega millionaire and ruthless businessman Paul Andros , Richard Burton , who achieved everything that he started out in life to do but is unknowingly throwing away the only thing that's really worth anything to him his beautiful and frustrated wife Frances , Elizabeth Taylor . Giving Frances everything in money and jewelry Paul has neglected to give her any true affection and love treating her like she's one of his prized possessions which lead Frances to secretly have an affair with that international jet-setting gigolo and all around moocher , of the rich and famous , Marc Champsella , Louis Jourdan . Frances and Marc are planing to elope to New York and get married but their plans goes a bit sour when the flight their to take is fogged in and the note that Frances , a dear Paul letter , left at her and Paul's home to be opened when she and Marc were airborne and on their way to New York is discovered by Paul , while the two are still at Heathrow Airport . Paul then comes running , as well as to his senses , to the airport to confront Frances in her leaving him for the smooth talking and conniving con-artist Marc . For the first time in his life Paul is left a broken and defeated man when Frances tells him in so many words to get lost . Later Paul does , mostly out of self-pity for himself , the most chartable things he ever did in his mostly selfish life . Paul writs out a blank check , that eventually amounted to 153 , 000 pound sterling , to a total stranger Australian tractor manufacture Les Mangrum , Rod Taylor , in order to save his company from being gobbled up in a corporate takeover . This act of charity not only changed Mangrum's life for the better but , not knowing this at the time , Pauls as well . Paul was at the airport bar drowning his sorrows and slowly getting smashed when Mangrum's Girl Friday his private secretary Miss Mead , Maggy Smith , who recognized him as the big kahuna that he is approached Paul and begged him to save her boss from going bankrupt or even to jail , for passing a phony check . This act of kindness , which money wise was only a drop in the bucket for him , was something that Paul would have never done before he found that Frances left him . In the end it was this new understanding of his own short-comings , in his not being a kind feeling and giving human being , is what brought a tearful and forgiving Frances running back to him . There's also the story in the film of the Dutchess of Brighton , Margaret Rutherford , at the airport booked for a flight to Miami Florida . The Dutchess has , at her very advanced age , to go back to work as a hostess at a Miami hotel in order to earn enough money to pay for the taxes and upkeep of her family Brighton home . It just happened that also at the airport is world famous schlock director Max Buda , Orsen Wells , who has to leave the country by midnight or else the money that he made last year in Britain , over one million pound sterling , will be taxed at over 85 % . Thus leaving him , with his expensive dining and drinking habits , almost penniless . With the expert advice of his financial whiz and adviser Doctor Schartzbacher , Martin Miller , Buda marries his favorite actress , who's in all his art films , the dizzy and star struck Gloria Gritt , Elsa Martinelli , which in effect by him putting all his earnings in her name . That exempts Buda from paying the brutal British taxes . At the same time have him make a deal with the Duchess to film his next movie at her castle or ancestral home in Brighton paying her as much as 3 , 000 pound sterling per day , for six weeks . That will more then get the cash-strapped Dutchess out of the hole in losing her beloved and precious country estate . Really an all-around feel-good movie more then anything else where everyone ends up on the winning side except that sneaky heel and low-life chiseling gigolo Marc Champselle who's left holding the bag . Thats when Frances finally realizes what a phony creep he is , like her husband Paul warned her , and what a fine and wonderful man even though sometimes a bit too serious about himself , and his status in the whole scheme of things , her Paul Andros is .
SPOILERS Not too convincing film about a hot shot and well intentioned priest who gets in over his heed in trying to saved his beloved Catholic Church from going bankrupt . The Second World War is soon to be over and the Catholic Church has suffered major financial losses because of it . American priest Father John Flaherthy , Christopher Reeve , comes up with this master plan to save the church but there's just one hitch : It involves the Mafia who's the only one who can make it happen . Getting involved with his childhood friend-from Brooklyn NY - Lodo Varese , Joseph Cartese , a master sergeant in the US Army Father John has Lodo through his Mafia and black market connections sell thousands of cartons of cigarettes from the Vatican commissary , that Father John is the administrator of , for a mark up of over 400 % . The very naive Father John thinks that his friend Lodo together with his Mafia boss Don Vito " the Apple " Appolini , Jason Miller , will be as honest about this strange arrangement that he cooked up in secretly saving the church as he is . While all this is going on Father John , using the alias of US Army Lt . Finnigen , gets involved with the not yet confirmed Catholic nun Clara Genevieve Bjold , whom he rescued from getting drenched from a sudden downpour with her fellow nuns while driving his army jeep . In a matter of days the very handsome Father John , or Lt . Finnigen , had the impressionable Clara , who thought that he was a black marketeer , have an affair with him . Thinking that she was involved with a corrupt US Army solider not a Catholic priest , or Monsignor which he was at the time , Clara flipped out when she saw Father John at a ceremony at the Vatican together with his mentor Cardinal Santoni , Fernando Rey , and the Holy Father himself the Pope played by Leonardo Cimino ! Father John not knowing what to say later , while in Church praying for forgiveness , let himself have it , by being sapped around , by an outraged Clara who accused him of ruining her , as well as his , life ! The relationship between Father John , a CPA before he entered the church , and his good friend Lodo also started to sour with Lodo taking off with some 40 million dollars of the church's money as well as losing over 600 million dollars playing the very speculative currency markets . SPOILER ALERT The mad as hell Don Vito who's money , in connection with the Catholic Church , Lodo also ripped off has a hit put out on him which a tearful Father John begs him to put off . This turned out to be about the only good thing that Father John did in the movie and even that backfired on him ! Insulting , especially to Roman Catholics , in how the movie treats members of the clothe by making them look worse then the hoods and gangsters that their shown to be working with . Christopher Reeve as the corrupt Father John is anything but sympathetic in his being so obsessed with both money and sex , as well as power , that whatever good there was in him quickly evaporated within the first ten minutes of the movie . Even though Father John's attempt to save the Catholic Church from going bankrupt was in the end successful his methods were anything but Christ-like . Which made you wonder if , in the movie , with the underhanded and sleazy tactics that Father John used to save it was in fact worth saving at all !
SPOILERS One of the strangest Columbo movies ever with an absent-minded Lt . Columbo being awakened from bed and showing up at a murder scene . At the same time , with his famous raincoat over his pajamas , forgetting not only to take his badge but his pad and pencil with him . During the movie we have Columbo constantly badgered by his bosses downtown to take a marksmanship qualifying test with his handgun that he hasn't taken or had in over ten years . The movie ends in a mind-blowing sequence with Lt . Columbo breaking the case wide open but letting someone else take the blame for the murder that he just solved thus letting the killer go Scott-free . Lt . Columbo knowing that a trial , that may take as much as two years , would just be a waste of taxpayers money . The killer would never live long enough to see herself on trial . Wanting to get back on the screen as America's Darling over-the-hill singer and dancer Grace Wheeler Willis , Janet Leigh , is set to do a play with her husbands retired diagnostician Dr . Henry Willis , Sam Jaffe , money . Grace is shocked to find out from Henry that he's not bankrolling her career and that his money would be better spent for her to go on an ocean cruise with him . Angry at Henry for not helping her out at her hour of need Grace concocts a plan to do the old fellow in while he's taking a nap reading before bedtime . Giving Henry a double dose of sleeping pills he's out cold when Grace sneaks into his bedroom and after planting a gun in his hand pulls the trigger blowing his brains out making it look like suicide . While all this was happening Grace was supposed to be watching one of her old movies " Walkin My Baby Back Home " downstairs in the projection room like she does every evening . This was to provide an alibi if the cops think otherwise that Henry was murdered not that he killed himself . You see right away that Grace is not too stable upstairs with her truly acting and believing as if she had nothing at all to do with Henry's death . Her former lover and dancing partner Ned Diamond , John Payne , comes to Graces ' side and starts to help Grace out in her big comeback on Broadway . Ned notices that she isn't exactly herself and has problems remembering both her lines and dancing numbers . Lt . Columbo who's put on the case starts to slowly uncover the truth and comes to the conclusion that it was Grace who killed her husband Henry . Still Columbo is stymied at the fact , from the medical information , that Grace is suffering from a deteriorating brain disease . The disease not only wipes out her present memory , the past is as clear as ball to her , but will eventually kill her in just a matter of months , two at the most . Being invited to watch one of Grace's old musicals Lt . Columbo together with Ned , who now knows that she killed Henry . Lt . Columbo is very hesitant to have Grace arrested for her husbands murder and for the fist time in his career as a cop doesn't know what to do . Ned finding out about Grace's fatal illness in an act of kindness , to keep Grace from being arrested , takes over and has Grace's already shattered memory and Lt . Columbo's troubled conscience put at ease by taking the blame for Henry's murder himself . Of course Ned isn't going to be arrested for a crime that he didn't commit but at the same time Grace won't have to be taken into custody by a very reluctant Lt . Columbo for a crime that she in fact did . Watching Grace watch herself on the screen both Ned & Lt . Columbo both know that it would have been cruel and unusual punishment for her , since she wouldn't live long enough , to face justice in a court of law . It's decided to let her spend her last days living happily in the past . A time in her life , as Hollywoods song and dance queen , that she never really was able to escape from .
( There are Spoilers ) Looking out of it and like he hasn't slept for a few days Pat enters the noisy and dangerous " Killoran Tavern " or " Killer's " for short . The hang-out of the notorious Queens mobster Bobby-Fitz . With a number of fights going on and nobody noticing him Pat pulls his gun out of his jacket and points it at Bobby-Fitz who's arguing with one of his hoods . Only to have the co-owner of the place Mary Killoran step in front of him and then slowly puts it back . Mary thinking Pat is looking for a job at the bar offers him to open it up the next morning as the bartender since Teddy , who works the bar at the " Killoran Tavern " , is taking the day off . It later turns out that Pat isn't really Pat " the drifter " but NYPD Detective Desmond Flynn . Det . Flynn is on the run and on the lamb from the police and in a way himself in the brutal murder of his partner Det . Thomas Hugh by the Bobby-Fitz gang . Both Det . Flynn & Hugh were off-duty when they tried to stage a buy and bust , which is against NYPD regulations , without calling for back-up on a member of Bobby-Fitz's gang . The buy and bust backfired with Det . Hugh ending up shot dead . Desmond wanting to get the person responsible for his partner's death went to " Killers " to gun down Bobby-Fitz only to later learn that it wasn't him who was responsible for Hugh's murder ; it was Bobby-Fitz's second in command Pooka . Pooka is also planing to knock off Bobby-Fitz and take over his organization and introduce illegal drugs with the help of NYC drug kingpin Lacido distribute the drugs into the neighborhood . The movie " Killers " comes across like a TV or Broadway play not like a full length motion picture . It's that very reason that make it as interesting , and effective , as it is . All of the members of the Bobby-Fitz gang end up leaving him to his fate . But at the same time by following the deranged Pooka they as well end up dead along with him as a reward . Bobby-Fitz who has a very strong interest in taking over " Killoran's Tavern " has it owner Mary's drunk and irresponsible brother Jimmy set up in a card sting . It's there where he's taken for $10 , 000 . 00 thus having no choice but to sign over the place to Bobby-Fitz if he want's to stay out of the hospital . Desmond trying to keep Bobby-Fitz from destroying what both Jimmy and Mary worked all their lives for , and what their father left to them , blows his cover as a cop . This leads Desmond to end up badly beaten and almost shot to death , execution style , outside in a deserted Queens park . Desmond who then escaped from the Pooka mobsters goes back to his room at his friend Murf's to get his girlfriend Liz to come along with him . Desmond needs them to him help stop Pooka and his mobster friends from murdering both Mary and her sick , and now almost suicidal , brother Jimmy before it's too late . Fine acting by both Hugh O'Gorman and Kathleen Warner as Desmond Flynn and Mary Killoran as well as Ed Dennehy and Todd Cosgerove as Mary's brother Jimmy and mob boss Bobby-Fitz . Their acting gives the film " Killers " the punch that it needs to get your attention and overlook it's low-budget and almost soap opera-like look . You also have to give credit to actor Todd Cosgrove who plays the vicious Pooka . Cosgrove is so good that it's hard to believe that he's really acting but is actually the murderous psycho that he's portraying in the movie .
SPOILERS Det . Jon Lucca , Edward James Olmos , is slowly dying from the stress of trying to find and arrest " The Scorekeeper " a serial murderer in the San Francisco area . That put him in an detox clinic for his heavy use of alcohol as well as his heavy smoking for over twenty years . " The Scorekeeper " who murdered scores of people during that time had Det . Lucca pick up the suspected murder Llyod Ward , George Dzundza , and go on a long ride with him to finally find out the truth which proved to be fatal for both persons . The story of Jon and Llyod goes back to 1974 when a series of lovers lane murders occurred in San Francisco with the killer taunting the police by sending them letters boasting of how smart he is and how they'll never catch him . Det . Lucca was put in charge of " The Scorekeeper " , the name that the murderer gave himself , murder case . Det . Lucca tracked down the killer for over two years until he came to the conclusion that he was Llyod Ward but didn't have the evidence to prove and arrest him . This made Det . Lucca harass Llyod unmercifully until a person , Jonathan Palis , calling himself " The Scorekeeper " was shot by Det . Lucca and the police at a local strip club . After Palis ' death the " Scorekeeper " murder case was closed by the police . Det . Lucca felt that the police killed the wrong man and that the " Scorekeeper Murderer " was still on the loose but the police and media were keeping the killings of " The Scorekeeper " quiet from the general public . It was that reason that Det . Lucca made his decision to meet with Llyod Ward that night to see if he was right or wrong about him . Pretty good made for TV thriller with some very good acting by it's top stars Edward James Olmos and George Dzundza . Even though the ending was a bit contrived and hard to believe the tension and terror of that ride in the night by both stars did hold up through the entire movie and more then made up for the uneven ending . I was fascinated by seeing George Dzundza playing the gun-loving and dangerous Llyod Ward . George looked so much like Michael Moore the anti-gun advocate and maker of the anti-gun documentary " Bowling for Calumbine " that every time he was on the screen I had to convince myself that I wasn't seeing things .
( There are Spoilers ) Even though he's hardly on the screen for the first half hour or so Victor McLaglen as the sensitive and friendly bartender Gitlo is by far the glue that holds the film " Whistle Stop " together . McLaglen playing a part a lot like his Academy Award winning role of Gypo Nolan in the 1935 Classis " The Informer " is far more sympathetic as Gitlo a man with a dark and shady past , were never really informed what just it is . Gitmo is being blackmailed to work for the sleazy owner of the Flamingo House Lew Lentz , Tom Conway , as his bartender and sees just what a rat and lowlife , besides of what he's done to him , Lentz really is . Things really start to heat up in the little railroad town of Ashbury when the eye-popping gorgeous Mary , Ava Gardner , shows up after being away in the big city , Chicago , looking to make it big by getting hitched to someone with mucho money . The type of big bucks which no one in Ashbury but Lentz has . It seems that Mary's stay in Chicago wasn't as successful as she hoped it would be with her still single and , beside having an expensive mink coat , not having as much money to pay for a hotel room . Staying at the Veech House things get a bit strained when Kenny , George Raft , Molly Veech's ( Florence Bates ) older son pops in . Kenny is just what he was when Mary left him shiftless unemployed leaching off his friends and family members and doing absolutely nothing to improve his lot in life ; A real first-class loser if there ever was one . Kenny trying to be tough is really making a complete jerk of himself in that he's looked upon by everyone in town as someone who after you shake hands with him you check your fingers to see if any of them aren't missing ! It's that arrogance and bull handedness that in the end almost leads to Kenny losing his life as well as causing the death of his girlfriend , until Mary came to town , the sweet and hard working waitress at the Flaimigo House Fran , Jorja Curtright . At first trying to hit on Mary , who shares the same house with him , Kenny is deeply hurt in that she falls in love with his biggest rival in Ashbury the sneering smiling sarcastic and ho so sure of himself Lew Lentz . It when Kenny got involved with Gitlo that his life turned to mud in Gitlo trying to get him to knock off the hated , by both him and Kenny , Lew Lentz and steal his profits , $15 , 000 . 00 , form the annual fair he throws in Ashbury . luckily for both Kenny & Gitlo Mary catches on to their plans and derails them thus saving Lentz's life and Kenny & Gitlo from a date with the electric chair . Tragically it was also at the fair that Kenny broke up with Fran that lead , with her smashing head first through a wooden fence , to her death . A changed man Kenny finally does something with his life getting himself a job , on the railroad , and becoming a contributing and tax paying member of society . Kenny's turning over another leaf also get's Mary to leave Lentz and come back to him which has the scheming nightclub owner plan a knockout blow for the unsuspecting Kenny as he does it by using the naive , to what his plans are , Gitlo to pull it off . Almost forgotten , until it was released on DVD , gem of a movie that has everything you would want in a film noir with an outstanding performance by Victor McLaglen as well as George Raft Tom Conway and the hauntingly beautiful 23 year-old Ava Gardner . The ending which was about the only negative in the film is a bit contrived but it's McLaglen's electrifying performance in it which I feel was even better , in making up for his previous sins , then that of Gypo Nolan in " The Informer " that made it work .
( There are Spoilers ) Interesting take on time travel involving this future travel agency that has its clients travel back in time to witness major disasters and at the same time not ultimately become a part , by getting killed , in them . Tabloid newspaper reporter Tom Merrick , Casper Van Dein , checking out his fellow investigative reporter's Liz Wintern's , Catherine Bell , computer finds this strange paradox in , official at the time news photos , the same person being at the scene of three different disasters , the Titanic the Hindenburg and Hurricane Hugo , within a time span of some ninety years ! And on top of all that the mystery man Murray Trevor , Julian Richings , didn't seem to age a day ! You can just imagine what Tom thought when he spotted this same Murray Trevor on his flight from Chicago to Washington D . C ! He just knew that something terrible was about to happen and , on a hunch , then prevented it from happening : A major mid-air collision that was to take the lives of over 300 people ! As he soon finds out Tom by preventing the collision from happening change the course of future event that resulted in the destruction , by someone on the plane surviving , of all of Southern California ! What's even more shocking is that Tom himself was supposed to have been killed in a major warehouse fire some time ago but it was Trevor , who was there to enjoy the action , who accidentally prevented that from happening ! The film has the head of the future time travel agency Grifasi , Martin Sheen , send two of his clean up employees or goons , in seeing that time marches on unperturbed , Cortez & Felder , Thereas Saldana & Peter Outerbridge , to make sure that Tom doesn't prevent any more major disasters from happening . The theory is , in future knowledge , if they don't happen in the past they'll sure as hell happen in the future ! The future that Crifasi Cortez and Felder are living in ! Very hard to follow at times with Tom & Co . going back and forth in time , with this device called the Santza Displacer , preventing as well as trying , in the case of Cortez & Felder , to encourage future deserters to happen all around the city of Chicago . The big pay-off is the forthcoming destruction of the Copps Sports Colosseum that was to cause the death of over 11 , 000 people . Two of them being Tom's ex-wife Jen , Deborah Odell , and nine year old son Kevin , Marc Donato ! You just got to take things as they come , and not seriously , in " Thrill Seekers " knowing that with everything out of whack , in the time space continuum , you can't expect any logic in what's happening on screen . You do get an eyeful of top flight , for a made for TV movie , action scenes as well as people getting killed and , because of the time travel aspect of the film , coming back to life which more then makes up for the films hooky storyline . You also get an eyeful of actress Catherine Bell who when she lets her hair down and takes off her glasses , as well as puts on a tight fitting sweater , rivals the fiery action scenes , which she's soon to become a part of , in the film .
MAJOR SPOILERS Heart-pounding war action adventure with an assault on an impregnable mountain fortress by a squad of hand picked top British commandos , with a US Army Ranger thrown in for good measures . The assault is a rescue attempt of a captured US Army general who's one of the top men in Gen . Eisenhowers high command in the planning of opening up a second front in Western Europe . It turns out that the rescue team is actually infiltrated by a number of German Agents who are on to what the British / USA rescue team are up to . The German Agents turn out to be so stupid or incompetent that they help , more then hurt , the rescue operation from being exposed and taken out by an elite division , the Alpine , of hardened German SS troopers who happen to be the best mountain fighters in the world . Lead by British Major Jon Smith , Richard Burton , the commandos penetrate the impregnable Nazi fortress the Scholoss Alder , high up in the Bavarian Alps , as easily as you would go down and penetrate your local bar , by just walking through the front door , to buy yourself a drink even with more then half of the British commandos being Nazi Agents ! The non - stop action has both Smith and his US Ranger compatriot Let . Morris Schaffer played by a very confused and bewildered looking Clint Eastwood take on and wipe out almost the entire Nazi Alpine Division , as well as a squadron of the Luftawaffe . They do all this without as much as even having to get re-supplied with ammunition and explosives , which they seem to have an unlimited supply of , by an RAF / USAAF air drop . Joined by pretty British Agent Mary Elison , Mary Ure , Smith and Schaffer make a shamble of the German Army who are even more buffoonish then they were portrayed to be in the darkest days of WWII in movies released by Hollywood in order to drum up moral at home and in the war zone . If the rescue of Gen . Carnaby wasn't hard enough it turns out that Smith is involved in a number of dealings with the Nazi's where he's as much as a a triple or even quadruple agent for both the British and German governments . All that leaves his comrade Let . Smith in such a state of confusion that he at one point , out of sheer frustration , almost killed him in order to make sure that Smith won't , which he did in the movie a number of times , double-cross him . The hot and heavy action has the Germans use up thousands upon thousands of rounds of ammunition , small arms and artillery , on the three allied commandos , Smith Schaffer & Elison , and only scoring with a minor flesh wound on one of them , Smith's hand , for all their efforts . The way that the commandos dispatch the hapless and ineffective German troops actually makes the audience feel some sympathy for them in that their so outmatched that to cheer for the good guy UK / USA commandos over the bad guy Nazi German troops would be like cheering for a pit-bull to beat chihuahua in a dog fight . Taking out more Germans , or Japaneses , then John Wayne could have ever dreamed of doing in all of his WWII action movies combined the trio then make a run for it to the nearest German Luftawffe airfield . Then again as easy as shooting fish in a barrel the dynamic and indestructible trio , Dick Clint & Mary , take out the helpless German troops without as much as breaking out into a sweat as the blow up a string of Nazi fighter planes and are then rescued by the British who land and take off almost unopposed and ferry them out . It's then that we find out , with the exception of Maj Smith who was on to him from day one , SPOILER that the entire operation was sabotaged by one of the top British MI6 intelligence officers who planned it ! You have to suspend belief and logic to enjoy " Where Eagels Dare " which doesn't at all , how could it ! , seem to take itself really seriously in it's treatment of the evil Nazis . The movie has the Nazis look more like a German version of the Three , or in this case three thousand , Stooges then the ruthless and effective sht-kickers that they really were .
SPOILERS You see right away that their marriage is a bit strained within the first few minutes of the movie as Steven and Emily Taylor , Michael Douglas & Gwyneth Paltrow , get ready to attend a by invitation only art exhibit at the New York Museum of Art . At the museum Emily makes eye contact with young starving and soon to become famous , or so he hopes , young artist David Shaw , Viggo Mortensen . You knows right away that she and him have got something going between each other and that the cheated on husband Steven , who's nobody's fool , knows that as well . Emily and David we find are madly in love with each other but Emily finds it much too hard to tell Steven and thus have the marriage dissolved . Keeping her affair with David secret Emily goes to his loft in Greenpoint Brooklyn every chance that she has and spends the day making out with him until Steven , a bond and currency broker on Wall Street , comes back home from a hard day's work at the office . Giving David a call , he got his phone number at the exhibit , Steven invites him over to a downtown bar to talk over his art work . To David's surprise , when he and Steven go to his loft to check it out , he's hit with the fact that Steven not only knows what's going on between him and Emily but also knows that David is an impostor ! It turns out that David is on the lamb from the police for fleecing a number of rich and naive women of their life savings . Having been already convicted and sentenced to long prison terms for fraud and embezzlement the third time around would put David away for at least 15 years with no chance of parole . On top of all that Steven got the self-styled Casanova by the you know what with a photo that identifies him as the person who gypped a woman out of her savings . This information that David has , if it lead lead to a trial and conviction , would be David's third strike as well as a 15 year sentence behind bars . Just when you think that you got an idea of where the movie is going with Steven breaking up the love affair between the young artist and his wife Emily he completely surprises you by offering David $500 , 000 . 00 to not just get of of his and Emily's life but to murder her ! We soon learn that Steven is not at all that interested in whom his wife is sleeping with but in her 100 million dollar trust fund that he's to inherited if anything bad , like Emily losing her life , happens to her . Having been involved in a number of wild and very speculative trading ventures on Wall Street Steven's firm is about to go bust with him heavily leveraged in playing the currency and bond markets with the banks leaving him , the once billionaire Wall Street whiz kid , almost penniless . The plan to do in Emily that Steven devises with a very reluctant David is to make it look like she was surprised by a burglar who then killed her and took of with nothing more then the key to her and Stevens suite that he would provide for him . David who's to do all the dirty work acting as the burglar while Steven , providing a perfect alibi for himself in his wife's murder , is away playing cards with his Wall Sreet friends on the other side of town . The almost perfect plan backfires when Emily not only survives it by killing the intruder , after a life and death struggle , with a oven thermometer but , this is what really blew Steven's as well as everyone watching the movies mind , the dead man turns out not to be David Shaw ! Very well done murder drama / thriller that has the slick and crafty Steven Taylor get outmaneuvered by the person whom he tries to manipulate David Shaw . David in no time at all has all the cards to put Steven not just out of business , as a Wall Street broker , but behind bars as well for attempted murder of his wife Emily . Emily for her part is completely ignorant of what Steven had planned for her . It's not until Emily realizes with the help of Turkish / American NYPD detective in charge of the killing Mohamed Karaman , David Suchet , that the key that's on her key-chain , that Steven hastily put on it , is actually that of the dead burglars , Roland Gibbs , Washington Heights apartment . Emily and Moe or Mohamed somehow secretly bond together during the rest of the movie " A Perfect Murder " with her knowing Turkish and speaking to Moe in his native language . It takes a while for Emily to realize just what Steven is up to and by the time she finally get's it all together with the mystery of how her missing house key that the sparks and bullets really start to fly in the movies very tense and edge of your seat final sequence .
SPOILERS With the Fascist Franco forces overrunning Spain , in March 1939 , this orphanage run by a group of loyal Spanish Republicans is in danger of being taken over with it's staff shot for supporting the Republican side in the Spanish Civil War . The couple running the orphanage Casares and Carmen , who lost her right leg in the war , are secretly buying the Republican Forces arms with a large stash of gold bars and now plan to leave the country before Franco takes over . It's there in the orphanage that young Carlos is sent to be looked after . It's also there where he's contacted by one of the orphans who disappeared when the orphanage was bombed by Fascist war planes about a year ago . It turns out that Carlos is given the same bed , # 12 , that Santi slept in before he disappeared from the orphanage . That get's Jamie , a orphan who was a friend of Santi , very mad at him . It turns out that the night that Santi disappeared a huge bomb , dropped from a plane , borrowed itself into the grounds of the orphanage as if to remind everyone about Santi's fate . We also later learn that Jamie was at the scene that night and saw what happened to his friend Santi and kept it a secret all this time until Carlos arrived . Carlos starts to see an aberration at the orphanage the first evening he's there that turns out to be Santi's ghost . Santi seems to be trying to contact and tell Carlos what happened to him , it's by now obvious that he's dead , and even more important just who killed him . Wanting to have his killer brought to justice Santi guides Carlos to a former orphan , and now janitor of the orphanage , Jicinto who it turns out was robbing the safe where Carman kept the gold bars . One evening Santi caught him in the act and that lead to Jicinto accidentally , by slamming his head against a brick wall , killing him . Unknown to Jicinto Santi's friend Jamie was also at he scene and saw the whole thing . Jicinto hid Santi's body in a pool inside the orphanage but now the soul , or ghost , of Satni was breaking loose and getting in touch with Carlos . Jicinto for the time being is having a affair with Carmen behind Casares ' back and is planning , with a number of his cohorts , to win over her confidence . This in order for him to get the key to rob her of the gold bars she has locked up in her safe . Everything comes together in the movie when the Fascists begin to consolidate their gains and are about to drive the Republican Forces out of Spain . Casares going into town sees that the Fascists have taken it over and one of his fellow Republicans , Ayala , had been captured and is about to be executed . This gets Casares to think that the Fascists have gotten the truth out of Ayala about his orphanage being a front for getting arms to the Republican Forces . Getting back Casares warn Carman that she , and him , will have to leave the country right away before the Fascists come over and put them both against a wall and shoot them . It's then , during all this confusion , when Jicinto tries to get the key to the safe where Carmen keeps the gold only to have her tell him to get lost . Carmen had already figured Jicinto , who stole the gold bars , out for the back-stabbing swine that he is . Casares kicks Jicinto out of the orphanage , at gun point , only to have him sneak back in and blow the entire place up killing a number of people including Carman . Jicinto's fiancée , a teacher at the orphanage , Conchita who also didn't realize what a swine he was also ends up being killed by him when she doesn't want to go along with him and his friends in getting the gold bars . Jicinto back at the now burnt out and battered orphanage to get the gold bars find that their gone , Carmen hid them in her wooden leg , and with his fellow cooks gone , they also had enough of him , and Casares dying from his wounds , that he receives in Jicinto blowing up the orphanage , Jicinto's left all by himself . Not knowing that all this was arraigned by Santi , from the great beyond , to get him into a trap that he set for him . Jicinto finds the gold bars but he's also found by the dead Santi who together with the remaining orphans , including Carlos & Jamie , have him pay for what he did , not only to Santi but to everyone else at the orphanage .
Devastating documentary on what three years of compulsory military service does to many young Israelis who live through it . Being burnt out and mentally fatigued in serving in places like the dangerous West Bank and Gaza as well as , when the film was made , the 2006 Israeli Lebanese war these men and women are given some 15 , 000 shekels , or $4 , 300 . 00 in US currency , to get their head back together . Many , as much as 20 , 000 , of these former IDF-Israeli Defense Force - members choose to travel to India and in the tranquil setting of the Himalayan Mountains and hot sun drenched forests they chill out on drugs that they have an unlimited supply of . It's in these strange surrounding far from home that as many as 2 , 000 ex-Israeli servicemen and women flip out and end up with severe psychological problems because of their non stop drug use . The movie " Flipping Out " goes into detail on this phenomenon that's causing far more damage to the IDF then the casualties it suffers in combat . We seen in the documentary how the rigors of war and occupation has caused many Israeli soldiers to turn to drugs to make then overcome what they experienced in preforming their duties as members of the IDF . Going to India to get help only leads many Israelis to get addicted to dangerous drugs which they for the most part uses as much as 14 hours a day ! There's of course a number of self help programs in India sponsored by the Israeli Government as well as the local Jewish fundamentalist Chabd Houses that do their best to get these soldiers back on the right track as drug-free and productive Israeli citizens . But without the soldiers willing to get help all they can do is get those hopelessly addicted back to Israel to get expert psychological care and drug rehabilitation treatment . What the movie " Flipping Out " brings out is how war can effect a person's mental health if he or she's not ready to face the horrors that it exposes them to . In the case of the mostly strung out Israeli soldiers living and partying , on drugs , on the Indian sub-Continent that even trying to escape from their past , as man and women in combat , is anything but an easy solution . The one good thing going for these unfortunate lost souls in the windiness is that their government accepts and takes full responsibility for the mental and psychical , in sending then to war , suffering that their going through . These soldiers are given all the help-free of charge - that they could get in order to put their shattered lives back together again . Which is a lot more then the help that's given to returning veterans from similar conflicts in far off lands by the governments who so willingly and readily sent them to fight and die there .
SPOILERS Traveling back to Old Mother Russia American film-maker Marie Jones , Anastasia Hille , has some important business in regards to the family home that belonged to her deceased parents . It was some forty years ago that Marie's father Kolya Kaldavosky lost his mind and brutally murdered her mother leaving her and her twin brother Nicolai , Karel Rodan , orphaned at the tender age of two . Now just two days short of her 42th birthday Marie want's to finally close the deal to her parents home by taking control of it . Seeing local real estate agent Andrei Misharin , Valentine Ganev , at his office Marie finalized the papers putting her late parents house in her name . It's when Marie is driven to the dilapidated and abandoned Kaldavosky Estate that she realizes why the people in and around the place are so terrified of it ! The place is haunted by the deranged psycho who once owned it Marie's father Kolya Kaldavosky ! And furthermore he's somehow trying to get both Marie and her estrange twin brother Nicolai to spend the evening there ! That on the very day where exactly 40 years ago that he went berserk and committed acts of such barbaric violence , besides murdering her and Nicolai's mom , that are too shocking for any normal human being to even imagine ! Modern " Slavic Horror " story involving ghosts from the past who somehow are reunited with each other in the present . Both Marie and Nicolai survived their crazed father's butchery back in 1966 only to come face to face with it forty years later . Marie despite her better judgment went along with real-estate agent's Misharin insistence in her going to the old Kaldavosky House knowing deep gown in her gut what was withing there for her . The same can't be said of Marie's twin brother Nicolai who had no doubts in what he and Marie were in for when they got there . In fact Nicolai was already there waiting for his sister , who hadn't seen him in forty years , before she even arrived there ! What both Marie and Nicolai's father failed to finish back in 1966 he was determined , even by coming back from the dead , to finish now ! It was his sick way of bringing his family back together again to be with him forever in the world of the dead ! SPOILER There was a scene at the very beginning of the film with Marie going to see Andrei Misharian at his realty office that was more then just a quick cut in the editing room . The same scene was repeated again , in a flashback , as the movie " The Abandoned " was about to end which was in fact a subtle warning of thing to come for her and the movie audience . It's too bad that Marie didn't heed the warning , from beyond the grave , that she was given and stayed away from her parents house by the lake . It would have saved her lots of future headaches and possibly even her life !
SPOILERS Coming over to the Frame home in rural USA to be taken in as a member of the family young Emil Buckner , Skip Homeier , is anything but your typical American boy in fact he was brought up in Nazi Germany and brainwashed to grow up and become a future Aryan Superman in the Hitler Youth . That fact that Emil's dad who was thrown into a Nazi concentration camp where he eventually died for speaking out against the Fuhrer , Adolph Hitler , made Emil look suspicious to his Nazi overseers who felt that he may well become like his dad , normal , when he grows up . The Nazis decided that he didn't have what it takes to become a good and loyal member of the Nazi Party and sent packing to the US to stay with his old man's brother-in-law Mike Frame , Fredic March , and his future wife Leona Richards , Betty Fields . Not getting the hint that he was a total wash out , in him not having what it takes to be a good Nazi , from his beloved Nazi Germany Emil , because of him being brainwashed since he could barley walk , still thinks that he's a full fledged Nazi Superman and goes so far as to parade around the house , this in 1944 when the US was at war with Nazi Germany , with his Nazi or Hitler Youth uniform . Emil makes a complete jerk of himself in him trying to be a spy for the Fatherland and at the same time blowing his cover , by bragging about it , and not realizing that the Fatherland , wanting nothing at all to do with this nut , had him unceremoniously kicked out ! Acting like a Nazified version of " Dennis the Menace " Emil is all over the house and even at school trying to prove to everyone , including himself , what a great Nazi Superman he really is . For a while Emil does get his classmates to go along with his crazy antics that he picked up back in Germany while in the Hitler Youth . Emil has his classmates take night marches into enemy territory and staging roadside ambushes , all in fun of course , while being disguised in camouflage so that the enemy , whoever he is , can't see them as well as familiarizing themselves with all kinds of arms and ammunitions , German of course . Emil goes a bit too far when he first comes to deal with Leona , his Uncle Mike's fiancée , being Jewish as well as his determination to steal Mike's mail that he gets from the War Department . Mike is one of the country's top chemist and is working on a top secret project for the US military , the Atomic Bomb ? , and Emil wants to get his hands on what he's doing by stealing his private notes and mail and send it back to the Fatherland . In the case of his future aunt Leona the fact that she's Jewish is enough to drive Emil batty in thinking that he'll be forced to live under the same roof as she is when she marries his Uncle Mike : a fate worse then death itself for the cute but somewhat not all there in the head little Nazi . Two things happen that turn Emil around in his mission , or what he thinks it is , in serving his Fatherland . Confronting Leona about her being Jewish , in the most vulgar of ways , she slaps Emil across the face that shocks the very self-assured and arrogant young man in him , , an Aryan Superman , not only being whacked by a lowly woman but a Jewish one at that ! The second incident that brings Emil back to reality has to do with his getting into a fight with fellow student Stanley Dumbowski , Rudy Wissle . Stanley being a Polish / American whom Emil felt to be inferior to him was able to take him on and give him a bloody nose and even later force Emil , with their teacher Miss . Richards looking on , to apologies to him in front of all his classmates ; What An Insult ! With all his arrogance about being a good Nazi now in question the only thing that can bring back Emil to his fantasy world of serving Fuhrer and Fatherland is to get his hands on Uncle Mike's secret papers and send them back to Germany , by US airmail ? , to show everyone back home what a good German , or Aryan , he really is . Emil is stymied in his plan to serve the Fatherland when he's caught red-handed , with his hands in Uncle Mike's drawer , by his young cousin Pattie , Joan Carroll , who just bought him a birthday present , a illuminated watch which he always wanted for his crazy nighttime war maneuvers . All at once Emil graduated from just being just a pesky and uncontrollable but somewhat harmless young boy to a possibly up and coming psycho killer the very type of person that would make those back in the Fatherland , the Nazis , very proud of him . Intriguing movie about how a young man can be so seriously brainwashed that he goes against his best interests to serve a country and ideology , Nazi Germany , that did nothing but harm him and his family . Where at the same time having him try to destroy , in his own childless way , the country and its people that did nothing but help him in every way it and they could despite his dislike of both of them . Emil does see the light at the end the movie , or tunnel , in how he was treated by his Uncle Mike and especially Leona , a Jew who in his mind is the eternal enemy of his beloved Third Reich , as well as his victim of violence Pattie in the kindness and understanding as well as love that they all showed to him . This kindness and understanding is something that he never would have gotten , if he did what he did here back there , in Nazi Germany .
SPOILERS Somewhat Average movie , with an above average performance by Richard Pryor , about a war veteran coming back home to find that his life turned upside down since he went away . Caught by the North Veitnamese with his pants down Cpl . Eddie Keller , Ricard Pryor , ends up in a communist Vietnamese POW camp for five years . With nothing to eat but rice and roaches and having a pet rat as a cell-mate things pick up a bit for Eddie when he had another US POW Vinnie Diangelo , Ray Sharkey , as company but even that turned out to be a tragedy for Eddie with Vinnie dying , and without any medical care , he signed a statement saying that the US was committing war crimes in Vietnam in order to get Vinnie help . All that did for Eddie , Vinnie seemed to have died anyway , was brand him a traitor , Eddie was later cleared of that accusation , and indefinitely holds up his severance pay for spending five years behind bamboo bars for his country . Back home things got even worse for Eddie by him first finding out that his wife Lisa , Lyne Moody , was living with another man , who together with Lisa blew all of Eddie's savings , and has a young six year old daughter who doesn't even know that he's her father and on top of all that his mom Jesse Keller , Olivia Cole , is in a nursing home that she's about to be thrown out of because there's no money to pay her bills . With no money in his wallet and no money coming in from the US Army Eddie in an act of desperation tries to become a stick-up artiest only to fail miserably ; at one point Eddie was so scared trying to rob a bank that he embarrassingly wet himself to the shock and outrage of the bank teller that he tried to rob . Eddie finally hits it big by following two security men Tank and Mickey , Martin Azarow & Matt Clark , who work for the Fidelity Western Bank into an office building with two suitcases loaded with some $250 , 000 . 00 in cash and securities . Catching one of the security men , Tank , in the mens room with his , not Eddie's , pants down and robbing him at " toy gun " point then taking off with the suitcase loaded with the securities , not cash , Eddie now has to find someone to convert them for him and the only one's who can do that are those who work for the mob . Richard Pryor in his second , the 1978 movie " Blue Collar " was his first , non all comedy role is both touching and courageous as Cpl . Eddie Keller who tries to make things better for himself and his mom but ends up being the real , not the made up , hero in the eyes of his friends in and out of the army . Nice supporting roles in the movie by both Margot Kidder and Ronny Cox as high-priced hooker Toni Donovan and Eddie's fellow GI Col . Powers who tries to ease Eddie back into civilian life . Feel-good ending with Eddie chased by the mob who tried to rip off , not convert , his stolen government bonds and then attempted to murder him . Eddie turns the tables on the mobsters and at the conclusion of the movie ends up , like the song says , taking care of business with everyone the bank the army and the nursing home that his mom is in , including himself and Toni , ending up much better off for it .
+ Mild Spoilers + Crime mystery with a very young Ginger Rogers , playing a reporter , Pat Morgan , going after the big story by going undercover as a live-in maid at the penthouse of big time city philanthropist Adam Harker . Pat's on a story to connect Harker to racketeer Joe Martini , Maurice Black , who happens to live in the same building gets more then she bargained for with Harker flying out of his apartment window to his death . Later on the floor under him a Mrs . Coby is found murdered and her husband is later found floating in the river an apparent suicide . Police inspector Russell , Purnell Pratt , finds evidence that Harker was actually in the Coby's apartment when he fell or jumped to his death and deduces that it was Mr . Coby who found Harker and Mrs . Coby together , and in a jealous rage , killed both of them then and later committed suicide . Of course as we know from seeing the obvious in movies like this the truth about Harker and the Coby's death is far more stranger then at first thought . Pretty good movie that has it share of comedy in it to get the audience a bit relaxed until the final few minutes . When it's found out who really is responsible for the murders with Pat almost burned to a cinder by the killer in the buildings basement incinerator . What's a bit odd about the movie is that the killer was really trying to avenge his innocent brothers execution as both Harker and Martini had him set up and railroaded to take the rap for a murder , that they committed a number of years ago . The killer got a little too carried away by killing the Coby's , who had nothing to do with his brothers death , by trying to throw off the police from suspecting him . Worth watching because unlike many movies made back then in the early 1930's it has the feel of a film made much later with the sound and photography and most of all the actors acting more natural . Not acting like their on the stage and having to throw their voices and enunciate every word to make sure that everyone in the theater hears exactly what their saying . Like in most films made in the early years of talkies .
SPOILER ALERT As the seaside town of Antonio Bay revs up to celebrate it's 100 anniversary an eerie and luminous fog , going against the wind , slowly overtakes the local fishing trawler " Sea Grass " and within minutes the entire three man crew is brutally murdered . Inside this fog there's a number of badly decomposed looking zombie-like mariner who are using the deadly mist as camouflage in assisting them in committing their crimes . It's not until later that we and the towns religious leader Father Malone , Hal Holbrook , find out the reason for this Fog / Zombie alliance and it has to do with the very founding of the town of Antonio Bay . After doing a number on the " Sea Grass " and it's crew the Fog creates havoc in Antonio Bay itself causing everything electrical to go haywire . The disruptions also include local radio station KAB who's midnight to dawn music program is hosted by the sexy voiced , as well as looking , Stevie Wayne , Adrienne Barbeau . Father Malone finds at approximately 12 . 04 AM a journal hidden in the wall of his chapel written by his grandfather that puts the fear of God into him . The journal explains , or better yet confesses , the sins that Father Malone's grandfather committed , together with the five other founding fathers of Antonio Bay , that resulted in the deaths of Captain Blake , Rob Bottin , and his crew of five on the trawler " Elizabeth Dane " which happened in the early morning hours of April 21 , 1880 . April 21 is the very day that's now being celebrated by the people of Antionio Bay as the towns founding and 100 year anniversary ! The very effective and startling ghostly photography , with a minimum use of state-of-the-art special effects , more then makes up for the movies very plot-holed ridden screenplay . John Carpenters sharp and tight directions is on par , or in some cases even better , with his previous horror blockbuster " Halloween " that was released two years earlier . The movie also reunites a number of actors who were in John Carpenters " Halloween " that includes the love at first sight couple Jamie Lee Curtis and Tom Atkins as the out of town young hitchhiker Liz Solley and the local Antonio Bay fisherman Nick Castle . There's also Jamie Lee Curtis ' real life mother Jane Leigh in the movie playing Antiono Bay's beleaguered , because of the killer Fog , Mayor Kathy Williams as well as Nancy Loomis who also stared in " Halloween " as Mayor Williams ' press secretary Sandy Fadel . The Fog and it's Zombie-like mariners go on a rampage seeking out the descendants of the original Father Malone and his cohorts who were responsible for their deaths by sending them and their boat " Elizabeth Daen " to the bottom of the sea off Antiono Bay's rocky and dangerous Spivey Point . As you would have expected in a case like this it was old fashion greed that motivated Father Malone Sr and Co . to misdirect , with bonfires as navigation markers , the " Elizabeth Dane " to go off course in the dead of night and sink with it's crew as well as the some 200 pounds of gold that was on it . It was that gold that was to pay for building a leper colony for the afflicted Capt . Blake and his fellow leapers on the strip of land that was eventually to become the seaport town of Antoino Bay . In reality it in turn became Father Malone's and his fellow conspirator's's descendants both premature and permanent graves .
SPOILERS Handsome , and too pretty to be a pug , Robert Taylor as boxer Tommy McCoy is quite convincing in the ring as a professional boxer as he is out of it . Where he has all the young ladies , on the screen and in the audience , going completely bananas over him including pretty Sheila Carson , Maureen O'Sullivan . The daughter of his manager Jim Cain who's really big time Wall Street honcho James W . Carson , Edward Arnold . Matched up in a bout with his good friend and boyhood hero former light Heavyweight Champ Johnny Martin , William Gargan . Tommy tries to go easy on the over-the-hill ex-champ but catches him with a solid left-hook in the second round that not only knocks Johnny out but ends up killing him . With Johnny leaving a wife and young son behind and nobody to look after them Tommy gives her his share of the purse . Instead of paying off his irresponsible dad's Brian McCoy , Frank Morgan , debt that he owes big-time-bookie Jim Cain . Tommy outraged to find out that his father sold out his contract to Cain walks out on him and boxing . Out on the streets for six months without any work Tommy comes back to Cain for a job and agrees , reluctantly , to fight for him , giving 10 % of his purse to the later Johnny Martin's Famiy , at the same time have his dad front as his manager . At the Carson Estate , where Cain told Tommy that he rented out , Tommy , after meeting Carson's daughter Sheila , realized that Carson is really Wall Street Banker James W . Carson . To his credit Tommy doesn't tell Sheila that not to hurt her by exposing her fathers double life . Cain uses Tommy in a scam to trick big-time gamblers like his fellow bookie " Pug " Walsh , Nat Pendleton , to bet against him . Telling them that Tommy a left-handed one punch palooka without a right hand . After a string of " lucky punch " victories by Tommy " Pug " starts to get suspicious about Cain playing him as a sucker . One day , together with members of his gang , Cain runs into Tommy's dad at a local bar . Drunk and talking freely about the scam being pulled by both Tommy and Cain the unaware Mr . McCoy spills the beans and ends up being kidnapped by the Walsh gang . Finding out about Cain's scheme and him having a daughter who's in love with Tommy the mobsters also kidnap Sheila . Tommy's informed through a flower-gram to throw the fight he having that night at the garden if he ever want's to see them alive again . Told to take a dive in the eight round , Pug bet $10 , 000 . 00 for that to happen , means that Tommy has to take a vicious beating for seven rounds . Tommy just about out on his feet by the time the eight round starts finds out from Sheila , who escaped from the Walsh Mob , that his dad in the end made up for all the heartbreak that he did to him and his mom through the years . In one final and unselfish act Mr . McCoy became the father to Tommy that up until then he never was ; you can just guess what happened in that faithful eight round after The battered and almost beaten Tommy McCoy heard that bit of news .
( Major Spoilers ) Chilling haunted house movie that has a secret that dates back to the turn of the century , 1900-1909 , involving a brutal murder of a crippled nine year old boy ! A murder committed by non other the the boy's father . Music professor John Russell , George C . Scott , is trying to get over the terrible tragedy of the deaths of his wife and young daughter Jaonna & Kathy , Jean Marsh & Michelle Martin , in a traffic accident in upstate New york . Taking some time off and then moving to Seattle Washington John rents the Chessman House outside the city from the local Historical Society . Desperately needing peace and quite to both compose his music and forget his past , the deaths of Joanna & Kathy , John ends up getting neither with the house suddenly coming to life in the form of the ghost of a young boy who was murdered there some 70 years ago . At first thinking that it might be the plumbing John soon realizes that what's happening in the Chessman House is not of this , or of the living , world . John getting in touch with Seattle Historical Society curator Claire Norman , Trish Van Devere , the two find this secret room in the attic that housed a young and crippled , with his wheelchair still being there , boy . Checking out the records of the Chessman House it's found out that the house belong to the now powerful Washington State Senator Joseph Carmichael's , Melvyn Douglas , parents ! Something just doesn't check out here with the house through it's strange and unexplained noises as well as a reading from world famous medium Leah Harmon , Helen Burns , that shows whoever is making these sounds has been dead for over 50 years ! If the dead child , or ghost , in question making these strange sounds isn't Senator Carmichael , who's very much alive , then who is he ? Did the senator have a twin brother that nobody knew about ? John who at first would never believe all this ghostly and supernatural hogwash is now convinced that there was something to the story about a murder at the Chessman House and that somehow Senator Joseph Carmichael , who was just an infant when it happened , gained the most out of it . With the information that he got from the medium Leah as well as his recording of it , that picked up sounds that were inaudible to the human ear , John tracks down the remains of the murdered boy to Elizibaeth Gray , Frances Hyman , house . It's the Gray house that was once the property of Senator Carmichael's father and it's there , in a now sealed and buried well , where the young boys body was found ! Also found there is evidence that the murdered boy , also named Joseph Carmichael , not Senator Carmichael was was the elder Carmichael's son ! With this discovery on both John and Calire's part the awful truth about Senator Carmichael starts to come out and the Senator then uses all of his power and influence to keep it from seeing the light of day even if he has to resort to bribery or even murder . The movie " The Changling " takes a while to get off the ground but it has so many loose ends to tie up , before it really gets down to business , that you can't be critical of it for it's almost snail-like pacing . When the film explodes in the last ten minutes you already know what's the secret behind the house and Senator Carmichael's connection to it . John whom the Senator completely misunderstood , in what his actions were , was more the willing to put the whole thing behind him . But it was the ghost of young Joseph that wouldn't let go and it was that ghost that in the end saw to it that pure justice , as brutal and indifferent as it is , without as much as a glint of mercy was finally done and done at the Senator's expense .
SPOILERS Filmed in Moscow USSR , the first US movie even filmed in what's now the former Soviet Union , and Chicago USA " Red Heat " is a lot more then the usual buddy / cops movies of those days . Where there were two cops totally incompatible with each other having , or being forced , to work together . The movie is more like a clash of political philosophies , Capitalism Vrs Communism , then anything else . We get to see Moscow police captain Ivan Danko , Governor Arnold Schwarzennegger , flex his bulging muscles when he goes into a bath-house looking for a gang of Georgain drug dealers . In no time at all Danko turns he entire place into a wild and crazy free for all taking out a number of muscle men , in and out of he bath-house . Danko gets the information that he was looking for on where the gang leader Victor Rosta , Ed O'Ross , is to be found ; in the Durzhba Café in the little Georgia section of Moscow . Later Danko and his partner Yuri Ogarkov , Oleg Vidov , confronts the Georgian drug dealers and their boss Rosta where there a a wild shootout where Yuri is killed and Rosta and a number of is gang escapes . It's later when the Moscow PD gets the news that Rosta was arrested , for a minor traffic violation , in of all places Chicago that Danko is sent to the United States to expedite him back to the Soviet Union . Danko is told by his superiors not to mentions a word to the US and Chicago law enforcement officials to what Rosta is wanted for . The Soviet leaders don't want it to get out that they , like the US , have a serious and home grown drug problem . Danko looking stiff an a bit uncomfortable at the Chicago O'Hare Airport is assigned Chicago Det . Art Ridzik , James Belushi , to show him around the city until he finally gets all the papers in order to take Rosta back to the USSR . Everything goes according to plan until Rosta is rescued , with Danko almost losing his life in the shooting , by this notorious black Chicago drug gang called the Shaveheads whom Rosta was working with . The movie then really starts to pick up with Danko now not only in trouble with the Chicago PD , for his very un-Maranda-like police tactics , but also with his Soviet police superiors for letting Rosta get away . Top rate police action thriller with Danko and Ridzik turning the city of Chicago upside down in trying to find the fugitive Rosta who's involved in a major drug deal , with the Shaveheads , that's about to go down at a city bus depot . Danko shows that he's as mentally smart as he's physically powerful by him figuring out what Rosta & Co are up to by renting Rosta's former hotel room # 302 , knowing that he left evidence of his drug dealings there . Danko wisely putting down on the hotel register a wrong number # 303 to trick Rosa and his boys who later blast into room # 303 thinking that Danko was there and ending up getting wasted by him in the resulting shootout . Rosta turns out to be as ruthless and deceptive as he ever was back in the Soviet Union . Double-crossing his allies the Shaveheads by taking the money he was to give them for the drugs that they were to supply him with . Rosta even having his American wife , that he paid $10 , 000 . 00 to marry him so he can be a US citizen , part-time aerobics instructor and full-time hooker Cat Manzetti , Gina Gershon , murdered together with one of his Georgian Confederates after he felt that they were no longer of any use to him . Danko now completely out of control with Det . Ridzik now fully supporting him , Ridzik by now saw that Danko's way of doing things was far better then that of the Chicago PD , has it out with Rosta in a mad and dangerous bus chase and demolition derby game . This wild and insane action almost causes as much damage to the city of Chicago as the great fire of 1871 did with Rosta finally being put down and out in a " High Noon " western style shootout . Just as good , if not better , as most of Arnold's more popular films it's in " Red Heat " that he finally puts it all together not just in the actions sequences but in his comical interacting with his American police partner James Belushi playing Det . Ridzik . With all the shooting and destruction over and Danko about to fly back home to Moscow he , it's traditional among departing friends he tells him , hand over his very expensive-looking watch to Ridzik who gladly give him his thinking that he got the best of the bargain . It turns out that Danko had a cheap $20 . 00 East-German made watch when Ridzik in exchange gave him and expensive $1 , 000 . 00 US / Swiss made one ! The anti-capitalistic Soviet Ivan Danko learned how to be a capitalist a lot faster and better then the pro-capitalistic American Art Ridzik did .
SPOILERS WWII war movie about the fabled " Flying Tigers " who battled the Japanese over the skies of China as early as 1937 , four years before the attack on Pearl Harbor , and amassed a record of air-to-air combat kills against the Japanese air force of something like 40 to 1 . The story " God is my Co-Pilot " actually begins in the summer of 1942 with USAF ace Col . Scott , Dennis Morgan , depressed and heart-broken because he can't be part of a major air assault against Japanese forces in China . The movie goes into a flashback where we see how Scott got interested in flying as a young boy back in Georgia and eventually joined the USAF ending up in China as the first US military man to become a member of the " Flying Tigers " ; The Tigers were exclusively made up of foreign , mostly Americans , volunteers . As you would expect the " Flying Tigers " airmen aren't that hip to a USAF man who's well over combat age , Scott is 34 , joining up with their exclusive flying fighters squadrons . In no time at all Scott gets the hang of it and he becomes the hero , and to the battered and bloodied Japs , villain in the Chinese Theater of War . Back home in Macon Georga Scott's exploits make the front pages and his score of air-to air kills against the Japs are posted daily as if it was the score of a Championship Football or World Series Baseball game . The movie " God is my Co-Pilot " also has a Japanese villain in the person of Japanese air ace Tokyo Joe , Richard Loo , an American educated Japanese combat pilot who , by the number of USAF kill decals under the side-window of his Zero , seemed to have accounted for all the " Flying Tiger " P-40's shot down in China . Scott has a number of encounters with Tokyo Joe during the air combat in the movie and finally shoots him out of the sky by faking that he's in trouble , his engine is on fire , tricking Joe to lose his composure and overshoot his P-40 . Scott ends up putting Joe right in the middle of his cross-hairs and thus became history and yesterdays news . Scott on a mission over Japanese held Hong Kong , where he downed Tokyo Joe , loses control of his plane and crashes and is given up for dead only to show up later alive and rescued by the local Chinese peasants . Dennis Morgan is both brave and humble as Col . Robert Lee Scott and even at the hight of the fighting has second thoughts about killing people , Japanese soldiers , even in wartime . Raymond Massey is excellent as the " Flying Tiger " commanded Gen Claire L . Chennault who answers Scott prayers at the end of the movie by giving him one last chance to go into combat . this after he was rendered useless as a combat pilot because of his nerves being shattered , from the combat missions he already flew , and the tropical illnesses he contracted in China . We never really get to know how Scott's last mission turned out since the movie ends before it even begins . Watching the movie it's obvious that it was non-other then Richard Loo as the wise-cracking Japanese air ace Tokyo Joe who has the best lines , which he delivers in perfect English , and the scenes with him interacting with the USAF and " Flying Tiger " pilots , like Col . Scott , are by far the best in the movie .
( There are Spoilers ) The movie " Washington Story " is about a straight as an arrow US Congressman Joseph T . Gresham , Van Johnson , who's career as a United States lawmaker is seriously jeopardized when he's accused of having been paid off by a big time ship builder and D . C lobbyist Philip Emery , Sidney Blackman , to vote for this bill that he's been pushing . At first Congressman Gresham is against the bill despite his voting base depending on it since it would have a major effect on the economy of his congressional district , ship building . This " Ship Dispersel Bill " would have all the ship building in Congressman Gresham district directed inland and thus take away thousands of jobs that are dependent on that industry . Gresham at the time is being followed around by news reporter Alice Kingley , Patricia Neal , who's doing a story on him for her newspaper . The truth is that Alice is really working for top D . C columnist and political muckraker Gilbert Nunnally , Philip Ober , who want's her to do a hit piece on the congressman and destroy his career for what he's got going against him ; a lawsuit for defamation of character on the part of Nunnally . We , as well as Alice , later learn that Congressman Gresham's change of heart in his vote for the bill had nothing to do with him getting paid off by Emery , like Nunnally wanted the public to believe . It's his concern for the national security of the United States even if that vote cost him his seat in the US Congress . There's also an important side story that really shows what a great person , as well as American , Congressman Gresham is with his selfless action to get Peter Kralik , Reinhold Schunzel , a man who lived in the USA for 28 years and is in danger of being deported his American citizenship . In the end Alice sees what a heel her boss Nunnally really is and quits working for him as a leg-women in getting the so-called dirt on Gresham and falls in love with the congressman where they then live happily ever after in D . C and his home back in Newchtester Ma . I was fascinated by the comparison between the person that Van Johnson played in the film Congressman Joeseph T . Gresham and the late and tragic President of the United States John F . Kennedy . Even though at the time that the movie " Washington Story " was made , in 1952 , JFK was a relatively unknown congressman from the state of Massachusetts . Both Congressman Greshman in the movie and Congressman Kennedy in real life were both democrats representing a congressional district in Massachustts and were elected right after WWII , 1946 , and served in the US Navy and decorated for bravery in that conflict . Even more fantastic is that Congressman Greshman met fell in love with and , obviously after the movie was over , married a woman who worked for a newspaper news reporter Alice Kingsley . At the time that the film " Washington Story " was being filmed John F . Kennedy met and later married Miss . Jacqueline Bouvier , the future Mrs . Jackie Kenndey , who also worked for a newspaper at the time as a news photographer , speaking of art imitating life !
( There are Spoilers ) Having had enough of being blackmailed and controlled by the mob Sgt . Tom Duncon puts all that he knows on paper about the top Mafioso's Mike Lagana's illegal operations , and who of the city's top political and law enforcement officials are in his hip pocket , and then takes a gun and blows his brains out . Mike Lagana gets the call late at night from Duncon's now widow Bertha about her husbands sudden and unexpected death and then starts to cover all the bases with the help of his top henchman Vince Stone . Making sure that what Bertha found out from her deceased husband is kept under raps Lagana goes so far even to pay her a million dollars to keep Bertha's mouth shut . Beartha has cleverly put Tom's suicide letter , that exposed the extent of Lagana's control with a list of payoffs to city officials , in a safe-deposit box only to be opened and read in the event of her death , violent or otherwise , so it was to Langna's best interests to have her kept alive . Det . Sgt . Bannion who had filed away Duncon's death as a suicide is later contacted by this B-girl Lucy Chapman who tells him that there's a lot more to Duncon's death then what his old lady , Beartha , told him . Sgt . Bannion is told by Lucy that Bertha's husband was suffering from an incurable disease and that's the reason he offed himself . Duncon , Lucy tells Bannion , was actually living high off the hog , on the salary of a policemen , and was just about to leave Bertha for her when he was found dead from a gunshot wound . Lucy herself is later found brutally murdered and it's after that incident that Sgt . Bannion goes all out to not only find her killer but almost without any thought to himself , as well as his wife Katie and eight year old daughter Joyce safety . Bannion crashes into Big Mob Boss Lagana's mansion and brazenly intimidated both him and his family and then lays out cold Lagana's bodyguard George . All that George tried to do was peacefully escort , the now what seemed like a totally crazed , Sgt . Bannion off the premises ! Action like this on Sgt . Bannion's part called for retribution and it came swift and deadly with his wife Katie getting blown to bits when she started up the family car . That lead to Bannion himself getting kicked off the force by being a complete lunatic in verbally assaulting his boss who was nothing but totally understanding to the grief that he was suffering , in Katie's tragic death . Bannion , now a private citizen , goes on a personal and vigilante-like crusade with no one , in either the police or mayors office , lifting as much as a finger to stop him in cleaning up the town of not only Lagana's mob but the police and politicians that it controlled . Tracking down his wife's killer ( Larry Gordon ) Bannion with the help of the secretary Miss . Parker , of the owner of Slims Junk Yard , finds where Larry had Bannion's car rigged with explosives that killed Katie . Gordon gets the hell beat out of him by Bannion who has him spill , besides a pint of blood , everything that he knows about the Lagana Mob with Bannion then letting the world out to Lanana and his boys that he talked . You can only guess what happened to Larry after that . Bannion later gets involved with Debby the air-headed girlfriend of Lagana's right-hand man the vicious and sadistic Vince Stone who , like he did with Lucy , Bannion leaves out in the cold by having her spend some time at his hotel room with a jealous Vince Stone . Stone later rearranging Debby's pretty face with a glass pot of scalding hot coffee . Bannion had by now figured out that the only reason that Bertha Duncon was still alive was because of the suicide letter , that's kept in a safety-deposit box , and goes to her place with the intent of killing her so that the letter , and it's contents , would be made public . The letter would sink not only Lagana but all the crooked city officials , including Police Commissioner Higgens , along with him . Stopping just short of ringing her neck Bannion is interrupted when the cops suddenly come to Bartha's rescue . Debby who now has her face in bandages is determined to make Vince pay for what he did to her is then told by Bannion how with Bertha's death it would be curtains for Mafia Boss Langana and even more satisfying , to Debby , his top stooge Vince Stone . Debby going to Bertha's place an hour after Bannion left and after a little chit-chat with Bartha , just blows her away and with that the only thing that's keeping both her former boyfriend Vince and his boss Langa from serving a long long stretch behind bars . Debby later goes to Vince's penthouse and surprises him with a face-full of hot coffee doing to him just what Vince did to her . Mad as a hornet the crazy and deranged psycho guns Debby down only to have Bannion barge in and work him over and leave Vince to face the bar of justice instead of , like Vince begged him to , finishing him off with a bullet between the eyes . Having single-handled cleaned out the city of the mob and the corrupt officials that it had control of Bannion is back at the homicide bureau taking calls and giving orders with a precinct-load of smiling and admiring policemen including the captain looking on . You would think that Bannion would at least get a promotion for the great job that he did but as the the film ends we see on the letter-head on his desk that Sgt . Bannion , despite everything that he did , is still a sergeant !
SPOILERS Having found out in the local newspapers that Frank Enley , Van Haflin , is going to speak at the Memorial Day ceremony at Santa Lisa Calif . disable war vet Joe Parkson , Robert Ryan , takes off on a Grayhound bus from NYC to see him . Joe and his fellow airman Frank had been in a German POW camp in the last months of WWII and you at first would have thought that he went to see him to talk over old times in the USAAF but that was the farthest thing from Joe's mind . Joe wanted to kill Frank for informing on his fellow POW's that resulted in ten of them being gunned down in an escape attempt by the Germans camp guards with Joe ending up a cripple . Unstable war vet Joe Parkson feels that he has nothing to lose , since he felt that he lost everything in the war , as he goes on a mission of death to avenge the deaths of his fellow captured US airmen . Joe cases out the Enley home even knocking on the front door and finding that the object of his revenge , Frank , has gone away for the weekend fishing at Redwood Lake from his unsuspecting wife Edith , Janet Leigh . Renting a car and going to Redwood Lake to confront and murder Frank Joe leaves enough of a paper trail , by giving his whereabouts away , to have Frank realize that he's in Santa Lisa and out to kill him . Edith who at first is shocked at what her husband told her about his actions in the prison camp but realizes that Frank's actions , as despicable as they seemed to be , were done to prevent the airmen from ending up getting mowed down by the Germans since the escape attempt was nothing more then a suicide mission . Frank , being the senior officer and in charge of the POW's , went to the German commandant and told him what was about to transpire who promised that they , the Germens , won't shoot the escapees but capture and return them back to the prison camp , the exact opposite happened . The escaped prisoners were gunned down by the Germans who then had a number of German guard dog set on them finishing off those who survived with only the badly injured Joe Packston escaping . You would think at first that all Frank had to do was call the police who would have easily arrested Joe who wasn't doing anything to hide his intentions of murdering Frank . You soon realized that Frank held himself as guilty as Joe did by his not only turning his fellow US airmen in but also , and this really hit home with Frank , receiving and accepting food from his German captures for doing it . Afride for his wife Edith and young son Frank checks out of Santa Lisa to L . A at a contractor convention to draw Joe away from his family but the guilt that had been building up inside of him , about his actions in the prison camp , was slowly getting the best of Frank . Spotting Joe looking for him at the convention hall Frank cold-cocks him and takes off into the night ending up in a ginmill where he's approached by local barfly Pat , Mary Astor , who senses that he needs help , of the underhanded kind . Getting in touch with a couple of local shady characters that Pat knows she get the confused and befuddled Frank to agree to have Joe whacked for $20 , 000 . 00 . Told that hit-man Johnny , Barry Kroeger , has set up Joe for the kill and is going to Santa Lisa to do a job on him has Frank make a complete turnaround . Frank's now determined not to stop Joe from murdering him but Barry from murdering Joe and having that on his conscience together with the ten men who were killed by the Germans at the prison camp . Meanwhile Joe's girlfriend from back east Ann , Phyllis Thaxter , had arrived to also stop her boyfriend from killing Frank and ending up either behind bars , or in a mental institution , for the rest of his life and gets in touch with Edith to get her to have her husband Frank slip out of town to prevent Joe from killing him . Frank by now had already made up his mind and is no longer afraid of being killed , feels that his actions in the German POW camp justified Joe's feelings for him . What he now want's is for Joe not to be killed by Barry and goes out to the Santa Lisa train station where Barry had set Joe up for the hit and prevent it from happening even if by doing that it would cost him his life . Even though a bit contrived with a very predictable ending that you saw coming from ten miles away the movie still held your interests due to the fine acting of both Van Hefin and Robert Ryan who made you overlook most , if not all , of the movies faults . With the two top stars , as well as the supporting cast , overcoming the very uneven storyline and script that they had to work with .
SPOILERS Creepy and atmospheric little horror flick , based on the writings of Edger Alan Poe , about a mysterious black cat who at first is being controlled by this whacked out professor as well as self-style medium Robert Miles to do his dirty work . Later , after Miles kills it the feline comes back from the dead to exact vengeance on him by having Miles brought to justice from what he did . As the movie starts , with the credits are rolling down the screen , we see this black cat distract a man , Foreman , behind the wheel of his car as he loses control and crashes killing himself . Miles who's the cat's master is later seen in his home playing tapes of sounds that he recorded in the local cemetery trying to contact Neil , for all we know Neil is his dead son , and we hear a number of strange and eerie sounds on the tape that sound like their from a language other then English , they sound like Greek to me . Young America photographer Jill Trevers , photographing the ancient Roman and British ruins , in and around town is at the cemetery and sees one of the crypts broken into and inside finds a recording device . That evening at the local bar in town Jill hears form a number of patrons about this nut and weirdo Prof . Miles who's known to try to communicate with the dead and hangs around at the cemetery trying to get in touch with them . Going to see Miles by using the excuse of giving him back his lost recording device Jill notices his " pet " back cat who's anything but cuddly to him but who violently attacks Miles in Jill's presence scratching him in his hand . Jill later starts to suspect that it was Miles black cat who was responsible for the death of one of the towns well known heavy drinkers , Furgerson while photographing his body for the police department after he's found dead , from a fall off a gangplank and on to a spiked fence . Jill noticed that Furgersn's hand was terribly scratched just like Miles was by his cat . We earlier saw a young couple , Stan & Maureen , lock themselves into a storehouse by the docks . As their making out the lights go out and they finds themselves locked in with the key to the door strangely missing . At first you have no idea to just what the couple have to do with the movie but later it turns out that Maureen's mother Mrs . Grayson once had an affair with Miles and broke it off , was this was Miles ' way of getting even with her ! How did Miles do it ? Did Miles have his black cat sneak into the storehouse grab to key , thus locking them in , and then turn off the air-conditioner ; causing the two lovebirds to suffocate to death ? Miles eventually get's even with Mrs . Grayson , for turning down his advances , by having his cat cause her apartment house to be set on fire by knocking over a lit kerosene lamp into the fire place and then having her , totally engulfed in flames , jump to her death from the third floor window . Miles now confidently feeling that he achieved all his goals in getting even with those in town who rubbed him the wrong way gives the back cat a meal spiked with a strong sedative knocking it out . Taking the unconscious cat , stuffed in a sack , outside in the woods Miloes brutally hangs it . Miles should have known that the black cat had nine , not one , lives and that it would soon come back to get even with him for what he did to it with a wild and ferocious fury that even he , it's former master , couldn't even in his wildest dreams imagine or comprehend . Hard to find but very effective killer cat movie with Patrick McGee in his last movie role playing the crazed Professor Robert Miles who together with Mimsy Farmer , as the American photographer Jill Trevers , have some of the most extreme and mind-boggling close ups ever put on film . The black cat itself is also very scary as it moves towards and stalks it's victims and you forget for a while that it's really a common house cat . You look at the killer feline as if it were an instrument of death and terror conjure up by the Devil himself straight out of hell . The movie " Black Cat " has a very hypnotic feel to it , maybe because of it's many unusual and almost microscopic closeups , and the ending is anything but a letdown , like you would expect from a movie like it . Miles gets just what he had coming to him with the cat , as well as the local police , having him face ultimate justice for the crimes that he committed .
( There are Spoilers ) Even though the movie " Thoroghbreds Don't Cry " is the first of many films pairing Mickey Rooney and Judy Garland as the most popular and admired teenagers on the silver screen in the late 1930's and 40's . The film instead comes across as being an early buddy-buddy like film about two at first combative then best of friends teenage boys horse-racing jockey Timmie Donovan , Mickey Rooney , and British blue-blood and all around nice kid Roger Calverton , Ronald Sinclair . Judy Garland is more or less overlooked by the two boys and almost everyone else in the cast in the small role as the sweet singing and piano playing Cricket West . The movie itself is a somewhat run of the mill story about a brash young man jockey Timmie Donovan who after he gets into a fight with the very proper and refined Roger Calverton , over his table manors , soon get's to become Rogers best friend . Timmie agrees to ride Roger's prized racehorse The Pookah in the biggest and richest race in California the California Cup . With young Roger's grandfather Sir . Peter Calverton , C . Aubrey Smith , and co-owner of The Pookah going along it's decided by Timmie that the horse needs a tune-up race before the Cup . It's than decided to run him in Ridgemore Handicap which The Pookah is expected to be an odds-on favorite . With both Timmie and The Pookah razor sharp for the Ridgemore the young jockey is summoned to his fathers Click , Charles D . Brown , bedside where he's told by the old man that he's dying from a very serious heart condition . Click gives the concerned Timmie this whole line of horse-sht about needing something like $5 , 000 . 00 so that he can have an iron-lung that would save his life . Click as well as his doctor " Doc " Godfrey , Henry Koker , tell Timmie that the only way he can get that kind of money is if he'll throw the race that he's to ride The Pookah in . Timmie who's as honest as the day , that's June 22 the beginning of summer , is long at first refuses to give into his dad's desperate plea but being the tender on the inside and tough on the outside guy that he is finally agrees to throw the race just to save his poor and sick father's life . It turns out that there's nothing at all wrong with the old man but that he and his gang of crooked gamblers , including " Doc " , are planning to bet heavily against The Pookah and make a killing at the expense of Timmie's career as a professional horse-racing jockey . Not letting The Pookah , who has a terrific closing kick , run in the Ridgemore Timmie loses the race and just after the horse crosses the finish-line finishing out of the money Old Man Calverton , shocked by the Pookah's loss , collapses in his private box of a heart-attack . At the hospital Timmie is told by the head nurse that the old guy didn't make it . Timmie get's so depressed over what he did that he becomes a homeless hobo sleeping on a bench in the park and asking for handouts so he can get himself a bite to eat . The ending is a bit unpredictable since you would think that Timmie in an effort to vindicate himself would ride The Pookah to victory in the California Cup . Instead Timmie is drummed out of his profession as a jockey by admitting to the race track official's , after his lousy and two-timing dad tipped them off , that he threw the previous race that he rode The Pookah in . Timmie in a round about way still does the right thing by getting , or stealing , the $1 , 000 . 00 entrance fee from his cheating dad to have The Pookah run in the big race . Since his friend Roger was not only broke but about to sell the horse to non-other then " Doc " who together with Timmie's sleazy father were planning to run the horse into the ground . Making as much money that they can off him until they finally , when The Pookah is an old and broken down nag , sell him to the glue factory . With him being suspended and not able to ride The Pookah Timmie has Roger take the mount and with him giving his friend instructions on what to do in the race , while hiding in a tree overlooking the race-track , Rogers and The Pookah end up winning it in a heart stopping stretch run ending to the movie . 15 year-old Judy Garland who even though had a secondary role in the movie did receive top billing together with stars Mickey Rooney and Ronald Siclair and also sang the movie's title song " Gotta A Pair of New Shoes " .
SPOILERS there's sleazy goings on in the the NYPD in " Report to the Commissioner " with policewoman Patty Butler , Susan Blakley , ending up dead with a bullet in her chest during a wild and deadly shoot-out in her boyfriends drug dealer Thomas " Stick " Henderson , Tony King , loft apartment . It turns out that Officer Butler's killer in non other the NYPD Det . Beaueguard , known as just plain Bo to his friends , Lockery , Michael Moriarty . Unknown to him Butler was given the task to track her , known to Bo only as Chicklet , down to protect her undercover status by being told that she's a teenage runaway from the suburbs . Bo a complete dud as a cop is only on the force because of the early 1970's NYC police youth recruitment drive to get the young people of the city to have something in common with the men in blue as well as Bo's dad being a former and very highly decorated New York City policeman . We soon get to see in a number of flashbacks about this whole crazy and murderous mess . The events that lead up to the shooting of policewoman Bulter started with Officer Butler herself volunteering to become Stick's women , or live in wife . This in order to get the goods on him as the city's top drug pusher and with that putting him away , and off the streets , for a long long time . It has to be said that at first Butler's boss Let . Hanson , Michael McGuire , wasn't all that crazy for one of his cops , and a woman at that , being shacked up with the dangerous " Stick " Henderson . Still with Offcer Butlers constant insistence , and her record of 283 felony arrests the year before , how could he refuse ! To give Officer Butler some kind of cover the NYPD has the totally incompetent Det . Lockery put on her tail without even giving him a photo of Butler or even her name . Det . Lockery miraculously finds her with the help of the legless , and mentally unstable , street panhandler Joey , Bob Balaban , and pimp Billy , Richard Gere ! This to the shock and disgust of Det . Lockery's boss back at the police precinct Let . Sedensticker , Vic Taybeck . Lockery tracking Butler in effect blows the whole Henderson / Stick sting operation as well as ends up blowing a hole in Officer Butler's chest killing her . Det . Lockery himself is a piece of work being totally unqualified to be a cop , much less detective . Det . Lockery is also a pain in the a to his partner the tough and street smart Det . Richard " Crunch " Blackstone , Yaphet Kotto . Det . Blackstone gets so unnerved and discombobulated , especially with Bo's annoyingly syrupy and insipid sing-song voice , with putting up with his schmuck of a partner that by the end of the movie he almost ends up drinking himself into a drunken stupor . Finding out just who this Chicklet , really Offcer Butler , is Det . Lockery , like Travis Bickel a year later in the movie " Taxi Driver " , becomes absolutely infatuated with her in trying to get Chicklet away from what he thinks is her pimp , really drug dealer . In Lockery trying to set up and bust Stick he sneaks into her and Stick's loft . With Det . Lockery seeing Chicklet , who's white , romping around nude with Stick , who's black , in his boxer shorts was just about all the abuse that he could take which soon leads to the bloody shoot-out that cost Chicklet's life . After a chase through the crowded streets of mid-town Manhattan and shootout in the elevator of Saks 5th avenue department store Stick , who was trapped in the elevator with Bo , ends up getting blown away by the NYPD . The police department , in covering it's behind , tries to pin all the blame on the clueless Det . Lockery in Officer Butlers death but has so effectively incriminated itself in being behind Officer Butlers ridicules plan that the NYPD later decided to drop the whole thing . The NYPD gives Det . Lockery another chance as a New York City policeman only to have the now emotionally crippled cop , who didn't know that he was about to be freed , put an end to it all by hanging himself in his prison cell . A sad commentary on how people totally unqualified end up wearing badges and carrying guns because of misguided policies by police departments all over the country . In them trying to be either politically correct or bending the rules and pulling strings in order to get relatives , in this case a son , into the department . All this because someone in their family was once , or still is , a police officer . Bo Lockely was about as qualified to be a cop , much less detective , as 98 pound weakling Woody Allan was qualified , back then in 1975 , to fight Mohammad Ali or George Foster for the Heavyweight Championship of the world . In Lockerys case the unconceivable , him being a policeman , became a sad reality and that reality not only lead to Officer Butlers death but his own as well .
( Slight Spoilers ) Leaving his wife and two young daughters attorney David Trask , Gary Merrill , takes a plane to L . A to run away from his family but on the flight meets three passengers who are going back to theirs . Getting to know salesman Eddie Hoke , Keenan Wynn , David is a bit taken by his overly friendly attitude and in your face antics . David as well as the two other passengers that he get's to know on the flight night-club singer Binky Carr , Shelly Winters , and physician Robert Fortness , Michael Rennie , all form a kind of support group for each other that in the end will turn David's life around . After his wife Jane , Helen Westott , admitted having an affair with another man David just couldn't live with her anymore and made the decision to leave her and start a new life on the west coast . With the plane taking off from Vaga Utah after a long delay it ended up crashing in the desert with only three of the 21 passengers surviving one of them being David Trask . Feeling guilty because he lived while other's , in David's opinion , who had much more to live for perished David took it upon himself to contact the families of the three persons who were killed , that he met on the plane , and help them in their grief . As fate would have it it was David more then the families of the crash victims that would be helped by his heart-felt feelings of sympathy for them . David get's to know the demons that were plaguing Dr . Fortness for some five years . The fact that he and his wife Claire , Betrice Straight , had kept the truth from their teen-age son Jerry , Ted Donaldson , that had led him to almost destroy his life . David also got to know the suffering that show girl Binky Carr was going through with her mother-in-law , Sallie Carr , Evelyn Varden , and how she was out to destroy Binky's marriage with her husband singer Mike Carr , Craig Stevens . Despite the very intense and nerve-wrecking problems that both Dr . Fortness and Binky Carr were going through they both were ready to get back and confront and overcome them unlike David who's running away from his . David in his own way got to get both Mrs . Fortness and her son Jerry , who was running away from home , together when he told Jerry the truth about his dad . Which his mom didn't have the heart to do . How his dad was now willing to face the music for the damage that he did but it was his tragic death that has kept that from happening . Jerry realizing the truth that was kept from him all these years now also realized that his mother was really looking after his well being , not ignoring him , and sob-fully came back home this time to stay . It was the same thing that happened when David came to see Binky's mother-in-law Sallie and her son , Binky's husband , Mike who at the time didn't know that Binky was killed in a plane crash . Unknown to Mrs . Carr Binky was very instrumental in getting Sallie a once in a lifetime role in a major Broadway play that jump started her almost non-existence show biz career . All this time Sallie thought that Binky was only after her and her son's money . The fact that she wasn't and only wanted Sallie to love her like she was her own daughter devastated both her and Mike who later found out not only what happened to Binky but what a heel he was in trying to sere divorce papers on her . It was really David's talk with Eddie Hoke's widow Marie , Bette Davis , that shown him the light and what a great hurt he was doing to both his wife Jane and his two young daughters by leaving them . Marie was a beautiful woman who was also cheating behind Eddie's back with Marty , Warren Stevens . When Marty left her after she suffered a sever diving accident , that left Marie paralyzed from the waist down , Eddie never once thought of what Marie did to but came right back to her helping Marie overcome both the psychical and mental trauma that she was going through . That last visit with Marie showed David that he was acting against his own , as well as his families , best interests . It was his being influenced by the talkative and somewhat goofy Eddie Hoke on that fateful plane ride that turned his life completely around and for the better . David gets on the phone and frantically calling a very concerned and worried Jane to tell her almost in tears that he's coming back to stay . You can see the look on Marie's face , as the movie comes to an end , knowing that her late and wonderful husband Eddie had not only saved her from a life of hurt and depression but David's as well . Eddie's jolly honest and good natured conversation together with what she told David about him saved David and his family from the same sorry fate that Marie was once facing , That made David see that there's no absolutes in life since life like the lives of him and the people that he both met and got to know on the plane is anything but perfect .
( Some Spoilers ) The movie " Frantic " slowly gets you to like it . It takes it's audience from a simple case of suitcases being innocently switched at the airport to an nail-biting off camera kidnapping . Then to a tour through the Paris underworld and nightlife to finally a confrontation with this mysterious Mid-East terrorist organization . The terror group is dealing with the smuggling of top-secret US government nuclear trigger mechanisms that , if in the wrong hands , can vaporise entire cities . American Doctor Richard Walker , Harrison Ford , and his wife Sondra , Betty Buckley , arrive from San Francisco at the Grand Hotel in Paris for a doctors convention where Dr . Walker is to be the featured speaker . Finding that his luggage had been switched at the airport Walker calls TWA Airline giving them all the information including the switched luggage ticket number . With her husband taking a shower Sondra is seen answering the door and then disappears out of sight and out of the movie . It takes a while for Walker , who thought that his wife went out shopping , to realize that something is terribly wrong when Sandra doesn't show up and goes to the hotel lobby to find out what happened to her . Walker is later told by the desk clerk that Sandra left the hotel together with a Arabic-looking man . Walker frantic that his wife was kidnapped goes to the local police only to be told that she may be cheating on him , it's something that seems to be very common among married couples in the city . Even the US embassy doesn't seem at all too concerned or caring about his wife's disappearance . That has a desperate and determined Walker go out on his own to track down where she is , alive or dead , and who's responsible for her disappearance . Opening up the switched luggage Walker finds a pack of matches from the Blue Parrot nightclub and the name and telephone number of a person named Dede on it . Walker also inadvertently finds the hidden nuclear trigger that he at first thinks is a SPOILER toy model of the Statue of Liberty . Finding out at the Blue Parrort that Dede is a drug dealer Walker goes to his apartment in the seedy side of the city only to find Dede , Doll Boyer , brutally murdered . Waiting in the hallway Walker sees this young woman Michelle , Emmanuell Seigner , enter Dede's pad and grabs her trying to find out what Dede and herself had to do with his wife's Sandra's disappearance . To Walker's surprise he finds that Michelle , after a bit of convincing on his part , was the person who's luggage she mistakenly has and that she's also some kind of illegal courier for a local Paris drug gang . You and both Walker and Michelle at first think that there's illegal drugs involved with , or in , the luggage that Walker mistakenly received at the Paris Airport . As the real truth slowly and shockingly comes out with the Arab terrorists gang Israeli Mossad and now even the US embassy getting into the mix it becomes more and more evident that there's something far more serious and explosive in that misplaced suitcase . there's also the fact that if the suitcase is ever gotten into the wrong hands it can lead to a nuclear holocaust . It takes a while for " Frantic " to unravel it's storyline , like most good thrillers do , but it's actor Harrison Ford who makes it come alive with his frantic and almost hysterical search for his missing and kidnapped wife Sondra . As he goes together with , an at first very reluctant , Michelle through the length and breath of the city to finally get his wife's kidnappers to release her . This only after a deadly shootout between the kidnappers and the perusing Mossad agents . Which lead to the precious and deadly triggering device to plant itself at the bottom of Paris ' Seine River , where it could do no harm to anyone , courtesy of Dr . Richard Walker .
( There are Spoilers ) Cold war alien from space sci-fi thriller that has five people from different parts of the earth entrusted with the power of destroying the entire human race . Being abducted by an alien space ship the five earthlings L . A reported Jonathen Clark , Gene Barry , young British woman Eva Wingate , Valerie French , German scientist Prof . Klaus Bechner , George Voscovec , Chinese peasant Su Tan , Marie Tsien , and Red Army private Ivan Godofsky , Azemat Janti . These five are given these strange glass encased capsules by the Alien spaceman , Arnold Moss , that only they can open and activate . Told by the Alien that they have just 27 days to either destroy themselves , by opening up and arming the capsules , or if they don't it would mean curtains for the aliens in their plan to make the earth their new home away from home which is to be destroyed by their sun , turning into a super-nova , in 35 days . The aliens who are dead set against violence of any kind don't have it in them to kill anyone much less wipe out the entire human race . In order to have the earth all to themselves the aliens know that the humans , from studying them over the centuries , are more then willing to do themselves in . With just a little push on their part , the aliens , in giving the human race the ultimate weapon of mass destruction , it will only kill human beings and leave everything else on earth alone and they'll be more then happy , by their not using the wisdom and common sense that nature or the lord gave them , to mindlessly self-destruct . The Alien for some strange reason broadcast , on live TV , the reason for his coming to earth and even more puzzling the true reason for the destructive capsules that he gave the five humans . The Alien also gives out their names and addresses and making it almost curtain that they'll be marked men , and women , by everyone from neighborhood kooks to secretive and shadowy spy agencies as well as ego-maniacal power hungry world leaders . As you would expect all the people who received the capsules become targets of the very country's that they live in but are saved from either being killed or suffer severe mental or psychical damage since they , those who received the capsules , are the only ones who can open , with their individual minds , and use them . With the 27th day soon upon them the two earth super powers , the USA & USSR , feeling that each of them are now in possession of this super-neutron bomb . With reporter Clark of the USA and Private Godofsky of the USSR , in possession of the capsuls it's now only a matter of time before the human race , with the help of the space aliens , blows or neutrons itself out of existence until the very wise and observant German scientist Prof . Bechner , one of the five earthlings who received them , notices something cryptically etched onto the capsules that the aliens who put it there hoped would be deciphered . The 1957 movie " The 27th Day " is in many ways ahead of it's time in not being so over-the-top in trying to paint the former Soviet Union , the Evil Empire dubbed by the future President Ronald Wislon Reagan , as pure evil . Both Willing and able to go so far as killing every man woman and child on earth , including those within it's own borders , in it's mindless and mad rush to achieve world domination . We only have the power mad Soviet general Stefan Schnabl and his hand picked stooges trying to have the deadly capsules used to wipe out the entire Western Hemispher . It's the brave and good Red Army private Godofsky , also one of them , who turns out to be the real hero in the film by freely giving up his life by jumping to his death to prevent that from happening . You get the strong feeling in watching " The 27th Day " that it's message is that it's only the power mad leaders on both sides of the Iron Curtain , not the majority of people of their respected country's , who are the one's more then willing to bring about Armageddon upon the world . These insane actions are order to fulfill their mad dreams of being the first person or world leader to conquer the entire planet
SPOILERS The movie begins with Criswell addressing the theater audience about what their about to see . Sounding like he's giving a monologue for a movie that's a cross between " Dragnet " and " Unsolved Mysteries " Criswell tells us that what we are about to see is true based on the evidence that has been substantiated in the investigation of the facts , that are presented in the movie . Based on those irrefutable facts we should reward the innocent and punish the guilty in the matter of what we are about to see on the screen . well that's something that will get your attention if nothing else does . We're told by Criswell that there's flying saucers hovering over the earth using some kind of electric ray to rejuvenate the recently dead and bring them back to life to be used as an indestructible army of Zombies . Their mission is to stop the governments of Earth from building super bombs and ending up destroying themselves as well as the entire Universe . The aliens have tried peacefully eight times before to get the human race to stop their drive to self-destruction but to no avail . With the governments of earth shooting at their aircraft , and and in some cases killing their crews members . Now their taking off their gloves and going to Plan Nine and instead of trying to be peaceful and talkative with the Earth leaders their going to resort to force . What happens in the movie is that the aliens are foiled and destroyed by the heroic earthlings so that now they can develop more and more powerful weapons to destroy themselves as well as the Universe in the future . Taking away the stupid and ridicules sub-plots that Ed Wood Jr . put into the movie , Vampires Zombies flying saucers looking like car hubcaps and aliens dressed up like extras from a movie about Knights of the Round Table , " Plan Nine from Other Space " is truly thought provoking for a film released back in the 1950's . It was back then that criticizing the governments actions in regard to nuclear testing for the purpose of national security was unheard of . One scene in the movie that tells it all but is made to look by director Wood as if the aliens were the bad guys trying to do in the people of earth but really was just the opposite ! They were really trying to save them and get them off from their road to destruction . Eros , Dudley Manlove , the alien crafts captain tells those earthlings that he invited on his spaceship the reasons for his getting in contact with them was to stop the earthlings from building a Solarnite Bomb ! Which not only can destroy themselves but the entire Universe . The dense and brainless hero of the movie Jeff Trent , Gregory Wallcott , completely misinterpreting what Eros said then starts to brag to Eros saying that if we , the USA , develops this Solarnite Bomb " We'll be stronger then we are now " ! Which to the shock and surprise of Eros , who just explained to him how dangerous a bomb like that was , tells him just how stupid he and those on earth are . Eros then gets belted , by an outraged Trent , in the mouth for trying to put some sense into his empty head . The movie ends like it started with Criswell , again taking center stage , telling us emphatically that " The story that you just saw is true " . Criswell goes so far to even challenge those of us watching the movie ! saying " Can you prove that it didn't happen ? " Then adds , to his both smug and self-righteous monologue , " How do you know that after you leave the theater and pass someone in the dark that person is not from outer space ? " Which is well in line with a lot of the idiotic things that we've seen , and heard from Criswell , in the movie . But I have to admit that Criswell's last words are really thought provoking and do hit home after what we just saw about the dangers of nuclear destruction , in the mad rush for bigger and better nuclear bombs by the top world powers on earth : " God Help Us In The Future " .
( Some spoilers ) Getting stuck on the Somoan Island of Pago Pago because of an outbreak of cholera makes life a bit tenuous for the boat passenger stranded there but for fun loving and partying Sadie Tompson , Joan Crawford , it's the best thing that could have happened to her . Palying the phonograph high and loud and drinking whiskey and rum right out of the bottle as well as carousing and dancing with the US Marines stationed at the island made Sadie a target of one of the fellow passengers that's stuck there with her reformer and religious fanatic Alfred Davidson , Walter Huston . Davidson makes it his utmost duty to shame Sadie's wicked godless soul in what's she's doing , and save it even if it kills him . W . Somerset Maugham novel " Miss Thompson " released in 1932 as the movie " Rain " is about how a man can become so infatuated with sin in battling it that he in the end he becomes not only deranged but overcomes with guilt and shame , to the point of killing himself , just for thinking about it . Throughout the entire movie Davidson is totally committed in saving Sadie's soul from eternal damnation by driving the poor woman almost into having a nervous breakdown . Davidson in his probing of Sadie's past comes up with the information , that he psychologically beat out of her , that she was wanted back in the states for prostitution and is awaiting a three year sentence for it when she steps off the boat at the San Farncisco piers . Sadie is slowly broken down by Davidson's tactics and he really gets to her when he has the Governor of the island , Pago Pago , sign an order to ship her out and back to San Francisco where she awaits a prison cell . Trying to get a rock hard Davison to change his mind Sadie gives into every one of his demands that includes her becoming a bible thumping and church going Christian . Even Sadie's going along with him isn't good enough for the non-forgiving , which is the exact opposite of Christianity , Davidson . A triumphant and smug Davidson tells a now completely destroyed , in mind and body , Sadie that she'll have to pay for her sins in being put away behind bars back in the states even if she's guilty or not ! The ending is a bit hazy with Sadie about to get away from Davidson and the law by shipping out with her new US Marine Corps boyfriend Sgt . Tim " Handsome " O'Hara , William Gargan , for Sidney Australia and then changing her mind when she's confronted by Davidson . Davidson playing what seems like a sadistic little cat and mouse game with Sadie tells her that she can leave for Sidney only to have Sadie , now suffering from what looks like a sever case of Stockhome Syndrome , chooses to go back to the states and face her punishment and have her soul cleansed . It's later that we see an obvious going insane Davidson as he gets a crazed look on his face and starts losing control of his feelings and emotions . With Davidson completely losing it we hear in the background the tempo of native drums and heavy monsoon rainfall starts to pick up . Davidson loses control of his ability to keep evil and sinful thoughts out of his mind as he finally snaps as he eventually loses his mind as well as his life . Your left up in the air to what caused Davidson to do himself in . I feel that W . Somerset Maugham was trying to tell us is that a religious nut like Davidson who put himself up on such a high pedestal of morality that when he as much as got a thought of what he would consider to be sinful that it burst his whole balloon of holy self-righteous . This rediscovery of himself caused , in Davidson thinking that he's a perfect Christian and human being , him to completely fall mentally as well as physically apart .
A convoy of angry and enraged truckers are rolling down the desert highways of Arizona New Mexico and Texas led by Martin Penwald ( Kris Kistofferson ) using the CB-handle " Rubber Duck " . The truckers had enough of the corrupt highway cops who shake them down and threaten to impound their rigs . Leaving the truckers without any means of financial support . As well as the ridicules 55 MPH speed limit on the highways that cuts into their time and earnings and last but not least the sky-rocketing gas prices . After the Rubber Duck and two of his trucker pals Love Machine & Spider Mike , Burt Young & Franklyn Ajaye , were entrapped by the nasty and vindictive local Sheriff Lyle Wallace , Earnest Borgnine , for illegally using the trucker CB-handle name Cottonmouth . Their shaken down by the " lawman " for $70 . 00 each in order to avoid having their trucks impounded and them being thrown behind bars . The three later Going to the local truck stop to celebrate the Rubber Ducks birthday and have a few drinks are again confronted by the lawman . Sheriff Wallace , still not satisfied with pushing the truckers around , comes snooping around the area to make a few more bucks off the abused haulers . Wallace picks on poor Spider Mike accusing him of loitering and is about to throw him in jail . Spiker Mike pleads to the unfeeling Wallace that his wife is about to give birth and to please leave him alone which doesn't move the sheriff at all . But a straight right to his jaw , by Spider Mike , does make him move right on the butt of his pants . In a bar brawl with the truckers , who come to the aid of Spider Mike Love Machine and the Rubber Duck , Wallace and two of his deputies are knocked out cold and handcuffed as the three truckers together with the Rubber Duck's new found squeeze the plucky and outspoken Melissa ( Ali MacGraw ) , a wedding photographer who's car broke down , then take off and go back on the road again with the entire Arizona Highway Patrol on their tail . Chased by the crazy Sheriff Wallace , who commandeered a car from a young couple smoking and shearing a joint . the Rubber Duck Love Machine & Spider Mike get the full support from some very expected and unexpected persons that during the remainder of the film has them on the front pages of the news as well as getting the ear of the local governors senators and even the President of the United States himself . There's strength in numbers is the theme of " Convoy " with the Rubber Duck & friends making a private affair into a public happening . This by drawing attention to the plight of him and his fellow truckers and how their short-changed and ill-treated by everyone down the line , police politicians and big oil , as they try to do their . The giant convoy of truckers following the Rubber Duck open the eyes of the nation and puts corrupt low-lives like Sheriff Wallace on the front pages . All that showed what these hard working and dedicated men , the truckers , have to put up with every day and night that their on the road . In the end they get the support and respect from the public , as well as the politicians , that they so richly deserve . When the clueless and almost brain-dead politicians see the endless line of the trucker convoy lead by the Rubber Duck they not only stand up and listen but they deliver as well . One of director Sam Peckinpah's most underrated films that , as far as I could see , had no one killed in it . Even though the amount of violence and explosions were equaled to Peckinpah's famous blood-splattering 1969 classic " The Wild Bunch " .
One of Woody Allen's earliest and most personal films about someone very much like himself Fielding Mellish a product tester for the latest office exorcise equipment . Fielding falls for this social activist Nancy , Louise Lasser and ends up leaving the country for San Marcos , a country that Nancy is very personal involved with , helping it's fascist government be overthrown and replaced by a grass root peoples democratic regime . Fielding had been practically ostracized from his family because he didn't follow in his parents Mr . & Mrs . Al Mellish , Stanley Ackerman & Carlotte Rea , footsteps as heart surgeons . It wasn't Fieldings fault that he couldn't cut the mustard , or pour the ketchup , in that profession since the very sight of blood made him faint dead away . His relationship with Nancy fell apart since Fielding is such a snook who just can't get his act together in or out of bed and even his support for the San Marcos rebels , whom Nancy adores , is just half-hearted in his feeble attempt to impress her . Like a man trying to forget his past and joining the French Foreign Legion Fielding leaves the US and travels to San Marcos to forget Nancy but get's involved in a CIA-like black ops scheme engineered by that country's corrupt president Gen . Emilio M . Vargas , Carlos Montalban . Gen Varges tries to get Fielding assassinated by his soldiers and make it look like the anti-government rebels did it . With this stroke of genius on Vargas ' part he can get the US government to rush in desperately needed military aid that he needs to defeat the rebels . With Fielding escaping an ambush set for him by Vargas ' men he joins the rebel forces headed by comm-andante Esposito , Jacobo Moralas , and becomes the brains , as well as heart and soul , of the rebels revolutionary movement . Within two months Gen . Vargas is forced out of office and into exile in Miami with Esposito's forces taking over San Marcos . Esposito who wasn't that stable to begin with goes totally insane and drunk with power , forcing everyone in the country to speak Swedish and wear their underwear on the outside so that he can inspect them . Esposito's is himself forced from the presidency and put into a loony bin with Fielding , being elected president by a unanimous vote of the rebel officials , put in his place . Going to the USA on an official state visit Fielding , disguised in a phony red clip-on beard , is recognized as a former American anti-government activist . This was back when he was a product tester and trying to impress Nancy by participating in anti-government rallies , and put on trial for treason and attempting to overthrow the United States Government . At his trial Fielding , now without that dumb clip-on beard , acts as his own defense attorney and with the prosecution bringing in it's big guns including an undercover FBI Director J . Edger Hoover , Dorothi Fox , disguised as a middle-age black woman to testify against him it's an open and shut case for the government to win and it does . Fielding is quickly convicted of 12 counts of treason and inciting a violent overthrow of the government expecting to have the book thrown at him . Despite the seriousness of the charges Fielding only receives a suspended sentence ! The movie " Bannans " ends like it started with ABC sports commentator Howard Cosell , looking like an Americanized version of Bela Lugosi , giving a play by play description , like he did of the president of San Marco getting assassinated at the beginning of the film , of Fielding and Nancy who has since came back to him , after finding he's the new and rebel president of San Marcos , making out under the covers on their wedding night . This both earth-shaking and X-rated sports event has the whole world watching both live and in living , and huffing and puffing , color on ABC Sports . You have to be a die-in-the-wool Woody Allen fan to really like " Bannans " since it's more like one of his many TV and nightclub stand-up routines and not like a full length motion picture , Woody's really hamming it up in every scene that he's in . There's are a few real good sch-ticks in " Bannanas " that don't have Woody Allen in them that are even better then the one's that he's in . The two best scenes , without Woody , are the ones with the jury members at Fielding trial passing around a joint as they try to take in the evidence being presented on the witness stand that included that of FBI Director J . Edger Hoover who could have , but didn't , had them all arrested for using a controlled and illegal substance . There's also the hilarious scene when this wild and crazy nut breaks into the courtroom spilling out his guts and admitting his guilt , like in a Perry Mason episode . After a heart-wrenching confession on his part the crazy and befuddled lunatic finds out to his shock and embarrassment that he crashed into and disrupted the wrong trial !
SPOILERS Strange little movie that has to do with a man who's forced to see himself for who he really is not who he want's people , as well as himself , to think what's he's really not . Famous jazz saxophone player Izzy Maurer , Harvey Keitel , is doing his gig at a Greenwich Village night spot when this deranged lunatic bursts in with a gun blazing away and catches Izzy with a bullet in his left-lung and then turns the gun on himself . Izzy recovering from this life-threatening injury at a local NYC hospital is told that his left lung had to be removed and that he'll never be able to play the saxophone again . This to Izzy is like being told that he died . Alone and depressed Izzy walks the streets of New York aimlessly until one night when he comes across this body in a dark alley shot dead with a bullet in his head . Checking out the stiffs wallet Izzy finds out that the dead mans name is Stanley Mar and among his personal effects is a napkin with a telephone number written on it and a small box that has a smaller box in it with a small red-striped stone . At his apartment Izzy finds that the stone has these strange magical powers that he just can't phantom and then calls the phone number on Mar's napkin to find that it belongs to a Celia Burns , Mira Sorvino . Celia is ironically listening to a CD of Izzy's music when he calls her ! Izzy makes a date with Celia to come over and when he does he treats her so rudely that she almost asks him to leave or she'll call the police . It's only when Izzy explains to Celia about the stone , that emits a bright and soft blue light and levitates as well as shows her it's strange powers that she realizes , like he did , that it's something beyond the forces of nature ! The stone also seems to have magical powers of healing and creating luck for those who have it in their possession . It's after that strange meeting the two besides falling madly in love with each other have things start to change for the better for both of them . Celia a struggling young actress who supports herself as a waitress working gets a major part , in fact the leading role , in the movie " Pandoras Box " playing the role of it's star Lulu . Izzy's depression suddenly disappears because of his affair , and attachment , to Celia but there's things that are about to break that will turn this blissful dream for the two lovebirds into a dark and terrifying nightmare . Traveling to Dublin Ireland to do the movie Celia tells Izzy to keep in touch by phone and come visit her but as the days go by there's no word at all from Izzy . Getting kidnapped back in New York by a bunch of hoodlums who think that he has Stanley's Mar's " magic stone " , which he gave to Celia , Izzy is locked up in this empty warehouse and threatened with death if he doesn't talk . Celia shooting the movie " Pandora's Box " is a sensation on the set but at the same time is worried about her love Izzy who she hasn't heard from since she left New York . She soon get's so depressed by not hearing from him that one evening Celia , feeling dejected and abandoned , throws the " magic stone " into the nearby Liffey River . Being visited by this pseudo-shrink Dr . Van Horn , Willem DeFoe , Izzy is mentally tortured about his past and what a low-life rat he was to both his dad who's funeral he didn't attend and older brother Franz who hasn't spoken to him for seven years because of that . Izzy is about to break under Dr . Van Horn's brain-twisting tactics when he finally breaks out of his confinement and runs to the safety of the home of his friend Philip Kleinman , Mandy Patinkin , who's involved in the film that Celia is staring in . To both his surprise and shock Izzy finds that Celia had disappeared just before the filming of " Pandora's Box " was finished ! It later turned that the poor girl committed suicide when after being chased by Dr . Van Horn and two of his goons thinking that she had the mystical stone on her Celia jumped off the Dublin Ha'Penny Bridge into the Liffey River and her body was never recovered . Izzy sobbing and in a state of complete depression sits alone in his apartment watching the out-takes , that Philip gave him , of the movie " Pandora's Box " with Celia in them . It's then that the biggest surprise of all in the movie " Lulu on the Bridge " is about to come and hit the audience with the force of a sledge hammer right between their eyes ! A real honest to goodness LuLu !
One of the more realistic as well as honest post WWII movies about the threat of Communism simply because it was based on a true story . The film supports the well worn notion of truth being stranger then fiction . Setting up a number of sleeper cells at the hight of WWII in and around the Canadian City of Ottawa the Soviet Union has developed a spying apparatus that's soon to became the biggest foreign spying network in all of North America . With the head spy a Canadian Communist named John Grubb , Barry Kroeger , having a number of his team of Soviet agents in the Atomic Research Division of the Canadian Government . Glubb and his boss ' back in Moscow got wind of a secret project that the US was developing in the use of atomic energy to harness and create an nuclear chain reaction , an Atomic Bomb , that will eventually be use against the axis to end the Second World War . The movie " The Iron Curtain " has to do with Soviet cypher clerk Igor Gouzenka , Dana Andrews , who being station in Ottawa becomes very disenchanted with his country of birth , the Soviet Union , and decides to defect . Igor is hampered with the fact that he has family back in the USSR and a wife and young child Anna & Andrei , Gene Tierney & Robin Olsen , here in Canada where goons from the Soviet NKVD , working for the Soviet Embassy , can easily get their hands on them . We see Igor go through a number of stages during his stay in Canada as he soon realizes what he's missing in not living in a free country and just how hellish his home the USSR really is . Being a good soldier , or cypher clerk , Igor does his work smoothly and without a flaw until his wife Anna , who with Soviet Government approval , came over to visit him from the USSR and later gets pregnant with his son . All this changes Igor's feelings about his motherland , Mother Russia , in wanting his son young Andrei to live and grow up free in a free land Canada . What really pushes Igor over the line , and gets him and his wife and son to defect , is when he gets to see his best friend Maj . Semyon Kulin , Eduard Franz , crack up while gulping down a bottle of vodka and spilling his guts out . Maj . Kulin is sorry that he ever got involved with the Bolshevik / Communist regime . Knowing now just how evil it is in it doing in Kulin's his old man a great and proud leader of the 1917 Communist , or October , Revolution has driving him to drink . They , or Uncle Joe Stalin and his gang of murderous cutthroats , felt that Kulin's father was no longer useful to them and their cause in taking over , by extreme and brutal force if necessary , the both civilized and uncivilized world and thus kicked him out of power . The old and sick guy is now left to live on his meager pension in a one room walk-up , with pop suffering from a case of sever arthritis , apartment in Moscow . It took a lot for Igor to do what he did in going over to the other side and not only revealing what he and his cohorts , both Russian and Canadians , were up to . Igor also stole from the Soviet Embassy over 100 pages of documents revealing the Soviets plan to steal the secret of the Atomic Bomb that Igor was terrified that they , the Stalin gangsters , would use to blackmail and thus take over , by hook or by crook , the free and none-Communist world . Igor gets away from the Soviet Secret Police , the dreaded NKVD , only because their so clumsy and confused in operating in a free , unlike their home turf the USSR , and open society . Igor then had , after almost being handed over to his countrymen by a bunch of brainless and clueless Canadian bureaucrats , himself and his wife and son , Anna & Andrei , given political asylum . Igor Gouzenka died in his adopted country Canada on June 28 , 1982 at the age of 63 . The vengeful Soviet Union who had put a price on his head and had dozens of secret agents looking to both find and do Igor in had him wearing a musty and smelly hood over his head in public to keep from being recognized and assassinated . This was a small price for Igor to pay to be a free man in a free land which he wasn't back home in the USSR . P . S The famous statement " Iron Curtain " that's been attributed to Winston Churchills speech in Fulton Missouri on March 5 , 1946 was actually coined by non-other then Nazi Propaganda and Culture Minister Dr . Joesph Goebbels a year earlier in an article that he wrote for the German newspaper Das Reich . Goebbels statement was broadcast by the British BBC , on Feberuary 25 , 1945 in the waning weeks of the Second World War in Europe . A broadcast that Churchill obviously heard and later used Goebbels timely phrase " Eis Erner Vorhang " , the Iron Curtain in German , in his Fulton speech .
" Flatliners " is a very original , despite it's morbid theme , and in a way uplifting movie . It shows it's audience that things that we do to others in life that for the most part we may have long forgotten about will come back to haunt us in death . The difference in the film " Flatliners " is that those who died and were hunted by their past sins were given another chance to come back to life and correct or rectify them to those persons who they killed and abused . Person who were victimized by Nelson , Kifer Sutherland , who killed and David , Kevin Bacon , who abused . As well as Joe , William Baldwin , who betrayed and in the case of Rachel , Julia Roberts , drove to their death . A secret experiment was dreamed up by Nelson and his fellow medical students to see if there's really a life beyond the grave . The students put themselves under , getting clinically flat-lined , and then being brought back to life tell and record what they saw when they were " Dead " . Each student who was put under saw things that they did in life that they thought nothing of and long forgot about with the exception of Rachel . The dead and then revived students then spent the rest of the movie trying somehow to make amends for what they did in order not to have them go insane with guilt . Admittedly unrealistic the movie has the students get all the medical equipment and drugs that they needed for their experiment and preform it on each other . Right under the noses of the doctors nurses and attendants at the hospital they were at ! The students being able to put each other under , from one to five minutes , and then revive themselves was really a bit too much to take . Still you have to give " Flatliners " an + A for originality . Even though the movie had trouble convincing you that the goings on on the screen could have been at all possible in even in the most modern medical facility in the world . Still " Flatliners " does at least try to confront one of the most profound mysteries , of science and theology , in it's own very strange and peculiar way .
( Some slight Spoilers ) Well acted and written story about the heart-breaking loneliness of being abandoned at a very young age and how it's shapes the mind to the point of conjuring up a twisted sort of pseudo-vengeance and false sense of justice on the part of the person effected . Sophie Hartley has been going through very hard and stressful times of late with her mothers unexpected death and having to look after her elderly father . But Sophie's job as a writer and illustrator of children books of-sets them keeping her mind focused on her work . Happily married to Craig with two cute and loving daughters Anna & Ruby Sophie is getting over her moms death until a number of strange things start to happen to her . things which she later strongly suspects are being orchestrated by her new next door neighbors wife , or live in girlfriend , Mara . Mara for her part is at the time working for Sophie's husband Caig , an architect , as his assistant which has Sophie strongly suspect that she's trying to steal Craig away from her . Beautiful but somewhat on the weird side Mara seems to be mimicking Sophie In everything that she does . Even wearing the same cloths that in one case when one of her dresses go missing , Sophie suspects that she stole from her home . Slowly being driven insane Sophie falls behind in her work and almost causes her daughter Ruby to overdose on cough medicine . Because her mind is so out of focus over her fear of Mara and what Mara is trying to do to her and her family . It later turns out that Mara is indeed interested in Craig and pulls out all stops one evening in his office just about throwing herself at him . With Craig at first reluctantly then gladly giving in to her advances . Sophie for her part has become so obsessed with Mara that she sneaks into her home , looking for items that she suspects Mara of stealing from her , and is arrested for breaking and entering . At her trial Sophie is ordered by the presiding judge to stay as far as 500 yards away from Mara , and her boyfriends Jimmy's , home . Losing her mind and not caring what happens to her Sophie again breaks into Mara's place looking for the family cat who was seen there and is trapped , by Mara , in the basement . This happened as both of Shphie's children , Anna & Ruby , are upstairs playing and dancing together with Mara . Trying to break out Sophie looking through a number of personal effects of Mara stored there in the basement sees the real reason for her violent dislike of her and why she's going to such great lengths to hurt and even kill Sophie . Which leads to the final and fiery confrontation between the two with both of them ending up in the hospital emergency ward . The really big surprise comes at the very end of the movie when you think that you've already found out the reasons for Mara's strange and unstable behavior . And it's about as shocking , as well as surprising , as anything you'll ever see in a surprise-ending film . Susan Sarandon and Sam Neill as Sophie and Craig Hartley are excellent as the befuddled and targeted , by Mara , couple who have no idea to what's happening to them throughout the entire movie . with Emily Blunt as the cunning and manipulative Mara pulling all the strings and driving both of them out of their minds and in the case of Sophie almost into prison or a mental institution . It's without a doubt the ending to " Irrisistable " that's so effective yet cryptic , that you have to watch it twice to really figure it out . It will shock you right down to your socks and the soles of your shoes . That and that alone is more then worth the price of admission to the theater or rental at Blockbuster or any other video store in your neighborhood .
Harry , Stephen Lange the union shop steward who's in good with the president of the dock workers union , Boyce , Jerry Orbach , In that he has a union expense account which he uses to finance his secret life . Married to his wife Mary , Maria Danziger , Harry goes out to expensive bars and nightclubs with high-class transvestites that he picks up . Seeing that Harry is abusing that privilege Boyce stops it and makes Harry pay back the money that he took from the union treasury out of his paycheck . Sick and depressed Harry gets himself drunk one night and tries to have his way with one of the local neighborhood boys . Which leads to the boys friends brutally beating Harry to the point where he was within an inch of his life from being dead and ending up being literally crucified in an empty back-lot ; This is the level of brutality in this movie . A violent brutal and at the same time shockingly honest movie about life in Brooklyn New York circa 1952 . During a long and savage dock strike on Brooklyn's heavily industrialized Bush Terminal waterfront . The film is truly disturbing with a shocking and vicious gang rape inter-cut with a baby shower for one of the unions members " Big " Joe , Burt Young , daughters child at the local union hall . These are just two of many such jolting scenes in the movie . An excellent cast with Stephen Lang , as the union shop steward who's problems are more then just the job that he has on the docks . With Jennifer Jason Leigh , as the bar girl who likes to date and then roll servicemen with the help of her friends to get their money and ends up paying for what she did in more ways then one . With Jerry Orbach as the feisty and two fisted union president who sticks to his guns and in the end gets what he wants for himself and his union members and many many more good actors and the parts that they play in the movie . " Last Exit to Brooklyn " is a very hard movie to watch but if you want a film with brutal realism and fine acting and photography as well as a story that will grip you right from the start and hold on to you long after the movie is over this is it .
SPOLIERS " Willie Dynamite " is miles above the average " Blaxploitation " films made in the 1970's by it's not glorifying the title character in any way but showing him as a ruthless as well as tragic and misguided person . A person who's self-destructive lifestyle as a big time city pimp lead to disaster not only to himself but to all those around him : his women his friends his hangers-on and worst of all his sweet and church-going mother played by Royce Wallace . Back in those days , the 70's , Willie Dynamite , Roscoe Orman , could easily have been made to be a hero for the youth of the inner city ghettos to be looked up to and emulated . Instead the movie wisely chose to show him and his lifestyle for what it was , indifferent and unfeeling . Thats how Willie was to those women who worked the streets and hotels for him selling their hot bodies for the only thing that mattered to him the bottom line : Cold Cash . The film chronicles the rise and fall and in the end redemption of big city pimp Willie Dynamite after he saw his mother collapse in the courthouse , when she found out what Willie really did for a living , and later die in the hospital without Willie being able to tells her that he's sorry for what he did and get her forgiveness . Willie let his mom on to believe that he was a record agent not a pimp . Willie's top hooker Pashen , Joyce Walker , who wanted to get out of the hooker business and become a fashion model after she was shown the light by Cora , Diana Sands , a social worker who tried to save girls like her from being exploited by pimps like Willie . Pashen instead gets sweet-talked back into turning tricks by Willie's and ends up having her pretty face slashed while she was in the womens house of detention waiting to be bailed out by him . Diana Sands steals the movie with her sensitive portrayal of a social worker who knows all too well what life on the streets can do from her sad and abysmal life as a young women and tries to get the girls working for Willie to save themselves from that life like she did . We also see Diana change her opinion about Willie when he's destroyed by his fellow pimps as well as the law and becomes a broken and humbled person instead of the brash and arrogant pimp that she fought with throughout most of the movie . It's Cora's tender and emotional scene with Willie at the end of the film made you want to reach for your handkerchief . Finally Willie himself who went from a cold-hearted and unfeeling person who looked at both his hookers and the Johns who paid for their services only as dollar signs to where he became a sensitive and understanding person by the time the movie ended but it took a walk through hell for Willie to get to that point . The movie also has fine location filming in and around NYC with a great musical soundtrack . It would be unfair for " Willie Dynamite " to be described as a " Blaxploitation " movie ; It doesn't exploits it's audience it educates it .
Spoilers Sitting at the dinner table with his parents and little sister Jacob , Edward Furlong , finally opens up and tells the story of what happened between him and Martha Traverner , Alison Folland , since Martha was found dead in the snow outside of town . Jacob was on the run as a fugitive from justice for the a week until he was found and arrested at a friends house . Last seen with Martha as he picked her up where she worked at Jacey's Ice Cream Parlor in town Jacob was the prime suspect in her death . Now after being apprehended and let out on bail he had to get what happened to Martha off his chest and the story wasn't a pretty one , but it wasn't as bad as it could have been either . Jacob did indeed kill Martha but it was a tragic accident . Gripping story about a father and mothers love for their troubled son and how they went about to save him from being put behind bars for killing his girlfriend and how it destroyed their lives as well as , of course , the lives of the parents of the girl who was killed . Jacob's mother Carolyn Ryan , Meryl Streep , wanted only the truth about her son actions in regard to Martha's death to come out in court and felt that it would exonerate him . His father Ben Ryan , Liam Neeson , on he other hand wanted to do everything possible and even went as far as destroying evidence in order to protect him . Jacob in the end sided with his mother and wrote out a full confession which his father could not bring himself to sign . Jacob was 16 years old and needed his parents signature to make the confession legal , and in effect threw himself on the mercy of the court . Jacob didn't bother to defend his actions which his father and lawyer Penos Demeris , Alfred Molina , begged him to do . " Before and After " is a story that has no happy ending no matter how you look at it , for both the victim and the accused . Its realism makes the film more effective and believable then most movies about courtroom dramas which usually have cop-out and feel-good or surprise endings . The story is told in retrospect from Jacob's little sisters Judith's , Julia Weldon , point of view . You already see from the start of the movie that things were never the same for Julia and her family when the film started . Meryl Streep as the mother is both protective and at the same time confident of the court and jury that her son Jacob was to face in his trial . Liam Neeson as the father was just the opposite not trusting the jury to acquit his son no matter how strong the evidence was in Jacob's favor that Martha's death was an accident . Jacob went with his mothers feeling in telling the truth and leaving it up to the judge instead of going to trail . In the end Jacob and his family were left to see if he was right or wrong in that decision . Strong performances all around with a really powerful scene in the movie towards the end when Carolyn is confronted by Martha's mother Terry , Ann Magnuson , at the hospital where Carolyn works as a doctor . No matter how much Carolyn tries to tell Terry how sorry she is about what happened to her daughter Terry is totally unmoved to the point where Carolyn is overcome with tears . You couldn't blame Terry for feeling like she did , her daughter was dead and Carolyn's son , no matter what the outcome of the court will be , is alive . Those in the movie acted as if they really believed in what the story was trying to tell us : That a parent burying their child is the worse kind of tragedy imaginable , no matter what the circumstances of their child's death was . The film also brought out that those who have a son or daughter who was responsible for that death will have to , as well as their son or daughter , carry that guilt with them for the rest of their lives as well .
Tense and riveting drama that focuses completely on the family of the kidnapped victim . You never see the kidnapper or kidnappers during the entire film . Eight year-old Andy Stannard , Bobby Clark , is abducted on his way to school and his parents David & Edith , Glenn Ford & Donna Reed , later get the shocking news that he's missing from the school principle . Getting a phone call from the kidnapper to pay a ransom of $500 , 000 . 00 in cash for Andy's release David , the president and owner of the Stannard Vacuum Cleaner Company , comes up with the cash and is more then ready to pay it to save his son Andy . Then something deep in his gut , as well as the towns police chief Jim Backett ( Robert Keith ) , tells him that the chances of him getting Andy back safe and sound are the same if he pays the ransom or if he doesn't . The story of the infamous Lindberg kidnapping back in 1932 came up where even when the ransom was paid the Lindberg baby was still found murdered months later . David on a calculating and dangerous hunch going to publicly plead for and pay the ransom to save Andy goes instead on the on TV station and gives the abductor of his son , as well as everyone watching , the shock of their life . Powerful performances by both Glenn Ford and Donna Reed as the distraught parents trying to save their son but going in two different directions to do it , which led to Andy's mom losing control and ending up bedridden and on sedatives . David himself later felt that he made a wrong and fatal decision on his part but had to live with it . David's speech on TV addressing the kidnapper , or kidnappers , of his son was so gripping and stunning that for a moment I forgot that I was watching a movie but a real news broadcast , of a parent asking for his son to be returned to him from his abductor . Heart wrenching and absorbing with unbearable suspense and being on the razors edge that has your on the verge of , like what happened to Andy's mom , emotionally breaking down . The film switches from the public in total sympathy and support with the Stannard's to turning against the father for not wanting to give into the kidnappers demands . David plays his hunch that as long as Andy is alive their safe from him , who a pretty rough and tough guy on his own , and the electric chair when their caught and convicted . The ending of the movie has you , a well as David and Edith , unable to hold back your emotion and keep the tears from flowing . One of the best films about a child , or any other kind of , abduction with an ending that you'll never forget .
( There are Spoilers ) Being told by his doctor that he hasn't got long to live meek and kindly bookkeeper Otto Kringelein , Lionel Barrymore , decides to go out in grand fashion . Taking his life's savings with him , some 11 , 000 Marks , Otto is to spends his last days on earth in the most expensive hotel in Berlin the aptly named " Grand Hotel " . It's at the Grand Hotel Otto gets to meet his abusive boss , at the textile factory , Preysing , Wallace Beery , who treats him with total destine . Preysing is certain that the only way Otto can afford to stay at that swanky and expensive joint is that he embezzled his business . Otto gets his by now hot in the collar boss even madder at him by stealing his pretty stenographer Flaemmchen or Flaem for short , Joan Crawford , who sees what a creep her , like Otto's , boss the Iron Prussian-like Preysing really is . The movie " Grand Hotel " also has as one of its guests the flat broke and compulsive gambler Baron Felix Von Geigern , John Barrymore . Baron Felix lost his entire fortune playing baccarat and is now in danger of getting his legs broken if he doesn't come up with the cash , 5 , 000 Marks , that he owes the " Boys " who've been backing up his losing bets . Baron Felix now on his last legs which he'll need crutches for if the " Boys " don't get their money is planning to rob the Great Grusinskaya , Greta Garbo , the worlds greatest ballerina who's also a guest at the hotel . The Baron concocts a plan to rob the Great Grusinskaya of her pearl necklace while she's at the Berlin Theater doing her thing : Dancing her heart out for the audience there . Baron Felix who's only friend on earth up to that time is his cute and faithful Dachshund Adolphus , or Adolph for short , will later " make it " with that cold fish of a woman Grusinskaya while in the process of burglarizing her hotel suite ! Catching Baron Felix off guard , by coming back to her suite early , Grusinskya is charmed by the handsome rogue who sweet talks her right out of her dance costume and into her bed ; With him joining it . It's later that the Baron after confessing his love for Grusinskaya , and returning her stolen pearl necklace , decides to use the naive Otto in a card game of baccarat he set up . This is done by Baron Felix in order to get back the money he owes the " Boys " before the " Boys " who've just about had it with him , in his stalling to pay them back their money , end up making him a cripple . The card game goes good for first-time gambler , beginners luck ? , Otto who breaks the bank walking away with another , to his already 11 , 0000 , 3 , 500 Marks . With time running out on him in paying the " Boys " back their money a desperate Baron Felix grabs Otto's , who's dead drunk for drinking champaign , wallet with some 15 , 000 Marks for him to finally pay back the " Boys " before they pay him , in working the Baron over , back with compounded interest and fractures . SPOILERSIt's then that Baron Felix finally sees the light and gives up his life of a cat burglar and con-artist but only after one last fling , in robbing Preysing room , which turned out to be fatal for him . Despite the major and established stars in the film , Greta Garbo the Barrymores and Wallace Beery , it was Joan Crawford , compared to the quality of acting talent she was up against , in a more or less supporting role who stole the films acting honors . Being both wholesome and sensuous Miss . Crawford was able to put the grubby and aggressive Preysing in his place . This was by showing him that the person whom he held in contempt , and was a rival for her affections , the sweet and soft speaking Otto was a bigger success , as a human being , that he'll ever be . In the end the so sure of himself Preysing ended up being lead out of the Grand Hotel in handcuffs and going to jail for crimes committed by him on and off the premises . As for the meek and sensitive Otto , whom Preysing stepped on for some 30 years , he also left with Flaem for Paris to spend his last , and extremely happy , days with her at that city's " Grand Hotel " .
SPOILERS Has to be seen at least twice , like being reincarnated , to really appreciate what a great psychological thriller " Renni " or " Reincarnation " really is . The film gets somewhat confused and esoteric at times , especially in the first five or so minutes , but when it gets down to business just watch out ! Making a horror / suspense film about a bloody massacre that took place back in 1970 at the now abandoned Ono Kanko Hotel outside of Tokyo top Japanese movie director Ikuo Matsumura , Kippei Shiina , cast actress Nagisa Sugiora , Yuka , in the leading role . Nagisa is to play one of the victims of the hotel slaughter the six year old daughter Norishasa , Atsuhsi Haruta , of crazed killer Professor Kazuya Omori , Shun Oguri . What would be the part of a lifetime for the young and practically unknown actress turns out to be a nightmare for her . Telling her good friend and acting teacher Tadashi , Tetta Sugimoto , that she feels strange playing Omori's murdered daughter in that she sees the young girl in both her dreams as well as while she's awake and fully conscious ! There's a scene when Nagisa , while she's with Tadashi , is on the Tokyo Subway and suddenly sees young Norishasa with her battered , with it's left eye busted , doll standing right in front of her ! With Nagisa turning away for a split second to alert Tadashi to what she saw both Norishasa and the doll disappears in a flash ! As the movie goes into production Nagisa begins to become spooked whenever she's to act out a scene in it . Seeing in a number of visions of the insane Professor Omori doing his dirty work slaughtering the people in the hotel Nagisa also sees him recording his bloody work with a 1950's style 8mm Bell & Howell movie camera ! It later turns out that Omori , through his secret writings , was obsessed with the theory of reincarnation and in his madness went out to prove it by killing everyone in the hotel , himself included , so they can come back in other lives to prove his point ! By now Nagisa is fully convinced that she's actually the reincarnation of Professor Omori's murdered daughter Norishasa . It's when things suddenly start to magically materialize in her hotel room , almost out of thin air , right in front of Nagisa's eyes , like Norishasa's doll and her father's movie movie camera , that it becomes apparent that Nagisa's greatest fears have more then just a a grain of truth in them . MAJOR SPOILERS FROM THIS POINT ONNagisa gives the mysterious movie camera to her friend Tadashi to have the film in it developed and see what exactly is recorded on it . This all takes a number of days for Tadashi in him trying to find a photo lab , being that almost everything now is " filmed " on video tape and DVD discs , that could process the film . When the movie camera film is finally processed Tadashi has it screened in front of Director Matsumura and his film crew . What they see is a horror that even the most brutal and bloody slasher movie couldn't duplicate ! The film also shows that not only is reincarnation real but who the brutal and psychotic killer Poffesor Kazuya Omori really is ! Not back then in 1970 but now in his new incarnation !
SPOILERS The movie " The Deer Hunter " opens in the small Russian / American Orthodox community of Clairton Penn . back in 1967 with Steven , John Savage , getting married to Angela , Rutanya Alda . The next day Steven and his two close friends Michael & Nick , Robert De Niro & Christopher Walken , spend their their last day together hunting deer in the Pennsylvania woods before being drafted into the US Army . Michael is a crack shot when it comes to bringing down a deer and proves it when he's the only one of the group that also included fellow steel workers Stanley and Axel , John Cazale & Chuck Aspegren . living by the rule " One shot is what it's all about " Michael puts that into practice in his hunting deers , he never has to shoot twice to make a kill . Later in the movie Michael sees that that motto of his can also effect him and his friends just like the deers he's been hunting all his adult life . Sent to Vietnam as a member the elite 101th Airborne we see Michael run into both Nick and Steven during a communist assault on a village that their defending . A moment later the three , together with a number of Vietnamese villages , having been captured by the Viet Cong are being used in a morbid game of Russian Roulette by their Communist Vietcong captors . Steven who refused to play the Vetcong death game is thrown into a underwater cage in the Mekong River where he's attacked by dozens of hungry and vicious water rats who almost chew his legs off . Both Michael & Nick are a bit luckier by playing Russian Roulett since Michael takes the chance by encouraging the Vietcong leader to put three bullets into the gun chamber not the usual one ! Michael playing the odds that his chances , together with Nick , is he'll have if he's lucky three slugs to put between his commie torturers eyes and be able to put them out and escape with both Nick & Steven . As dangerous as an idea was it worked with the Vietcong getting all that's coming to them , in bullets and rifle butts , from a mad as hell Michael and even madder Nick . If was later that the three friends are separated during the fighting and Michael is the only one who comes back home to Clairton Penn . in more or less one piece . Michael later finds Steven in a veterans hospital with both his legs amputated from the wounds he suffered in the Vietnam War and that Nick is categorized by he US Army as either AWOL dead or missing in South VietnamSearching for Nick , whom he promised to never leave behind , Michael finds that Steven at the Vet . hospital has been secretly getting scores of $100 . 00 bills over the last few months from someone in Saigon ? That someone turned out to be the missing Nick ! Michael travels 12 , 000 miles back to Vietnam to find and rescue Nick but there's just two hitches ; first being able to get into South Vietnem with the country about to fall to the Communist North Vietnamese and second finding Nick and then seeing if he want's to be rescued and brought home in the first place . Gut-wrenching movie about friendship in war and in peacetime with Michael trying to put the pieces of his life back together after he was tortured and de-humanized by his war experiences . Michael became so disgusted and angry with killing that when out hunting he couldn't even lift his rifle to aim at and shoot a deer back home in Penn . , a sport which he used to enjoy more then anything else . Going back to " Nam " in the spring of 1975 as the US supported South Vietnamese government was on the brink of being overthrown , with what little US personnel left at the US embassy in Saigon about to be air-lifted out of the country , Michael finds Nick playing for high stakes , his life , the brutal and inhuman game that took away his sanity while being held captive by the Vietcong years ago ; Russian Roulette . Almost unwatchable final 15 minutes as Michael tries to get poor and heavily drug addicted Nick to come back home with him . Michael even goes as far as of playing a game of " Spin the Bullet " himself to get Nick out of his self-destructive state . Nick had been lucky all these months in the gambling dens of Siagon winning thousands of dollars defying the odds of getting his brains blown out . This time , like Michael always said , " One shot is what It's all about " and it was that one and last shot or bullet that eventually did Nick in . One of the best movies about war ever made that shows it for what it is " Hell on Earth " with a young , 28 year old , and at the time unknown Meryl Streep as Nick's , and and now Michael , long suffering girlfriend Linda . Linda together with Michael Steven and his wife Angela , and all of the friends that Nick left behind in Clairton , attending Nick's funeral sadly say goodbye to him . Later Nicks friends and family solemnly sitting together at the dinner table end the film singling " God Bless America " in what has to be one of the most touching and heart-rendering scenes ever put on film . P . S Michael did indeed keep his promise to Nick , he didn't leave him behind .
SPOILERS Almost forgotten film about the White Terror that was unleashed on the Cuban people by the brutal and Fascist Gerardo Machado regime that lasted seven years from 1925 to 1933 when Marchado was finally driven from power in a popular and spontaneous revolution . Because of its more or less anti-corporate message , Dictator Marcado was fully supported by the US government and big business , the film " We Were Strangers " didn't get the credit or recognition that it deserved being considered pro-Communist . The film was soon put on the shelf gathering dust never to see the light of day until some thirty after it's release back in 1949 . Having her brother Manalo , Tito Renaldo , a student activist gunned down on the very steps of Havana University turned the meek and God-fearing bank clerk China Valde , Jennifer Jones , into a fiery revolutionary against the government . China joined up with a number of Cuban freedom fighters lead by American Tony Fenner , John Garfield , who masquerades around on the island as a talent scout looking for the latest in both Cuban music and dance crazes that he could bring back to America . We soon learn that Tony Fenner is really a Cuban exile named Antoino Ferrer who's father , together with his family , fled Cuba in 1925 when Machado took over . Trying to get things going in overthrowing the Machado regime Tony who's been heavily financed by Cuban exiles , like himself , back in New York City's Spanish Harlem gets a number of his Cuban friends and fellow revolutionaries in Havana together to dig a tunnel under the Havana Cemetery . It's there they would plant some hundred pounds of explosives setting them off when a Cuban government big shot , that Tony & Co . plan to assassinate , is being laid to rest With Machado and his henchmen , political and military , in attendance thus decapitating the Machado dictatorship . China has a far more personal reason in her covert actions in that the head of the hated Cuban Gestapo-like secret police Armondo Ariete , Pedro Armenda , was the person who gunned down , as we saw earlier in the movie , her brother Manolo . Ariete has , not knowing that he murdered her brother , been trying to make it with China since he saw her at the bank where he was checking on Cuban / USA bank money transactions . The transactions that Tony and his Cuban freedom fighters are heavily , in order to keep their resistance movement alive , involved in . Beautifully photographed in black and white " We Were Strangers " has a strikingly sharp , and dark , film-noir quality to it with Tony and his gang of revolutionaries breaking their backs , and almost suffocating from the stench , in digging underneath and planting a giant land-mine in the middle of the Havana Cemetery . Only to have the planned funeral of Machado henchman Acento Contreras ( Fred Godoy ) , who Tony and his gang assassinated , transfered to another cemetery outside he city because Acento's sisters wanted to have a little privacy in their brothers final send-off . Despite a number of setbacks , like the Acento Contreras fiasco , by Tony and his revolutionary gang the Cuban people themselves later took to the streets and drove Machado from power but not before Tony , or Antiono Ferrer , Fenner's lost his life as he was gunned in a wild shootout with the police and Cuban militia at the end of the film . It was ruthless tyrants like Gerardo Machado , and the US support of them , that made it possible for future dictators like Fidel Castro to gain control of the countries that they were driven out of . Being in league , and in bed , with dictators like Marchado and later Batista didn't play to well with the majority of the Cuban people who greatly suffered under them . In the end it not only turned them against the US but also , like in the case of Fidel Castro , welcomed Soviet support that also endangered the security of those very countries , like the USA , who during the hight of the Cold War whole heartily as well as foolishly supported them .
The HBO film " Recount " takes us all back to a time that most of us would rather forget . Those wild crazy and confusing days back in the autumn of 2000 when for some 35 days after the Presidential Election nobody knew who was to be our next and 43th President of the United States . In the late evening of Election Day November 7 , 2000 it looked like , with it being called by most of the news pundits on TV , that Vice President Al Gore had won Florida with its 25 electoral votes and just about clinched the presidency . In less then a hour later it was announced by FOX News that Florida was still up in the air giving Gore's opponent Texas Governor Gerorge W . Bush a new lease on life in him getting into the White House . By the early morning of November 8 , 2000 it was announced that GW Bush in fact had taken Florida and the presidency . But as the vote was examined , on internet news sites , by Gore's campaign workers it was noted that over 170 , 000 votes in the Sunshine State had either been thrown out or not counted at all ! This made Bush's victory in Florida of about 1 , 800 votes , out of a total of over 6 , 000 , 000 , over Gore look if not fishy a bit suspicious at the least ! Not all all conceding , which he at first did , Gore has his campaign workers go into full political guerrilla warfare mode in trying to get to the bottom of what exactly happened to the missing 170 , 000 votes that , if they all were counted , would very possibly have given him the keys to the White House . The film " Recount " canonicals the grueling 36 days after the 2000 Election that had the Republicans and Democrats slug it out in court as well as on the streets in trying to get their man to be confirmed as president . With the Republicans having their ace in the hole in Florida's Secretary of State Katherine Harris , Laura Dern , being the person to do the confirming . Harris is not only a Repubican but GW Bush's campaign manager , appointed by GW's brother Florida Governor Jeb Bush , in the state of Florida ! So we all , Democrat Republican and Independent , knew just where her sympathies lie . Heading the Gore team is disgruntled , he was canned by Gore earlier in the campaign , Ron Kline , Kevin Spacey , as well as former President Bill Clinton cabinet member Warren Christopher , John Hurt . Unlike the hard hitting and take no prisoners , or BS , from the Republicans Ron Kline his good friend and fellow Democrat party strategist Christopher wasn't exactly up to the task facing him . That's in Christopher opting in trying to be Mr . Clean instead of fighting the dirty game of politics that Kline was more then ready and willing to conduct . And at the same time what the determined and no holds bar Republicans headed by GW Bush family lawyer James Baker , Tom Wilkinson , was more then willing to pursue . The grueling court battles over the vote count had Bush's lead of some 1 , 800 votes cut to just over 500 with the Democrats foolishly throwing away their , and Al Gore's , chance to win the election by opting in having the votes counted in only four of Florida's 67 voting districts . This had tens of thousands of possible Gore votes not only thrown away but disfranchising those who voted ! In an unprecedented move the US Supreme Court stepped in , with Baker and Co . urging , and settled the dispute by stopping the vote count , with some tens of thousands of Florida voters votes left in limbo ! The Court of the Land declared GW Bush the winner with a whopping 537 vote over Al Gore in the state of Florida with the vast majority of the uncounted vote left uncounted ! What made this decision so obnoxious was that the court declared that it's actions are only in regard to the 2000 Election , in getting GW Bush the presidency , and will never be done again even under the exact same circumstances ! In short it was a one shot deal to get Bush Jr . elected before the vote count , that still had some two days left to be counted , went against him ! The Republican Party that always prided itself in championing " States Rights " went against that very principle by getting GW Bush the Presidency of the United States . With the Florida Supreme Court ruling in the Democrats favor in continuing the vote count Baker & Co . went over their heads in having the US Supreme Court overrule them . This in a " State Rights " case that they the US Supreme Court , who's job is only to interpret the US Constitution , had no business at all in handling ! P . S As for loser Al Gore he went on to bigger and better things . Gore ended up winning both a Nobel Peace Prize and Academy Award in his life long crusade to educated the American public , as well as people of the world , to the world-wide threats that face our planet in the very real dangers of " Global Warming " .
SPOILERS In dept story about a number of New Yorkers who's lives touch each other during the course of the movie and how it in the end changes their lives forever . Even though the movie seems complicated it has a simple and basic answer to a hard and unfeeling world : That faith and optimism are the best reasons to get through life no matter how difficult it is . The movie moves back and forth in time with Gene English , Alan Arkin , and Troy , Matthew McConaughey , in the bar scene at the start and end of the film . Gene runs an insurance office that's in danger of being downsized because of a bad rating it got from an research agency . Gene also has problems with his son Ronnie , Alex Burnes , who's a drug addict and is in and out of court for committing act of larceny to support his habit . On top of all that Gene also has a broken marriage and all those things makes him very unhappy and sarcastic with the people that work in his office , especially those who seem to have a better outlook on life then Gene does . When Gene's told by higher ups to cut down on his staff by letting go those who he feels that he can do without Gene cut the most happiest and optimistic person in the office Wade Bowman , William Wise . Wade to Gene's surprise take it a lot easier then he expected him to , which makes Gene almost wish that he would be more like Wade . Later after Gene's told that there was a vice-president slot opened for him to fill he himself was laid-off . What Gene saw in Wade and how Wade later in the movie got back on his feet by not feeling sorry for himself and with , Wade not knowing it , Gene's help Gene's outlook on life changed for the better . Which made him a wiser if less richer person and seemed to help Gene overcome his sarcasm and bitterness that made him almost impossible to get along with . There's Walker , John Turturro , a collage psychics professor who's cheating on his wife Patricia , Amy Irving , by having an affair with Helen , Barbara Sukowa . Helen is also married and a teacher in the collage where Walker works . When Patricia finds out about Walker's affair she leaves him . Walker also loses Helen when she goes back to her husband to keep him from killing himself after he also found out about her and Walker . Hurt and bitter Walker seems to take out his troubles and frustrations on one of his students Chris Hammond , Rob McElhenney , who ask for help from Walker because of problems that he has at home as well as in school . Being cold and sarcastic toward Hammond's pleas for help and understanding leads Hammond to commit suicide . This has Walker see what his being so self-centered and selfish and thinking only about himself and what's best only for himself can do to all those around him . Troy is a hot shot DA who just won a big case . After celebrating in a local bar with a couple of drinks Troy hits a young woman Beatrice , Clea Du Vall , with his car and leaves her for dead instead of trying to get help . Troy becomes so overcome with guilt over what he did that his whole outlook on him being a DA and putting people away in jail takes a whole new meaning to him . Troy loses his ability to do his job and wants only to find the women that he left for dead and make up for what he did to her . Beatrice the woman who Troy ran over is a sweet and quiet girl who works as a cleaning lady and whatever free time she has goes to church to sing in the church quire . Beatrice always believed that people are good and feels that there are miracles in the world . In a lot of ways Beatrice didn't grow up and develop the cynicism that most people develop by seeing the world for what it or what we feel it is : A cold and unforgiving place . Beatrice loses that child-like belief after her accident and later , which to Beatrice was even worse , after she was released from the hospital . It was then that a person that she worked for accused Beatrice of stealing his expensive watch which to his shock and embarrassment she showed him where she put it , in his dresser draw . Hurt and depressed by losing her faith in all that's good in the world and in peoples goodness one cold afternoon Beatrice just wanted to step off the sidewalk , and into the dangerous city traffic , and end it all . It's then when she saw a man across the street looking at her with a smile on his face , and as if he read her mind subconsciously , telling her that there's still good in the world and that her life is unique and worth living and not to foolishly throw it away . Like a miracle this man restored her faith and got Beatrice out of her depression that almost drove her to kill herself . Wade Bowman who always saw the good and positive side of life no matter how bad things got for him and not only uplifted himself but also uplifted everyone else , no matter how down and out they were , who came in contact with him had me thinking . This made me start to wonder who just was that man who's smile cut through all the cold and selfishness that gave Beatrice back her faith in human values and goodness . This when she thought that it was no longer true and valid after what she went through ? I just wonder who that man was ?
SPOILERS Ground-breaking Fritz Lang crime drama , that's also considered by many to be the very first film-noir , about a serial child murder terrorizing the streets of Weimar Germanys Berlin . Baffled by the elusive killer and unable to catch or track him down the Berlin police start to put pressure on the city's beggars pickpockets and just all around quality of life offenders thinking they may be able to break open the case for them . Feeling the heat and resenting to be lumped in with someone as loathsome as a child murderer the Berlin underworld headed by it's chief crime boss Schranker , Gustaf Grundgens , decide to solve the case themselves . In them having much more persons to be used as block watchers and a better understanding of what's going down or happening on the street . It's not that long that they eventually get a bead on who the killer is by non other then a blind bagger , Georg John , who recognizes the murderer by a tune he whistled " In the Hall of the Mountain King " . Just moments before he abducted and later killed his latest victim the nine years old girl Elsie Beckmann , Inge Landgut . The killer out on the street again to find his next victim befriends a little girl , much the same way he did Elise , and as he and the girl walk by John who's selling balloons he whistles the very same tune unknowingly identify himself . Branded by one of his pursuers with the chalk mark of a murder , the letter M , and chased by a band of the local criminals into an empty office building . The now revealed child murderer Hans Beckert , Peter Lorre , is then captured and bought to this deserted distillery on the edge of town to stand trial for murder with both his defender , Rudolf Blomner , jury and possible executions being the criminal element of the city . Gripping and thought-provoking film that has Beckert stand before a jury of his peers , criminals , and plead for his life not protesting his innocence but explaining to them his uncontrollable blood lust that had taken control of him and forced him to commit murder . There's a time during Beckert's trial that you , and the criminals who are standing in judgment of him , are moved by his tortured tearful and yes honest summation . Beckert's defender Blomner brings out that his client is as much a victim of his crimes as the persons , mostly young girls , that he murdered in that he wasn't in control of his actions when he committed his crimes . Thus making a very good insanity defense on his behalf . The persons in the distillery soon have enough of Beckert's monologue and feel that his crimes , despite his diminished mental capacity when he committed them , were deserving of the death penalty and then stormed after the terrified and repentant killer . It's then that Beckert is saved by the Berlin police who came just in the nick of time to keep him from joining his victims . Very unusual movie for it's time , 1931 , that actually tries to understand the pathology of a brutal and monstrous murderer by showing it's audience that he can easily come across as normal any one of us when he's not perpetrating his crimes . Peter Lorre as the child murderer Hans Beckert was so unoffensive and harmless looking , with a baby face and chubby appearance , that it was very easy for him to win over the confidence of the many young girls that he eventually killed . It's that what made him both so effective and dangerous as well as undetectable at the same time . Fritz Lang got the idea for the movie " M " from the real life story of German serial killer Peter Kurten who was known as the Vampire of Dusseldorf . Kurten murdered nine persons during his 1929-1930 reign of terror in that city ending up being captured by the police and put on trial for his life . Convicted of mass murder Kurten was sentenced to death , by guillotine , and despite the protests of many anti-death penalty groups in Germany as well as all over Europe to spear his life Kurten was executed in the city of Cologne on July 2 , 1931 Just two month after the movie " M " premiered . Kurten said that he got a morbid thrill when he raped mutilated and murdered his victims , sometimes ever drinking their blood . In the end he got the biggest thrill of his life when he got it in the neck and then later was made to face up to what he did , in the next world , when he finally met his maker on Judgment Day .
SPOILERS Steamy melodrama set in Florida during the middle of a record heat wave which was nothing like the heat generated on the screen by the two stars , William Hurt & Kathleen Turner , in the movie . Ned Racine , William Hurt , a local lawyer one hot steamy night at a town concert meets sexy and sultry Matty Walker , Kathleen Turner . The results of that chance meeting leads to a sizzling and torrid affair and ends in murder and deception and finally the loss of Ned's freedom in what has to be one of the most erotic and well thought out " Film Noir " movies ever made . Unlike the great " Film Noir " movies of the 1940's like " Double Indemnity " and " Out Of The Past " to name a few " Body Heat " is not hampered by the restrictions and limitations of the Hayes Commission back then . That's the reason it's much more interesting and less predictable then movies at that time were . Matty who's husband Edmund Walker , Richard Crenna , had her sign a prenuptial agreement before they were married wants him dead so that she can legally inherit all of his wealth . Matty talks a love stung and unsuspecting Ned into killing Edmund not knowing that she's only using him and will drop him as soon as her husband is dead . Ned goes along with the plan even though it seems to be against his better judgment . Even later when Ned starts to realizes that he's some how being set-up to take the fall he's still so infatuated and in love with Matty that he can't seem to help himself from going along with her scheme to kill Edmund . Edmund , the unfortunate husband of the scheming and deadly Matty , in spite of being an astute businessman and good judge of human nature as well as tough as nails doesn't see what's coming in what Matty has in store for him until it's too late . Good early career performances by Ted Danson , Peter Lowenstein , as Ned's friend and fellow lawyer and Mickey Rourke , Teddy Lewis , as an accused arsonist who Ned got off and who later reluctantly gets involved in the murder plot on Matty's husband Edmund . Teddy at first tries to have Ned change his mind about murdering Edmund but without any success . Also very effective in the film is Oscar Grace as J . A Preston a detective and friend of Ned who despite being on to Matty from the start is blind-sided by what Matty's ultimate plans really were , like everyone else in the movie . Superior story and acting with a really unsuspecting ending makes " Body Heat " not just one of the best " Film Noir " movies of all time but the one that all movies of that genre are to be compared too in the future .
