Stephen J . Cannell apparently decided a few years ago that he would broaden his horizons and dabble in horror . The result , " Dead Above Ground " , is an abysmal piece of junk . Now , had I noticed his name in association with THIS particular film I'd have put it back but no , I didn't have my glasses on and therefore I missed it , damn , I really do need to bring those with me while video shopping . First question would be , who the heck is the target audience for this ? It's almost like a " scary " kids movie , but then again there's topless babes and some gore and some bad words spouted here and there . The main characters are so cute that you want to see someone , anyone , go after them with farm implements of SOME kind . Seems that a guy opens a bed and breakfast that has a checkered past , a child-murdering witch that collected children's teeth lived there . Probably something the real estate agent failed to mention . Of course now in the modern day there's a little girls ghost around to warn the real-live little girl that now lives there that something bad is going to happen . It does , and there's also two Bubbas that were squatting on that property when the new owner took over so they're out for revenge too . This whole thing has the feel of some made-for-cable junk that's for the kids at Halloween except for , of course , the things that aren't suitable for little kids , so not only is this mediocre , it's confused , too . A big boo and hiss to Anchor Bay for putting this out too , considering their usual track record with fine releases this is a new low . The UK gets a Phantasm Box Set , we get " The Tooth Fairy " . Hardly seems fair . , absolute garbage .
I know Jesse Franco is responsible for a wide variety of films , and I mainly go for his horror films , as lousy as they are at times . I guess it was morbid curiousity that drew me to this , and I wasn't even curious enough to finish it . Maybe it got better towards the end but unless you're into lesbian sex scenes ( of which there's plenty ) then you may want to take a pass . So what exactly can you say about a movie that features a woman that pees in a bowl on the kitchen counter ( while standing up ) ? Just never you mind what that's used for later , you probably don't want to know . If this sounds intriguing to you , then that's your problem but then again you might just like this movie . I myself , am no prude , I've seen plenty of disgusting movies in my day but at least they were done well , and this isn't . Sometimes too much is just too much . Bleah .
Kitten Natividad , of Russ Meyer film fame , plays Chastity Knott , a woman who has found she has breast cancer , so she goes to South America to get some special fruit ( Crockazilla ? ) that is supposed to have healing powers . After going down on some of this fruit ( which appears to be plastic bananas on stalks ) Chastity is endowed with some mystical magical powers that makes her a super-hero , specifically , The Double D Avenger . Note that she's also wearing a pair of panties as a mask . In writing , that all sounds pretty good . In execution , well , it leaves more than a little to be desired . It seems that Chastity owns a pub and a local strip joint is upset because she's taking away their business so some of the strippers ( including Haji , also of Russ Meyer film fame ) go after her to ruin her . Of course , Chastity fights back in the guise of the Double D Avenger . Watch her do a " Wonder Woman " type spin to change into her outfit and also lose her balance due to excessive centrifugal force . Bad jokes and lame double entendres fly like there was no tomorrow . With the inane theme song playing over and over this comes off like a twisted 70's " live action " kid's show with adult content , although while this is unrated it could probably get away with PG-13 at the worst . And it's probably a blessing that the faded stars kept well covered . This makes Doris Wishman's Chesty Morgan films look positively wonderful in comparison . Special appearance by Forest J . Ackerman but so what . Very stupid , and I'm never buying another film with Joe Bob Briggs on the cover . .
There's a lot of bad horror movies coming from Texas these days , and this is but one , the tale of a slaughterhouse worker that was killed and then comes back to life 10 years later to exact his revenge , or something along those lines . We have your usual under-brained and over-sexed teenagers , busily killing off whatever brain cells they have left with beer & pot , deciding to go see this place , and this guy called Stoner who is set up to dress up like the killer and scare the girls on tape . Whee . Throughout the course of the film young Stoner consumes enough wacky tobaccy to immobilize a small country but is still conscious , or what passes for conscious if you're in a movie like this . He doesn't get out of his car , and when the kids think he's in there all dressed up , nope , it's the real thing . There's one almost decent special effect in which the guy that has the sickle says " I gotta split " and does , but I've already seen THAT effect in Ichi the Killer , which is done much better and is a movie more worthy of your time than this video cow-patty . Not a scare to be found , not an original idea or decent script either , but our buds at Lion's Gate see fit to put it out at their usual outrageous price ? Yeah , whatever , and I'm being generous here , duuude .
I supposed I was actually expecting a Bollywood remake of " The Fog " , from the title , but this is actually more of a Bollywood remake of " I Know What You Did Last Summer " , with some elements of " Scream " , kind of , sort of , and not a very good one either . Apart from a couple very entertaining song & dance numbers , this is pretty terrible . It's obviously got a decent budget & yet it's wasted on reheated leftovers that weren't that tasty to begin with . A young woman is threatened by a creepy guy to not enter a beauty contest , because he wants his sister to win ( she , thankfully , doesn't look as creepy as her brother ) , but she enters anyway and wins , and of course the creepy guy comes after her , and is killed , after which comes a rousing game of " hide the body " . Of course , the body disappears and no one seems to know why , but someone knows , and they're waiting for the end to reveal a ridiculous plot twist . Interspersed with all this tired rehash are a few nifty dance numbers , especially the celebratory dance number at the party for Simran , the girl who won the beauty contest . . . it's highly colorful , it's well done & downright fun , and utterly wasted in this terrible film . I would much rather watch an old Ramsay brothers movie than this piece of crap , although someone has deemed that these don't need to be made available , for the most part , which is a crime in itself . But not as big of a crime as this film . I took one for the team watching this one , so take my advice , don't bother . .
I read somewhere that Doris Wishman directed films like she'd never seen one before . Maybe that's why some of the reviews for this movie have such high ratings , because the reviewers have't ever seen another movie ? I can't imagine who would watch this and not gape in awe at the number of highly improbable occurrences & the astounding number of clichés . Liam Neeson plays as retired CIA or government operative of some kind , who foolishly signs papers to let his daughter go to Paris to study art at museums . Actually she's going to be a U2 groupie & follow the band all over Europe . The daughter & her friend aren't in Paris for more than a few minutes before they're kidnapped by Albanian white-slavers but of course with the help of a cell phone , Neeson gets to Europe & all is well in a matter of a couple of days . Someone should take note of this and send him in search of Osama Bin Laden . This film is chock full clichés . . . the bitchy ex-wife ( Famke Jensen ) , the new and filthy rich hubby ( Xander Berkeley ) , and the daughter even gets a pony for her birthday ! She's 17 and runs around in little-girl dresses & sneakers . . ? The array of gadgets that Neeson employs in his hunt are mind-bogglingly improbable , and the speed in which he manages to find & dispatch the bad guys in this , never stopping to rest at any time , is completely unbelievable & ridiculous . Of course we have the smug government bureaucrat that tells Neeson that " he has to understand that this was not personal , only business " . Anyone uttering lines like that MUST be shot , that should be a law . Anyway , I guess this would be fine for some , but I'm not even sure what age group this film is aimed at , apparently not mine . .
After having seen this , I think that I appreciate " Wrestling Women vs . the Aztec Mummy " much more . And other Mexican horror movies with " wrestling " themes . A bunch of sleazy amateur porno film makers are wandering Mexico in a van . They , of course , break down in some ( almost ) abandoned village , La Sangre De Dios , where years ago , a crazed wrestler was exiled , due to killing his opponents . No guesswork required to figure out what happens next . Part of what Mexican wrestlers do to humiliate their opponents is to remove their masks , and in the case of people that aren't WEARING masks , well , removing their faces is apparently the only solution . Yuck . There are no likable characters in this , except for perhaps " Steve " ( Jeremy Radin ) , who plays a " Mexican " ( born in Seattle ) and who is extremely knowledgeable about all that has to do with Mexican wrestling , and he even has his own mask . I kind of liked the idea of a crazed , murderous , lobotomized wrestler hanging out in an abandoned village , the stuff of legends and all . It's a lot of the REST of this film that I didn't like , and I guess if I have to watch a wrestling horror movie I'd prefer it to be Santo or " Night of the Bloody Apes " or something like that . The stuff of old is much more fun . This is just cheesy and I didn't feel it was worth much . .
First , I'd like to say that I had the Paragon Video release of this for years & I missed hearing that wonderful fanfare when I watched the Code Red DVD release . If you're not familiar with Paragon , they put out the absolute bottom-of-the-barrel stuff , that I guess nobody else would . And amazingly enough , they also released Boardinghouse , which is definitely bottom-of-the-barrel , if not deeper , yet . . . it has a certain something to it , otherwise , I'd have never watched it so many times over the years . First , we have the Hoffman house , where many strange things have happened to the previous owners . In other words , they all died . The last person to die was the uncle of Jim , a kind of new-age metaphysical dude , who promptly moves in and rents the rooms to a bunch of babes . Of course , whatever nastiness haunts the Hoffman house is still there , and strange and nasty things occur . Nobody seems to notice that there seems to always be flies buzzing around too . There's also a charming gardener , a Viet Nam vet who Jim keeps around because he saved his uncle's life . The gardener is just a bit on the creepy side , and the girls get a bit freaked when he gets too close with sharp objects , chainsaws , etc . There are plenty of laughable special effects to keep you entertained , and this film is done in " Horror Vision " , which means that when someone is about to be dispatched , there's a black glove surrounded by . . uh . . colored lines , electrical impulses , something . There's also a shower scene where one girl finds herself dressed in a pig-faced Halloween mask , but it seems to be all in her head . For a fancy house , man , that shower sure looks like it could use a good cleaning , really . One woman , Victoria , is the singer for a rock band , so Jim asks her to have her band play & the gang decides to throw a big house-warming party with disastrous results . Of course , all hell breaks loose and it turns out one of the girls that's moved into the house isn't what she seems at all . This movie is filmed on video , has tons of really bad special effects , lots of t & a , plenty of music that makes one realize how bad 80's music could be , and is , in general , a complete piece of trash . Having said all that though , it also contains enough unintentional humor and just plain unfathomable weirdness , that it's a bad movie lover's delight . Even the DVD release can't save some of the more badly-filmed parts but the utter cheesiness of the whole proceeding remains intact . .
Did you know that " Killer Likes Candy " is now on DVD ? Hard to say why , but it's really not terrible and is a fun Saturday afternoon film when the weather is bad , but nothing much more . The story is that of a hired assassin that is out to kill the king of a prosperous oil-producing country , and he likes candy , of course , and leaves little wrappers all over the place . To protect our king we have two agents , one of whom is Kerwin Matthews , the other , his goofy body-building womanizing partner , is Ventanino Ventanini , who has appeared in everything from " La Cage Aux Folles " to Italian cannibal gore flicks . The soundtrack music puts me in mind of " The 10th Victim " and other such Italian films , and is typical of the sort of " lounge " music of the time , except not terribly appropriate for the film . Of course , if our king dies , there will be a power struggle and things that shouldn't happen , but the king happens to have a physical ailment that he wants to hide from the public , with good reason . Of course , our intrepid candy-eating killer manages to find and infiltrate almost every situation where the king is present but still no luck on the kill . There are a bunch of goons out to stop our heroes from protecting the king , of course , and some of the fight scenes & such are fairly interesting , especially a confrontation that takes place in a park that is full of old statues , some of which are huge . Gordon Mitchell , former body-builder , is one of these goons , and he's appropriately creepy . So , nothing too intense here , really , but it's not a bad little time passer , really . Available as part of a " Rareflix " 3-DVD set that has other films that otherwise would not have seen a DVD release , and maybe with good reason . .
I haven't seen many " Masters of Horror " shows , because I don't have cable & therefore I have to see these on DVD . I have been pretty disappointed with what I've seen from the 2nd season so far and frankly , The Washingtonians kind of stunk . Oh , it's a good idea , the execution left a lot to be desired . A family moves to the house belonging to a now-deceased relative , grandma , I reckon , and the whole area is rather alien & creepy to this family . Even dad didn't like visiting this house when he was a kid , and his daughter sure as heck doesn't like it . When a painting of George Washington is knocked over in the basement there's a bit of parchment & a strange utensil found in the corner of it , and the parchment seems to indicate that " the father of our country " had some rather nasty eating habits . And there's a whole " fringe of the fringe " group in that general area of the country that follow his traditions , including dressing up like colonials and eating the local populace . And they now know about the parchment & they want to stop its contents from becoming known to all . Sounds interesting , right ? Well , I suppose it would have been had it been handled better . And this was directed by Peter Medak ? Are you kidding me ? The guy that directed the awesome " The Ruling Class " ? Geez . . . well , I dunno , this episode wasn't terrible but it just wasn't very good either , a bit on the sketchy side but hey , it was written by Bentley Little , and that's kind of the way his books are too . . . . start out good & he runs out of ideas before the end . I guess I can safely stay away from most of the rest of the 2nd season of " Masters of Horror " after this one . .
First off , I'd say that if you want to watch a woman get revenge on people that have wronged her , try " I Spit on Your Grave " instead . Having said that though , if you still want to watch this , the production values are pretty low , the acting is not very good , and there's some stomach-turning scenes that won't be for anyone with a weak constitution . That certainly narrows down the viewing audience . I have to say that I've seen worse though . Some of the settings are kind of cool though , like an old church with a creepy cemetery . Anyway , it seems like some guy who has committed a murder has escaped from prison and comes back to take revenge on those who wronged him , except one problem is that one of the people he's planned to take revenge on is his ex-girlfriend who turns the tables on him & kills him . That leaves 3 guys chained up in a basement who also happen to be guys that wronged HER as well , so it's a very convenient situation for her to carry out her revenge since the players are all there . Very violent , very gory , very nasty stuff . It would have helped if the main character was at least somewhat attractive , in fact , it doesn't even look like she would like guys at all . And she certainly doesn't like the ones chained up in the basement . This is definitely a few notches down the ladder from " Scrapbook " which is pretty stomach-turning itself but at least it's much better done . .
You know this is a quality film when a girl in her nightie rises up from her bed and goes for a drive in her purple AMC Gremlin in the first few minutes . The " lead " character , Laval , looks like Ted Nugent . One of the " would be " satanists looks like the class geek ( and we're also treated to him dancing " the bump " with some woman taller than he is , by far ) . The Satan creature looks like a demonically-possessed Cookie Monster , complete with glowing red eyes , except for one scene where the eyes don't glow ? So much for continuity . The dialogue is laughably bad , not to mention the delivery , strictly amateur hour . It's not terribly clear who a good portion of the characters are , why they appear at all , or what they're doing , but the film just lurches along despite that . Gunnar Hansen has a role in this but I guess I missed him , didn't recognize him or something . There's also a lovely scene where one character is shot in the crotch with an arrow . Ow . Anyway , this one's a real hoot , not that it was intended to be , but if you're a big fan of " so bad it's good " stuff you'll enjoy this . . . it's hell-arious .
I'm not one to get pushed out of shape seeing a faded actress ( or actor ) playing in a cheesy movie for a few bucks , once they're past their prime , but apparently plenty of other people are . The actress in question here is Lana Turner , who starred in plenty of older films but I couldn't tell you what one of them was , as I'm sure I've never seen them . Here , she plays an actress , Adriana Roman , who has married a wealthy man with a daughter , Lisa , who has a heavy accent , maybe because she went to school in Switzerland ? Don't know . Anyway , after a rather short marriage that ends with a tragic accident , Adriana finds herself the heir of her late husband and her step-daughter stands to inherit all the money that Adriana has just inherited IF she gets married . So of course , why wouldn't she get married ? All she needs is her step-mom's consent , because she already has a beau in sleazy gold-digger Johnny . Now , Johnny has some hip and happening hippie artist friends and they're into LSD , and Johnny , who is a medical student , has been cooking it up for them all . That is , until someone finds out and kicks him out of school . But Johnny has figured out that by spiking Adriana's medications he might be able to drive her nuts , or even kill her , and Lisa sort of goes along , but doesn't realize quite how far he intends to go . Of course , we're all treated to what Adriana sees while she's tripping , and it's not very groovy , in fact , it's a bad trip , man . This film is often hilariously bad , and yet it seems to have a strange quality to it that may or may not have something to do with it being a Mexican production . The groovy nightclub scenes and the hip and happening hippie stuff is seemingly a very weak and forced approximation . All in all this is pretty strange , and I never knew this even existed until the recent release of " Cult Camp Classics " . Worth a look , but nothing to get overly excited about . Does yield a few unintended laughs though . .
Sinthia , the Devil's Doll , is the work of Ray Dennis Steckler , despite the name he chose to hide behind as director . And why did he choose to hide behind another name , I wonder ? If he didn't hide behind another name on his older films then why bother with THIS one ? Well , I do love Steckler's older films , like " The Incredibly Strange Creatures . . " and " Rat Pfink A Boo-Boo " and all that stuff , but there's a very cheesy charm to it all that " Sinthia " seems to lack . Maybe because it's supposed to be an adult feature ? Or maybe because it's filmed as one long hallucination or something ? As near as I can tell , Sinthia had somewhat of an obsession with her dad , and got jealous when her dad paid attention to her mom , so obviously Sinthia has issues . But not for long , because she stabs mom & dad to death and then burns down the house . Fast forward 6 years to where Sinthia has just gotten out of the loony-bin , I guess , and is undergoing some kind of treatment or therapy to help her get over what happened 6 years ago , and then we're off meandering into la-la land from there . Sinthia seems to wander beaches , get into group gropes , and meet all manner of strange people and after a while I lost track of what the hell was going on and ceased to care . . . . all I know is that eventually it ended and I put it away and went to bed . I guess I'm disappointed that it's not the goofy strangeness of Steckler's earlier work , it's just strange with little in the way of redeeming values . .
" Fingerprints " isn't terrible , and it does have some genuinely spooky moments , but it also has plot holes big enough to drive a train though ( or a bus , perhaps ) . The premise is that 40 years ago , a bus full of school kids were hit by a train , due to a malfunctioning crossing signal , and all died . Now , in the present , there's a urban legend that if you go to this spot , put your car in neutral and wait , little hands will push your car to safety across the tracks . Now , in this town are some new residents , a family that has apparently just moved there from California , with two teenage daughters , Crystal & Melanie . It seems that Melanie has just gotten out of rehab , after overdosing on heroin with her boyfriend , who died . So the parents ( especially the psycho-bitch mom ) are a bit freaked out that Mel will just drift right back to what she was doing . Of course , as soon as Mel settles in , Crystal takes her to a party where lots of drugs and alcohol are present , and they end up in a car with the local bad-boy , who takes them to the tracks to do the " urban legend " thing . They wait till a train is coming too , and just before it gets there , Mel sees a young girl standing on the tracks . Mel will see a lot of this young girl in the days to come , and perhaps she has the ability to see ghosts because of having died and been brought back to life after overdosing . But she doesn't yet know that Julie is a ghost . She does find though , that Julie has a sister , now an old woman , who lives in town , and upon visiting her , a strange remark is made about the bus crash that supposedly happened . . . like , there never was one ? So now Melanie is looking back at old newspapers for signs of a cover-up . And it seems like there was one , and that perhaps the ghost of Julie's father , the train station conductor , is now stalking teens in this town . And here is where this film begins to unravel into utter nonsense . The film takes a while to start getting to the good stuff , and when it gets there it's interesting , but then it becomes sketchy and begins to fall apart and doesn't make much sense . And therefore it becomes merely average , just another half-assed spook show for teens . I'm sure some will like this more than others but I was greatly disappointed . .
This is a film about young women being kidnapped from Manila in order to satisfy the blood-drinking requirements of some cult out in the jungle that must drink blood to stay young . Now , that's about the whole story line but most of my time was spent wondering about the clothes and sets . The clothes are rather amazing , except for a small group of men with shaved heads that wear loincloths , all the rest of the cast have these pastel Roman Empire " sword and sandal epic " sort of clothes that look like they may have also been suitable for Star Trek , and John Considine sports a high collar that reminds me of the type of collar that vets use to prevent dogs from licking themselves after surgery . On the women these clothes look fine , on the men , well , these little shorty robes don't quite cut it . The sets are rather interesting too , are all the rocks painted a shade of pastel blue ? And the caves that they live in ? Seem to be . Anyway , this is a movie with lots of ceremonies and preparations and stupid hand gestures and all kinds of other decorum that one usually associates with women getting their blood sucked out to keep some wacko cult young and pretty . There's also a bunch of old women that are being detained , I'm assuming that they used to be young and pretty before they got most of their blood sucked and they're locked away in cells and not particularly happy with their situation , as is evidenced when they're cut loose finally . This is not a film that ends gracefully either , it just kind of goes on and on long after you think it's finally ending . It's not terrible and definitely has something for someone who watches movies for unintentional entertainment value like myself . .
Joey & Laura are in love . Laura falls and breaks her neck ( I guess ) trying to get a kitten down from a high spot in her apartment . Right when the guys from the morgue show up to get her , Joey wraps her in a sheet & packs a few items ( including a gun ) and hits the road to somewhere with Laura's dead body . A good portion of this is wet and rainy road scenes , with hypnotic music and poetry read over the top . Joey stops at various motels along the way and makes sure Laura still looks good by applying makeup , sewing up breaks in her skin , etc . At one point Joey has his car stolen ( with Laura in it ) while he's getting coffee , and yet after some random hitch hiking and wandering , he happens to come across it , the keys still in it , and Laura still in it . Perhaps someone abandoned her because she was a poor conversationalist . This is kind of arty , kind of slow , but has enough strangeness to it to be somewhat appealing . As Laura begins to decompose , Joey begins to becomes more unstable , and eventually he reaches the point where he decides to join Laura . I can't say this would be widely appreciated or recommended , but it's worth seeing once , anyway . .
Filmed in beautiful Monterey , CA , " Satan's Black Wedding " is the story of a young man who comes from So . Cal . to a funeral , only to arrive back at his sister's house to find another funeral is necessary . Although , considering the condition of her room , she did not commit suicide as her note said , for there is blood splattered in every conceivable place . Seems that she was working on the history of some creepy local church and what took place there years ago , and seems that she got a bit too close to the truth . The main character , Mark , goes to talk with a few people about his sister to see if he can find out what really happened , and one of those people is his aunt , but not long after he speaks with her she and her housekeeper are brutally slain by someone with a nasty mouthful of plastic novelty teeth . Mark does find a book his sister was working on with a friend , and seeks out that friend , who also happens to be an old romantic interest of his , and finds that his sister was obsessed with this old church , and that at that spot the devil supposedly appeared back in the 1800's and all the nuns and monks there ( it was co-ed ? ) converted over to the dark side , and that included the priest too , who bears a striking resemblance to the current priest that hangs out around there . This has a decent atmosphere to it , really , and some of the scenes of Monterey are truly striking , but the cheesy effects drag this down a bit . Still , it's not too bad although the ending is a bit of a " we ran out of money so let's wrap it up " type . Worth digging out for a look , also on the same DVD is " Criminally Insane " so it's not a complete loss overall . .
This is a film that I guess you could call a guilty pleasure . I wouldn't expect to EVER see something like this in a movie theater . This is so tasteless , politically incorrect , and disgusting that I felt I should not be laughing at it . . . but I did . Yes , it's pretty funny , actually , and rather gory too , but it does sort of run out of steam toward the end . There's a couple that are hiking in the woods & come across some kind of stream in a cave , and after drinking the water , the guy ( who apparently has Tourette's Syndrome ) sees something on the bottom of the stream that glows that turns him into a zombie , and of course being right there , his girlfriend apparently is transformed too . And this is right in the area of Camp Special Dude , a camp for the mentally and physically handicapped . The counselors at Camp Special Dude are a rather callous & horny bunch , and they're far less interested in their charges than they are in lots of wild sex , especially Mac ( short for Machiavelli ) . When zombies invade Camp Special Dude all hell breaks loose and many of the inhabitants are transformed into zombies , and of course the few that aren't are scrambling for their lives and fighting back . Mac is rather handy with Nunchucks and Todd is rather handy with glue and Popsicle sticks . There's also some tough guy named Eriq , who " got on the wrong bus " and ended up at the camp instead of Boot Camp , who is followed by a young lady with a bicycle helmet , and whose saga drifts in and out of the rest of the action . This is sometimes hilarious , sometimes disgusting , and is sort of a throwback to 80's film making sensibilities at times too . This is fun if you don't take it too seriously and are able to laugh at things that you'd probably be condemned for by your peers . . . . but the humor & the gore seem to lose momentum toward the end . Not a bad indie effort , worth seeing . .
I found a used copy of this & it seemed intriguing , especially since the write up on the box placed it in league with Donnie Darko , but it's nowhere near the quirky strangeness of that film , it's merely a sort of coming-of-age drama that takes place in a small town in Iceland . Noi is an albino who lives with his grandmother & who also has somewhat of a relationship with his loser dad . All Noi dreams of is getting away from where he is , school isn't important and he shows up from time to time but isn't much of a participant . The school principle has him tested by a visiting psychiatrist and it's discovered that he's above average in intelligence . Way above average . The problem with this film is that nothing much is followed through ; themes are presented and then dropped without going anywhere . Noi is eventually expelled from school and gets a job digging graves ( in Iceland ? ) and his grandmother sets up an appointment for him with the local fortune teller who reads the tea leaves and gives him a grim pronouncement . In short this seems to be about quiet desperation to get away from a very isolated and grim place , and the ending is somewhat depressing but life goes on , in some fashion . Overall though , this seemed a bit sketchy and thrown together , not that it didn't have its moments but a lot of things could have been presented or explored better . Just OK .
According to the box art , this is an attempt ( or tribute ) to " Giallo " films of old , 70's , 80's . And as that , it's not bad at all , really . It's certainly got the look and feel down . Unfortunately this loses a point for being dubbed , and the dubbing is rather terrible . This features stars from older films , like " Lizard in Woman's Skin " and " Tenebrae " , and also features Franco Nero as a loony street preacher . There are murders taking place in an apartment building where there are a few VERY odd residents . . . a painter who does macabre paintings and has stumbled across a way to get rid of her meddling housekeeper ; a former star who is going to stage a comeback with the help of her lover / manager , and a young man who has just moved in who is apparently into deviant sexual behavior . And of course , there's the person who commits murders with a metal set-square , very messy but very precise , ha ha . And , there's also the resident magistrate , who is on the case . Throw in someone that's down on their luck who has unwittingly become someone's pawn , and there you have it . I'm not quite sure what people expected but this certainly takes its cue from the BETTER Giallo films , and really , not all the old ones were that good . It's unfortunate that the dubbing job is so bad , because this is not that old of a film & it would have been nice to have it presented in original Italian with subtitles . Would have been if not for the dubbing .
I got this for $2 in a bargain bin & as it had been on my list of things that I was interested in seeing , it was well worth the price . A police woman ( Marie Windsor ) has gone undercover to infiltrate the remains of the Nardo gang , three women who did not get the chair like their male cohorts did . The Nardo gang stole some diamonds and buried them somewhere in a swamp , and Windsor helps them to break out so they can go recover them . Along the way they run into trouble with their boat , but along comes hapless Mike Connors and his beau , and they're promptly taken hostage & their boat is commandeered for the diamond hunt . Eventually Connors beau tries to escape and meets with an unfortunate demise but Connors does get to wrestle an alligator . The woman frequently squabble among themselves & there's a bit of greed over the diamonds , and over Connors . Eventually they do recover the diamonds but then there are crosses & double-crosses to deal with and some incredible " girl fights " , one of which raises quite a bit of dust , considering they're in a swamp . This is trashy fun , and it's rather funny for the women to be fighting over Connors since they all seem rather , uh , butch . But they sure do look good when they cut the legs of their pants off . Not bad for a trashy B-movie . .
I can't say how " complete " this film is , having never seen it before , but I did rather like the atmosphere and feel to it . This is a new release on " Substance " who distribute a lot of older films , and I did read where the Brentwood release was heavily cut , but I can't speak for that on this version because I just don't know . Seems that a lot of people are passing through this fog-bound little valley and are all meeting with accidents , leading them all to this creepy old house by a cemetery . One couple has seen what appears to be a chauffeur and a woman with him in the fog , but that couldn't be because those folks died 40 years previously in a car accident right at the cemetery wall . Or did they ? One by one strange things happen to the " guests " and there's really something else going on , but we , the viewers , don't really understand that until the twist is revealed near the end . Overall this is a bit cheesy and sometimes too talky but it does redeem itself with some good creepy scares and the setting is perfect . Not a bad little flick but at times is a tad on the dull side . A good diversion for a rainy afternoon . .
The title of the DVD on Tokyo Shock is " Japanese Hell " so it is a bit hard to find on IMDb under that name . At any rate , we have a young lady who is given a chance to take a look at Hell without dying and going there , so that she may tell others that it isn't the happening place to be . It's also a chance for her to see where she's headed if she doesn't straighten up and fly right , too . Now , she is or will be a member of the Shinrikyo Cult , you know , the folks that used Sarin gas on the subway a few years back ? That part of the movie is quite creepy , as cult members run around wearing masks of The Great Leader . Kind of Charlie Manson from the Land of the Rising Sun . Anyway , the Hell parts are quite explicit and gory but they're also kind of campy and look to be pulled off by a bunch of amateurs at times , what with demons and dragons and other creepies running about . It was nice to see the attack on the lawyers for the Shinrikyo cult though , I see contempt for lawyers is a universal thing , not just an American phenomenon . Overall though I was a little puzzled by this whole thing , as in , what the HELL am I watching ? I guess it wasn't bad but it's hard to say how it was intended to be taken . Not too seriously , I hope !
The Pang Brothers new film is their first American release , and like many recent American films by foreign directors , it's unfortunately , undistinguished ( see Vacancy , as one example . . or better , don't ) . But , it's really not all that bad , it's just not really all that good . To escape from the horrors of life in Chicago and unemployment that has haunted dear old dad , a family picks up and moves to start anew on a sunflower farm in North Dakota . Sounds like a great idea to me . But something ( of course ) happened in the house they movie into and that something has been waiting for the next family to move in . Seems like the house has somewhat of a history . Anyway , despite the odd occurrences , things seem to settle down for a bit and a new helper even shows up to work on the farm , and becomes almost part of the family . I guess nobody checked his references , for he's somehow connected with what is now beginning to happen in that house . Seems like daughter Jess & her little brother Ben see things in the house and around it ; seemingly ghostly apparitions of the former tenants . When dad hurts himself on the tractor and mom has to drive him to town for treatment they leave the kids and all hell breaks loose . Jess even encounters an apparition in the barn which attacks her and wounds her , and when she's taken for treatment the doctor says that she did it herself , and her parents are quick to believe that , because Jess seems to have caused a car accident ( by drinking with her friends ) and hurt her younger brother in the accident , so he doesn't talk anymore . When things begin oozing out of the walls and floorboards mom decides that maybe Jess IS telling the truth . I suppose that The Messengers in this are not the denizens of the house , but the surly crows that hang around and attack the place in huge flocks . And of course , that brings to mind only ONE film , that being by Alfred Hitchcock . I dunno , this wasn't that great but it also wasn't that bad , but there's nothing about it that says it IS the Pang Brothers , so if you're a fan of their films don't expect much . Actually , come to think of it , some of their foreign stuff has been a little mediocre , too . .
Joe is a young man who has been diagnosed with a mysterious terminal disease , and does not know how long he has to live . Armed with only a set of tapes stolen from his therapist , a gun , and a bunch of prescription lollipops , he sets out on a journey to find a girl , Joyce , that he grew up with , whose picture he still has . On the way he hooks up with Seth , a religious cult member whose heart isn't exactly into the philosophies of his sect , and he narrowly escapes being shot . Apparently Joyce was at one time a member of this sect too , and she took off for New Orleans with some other member . While driving through Texas on their way to New Orleans , they pick up bad ventriloquist Kyle Gass ( from Tenacious D ) and dump him again after Joe shoots his obnoxious dummy . And then , New Orleans , only to find Joyce has moved on yet again , but they do manage to " rescue " a girl named Fanny who has come to audition for this ridiculous venue in which topless girls roller skate while old men sing karaoke . . . eek ! Fanny also has some awesome eye makeup , literally . Eventually the trio ends up in Florida , and Joe does find a carnival which was Joyce's last known whereabouts . And he does find Joyce , and the viewer finds a rather touching ending , but not for reasons you might think . This is a movie that had a lot of potential but it was not quite realized . It's not a bad movie , its intentions are great & it has its moments , but it could have probably been a lot more powerful than it was . I still enjoyed it . .
" Laid to Rest " begins with a woman waking up in a coffin , and eventually flipping it off the table on which it sits to free herself , only to find she's in a funeral home , and she has no memory of who she is . She manages to get out of there but not before she witnesses the killing of the elderly funeral director ( or coroner , whatever he is / was ) , and is picked up by a gimpy guy ( Kevin Gage , of the sub-par " Chaos " ) . He takes her back to his place but they seem to be stalked by some character in a silver face mask . . . with a big honking knife , and a score to settle , of some kind . In trying to get help these two hook up with a rural computer nerd , and eventually end up in a standoff with the masked killer , etc . This has some VERY nasty killings in it , plenty of gore but it's also odd enough to be interesting . . . just not great . For instance , who is the woman who woke up in the coffin & where did she come from ? Ah , it's all revealed late in the film , but won't be HERE . There is no apparent motive for this killer though , we never know who he really is or why he's doing what he's doing , and for some , I guess it'll be enough that he's just causing bloodshed right and left . This may also be the first film to utilize " Fix-A-Flat " as a murder weapon . It's not pretty , let me tell you . This is kind of creepy & dark , and has a fairly decent atmosphere to it , which kind of makes up a bit for some of the plot holes . Not any Academy Award winner , but a few good squirms & fairly entertaining . .
This isn't top-notch horror but it still has some good creepy moments . A man & his wife relocate to a small cabin in the mountains after their young daughter is killed by an intruder . The wife is distraught ( understandably ) but when she gets out and about and starts taking photographs again , she begins to see things that nobody else can . A visit from some friends up from the city leads to them making excuses and leaving quickly after the husband thinks he saw something and ended up with a big bump on his head . Anyway , the husband , Allen , begins to investigate strange goings on in this particular area , because according to the local handyman , some people killed themselves in this particular cabin & it has a shady past . There's also some kind of abandoned jail that belongs to the county that seems to figure into this somewhere , but it's never explained . Of course Allen gets a bit too close to the truth and must be stopped , but the ghosts of tenants past get to Julie and tragedy occurs . Despite some plot holes & struggling against a low budget , this still comes off fairly well & has a decent enough feel to it . Some pretty creepy moments too . Worth seeing once , anyway . .
Carved is about a supposed " urban legend " , a woman with a slit for a mouth & a surgical mask & a long coat who kidnaps little children . It doesn't seem to matter if they've been bad or not , apparently . She doesn't care . When rumors circulate that the slit mouthed woman is back in town , 3 young boys hide in a park & wait to see her appear , and appear she does , and one of them is kidnapped . The problem seems to be though that the woman does not appear on her own , her spirit seems to possess innocent women who then get killed and leave orphans hanging around . Two young teachers from a school where the children keep disappearing from go in search of this mysterious woman & it seems that the man has secrets in his past that tie him to the slit mouthed woman , and he and the other teacher try to banish her and send her to rest , but of course not without at least another innocent mom biting the dust . This is pretty average and I suppose I'm getting a bit tired of " Tartan Asia Extreme " because nothing seems very extreme , for the most part . .
Don't expect edge-of-your-seat horror from " The Car " , but it's an entertaining 70's film with just enough going on to keep your interest . The acting is fairly terrible , especially Ronnie Cox , but no matter , just sit back & enjoy the ride . A big black car has appeared out of nowhere & is terrorizing the residents of Santa Ynez , a small desert community . So far it's taken out a couple of young cyclists and a young man with a French Horn hitch-hiking back home to NY . And yet it's not done . What is the car ? Where did it come from ? Nobody seems to be really sure , but it's killing people and the townspeople just want to defend themselves . After the police chief is run down on the street in town , with only an old Indian woman as witness , it's determined that the car has no driver . And then it terrorizes a bunch of school kids and teachers and traps them in an old cemetery , which the car will not enter . . . so someone puts two and two together & it's apparently something devilish . There are some plot elements that don't go anywhere , like Ronnie Cox being a drunk who has been sober a couple years & yet has started hitting the bottle again , and a dirt-bag old man who beats his wife , but those little tidbits fall by the wayside in favor of lots of horn-honking and engine revving . Of course , eventually you know the good guys come out on top , and yet nothing is ever explained . If you like 70's movies then you'll probably like this fine , but otherwise this is merely entertaining with nothing about it that makes it particularly awesome or anything . But being entertaining is what movies are all about , I think . .
I guess this movie didn't do too well when it came out and for 1970 the subject matter wasn't quite as acceptable as it is nowadays . Anyway this is the story of Myron Breckinridge , who undergoes a sex change in Copenhagen & becomes Myra . Now , Myron / Myra is / was the nephew of a famous acting school owner ( as played by John Huston ) and he never liked Myron much but while Myra is something to look at he's finding he doesn't like her much either , especially since she's trying to extract money from him . Now , as for believing that , with a little surgery , Rex Reed could become Raquel Welch , well , that's a bit far fetched , to say the least . Myra's goal is to bring the downfall of all men , or something to that effect , and while it is a noble goal it's probably unattainable in the confines of one movie . Also , we have a wonderful performance by Mae West , doing some of her usual racy lines , not to mention appearances by Farrah Fawcett , Jim Backus , and Tom Selleck . This is sort of twisted fun but more a curiosity than a great flick . Without a doubt one of the weirdest things to come out of Hollywood . .
I got a few good laughs out of " Wanted " , which is based on a comic book and directed by Timur Bekmambetov , of " Nightwatch " and " Daywatch " fame . This is the tale of one Wesley Gibson , who has an accounting job , and whose best friend is sleeping with his girlfriend , and whose boss is a control-freak bitch , etc . , etc . He takes medication for anxiety attacks and is generally a big nobody . But along comes one Fox , played by Angelina Jolie , and Wesley's life changes forever . It seems that Wesley's dad , who left his mother when Wesley was 7 days old , was a highly-trained assassin and has just been killed and now Wesley is being drawn into this society of super-assassins , headed up by Sloan ( Morgan Freeman ) , who operate out of a textile factory . What happens next is Weslely goes into a sort of training mode because he has what his father had and is now being recruited to put it to good use . If you liked " Nightwatch " and " Daywatch " , then you'll probably like this . It's got the same sort of wild , over-the-top action and lots of strange special effects . I particularly liked the idea that if you put enough " english " on a gun when you fire it , you can shoot around things in your way . This has a twist to it , and that is basically that things were not what they seemed , and that how certain characters were presented is not who they really are , which is kind of standard but I didn't suspect what was eventually revealed . Not a bad film , reasonably entertaining with a few good laughs & lots of over-the-top stuff to keep your interest . It did drag in spots , though , which is my only complaint . My parents were taken by some friends to see this , and they were horrified , which is as good of an endorsement for this as I could get . In watching this , I always kept that in mind which , perversely , probably made me like this even more . .
Crimson begins with some cool jazzy music so I liked it immediately , but as the film wore on I began to wonder if the music wasn't the best part . We have some thieves pulling a jewel heist and when one does something wrong the alarm is triggered and the cops chase them and when the car turns around at a road block one of the thieves ( Paul Nash , Jacinto Molina , whoever he is here ) gets shot . Now , it seems like he might die but with the help of a drunken doctor and his mad-scientist friend ( and wife ) he is saved , with a part of the brain of some nightclub owner called " The Sadist " . The Sadist is unfortunate in that the gentlemen that kidnapped him lost their knife to remove is head , so to add insult to injury ( or , in this case , death ) , they remove his head using a train , leaving the body for the authorities to find , oops . Once the brain transplant is complete Naschy wants to ravage any woman that comes near him , because he now has the mindset of his donor . Well , of course this is all pretty improbable and features medical equipment that looks to have been purchased at Radio Shack , and overall it's pretty cheesy and sleazy . But , it has a good early 70's look and feel to it and the music is cool . This isn't so much a horror movie but more a thriller with lots of thugs battling it out over turf and babes and other thug-type things , but it's strangely entertaining in ways I can't begin to describe . .
" The Others " is a good film , and this remake ( or re-imagining ) is not bad . The storyline follows the original film fairly closely but in a different setting , and there are a couple differences from this and the original . I enjoyed the original , and this is well done also , so I have no real complaints . The story is that a woman lives in a big old house with her two children , who are kept in darkness because they have a problem with sunlight . Along come three mysterious strangers who claim to be servants sent to answer an ad , and they've actually worked in that house before so they come to live there & help run things . Unfortunately though , Sandra , the mistress of the house , realizes her letter to the agency for servants never got posted , so the arrival of these three becomes a bit alarming to her . There are strange noises & things going on in the house , and that's also rather unnerving . Sandra's husband has gone to a war , although which was is never specified , and since this seems to be taking place in the present day & not in times of WW1 , that's a bit odd . But Sandra encounters her husband in the ever-present fog that seems to linger around this house , & brings him back to their home . The twist with " Hum Kaun Hai " as opposed to " The Others " , though , is that the husband plays somewhat of a different role , and that's where this film takes a different path than the original . I can't really explain this though , without spoilers . Still not a bad film , I rather enjoyed it . .
This is a fun , if rather silly and improbable movie , about some women in a small California community who are , for some strange reason , becoming human bees , maybe in spirit because they still look like women , for the most part , except their eyes , which are completely black . And they hum when they have sex . Which is often , and always with men who will die afterward . In a secret lab , new initiates are slathered with honey and put into a geodesic jungle-gym thing , where they are then covered with bees and emerge with a need to wear sunglasses and seduce men . Of course , once scientists at this remote lab start dropping dead , the Feds send one Neil Agar ( William Smith ) to investigate , and he eventually finds out what's going on ( but not why ) but not without some rugged action-adventure type stuff first , of course . There's some nudity , there's some cool electronic equipment with flashing lights ( and maybe even a machine that goes " ping " ? ) and enough other entertaining stuff in this to make it interesting . Plus the theme song is rather cool and even a tad haunting too . Fun stuff , AKA ( for some reason ) " Graveyard Tramps " . But on a double feature from MGM as its original title . .
From the director of Bloodsucking Freaks , " Blood Bath " is fairly bloodless and not straight horror , but rather a sort of cheesy horror comedy along the lines of movies like Deadtime Stories and such . This is a horror anthology with a wrap-around of actors having a dinner after working on a play together and they all have tales to tell . Certainly no masterpiece but then again , neither is Bloodsucking Freaks . They both have a rather scuzzy charm to them though , despite the low budget , and this is definitely entertaining if you don't mind little in the way of scares or gore . P . J . Soles , later of Carrie & Rock ' n ' Roll High School , is in this , but I didn't recognize her . And also Harve Presnell , who I believe is in Fargo many years later ? Not a bad little watch , nothing too exciting though but entertaining enough . . Now available on DVD from Subversive , too .
This is my first Fassbinder film , and I had read about it and didn't even know it was out on DVD so when I saw it , I snagged it immediately . Being somewhat familiar with the works of Lars Von Trier and also familiar with Harmony Korine ( who employs Von Trier's Dogma 95 style ) I wasn't put off by the style of this film , although to many this will seem like a bunch of people doing ordinary things and rambling on about nothing , which basically it is . Herr Raab is a very drab and bland man who leads a very bland and drab life , going to the office , hanging out with his wife and child , hanging out with neighbors and relatives and not talking much about anything in particular , and smoking lots and lots of cigarettes . You sense he's somewhat unsatisfied with his life though and he finally shows just how unsatisfied he is by wielding a candlestick and taking out a neighbor , his wife , and kid , and then getting dressed and going into the office as though nothing was amiss . Of course he's such an ordinary man that nobody can believe he'd do such a thing . I guess this is decent enough portrayal of a quiet descent into madness , but it won't be for everyone because it's very talky and improvised and you spend most of the picture anticipating exactly WHEN Herr R . will run amok . I kind of liked it but definitely not for everyone . .
Zoo is several tales of the macabre , for want of a better description , and is at times quite good and others merely adequate . In the first story twin sisters who are treated very differently by their mother switch places with interesting results . In another segment a group of people are held in windowless chambers awaiting death by a psychotic killer , and a young boy who has been captured with his sister moves from chamber to chamber through a narrow canal to visit with each captive to find out what's going on . In another segment a man and his girlfriend stop at an abandoned zoo on a whim and he ends up killing her when she wants to break up with him , only to return every day to take a picture of her as she decomposes . This is apparently made for Japanese TV and yet it doesn't have the cheap " shot on video " look of many of these sort of anthologies , and the stories are actually quite good and well thought out . Definitely has its moments of creepiness and yet a good dose of humanity too , no matter how ugly at times . , well worth seeing for fans of Asian films .
This is some film , let me tell you . First off , it's directed / produced by Doris Wishman , of whom it was said , directed movies like she'd never seen one . . . as in , focusing on floors , walls , ashtrays , etc . instead of the person talking , so she didn't have to take too many pains with the dialog after . And in THIS particular film , she had a couple MORE things to focus on besides inanimate objects , for the star is none other than Chesty Morgan , and I say that like I have any idea what she's ever done besides these two movies with Doris Wishman , both of which are absolutely terrible but chock full of unintentional humor and jaw-dropping visuals . . . . two of which belong to Ms . Morgan herself . In this film she's billed as Zsa Zsa , and the gist is that her boyfriend or fiancée gets killed by the mob , so she takes revenge . And how does she take revenge ? Well , I won't reveal that but this is called " Deadly Weapons " so I'll leave that to your imagination . Best line is when Chesty is speaking with her father & he says to her " You're a successful advertising executive " . . . that's about as improbable as you could probably get , especially since she wouldn't even be able to sit down and get close to a desk . The seventies decor is exquisite as always in Wishman's films , and Chesty's outfits are rather , uh , well , OK , they look like maternity clothes . In some cases part of her breasts are bulging out her top , and that made me think of icebergs or something . . . as in , isn't it like only 10 % that's visible and the rest underwater ? Well , whatever . If you've seen other Doris Wishman films you may know more or less , what to expect . . . if not , give this a shot , I can't say you won't regret it though , because you may well . Worth a few laughs and worth seeing just for the " what the F ? " value . .
Don't get me wrong , I like the films of Paul Naschy ( Jacinto Molina ) but they can't by any means be called " good " . This one is a bit of a step up from the usual fake fur and shoe polish werewolf stuff he seems to be so fond of , and it's about an evil man and his evil assistant who were killed back in olden times and now ( thanks to modern stupidity ) have been summoned back to haunt the living . There's some nice settings ( especially the swamp , I love swamps ) and a touch more class to this one . Now , the Mondo Crash DVD features 3 versions , and I watched the " uncut " International version , whatever that means , but there's also a " clothed " version and a US release version , which I haven't gotten around to seeing yet , but if the " uncut " version is any indication the other two must be quite tame because I though this version was too . The camera pulls away from too much nastiness and it's left to your imagination , which is fine , but then again this WAS the early 70's and folks could not get away with what they do now , which in some ways was probably much better . Anyway , probably a must for fans of Euro-horror , I kind of liked it but it's not worth raving about or anything . .
I'm not sure why I'm drawn to the films of Al Adamson but they always leave me a bit tired out , because they're so full of stuff and a wild mix of genres slapped together that they're super hard to follow and yet they have a certain charm . Maybe in some ways it's the music , I don't know . This one is about bikers who are in cahoots with a re-united Nazi party , and a Nazi War Criminal , and an agent for Israel who is after him , and a double agent who works for the syndicate AND the FBI , and a counterfeit ring , and who knows what all else I might have missed when I blinked . The Nazi Party is , of course , running the counterfeit ring which is in the secret basement of some shack in the woods and consists of two fat German guys in aprons that are using a hand press and hanging up fake $20 bills on clothes pins to dry , and with this they're going to achieve world domination ? There's lots of abrupt clothing changes , hairstyle changes , and scenario changes , like at one point this woman is about to be ravaged by the bikers and runs out into the road in torn clothes , and the next scene she's dressed differently and driving her cool Mustang Fastback and looks like none of that ever happened . Mark Adams is the FBI plant in The Syndicate which of course operates out of Las Vegas in a hotel room with cheesy hanging lamps , bad paintings , and of course , a bar . And gosh , Broderick Crawford is in this too , playing to usual sort of Broderick Crawford role . Not to mention Scott Brady , who made a career out of being in bad movies . For the right viewer , this is awe-inspiring and quite entertaining in ways other than was intended . However , for someone that's perhaps seeking a good biker movie , or perhaps even just a good movie period , well , this probably isn't it and you should avoid at all costs . I thought this was just one more example of Al Adamson's uh , unique talents , and I loved it . .
Wolf Creek begins very promisingly as 2 girls and a guy head off to spend some time at a remote reserve called Wolf Creek . . . . seemingly it's the world's largest meteor crater and it's absolutely beautiful . . . . and remote . As they go to leave , their car won't start so they're settling down for the night and along comes a friendly local who offers to help them . He tows them back to his camp and says he'll fix their car in the morning and all of a sudden it's lights out and the girls are suddenly tied up , one by herself and the other in a shed with Mick himself , who is threatening her , and this is where the movie begins to fall apart and head towards leaving a bigger meteor crater than the one they just viewed . Most of the rest of the movie involves the girls trying to escape and there's no mention from either of them about the young man they came there with , like where is he and does he need help ? He does appear again eventually but it's a long time coming with no explanation as to where he's been all this time . This was a very promising movie up to the point where you realize that something isn't right and then plunged downhill from there . Oh , it's OK , don't get me wrong , it'll probably scare the heck out of some folks , but it lost its footing and never regained it . Also somewhat chilling is when the girls realize how many other cars are stored there and there's even a nice little scrapbook of sorts , on the wall , of former victims , with their driver's licenses , other pictures , etc . Not to mention footage on the large number of video cameras also there in a big box . All the bits were here for a good movie , it's just that at a certain point it just became another " Wrong Turn " ( minus the inbreeding ) or Texas Chainsaw Massacre . And it's based on a true story too , hmm . .
This is an OK Hammer-wannabe , from Amicus studios , which concerns the fate of a young woman who marries into the cursed Fengriffen clan , and finds that her new home doesn't exactly suit her needs , what with disembodied hands crawling about and eyeless apparitions at the windows and such . Now , it seems like there's a checkered past to this family and some bad things were done which are being paid in kind from beyond . Peter Cushing plays a psychiatrist but his role seems rather minor , Herbert Lom makes a brief appearance as Lord Fengriffen of old , doing the deeds that brought this upon the family in the first place . The atmosphere is fairly good , and it looks great , for the most part , but it's nothing to get too worked up about . Of course , the lady of the house is now expecting but she's not quite expecting what she gets , either . Not a bad little film but not the most original or exciting either , OK entertainment though . .
OK , there's not a lot of scares in The Boy Who Cried Werewolf , but it is fairly entertaining & not a bad entry in the early 70's low budget horror arena . A man ( Kerwin Matthews ) is camping with his son in the mountains when they are attacked by a werewolf , and in trying to save his son , the man is bitten himself , and I guess I don't need to tell you what happens later . Or do I ? Well , big surprise , the man becomes a werewolf when the moon is full . And he seems VERY interested in going camping a lot during the full moon these days too . Now the son sees what his dad has become but being that he's a kid and the product of a broken home ( his folks are divorced ) , nobody believes the little guy . Until Mom comes on a camping trip with them and finds out for herself . There's also sort of a fun hippie religious cult thing going on , brother , and they know something's up with this guy , they're just not quite sure what until the werewolf joins them at one of their prayer meetings , whoops ! Of course , nobody lives happily ever after and there was even an opportunity for a sequel that was left wide open too , but thankfully that never happened . This isn't a bad movie but one of its kind is plenty , thanks . .
Blood Rose is sort of a remake of " Yeux Sans Visage " ( Eyes Without a Face ) . The story is that of a man who has married the woman of his dreams only to have her horribly burned and scarred and then finds a former doctor to restore her . Howard Vernon plays the part of the former doctor who went to prison for his attempts to operate on a child many years previous , and who is actually quite reluctant to participate in this new venture . This begins almost like a fairy tale , with voice-over narration . Of course , lots of potential donors are required for this particular operation and young ladies are lured to the château for this purpose . The burn victim is never shown entirely , just her eyes in some scenes , or filmed from the back , which is just as well , thanks . This has a good atmosphere & is fairly interesting but seems to lack some focus , and there's really not much sex to go with the horror . There are two strange little men , Igor & Olaf , that are the servants of Frederic , the tortured artist , that lend some extra weirdness to the film . This isn't particularly scary but it does have some creepy moments and is not at all bad . And what exactly is the Blood Rose ? Well , I thought it was a plant that was introduced early in the story that has thorns that secrete poison & is responsible for the death of one person in the film , but that's just dropped and never heard from again . ? ? Overall though , not bad , if kind of derivative . Now available on DVD from Mondo Macabro . .
" Hands of the Ripper " starts out with Jack himself doing a dirty deed and like all tired dads at the end of the day , he comes home to his wife and child . Unfortunately for his wife , he seems to have had a bad day & kills her , with their tiny daughter as a witness . Fast forward several years later & daughter Anna has been taken in by a " medium " who holds séances and apparently also has some business going on the side , for she takes money from a Mr . Dysart , member of Parliament and dirty old man , for a roll in the hay with Anna . However , when Anna doesn't seem to be cooperating the medium intervenes only to end up pinned to the door of the room with a fireplace poker , while Mr . Dysart flees the scene . Of course , Dr . Pritchard witnesses the man's flight & investigates , to find the body and assume that it was done by Dysart , although he insists it was sweet little Anna . So Dr . Pritchard takes Anna in and will study her & find out what's wrong with her , so he thinks . This , of course , is a big mistake , because every time Anna sees light reflection off something shiny she has a bit of a personality change and becomes very violent . She's her daddy's little girl , that's for sure . This is a fairly entertaining Hammer period piece and has some fairly nasty gore . The ending was fairly predictable , though , although the setting was fantastic . It's unfortunate that in order to get a " real " DVD of this I had to order a region 0 NTSC disc from Brazil , but it's perfect in color and sound and extremely high quality , for those of you that are interested . .
Supposedly this is the " pick of the litter " of the new set of " 8 films to die for " and so I picked it first , having been mostly disappointed with what I saw of the first go-round . Not bad , very dark , very creepy , pretty scary stuff . Three buddies go to Mexico to live it up before college & run into some kind of cult that sacrifices people . You'd think you can't swing a dead cat in Mexico without running into some kind of wacko cult , and perhaps that's true , but if these folks had been watching their horror movies , they'd have known better . Of course , after an evening tripping on magic mushrooms , one of them decides to wander off on his own , and disappears . Now , these cultists are not very nice people at all , and if you mess with them , you are pretty much guaranteed to not live very long . The two remaining friends hook up with a former police officer whose partner was killed by these loonies & go in search of their friend . I have to say this was a far better than average film , and was very well done . Sean Astin also plays the part of an American who is part of this cult & who is a rather despicable character , not exactly his kind of role . Good stuff for those who like stuff like Hostel , etc . , and have strong stomachs , all others should probably proceed with caution . .
OK , technically , I guess this isn't really a spy movie , or maybe it's sort of a secret agent movie , or maybe . . . well , I don't know , Doris Wishman directed & produced it , so maybe it's just one of the strangest things you've ever watched and let's leave it at that . Chesty Morgan plays Jane , who apparently is some kind of agent , who is called in to investigate a drug ring who have been smuggling bad heroin into the US . To aid her in her quest , she has had a camera installed in her left breast , and all she has to do is squeeze it to take pictures , which is actually probably far more strenuous than it sounds . Having recovered from her surgery , Jane ( Chesty ) is up and dressed in a bevy of eye-catching outfits and out to find the leader of this gang . Along the way she meets up with a dispatches various gang members and is always careful to strip and photograph them after each killing . One man dies with his mouth crammed full of ice cubes , etc . As with most Doris Wishman films , the " what the f ? " factor is always in overdrive , and with the continuity ( or lack thereof ) and the ridiculous outfits on Chesty and the fact that she's some kind of agent to begin with , well , that just makes the viewer gape in awe . As always we have Wishman's trademark filming of unimportant objects to draw the viewer's attention away from the dialog being dubbed in afterward . Heaven forbid that anyone would think they were watching a poorly-made film . One good thing about this is that there's some jazzy-twangy horn & guitar music , suitable for a spy movie , and not just Wishman's trademark elevator music for the background . After having watched both of Wishman's epic films with Morgan though , I can't help feeling a bit sorry for her , because she truly doesn't look very happy & I'm sure she wasn't the most comfortable person in the world . But at any rate , if you're a trash / cult movie fan , you'll probably enjoy this , if you have no idea what any of this is about , you'd be best off to stay the hell away . .
Ted V . Mikels , director of many infamous Z-grade horror films , some of which are my ultimate favorites , actually made a movie with social consciousness ? Well , sort of , yes and no . This is more an exploitation flick than anything , but it's still an exploitation film with a message . A man in L . A . , who is a light-skinned black , goes back to Alabama to look into the reason for his daughter being killed by a bomb outside a church . The reason isn't hard to find , it's the local KKK members , and this man , Jerry , decides that he can pass for white with a few tweaks , and joins up with the Klan to infiltrate and bring it down . There are some guys from New York that have come down to stir the pot too , and try to rally the " shack town " people , but they're not having any part of it . However , Jerry manages to infiltrate the Klan and deal with the cowardly leader , who is responsible for his daughter's death , while also managing to seduce the guy's daughter . See ? It's not entirely socially conscious . This is definitely not for everyone , but it's not really all that bad . Of course , now it's rather dated ( except for the stupid attitudes that live on in some people ) . . And it is available on DVD from Blax , I got the impression it's not too easy to find though , but I got it off Amazon for fairly cheap , and the quality is fine .
After Reflecting Skin , Ridley had some pretty big shoes to fill in coming up with another film as good . And it's nowhere near as good but it is adequate . Darkly Noon ( Brendan Fraser ) is a strange young man who escaped death at the hands of a lynch mob that attacked and killed members of the religious sect he belonged to . He's found lying in the road by a young man who happens along in his truck and he's taken back to a big house in the forest to be cared for by Callie . Callie nurses him back to health & as she does he finds out that Callie ( Ashley Judd ) has a lover who is currently out wandering to get his head straight ( Viggo Mortenson ) . All is mostly well till Clay ( Mortenson ) returns and then Darkly begins to become jealous . He's wandering through the woods and encounters an odd lady ( Grace Zabriskie ) who tells him Callie is a witch . . . . . because Clay is her son and Callie apparently " stole " her husband too . And of course because Roxy ( Zabriskie ) has run her mouth all over the place the local townspeople think Callie is a witch too . Darkly becomes so jealous that he begins to drift into madness , and wraps himself in barbed wire and other abnormal activities . Also odd is a strange floating silver shoe on a lake that he witnesses . . . . looks kind of like a 70's disco shoe ? Or perhaps pimp footwear ? What the hell is THAT ? And later when Roxy's dog dies you find that she sees it too , it's not just a hallucination , and they turn it into a floating funeral pyre for the dog . OK . . . Anyway Darkly finally snaps and goes after both Callie & Clay , and there is a rather tragic ending to this . But that isn't the very end , you do find out where the shoe came from . I guess while Reflecting Skin was weird and had a great flow to it , this one is more forced and forced weirdness doesn't quite work for me . Still , this is mostly a good watch , it just felt a bit empty or that there was something missing . Still though , if you liked The Reflecting Skin you'll probably want to check this out , and it's not bad . .
Part of the joy to me of Italian films is their incoherence , and this is no slouch in that department . We have a hideous hag of a woman , who's a doctor , no less , a scientist , to be more exact , and she steals a formula from her boss and turns into a beautiful young woman . The problem is , she doesn't stay that way for very long so she stocks up on the formula and then assumes the role of a dead gangster's girlfriend in order to steal lots of money , or something . This is quite trashy and has bits of horror to it but it's more a sort of espionage kind of thing more than a horror movie , although that's not quite it either . The music is groovy with lots of twangy guitar and plenty of lounge lizard type stuff , so I loved that . The storyline is fairly thin and the action is scatter-shot , but overall I rather liked this as a whole . I'm a bit confused with what I read about this as the main character was supposed to be something along the lines of Diabolik and I didn't see that at all , but I still liked this . More or less . The Retro Media release features some skips in the film and it appears little bits were missing but overall that didn't detract a whole lot from the film . , not for all tastes .
I was fairly excited when I saw this and figured it was another movie by Takashi Miike , whose work I really enjoy , but was rather puzzled when I watched it until I figured out at least part of what was going on . This isn't a movie , it's only the first two episodes of a mini-series from 2000 . The big question is : Why release only the first two episodes ? At any rate , I'm sure the rest will be along eventually , and from what I have seen so far I'm not sure it'll matter if I don't recall exactly what happened in the first two . I've read things about this that make comparisons to Twin Peaks and that's pretty darn close , there are lots of things that are presented as " given " rather than offering any explanations , like people with bar codes tattooed on the bottom of their eyeballs , and a detective who changes personalities , and ( surprise ! ) a bunch of eccentric characters . One thing I found annoying is that the nasty ( or naughty ) bits were blanked out on the screen , like the women that were used as flowerpots & the bodies of the women that had their babies ripped from the wombs . Not that I necessarily needed to SEE all that , but I resent someone deciding what might be disturbing to the viewer and blanking it out . Miike's films are not for the kiddies , EVER , so why bother with all this ? Of course this was made for Japanese TV , did they show it THERE , or was it blanked out like this ? Anyway I found it to be distracting and probably more disgusting that if they had just shown the icky parts . Overall this is very intriguing and I guess maybe that's why there were only two episodes released , to whet one's appetite to snap up more of this when it's released . . . . . and I assume it will be , but I guess it also irritates me that this was not released complete . For Miike fans , and David Lynch fans , all others probably should take a pass .
Fred Olen Ray has had a rather checkered career , and I guess he's the mastermind or owner of Retro Media , which does put out some decent ( depending on your perspective ) old horror flicks . Scalps is actually one of his better films but this is pretty low budget and this restored version contains bits and pieces that were censored that are obviously spliced back in . I have a " double feature " VHS with The Slayer & while it's been some time since I watched it , it was still obvious to me which scenes were " new " since the quality is a bit poor . Still though it's a good film with a decent atmosphere of dread that stays with you throughout . And yes , there's a few topless babes , as in the tops of their heads go missing . College students doing illegal Indian artifact digging are the grist for the mill here , and one by one they fall victim to this evil Indian spirit that practiced black magic . A truly charming film that's a must for most horror fans , and while it's pretty low-budget it still beats most of Ray's later works ( with the exception of Hollywood Chain Saw Hookers ) .
OK , so this film doesn't make oodles of sense , but it's cool to watch and it's at times , pretty disturbing . If anyone saw Tomaselli's previous film , " Desecration " , well , it was kind of that way too . Also , if anyone has seen one of many Italian films from the 80's , or perhaps even other times , they are too . Yeah , I know Tomaselli's from New Jersey but whatever , he has the look and feel down . This is about a 75 minute nightmare , drifting from what seems to be reality to different realities and then to good old delusion at the drop of a hat . There's a young girl who thinks that her grandfather is still alive ( an old priest played by . . . the Amazing Kreskin ? ) and she's also not well but then again , who are all these 20-somethings with the guns and the big bag of drugs that have shown up ? Overall I'd say this was a combination of madness and a nightmare and to the best of my knowledge none of the dreams or nightmares I ever have make sense when I can remember them . Strange that people pick apart horror films for not making sense , they're HORROR films , they're not real , they're about things that ( hopefully ) don't exist . Anyway , I liked this movie and this is the second I've seen from Tomaselli , I think I'll be seeking out his next , Satan's Playground . . . . I'm a sucker for movies about the New Jersey Pine Barrens . .
I'm not much for " cop " movies , but this one is supposedly a classic & when I found it cheap I bought it and stuck it on a shelf , only to finally get around to watching it yesterday , and I LIKED it ! Now , you can have New York City , but as a setting for a film like this , in the winter months , it's perfect . Roy Scheider is a member of an elite police task group called The Seven Ups , which are 5 guys that fight crime undercover . In an opening scene they recover a shoebox full of money from an antique store by distracting the crooks with a " bull in a china shop " routine . But that's only the beginning . Seems that there are two guys , posing as cops , that are kidnapping mob types and holding them for ransom . Richard Lynch happens to be one of these sleaze-bags , and he's as creepy as ever . When one of the Seven Ups , who is posing as a limo driver at a funeral , gets his cover blown , he's beaten and stuffed into the trunk of a car , which then leads to perhaps one of the most exciting car chases I've seen . Amazing though , how light traffic in NYC is for chase scenes , but still this is rather amazing as Scheider follows the two kidnappers through what I'm guessing is the Bronx and then onto a turnpike and then eventually , Scheider's car comes to a screeching halt in one of the most heart-stopping finales to a chase scene that I've ever witnessed . Anyway , since the cop ends up dying , Scheider and his men are under suspicion because the police commissioner knows so little about their activities he wonders if THEY'RE on the make by kidnapping mobsters , so of course this kind of thinking needs to be nipped in the bud & Scheider is relentless getting to the bottom of things . Overall a decent cop action / drama , not really my thing but I liked this one . Look for Joe Spinell ( Maniac ) in a small role . .
Like all Tim Burton movies , at least the ones worth seeing , this is well done and kind of the living cartoon answer to the drawings of Edward Gory . And I like the macabre and strange . But I wasn't entirely comfortable watching this for some reason . Dead things made to be cute seemed to be rather morbid to me , for some reason , and watching the semi-beautiful bride herself , " semi " meaning in this case that part of her looks just fine and the other part , well , you can see her teeth through a hole in her cheek , one leg is normal , the other bone , for some reason that just didn't make me feel like I should be watching this . The story is that there has been an arranged marriage between two families that consider each other to be wealthy ( while neither are ) , and upon failing miserably at his wedding rehearsal lines , the young man is sent to the woods to practice and while there he stumbles across the " bride " and is taken to the land of the dead . Note that during all scenes among the living all is grayish-blue and depressing , and the land of the dead , well , it's all bright colors and stuff , perfect for the kids , that is , if you want them waking up in cold sweats at night , I guess . This is not a bad movie , and the animation is definitely in the style of " Nightmare Before Christmas " , but I didn't feel uncomfortable watching THAT , for some reason . One of the friends I went with told me that it's " edgy " meaning it makes some folks uncomfortable . OK , well I can sit through just about any zombie holocaust cannibal massacre thing without batting an eye . . . . maybe it's that this seems to be a children's tale that children shouldn't watch ? , good but to me , uncomfortable viewing .
I wasn't too sure about this film going into it , despite the fact that it had Bill Moseley in it and was on the Synapse label , both of which usually mean good things . What I found was that this was a pretty strange horror flick with some very nasty moments and while it doesn't make oodles of sense , it's still well worth seeing . It begins with sort of a low-key Christmas get-together ( well , that's not the VERY beginning but what the VERY beginning has to do with anything was beyond me ) . Out of the blue , a smiling Bill Moseley shows up with a suitcase full of razor blades and proceeds to quiz the attendees about who they really hate , after which he cuts himself with razor blades for each person named . And guess what ? Those folks begin to die . Moseley's part is rather small though , but effective . The parts played by the actors are rather strange too . Two of the guys that were at the party are funeral home attendants , one of whom really looks the part . There's also their boss , who moves in across the street from a drug dealer & makes an effort to be neighborly by dropping by to let him know that he's a registered sex offender . Eek ! And then there's the girl who has come back from California to visit , who has apparently had some problems while she was out there due to the marks on her wrists . As the film rolls on and more people begin to die , two of the guys come up with a plan to get their hands on some weapons and go visit one guy's uncle ( or dad , it's hard to say , this IS Alabama , after all ) . The man ( played by Tom Towles ) is a crazed chili cook and arms collector , and of course some of these drunken and not-too-swift types shouldn't have their hands on firearms at all , as is evidenced by an accidental shooting . And , there's some kind of creature , too , who enjoys messy killings . What is it , and where did it come from ? Well , I'm sure it's something to do with Mr . Suitcase , but it's never really explained . Also of note is the scene with a garage mechanic ( wearing sunglasses ) and an ax , played in slow motion . . . . very weird and creepy . Still though , this is a weirdly enjoyable low-budget horror flick , and if you're not worried about anything making perfect sense ( it's a HORROR flick ) then you'll probably enjoy it . I'm probably not doing it justice but it is rather hard to get your brain around the proceedings at times . .
Schultze is a retired salt miner in Germany , in a small town in the former DDR . He is at loose ends with his retirement , as his wife is in a nursing home & his friends that were retired with him don't have much more exciting going on in their lives . One day Shultze hears Cajun music on the radio and picks up his accordion ( he's a polka musician too ) and tries his hand at it . He has an ear for music so pretty soon he's obsessed with Cajun culture and even tries his hand at Jambalaya for his buddies . Pretty soon Schultze is working odd jobs to raise some money to go to Louisiana but before he can he's sent as a representative of his town to their " sister city " of New Braunfels , Texas . After fleeing the music festival there ( maybe it was the polka version of " La Paloma Blanca " ? ) he appropriates an old boat & makes his way into the bayous where he finds some unlikely friends and gets a taste of music and culture first hand . This is pretty slow moving at times but try to stick with it . The ending is a bit downbeat but the trip there is worth it . .
" Madhouse " ( AKA " There Was A Little Girl " ) has just been released in the US on Dark Sky Films , and it looks & sounds great . The story is that of a women , who has an identical twin , who is in an asylum and who is now disfigured . That identical twin terrorized her when she was young , so while there is still a bond between the two women , the one on the outside shuns the one on the inside . That is , until Uncle James ( who is also a priest ) tells Julia that her sister has been asking for her , just before their 25th birthday . So Julia goes to visit , only to have that terror she had as a little girl rekindled when twin Mary reveals that she's still crazy , after all these years . Now Julia lives in an old building , a former funeral home , that's being renovated for apartments , and apart from her goofy new-age landlady , she's there all by herself . Strange things begin to happen & it seems like Mary is there , with her nasty Rottweiler , and Julia becomes extremely disturbed . Of course , no one believes Julia because Mary is safely locked away . Or is she ? As time goes by strange things begin to happen , including the death of a young deaf student of Julia's , and a friend of hers who stayed over to keep an eye on her , who strayed away when Julia's cat escaped to chase it down , and met with a nasty fate , although Julia thinks she just went home to change for work . And then the day of Julia & Mary's birthday arrives , and it seems as though kindly Uncle James ( the priest ) has arranged quite a surprise party . And it's a surprise in many more ways than one could imagine , for Uncle James doesn't seem to be too stable himself . Not a bad film at all , rather creepy & suspenseful , and with a couple of rather gruesome scenes , especially one involving a power drill . Nice to have this on DVD , finally . .
To date , the only other films I've seen by Luigi Batzella are " Devil's Wedding Night " ( abysmal ) and " Beast In Heat " ( SUPER abysmal ) . However , " Nude For Satan " is a much better film in many ways , but it will definitely not be for all tastes . A doctor , racing to an emergency call , sees what he thinks is a woman in the road and slams on his brakes . His little Volkswagen has been screaming along the back roads like it was a Maserati , from the sound of it . But , before he can get out of his car , there's a crash & there's a woman who has wrecked her car and is hanging out the door , so he puts her into his car , which will then not start . He sees a nearby house so he goes for help , but encounters a very strange man who then disappears . The lights in the house go out when he calls for help , but the front door is open so he wanders in to find the house seemingly abandoned & full of debris . In exploring , looking for someone , anyone , he opens various doors to find nasty surprises inside . And then , he seems to find the woman that he rescued from the accident , surprised to find that she has made it to the house . As the film goes on it seems that the doctor and the woman are in some kind of alternate reality , in which they have doubles . And there's a mysterious man who seems to preside over all that is weird there , presumably , Satan . In encountering the Satan character for the first time , the woman appears nude , while we get a close-up of Satan's eye . . . talk about undressing someone with your eyes ! For the most part , this is very dream-like ( or nightmare-like , to be more accurate ) , and while it's somewhat nonsensical it's still quite interesting and a far better offering than the other trash I've seen by this director . If you like weird Italian horror films , this is definitely worth checking out . .
It's the Whitlocks vs . the Laniers in this tale of witchcraft from England . Seems that the Laniers are busy digging up a graveyard to make way for a housing project . Seems like the Whitlocks strongly object to that , being that their family plot is there . And in their family plot is the grave of a witch that was buried alive , not burned , and whomever thought that was a good idea was sadly mistaken . Now , the Whitlock clan , as led by Lon Chaney Jr . , makes a big deal of all this grave desecration but they still practice witchcraft , unknown to the Laniers . And the witch , who was buried alive , is back and busily making short work of the Lanier clan and anyone associated with them . Voodoo-type dolls do some of the work , as a man drowns in his bath and a woman , who thinks she's on a main road , actually drives through a garbage dump and off a cliff . This is pretty effective and decent old-style horror , in gorgeous sharp black & white ( and now on DVD ! ! ) and is great for a dark rainy evening . It's also by Don Sharp ( who also did Psychomania ) and he seems to have this thing for graveyards & frogs . .
The idea of this movie intrigued me so I finally found a copy and watched it last night , and I was not disappointed . Rockville Falls is a small town in the Midwest ( Kansas ? ) and census taker Steve Kady is headed for there to do his work . It's rather hard to find though and none of the locals near there can or will tell him where it is ( first bad sign ) but he does manage to find it but not without two flat tires on his SUV . He gets a ride into town with a sheriff's deputy and meets the mayor , and gets a place to stay . Now it seems like this town has held its population count since the 1800's , somehow , mysteriously . And at the very beginning of the film you get a bit of insight into how that's been accomplished . Seems that folks are a bit into numerology and some other even stranger things that have kept their little town safe , protected , and prosperous . There are folks though , that aren't right , they have fever , and they are locked away . What kind of fever isn't clear at first but it seems to be more a case of " let me out of here " . And of course , since no one in their right mind would want to leave Rockville Falls , these folks are treated until they are compliant and happy . Most revealing is the festival where they welcome Mr . Kady to town with lots of food , music , fun , and something else that he wasn't quite expecting . Seems like he's going to live there , like it or not . And in order for the population to stay the same , well , someone else must give up their place for him . And THAT'S when things really start to become alarming . Overall this is a solid thriller that maybe owes a bit to older movies and stories , like perhaps Shirley Jackson's " The Lottery " for one . But it's also fairly original and stands well on its own merits . , a good watch .
Takashi Miike has got to be one of my favorite film makers these days , I'm out searching for his stuff left and right . Visitor Q is probably the weirdest of his weird movies that I've seen yet , maybe more so because it's missing any of the supernatural elements present in most of his other films . I guess the closest thing that I could compare this to is " Happiness " by Todd Solondz , but parts of this drag that through the mud and make it seem somewhat wholesome in comparison . Almost . This takes dysfunctional family behavior out to the " n-th " degree , and yet I didn't find it that hard to watch . We have incest , parental abuse , heroin addiction , prostitution ( runs in the family ) and just good old fashioned insanity . Miike apparently has some thing for mother's milk , too , if you've seen Gozu then you know what I mean . Dad is a failed TV reporter , whose downfall had something to do with a televised interview with some young punks that inserted a microphone where he didn't want it . Mom is a mess , the young son beats her & she turns tricks to support her drug addiction . The young son is bullied and takes things on on mom , apparently . And the oldest daughter , who is no longer living at home , well , you'll see . Along comes a mysterious visitor who becomes a house guest after hitting dad on the head with a rock ( twice ) . His purpose is somewhat unclear but he somehow brings the family closer together , not that any of what they're doing is particularly Ozzie & Harriet but they're still doing things as a family again . Heartwarming . Yeah , right . Anyway this is a disturbing watch and I enjoyed every minute of it . Highly recommended , if you enjoy the current wave of strange Japanese films .
Milo is an overlooked & underrated horror flick from the late 90's but the feel and atmosphere is more that of an 80's horror flick . Seems a bunch of little girls are taken to " see things " at the office of Milo's father , a gynecologist , and as a reward for getting to see what's there in jars ( yes , a gynecologist plus something else . . . ) one girl plays " doctor " with Milo . Hmm , his first patient and he lost her . Now Milo is a creepy little kid that always wears a yellow rain slicker , rain or shine , and he talks funny . . . . but that's not all that's strange about him . Fast forward to the present where these girls are adults and there's a wedding planned for one of them but tragedy strikes and leaves one girl that came in from out of town with a choice of whether or not to replace her friend as a school teacher , which she does . And then strange things begin to happen again . Which of course involve this little kid in a rain slicker . This isn't overly violent or graphic but has a distinct creepiness that you don't find in many modern horror flicks , and it's well worth seeing . One wonders why it's so hard to find any good horror flicks in this day & age but here's one that's criminally overlooked and definitely worth your time if you check it out . .
Here's 3 twisted tales by the guy that wrote " Trainspotting " and it comes complete with subtitles because thanks to the thick accents you can barely make out what the actors are saying , although technically it IS English . In the first tale a young man who is rather a worthless sort is turned into a fly by God ( who he meets in a pub ) and takes his revenge on his family , friends , and rivals . In the second tale , a young man marries the pregnant town slut , and even though the baby isn't his it becomes quite important to him even though his wife is still up to her old tricks , especially with creepy new neighbor Larry . In the third tale a young man is struck by lightning while on an acid trip ( Super Mario ? ) and changes personalities with a baby being born nearby . This is all pretty strange and these tales are populated with all manner of scary and weird characters . Very entertaining and odd , and if you enjoyed ( ? ) Trainspotting and its imagery and tone , you'll like this . .
A movie that begins at the end and ends at the beginning , not to mention enough wonky camera work to cause seizures in some viewers , or at the very least , motion sickness , and it's French with subtitles . Still with me ? OK , this is one hard-to-watch film , but if you can stick with it it's also fascinating , in the ' looking at a train wreck ' style . As I said it begins at the end and there's extended footage of someone wandering around a gay club called Rectum , looking for someone called The Tapeworm . As we work our way forwards ( or backwards ) we find what led up to this incident , and along the way , backward OR forward , what you're watching is generally not a happy theme in any way . If you're easily offended you will probably not make it through the first five minutes without shutting this off so beware , it's unrated . And rightfully so . This is one brutal and disturbing movie and yet it's all pretty well done , if strangely filmed at times . A very cool and strange movie about ugliness and revenge , and not an easy one to squirm through but if you're adventurous , stick with it . Can't say I ' enjoyed ' it because that doesn't seem like the proper term but it's fascinating , anyway . .
In watching " Seconds " the thing that struck me was how far ahead of its time it was , for the mentality of the film is not that of the 60's at all . A man with a solid , yet unhappy life , is contacted by an old friend , supposedly dead , who offers him something , but what , exactly , he isn't sure . Turns out it's somewhat of a chance to start over again in life , under a new identity , and with a new face , with the past life obliterated by a faked death . The trouble is that you can never go back and the man finds himself thinking his old life wasn't so bad after all but there are penalties for such thinking . This is a rather creepy film and uses lots of strange camera tricks , angles , and lenses . Sometimes when a character is moving it's almost as if they were standing on the dolly with the camera and gliding along rather than walking . An unnerving and strange film that isn't exactly uplifting but well worth seeing because there's nothing else like it that I've seen . .
Hey now , I bought this one based on word-of-mouth on the internet , it sounded good , so I was prepared to be let down , but pleasantly surprised at how good this was . A family is going to the wife's mother's home for Christmas eve , a family tradition , and then dad decides to take a short cut . What happens from there on out is a nightmare . The road they're on never ends , they see the same places more than once , there's a big black car out there and various family members are dragged away kicking and screaming in the back of that car , only to turn up a short time later , in less-than-serviceable condition , on the roadway . There are hints as to what is going on , and I had it MOSTLY figured out before the end , but any horror fan will probably be able to do that . There are several last minute twists though that were totally unexpected and left me wondering , one of which was particularly creepy . Overall this is a good little sleeper of a movie , released with no particular fanfare or theatrical run , that I know of . Well worth your time .
The nerdy son of a doctor has come up with a serum that's supposed to increase endorphins to block pain and generate happiness . He calls it myson ( MY SON ) in honor of the father he never met . When his mother is conducting test experiments on three young ladies with a new contraceptive , he manages to slip some of his new serum into the mix , resulting in the three women having extreme reactions to the drug . Pain becomes pleasure and the more pain , the more pleasure . One narcissistic woman becomes obsessed with body piercing ( pens , awls , jewelry , whatever will poke through skin ) , another ( who loves food ) finds she herself tastes pretty good , removing various body parts for her dining pleasure , and even cooking her hand in tempura for a real taste treat . Most of this is not easy to watch . But the really disgusting and gory scenes are not what this is all about , but when they're there , they're quite effective . Now Eiji ( the doctor's son ) has found himself falling in love with the third girl , who is an insomniac , and who may or may not be responsible for some gruesome killings , it's hard to say ; is what you're seeing real or is it a cactus-generated visual ? Because this young lady goes into periods of rest hooked up to a large cactus in her apartment via what appears to be virtual reality headsets or some such thing . Yep , it's weird , and it's disgustingly gross at times , but it's also a pretty damn good film and well worth seeing , if you don't mind subtitles or nasty gore . , very interesting and different .
This is a mostly fun Czech zombie comedy , but why is it called Choking Hazard ? Not sure about that part . But , no matter , what we have here is a bunch of students of philosophy at an isolated inn to do philosophical type things and discover the meaning of life , and suddenly they're overrun by Zombie Woodsman . Woodsman ? Well , they have hats with feathers in them , therefore they must be woodsmen , if you follow the logic of the movie . I guess that's could be the Czech version of " redneck " in this country . This is goofy , weird , and bloody , and even has shades of " Orgazmo " as the students are joined by a latecomer , a Jehova's Witness porno star . This is not a top notch film , by any means , but it's fun and at least these folks have a decent idea how to make a horror comedy , unlike their counterparts in the US . If you hate subtitles then don't bother , because this is in Czech , no dubbing , but if you would like to see something different from a different country , then it's worth your time . .
Filmed in gorgeous and , at times , creepy black and white , this is one of Franco's better films , being that it was made in the mid-60's so whatever sort of problems he has that led to films like " Tender Flesh " are not yet evident . Tha basic story is of your garden variety mad doctor , complete with shades & wheelchair ( Dr . Strangelove ? ) who is experimenting with mind control , but when he dies his daughter takes the helm . First we start with an escaped criminal , from death row , and a couple of knitting needles inserted into the temples and he's good as new , and very obedient . Then the doctor dies , the daughter takes over and one of the first people that is zeroed in on for this experimental honor is Miss Death , an exotic dancer , who is then equipped with lethal fingernails and sent to take vengeance on the good doctor's critics ( one of whom is Howard Vernon ) . This is a bit easier to follow than a lot of other Franco films , although they're never exactly easy watching . I guess part of the reason for that is the mostly coherent story , which many of his other films seem to lack , although that never stops me from watching them with fascination , and probably morbid fascination , at that . The black and white photography lends a definite air of gloom and creepiness to this too . Worth seeing if you're a Franco fan , and perhaps even if you're not . .
I knew nothing about this film going into it but was very surprised to see that the town of Dogville consisted of mostly chalk outlines of houses and bushes and yes , even a dog , with bits and pieces of furniture here and there . So it has very much the feel of a play , and it is in 9 acts . Nicole Kidman plays Grace , a fugitive of some sort , who appears in Dogville one Spring day and and after volunteering to do things that the townsfolk " don't need done " for a trial period of 2 weeks , she's allowed to stay and become a resident . Things change and degenerate over time though , and the townsfolk begin to treat Grace badly after one husband rapes her and then she's seen providing favors to the same man down in the apple orchard while she's working with him . One of the children she cares for and teaches is a bit bratty and obsessed with her and provokes a spanking after which he tells his mother , even though he begged for it , and things rapidly decline from there . Seems that Grace is the daughter of a gangster and when the gangsters show up the good citizens of Dogville are dealt with in a way that's quite shocking compared to the tone of most of the rest of the film . There are some big names in this , Ben Gazarra , James Caan , Lauren Bacall , Udo Kier , and of course Kidman . This is quite an odd little film and somewhat disturbing too , as the good kind citizens of Dogville have their true faces revealed , and it's not too pretty . I've read that Lars Von Trier is rather anti-American and it pretty well shows in this , but this could have been anywhere in the world and the same thing could have transpired . While early on in the film it seems almost like a family-type feature it moves into other territory rather quickly and without warning , so not something to watch with the kiddies . This is quite an interesting watch and well worth seeing , but don't expect anything normal . stars .
Michael Gough plays a rather sadistic and nasty , overbearing father to Jane & an even less pleasant husband to Edith , and after Jane is beaten for supposedly stealing money , mother and daughter decide once and for all to dispose of dear old dad . The opportunity comes when brother Rupert is away on business and Walter ( Gough ) decides to go to his hunting lodge , where mother and daughter confront him and poison him . But later , the body has seemingly disappeared ( at least for a while ) and all looks as it should . . . bed is made , things are tidy . However , mother & daughter do find dear old dad in a crate , and as soon as possible they hurry to take it away and push it into a quarry . So they've rid themselves of their oppressor , or HAVE they ? This is a pretty creepy film and has an excellent atmosphere of dread to it . Gough play his part to the hilt , as usual . The trouble of this thing is , is dad dead or not ? Or have mother and daughter just been daydreaming ? Hard to say , but still this is a worthwhile film to seek out for those who appreciate early 70's horror , because it has plenty of the elements that make those films great and it's a nasty little gem . . On DVD from Trinity , a bit murky but otherwise not bad , for an inexpensive release .
" Tears of the Black Tiger " may be like any other film you've seen . It's a love story , it's a western , at least a Thai western , and it's got incredibly violent bloodshed at times that's almost cartoon-like in its excessiveness . " Dum " is a young peasant boy who has fallen in love with a rich girl from the city named Rumpoey . When they're out in a boat they run afoul of some bullies & Rumpoey almost drowns when the boat is overturned but " Dum " saves her & brings her back to where her father is staying , and he's whipped severely for his transgression , by his father . And now , in the future , which appears to be the 50's , maybe , it's hard to pinpoint a time-frame in this film , Rumpoey has been promised to Kumjoorn , a police captain , and yet she does not love him . " Dum " has found his father killed by bandits , and he is out for revenge and is almost killed , but he's taken in by rival bandits ( who I guess , are cowboys , Thai-style , that is ) , and he becomes known as the Black Tiger . And so on . Of course , you know that " Dum " still loves Rumpoey , and she still loves him , but they're worlds apart . This is a very interesting take on the old-style western . It's either given a Thai spin or it's done out of ignorance of what a " real " western is supposed to be like . Some of the cowboy outfits look like something a child would wear in the 50's or 60's . There's even a segment where the film takes us " back in time " ( only 10 years ) to where the film plays out like an old silent movie , complete with jerky movements & jumps in the picture , like there were sprockets missing from the film . And , when was the last time you saw cowboys become " blood brothers " by cutting themselves , dripping their blood into whiskey , and getting rip-roaring drunk in front of a statue of Buddha ? Probably not recently . And then , the colors . I felt like at times , I was about to be overwhelmed by the intensity of the colors of this film . At times , it's beautiful , and at other times , it's almost hallucinatory . The music in the soundtrack is sort of a Thai spin on old western themes , sounding very western but very eastern at the same time . There are times where this movie does go a bit slowly , but that's a minor complaint . This is a rather fascinating experiment in transplanting a genre that's rather American into a country that has none of that sort of history in its culture ( as far as I know ) , and it does work rather well , but does come off a bit odd , to say the least . A fun film , a weird film , and possible influences seem to be Guy Maddin & John Waters , so if you're up for a strange western with surreal sets and Thai actors , well , give it a shot , it's pretty strange but also rather astounding . .
" From Beyond the Grave " is finally out on DVD in the US and I have to say that I actually enjoyed this more than " Tales from The Crpyt " and " Vault of Horror " . The stories are taken from the writings of R . Chetwynd-Hayes ( who was also responsible for the writing behind " The Monster Club " ) and not from E . C . Comics , so maybe that has something to do with it . A bit more literary background , you could say . There are four tales that revolve around an antique shop with a rather low-key yet creepy proprietor ( Peter Cushing ) . David Warner wanders in and buys an antique mirror , only to later conjure up a malevolent spirit that lives within at a séance which causes him to have to bring young ladies to his abode and kill them to feed the inhabitant of the mirror . A lonely man with an unhappy marriage befriends a street vendor with a daughter that's apparently a witch , who helps him to get rid of his nagging bitch of a wife , but there's a slight twist there . In the most lively segment , a man on a train is pronounced by some loony woman to have an elemental on his shoulder , one that is transferred to his wife when he comes home , and the loony woman , as played by Margaret Leighton , comes to their home to exorcise the thing , but apparently she didn't do it quite well enough . At the beginning of that segment this man switches tags on some snuff boxes at the antique store to get one cheap , and as he leaves Peter Cushing tells him " I hope you enjoy snuffing it " which is British slang for " being killed " , something I'd never noticed in watching this film before . In the least effective of the 4 tales , a man buys a strange ornate door at the antique shop & installs it on his stationary closet at home , only to find that it occasionally creates another room on the other side inhabited by a very unsavory character . All in all , this is quite a fun anthology , not terribly scary but just right for late-night viewing . One of the better Amicus films , and one of my favorites along with " Tales from the Crypt " . .
First off , why must something always be an answer to something else , instead of being allowed to stand on its own merit ? Like , for instance , the box art on " Dead and Breakfast " proclaimed that it was the " US Answer to Shaun of the Dead " . It's not , and it's no more the answer to Shaun of the Dead than " Boy Meets Girl " is the " British Answer to Man Bites Dog " , as the cover proclaims . I guess people were getting tired of reading box art that said " in the tradition of . . . " ? For Boy Meets Girl is a film that does stand on its own merits and the only resemblance it bears to " Man Bites Dog " is that there's a serial killer that videotapes their own work . A man picks up a woman in a bar and comes home with her , only to regain consciousness strapped to what looks like a dental chair , with no immediate plans for allowing him out of it . Seems like this woman does this frequently , considering the amount of former guests on display at one point . But this woman mysteriously disappears only to be replace by her camera person who is the REAL culprit , apparently . This is not terribly graphic , for the most part , but what is shown is more than plenty to bring plenty of unease to the viewer . Seems this woman was a medical student and perhaps a student of philosophy , sociology , etc . . . . as she puts the victim through a wide range of questioning and torture . The most uncomfortable part was the impromptu surgery in which items were inserted into his body and then the incision sewn shut , which they don't show fully but it's enough to give anyone a serious case of the squirms . This is highly disturbing , and not a bit like Man Bites Dog , which is actually infused with a dark sense of humor that makes it almost goofy at times . . . . this has none of that . My only complaint with the film itself is the dialog is a bit hard to hear at times without cranking up the sound . Otherwise , it's a dark and creepy and disturbing film , not for the squeamish but I give it , proceed with caution .
I rather liked this movie , although I felt like I was watching something that was out of my league or something , at times . It begins with an opera star dropping dead on stage , it seems , and then we have a piano tuner , Felisberto , showing up at a remote location to find out he has no pianos to tune , merely automatons , which are NOT toys , he's told , they're intricate moving displays , some of which are quite odd and creepy . This place is an institution , it seems , for mental patients of sorts , although most of them are called gardeners . One of them though , is the former opera star , Malvina , who seems to be there by means other than what was originally thought , as in , she was kidnapped . Felisberto goes about attempting to service these automatons , and is also assisted and visited by Assumpta , who seems to be an assistant to the strange Dr . Droz , and she brings him " tools of the trade " like an ormolu magnet . Huh ? Yep , really . The doctor himself is a strange cookie and provides Felisberto with a very strange story of ants that go insane from microscopic fungus . This is all very dream-like and surreal , and atmospheric , and just plain weird , but it's got some charm to it too , and I liked it far better than Institute Benjamenta , which I saw before I had ever seen any Quay Brothers animation and thought , " what's the fuss about ? " . I can see why some might be bored by this , but I didn't really feel it was boring , it was just that there is so much to absorb and so much strangeness to pick one's way through that it becomes almost like work instead of watching a film . Still , I would and will watch this again . In parts , in reminds me of the work of Guy Maddin & in other parts , that of David Lynch , so if you enjoy material by those particular directors then you'll probably want to see this . .
This is an enjoyable science fiction film from 1955 , and has rather impressive effects for that time as well . Sort of benevolent aliens ( Well-tanned gentlemen with VERY high foreheads and televangelist hairstyles ) have rounded up a group of earth's top scientists to help them , because their planet is dying because of an ongoing war with another planet . When two of the scientists try to escape in a plane they're taken aboard a saucer and whisked back to the home planet ( Metaluna ) where they witness the devastation of war first hand and meet the infamous bug-eyed mutants , which look cool but aren't quite as menacing as would be desired for something that looks like THAT . Very enjoyable 50's science fiction ( and in COLOR ) and has just been re-released on DVD by Universal . ( the previous printing , I guess , was unavailable , except for big $$$$$ , by the time I got a DVD player ) . Great stuff , .
This is autobiographical ? Not in a million years , or at least I hope not . I don't know much about Guy Maddin's personal life but I'm at least relatively sure he wasn't a murderous hairdressing hockey player with blue hands . Maddin's films are always full of surprises , and this is by far his most , uh , daring , as far as the subject matter presented . As per his usual formula , if he could be said to have one , it's filmed like it's a 1920's film with modern themes , and this takes his modern themes a bit further than any of his previous films . After a rousing hockey game with the Maroons , after which Maddin suffers from a couple head shots , he and his best friend Shaky ( who is also the police chief ? ) take his girlfriend Veronica to a beauty salon which , at night , is turned into a brothel / abortion clinic . There , the hockey teams beloved Dr . Fusi performs a procedure on Veronica after which she dies while Maddin runs off with the brothel madam's daughter , Meta . Meta wants her father's hands ( which are blue from hair dye ) transplanted on Guy , but the doctor disposes of those hands and merely paints Guy's hands blue , after which he goes on a murderous rampage because he can't control his ' new hands ' . There's a hockey player's wax museum , a sub-plot involving revenge killing , and other delightful stuff going on too . There's also a lot of male full-frontal nudity , yeow , where did THAT come from ? At any rate this is pretty damn strange but it is worthwhile to see and Maddin's genius , if that's what it is , has triumphed again . For fans of jaw-dropping weirdness . . . but perhaps not a good place to start for the uninitiated . And IS there a good place to start for those not familiar with Maddin's weird world ? Try " The Saddest Music in the World " , his most , uh , accessible film , if you like that try some of his other stuff . , wow . . . .
Taste ( or Scream ) of Fear is an excellent thriller starring Susan Strasberg as Penny , a woman confined to a wheelchair after a horse-riding accident years earlier . She's gone to visit her father and her new step-mother , and she hasn't seen her father in years . Prior to her arrival though , her father is supposedly called away on business , so Penny is stuck hanging out with step-mother Jane , who seems quite nice . Penny begins to see a lot of Bob , the chauffeur , and of course Jane doesn't approve of that , since he's not in her class Also present a lot of the time is intrusive Dr . Gerard ( Christopher Lee ) , who is concerned because Penny seems to be seeing things , like her father's dead body in the summer-house . Despite the fact that Penny has spoken to her father on the phone , she begins to think that there's something very wrong here . Bob sides with Penny and tries to help her get to the bottom of things , but unfortunately for Penny , nothing is what it seems to be , and no one is who they appear to be either . And that includes Penny . There's a twist ending to this that I didn't see coming and it's actually foreshadowed , but that all depends on how much you paid attention to the beginning of the film , I suppose . An excellent film , now available on DVD in a two-disk set with " The Gorgon " and two more . If you're a Hammer fan you'll definitely want to get your mitts on THIS one . .
Udo Kier plays a very pitiful Count Dracula in this Paul Morrissey interpretation of the vampire legend . Dracula is in need of virgin blood so he and his little assistant Antone pack up the car ( coffin included ) and head for Italy , where people are religious and there's plenty of virgins , still . Of course this is a Paul Morrissey movie and therefore there's Joe Dallesandro making sure the virginity level is at an all time low in one particular family . This is beautifully filmed for the most part , and overall the acting is very good , if one can overlook the fact that Dallesandro makes no attempt to cover his Brooklyn accent . This is not without humor , as the sickly and naive Count takes the word of young ladies of the particular family that he's chosen to prey upon that they are virgins ( or , if you prefer , " where-gins " as he pronounces it ) . There are a couple scenes of him spewing up the blood he's just sucked ( the blood of these whores is killing me , he says ) . Towards the end there is a scene with Dracula being chased down by Mr . Dallesandro , with an ax , and the resulting scene is one that is either right out of Monty Python or else they stole the idea . Despite the fact that he's a bloodsucker , you almost feel sorry for the poor little guy . Overall , I found this to be pretty much a delight , if one delights in bloodsucker movies with a sly sense of humor .
I've now seen the 4 films that Tod Solondz has put out and nothing will top " Happiness " for controversial , uncomfortable material , but this might come in second . Aviva is a 13 year old girl ( who is played by about 7 different actresses of varying ages and races ) . She wants to have a baby because they're cute but she doesn't understand the implications . Even mom tries to explain it to her ( like , not having extra money for N-Sync tickets ) but she is determined . She gets pregnant after a visit to some family friends where she and the young man get up to mischief in the bedroom while the folks are having drinks or something , and when her folks find out they of course drag her to a clinic . After that Aviva runs away from home , and eventually hooks up with the Sunshine Family , a pro-life , teeth-baring happy bunch ( a man & woman and a bunch of foster children , many whom are handicapped ) who live in a big house and all is well until she overhears Bo ( Papa Sunshine ) plotting with someone to take out an abortionist . And that someone happens to be their neighbor Earl , who also happens to be one of Aviva's one night stands on the road . Oops . I'll stop there as to what happens in the rest of the movie because if you're already interested in seeing it you will anyway . Needless to say that Mr . Solondz drags you matter-of-fact through things that you'd probably rather not be dragged through , his usual style . The subject matter is definitely controversial enough already , but it's pretty odd that he'd choose to cast several actresses in the role of Aviva , one of whom is a rather large black woman with a tiny voice , and I actually think she's the best one . Anyway , if you've seen other films by Solondz you know they're of the " love it or hate it " variety and this is just another . I can't say I loved it but it's pretty darn strange and pretty good to boot . and not a family film by any means .
I saw this yesterday and thought that it was a tad on the slow side in parts but overall a good sequel to House of 1000 Corpses . This is more a 70's-type " road picture " with lots of violence and depravity though , than a horror picture like its predecessor . It opens with a raid on the Firefly clan by the brother of the sheriff that died in the first one , and he's out for vengeance , but only Mother Firefly is captured and the rest escape . And it's on from there as Baby & Otis flee to meet up with Captain Spaulding at some sleazy / cheesy brothel in the middle of nowhere . There are some odd bits like a movie critic being called in to talk about the Captain Spaulding thing ( a character played by Groucho Marx in a Marx Brother's movie ) and connections between Groucho Marx and the slaying ? I was rather glad to see Captain Spaulding wash off his clown make-up though , considering how obvious it made him , even though one could recognize that ugly mug with or without . . There are some bits of humor despite the overall grimness of the entire movie , and the soundtrack music is less all over the map than in House of 1000 Corpses , although for 1978 ( when this is to be taking place ) most of the music is several years older than that . The music gives this a decent feel though and the use of " Free Bird " during the climax is pretty good , even though I could have gone through the rest of my life without ever hearing it again . This is an unrelentingly grim and violent picture overall , but it is a decent follow up to House of 1000 Corpses . Like that movie though it won't be for everyone , but I still give it , and at least I know in my mind that the question as to whether or not there'll be yet another sequel has been answered .
Hey now , I read in one of my movie books that the writers on this were the same ones that did American Graffiti ? That seems a bit odd , this is quite the far cry from THAT film , which I liked as a kid but now can't stand . We have a young woman going to a small town by the sea to find her dad , who's an eccentric artist ( played very briefly , by Royal Dano ) and she finds that things in this town are very weird . Seems like everyone has very bad social skills , guess that happens when the moon turns blood red and everyone becomes zombies . These aren't your usual " Night of the Living Dead " ( etc ) zombies , though , they dress quite nicely and their worst habit seems to be chowing down at the meat counter at the local Ralph's Supermarket . Oh , and chowing down on whatever living people happen to wander their way , too , but no grisly intestine stretching in this one , it's all covered up as they dog-pile onto the victim . This film has a good feel to it , very 70's , and it's creepy and eerie and unfortunately , it moves a bit slowly , but I was intrigued and liked this a lot . The house where the woman's dad lives / lived is weird with people painted on the inside walls , it always seems like there's someone watching . Anyway , this is one that will depend on your taste , it's not too gory but it is pretty creepy so I guess if you find it for cheap ( like I did ) check it out .
This is the first of the Blind Dead series , I just sprung for the box set from Blue Underground and while I'd seen this on VHS a long time ago I rather enjoyed seeing it again . If " enjoyed " is the right word , because it's dark , creepy , and dare I say it ? Sure , why not , disturbing . An old medieval town exists in the middle of nowhere near the Spanish and Portuguese border , and when one woman of a trio that is headed for a weekend in the country decides to disembark from a moving train she hikes through the countryside and finds this place . Deciding it's a nice spot to bed down for the night ( ! ! ) she proceeds to cuddle up in her sleeping bag only to get munched by skeletal knights in rotting shrouds . These knights were of an order that practiced the dark arts , and I guess technically they're the Templars of legend but that's never mentioned in the movie . However , as wandering dead things , you can't get much creepier . The scenes with them on horseback are something to see as well . This is a very atmospheric film and it does well at conveying a sense of dread . This is early 70's Euro-horror at about its finest , in my book . .
This is a strange film done in the style of Dogma 95 , which means hand held cameras and other restrictions . It's not so much a story as it is a portrait of a family with a schizophrenic member , specifically Julien ( as played by Ewen Bremner ) . We're shown his older sister who is pregnant ( by whom , we're not sure , until maybe later ) , his dad ( played by Werner Herzog ) who swills Robutissin and is inflicts mental cruelty on his family members , and his brother Chris , who wants to be a wrestler , etc . We're also shown other disabled folks at various functions including bowling , parties , etc . All in all the effect is a rather surreal collection of snippets of the life in this strange little family and at times it's a bit mundane but at other times it's fairly disturbing , and at times VERY disturbing . This is not a film for the unadventurous and it's not far from the style of " Gummo " so if you've seen that you sort of know what to expect but then again , not really . , it will stick with you .
First off , I bought this by accident , thinking of " Hellborn " which I'd read about & sounded interesting . This turned out to be a GOOD mistake though , and I really enjoyed it . First thing on the box that caught my attention was the name Dominique Pinon ( that's a guy , y'all ) . He's the strange little rubber-faced guy that's in all of Jeunet & Caro's movies ( Delicatessen , City of Lost Children , & Amelie ) . He plays a cop in this , a strange departure but interesting . Now on to the film : This is one weird little movie . It was only made last year but is low-budget and has the look to it of British films of the 80's ( for instance , XTRO came to mind ) . It's very well done and quite creepy and nightmarish . And there's an evil clown . . . . . I love evil clowns . There's a good clown too , but I think it's really the evil clown underneath , otherwise no little kids would go near it so they could be ripped to shreds . A woman who lost her child a few years prior lives a nightmare of that incident every day , and apparently is searching for the killer , still . I say apparently because despite the non-stop nightmarish flow of the film , it's also a tad bit hard to follow . But , for me , I found this to be one of those films where you just need to stop trying to figure it out and go along for the wild & creepy ride . I really liked this and I think most horror fans would , at least most horror fans that enjoy the " out of the ordinary " , a category which this fits into quite well . Recommended .
After a man kills himself in a subway corridor by driving a knife into his eye , a camera man becomes obsessed with finding what drove this man to that act . Masuoka ( as played by Shinya Tsukamoto ) ends up wandering through the subways and finding a labyrinth of underground tunnels and passages and even the mountains of madness ? And , chained up in a little alcove , a woman . Or is it ? She looks human , she's actually kind of cute , that is , until you get a good look at her teeth . He brings her back to his apartment where he keeps her , but she won't eat , won't drink , won't speak . What he accidentally finds out is that she does drink something , and that's blood . And he couldn't have guessed that from her teeth ? He hasn't watched enough movies . Masuoka is also being followed by a man in black that knows that he has this thing in his apartment and tells him she isn't of this world . And speaking of not of this world , Masuoko is also apparently being followed by his ex-wife too , who accuses him of having their daughter hidden away from her . That part isn't exactly explained , I just sort of guessed at it . Of course now that he's found out what his little house guest likes for dinner his ex-wife isn't bothering him anymore and there's a couple of school girls gone missing . It's really hard to do this movie justice in a review , because I can't begin to describe the creepy wanderings in the subways and the glimpses of furtive creatures ( deros ? ) that seem to be down there . This has an overall feeling of dread and wrongness to it but Masuoka is only mildly concerned , maybe because he went off his medication . This should be a must-see for fans of J-horror , it's creepy and weird enough to be very appealing . .
Seems there's a lot of films that scared people as kids , and this seems to be one that people that grew up in the UK remember well . I personally had never seen it until yesterday , and while it's pretty mild for an adult , I can certainly see where it would scare the bejeezus out of the kids . Personally , Wizard of Oz used to scare the crap out of me & I couldn't get past the scene with the witch on top of the house and when the flying monkeys showed up , that was all I could watch for years . At any rate , this is a good old-fashioned sort of fairy tale , complete with an evil prince and a giant who kidnaps a princess in order to negotiate with her father , the king , as to when this evil prince might take the throne . Of course , our hero , Kerwin Mathews , saves the princess from the giant but of course the evil Pendgragon is persistent . The stop motion animation is pretty good , and some of the effects , especially the witches that attack the ship and make off with the princess , yet again . These are some of the scenes a friend in the UK described to me as scary when he was a kid and I can certainly see why . It's also pretty obvious , I think , that Rob Reiner used this as part of his " inspiration " for the Princess Bride , although that's played more for comedy than adventure and swashbuckling . Familiar character actor Walter Burke makes a good evil henchman to Pendragon , as well . Overall this is an enjoyable diversion for a Saturday afternoon for kids of all ages , but perhaps the younger ones will be too jaded for it ! .
My first thought when I started watching this was that it was a pretty blatant rip-off of Man Bites Dog , but it is and it isn't . Man Bites Dog is more aimed at dark humor , whereas this is just more dark . Plus , in Man Bites Dog , the victims were just victims , never dinner . A wedding photographer gets his kicks by having a guy that he hired follow him around and film him killing people . The catch is that supposedly this is taped over a tape from the local video store , which doesn't work very well if you're watching a DVD , unfortunately , but still this is an interesting film , despite the obvious low budget . I liked this a lot and am glad someone else didn't so I didn't have to pay full price for it . Overall this is well done for what it is , and fairly creepy considering that the guy that's doing all the killing seems , on the surface , like such a normal guy . I'd recommend this but I'd also insist on watching " Man Bites Dog " which is very similar but actually a much better film . stars .
I'm no fan of the Flaming Lips , although I have heard their music for years . I was drawn to this , however , because I like odd Christmas films & this is about as odd as you can get . We have a settlement on Mars where it's Christmas eve , and the personnel there are getting a bit loony , and starting to see things , and become unbalanced . Along comes a strange being ( Wayne Coyne , singer & songwriter of Flaming Lips ) who appears out of nowhere just as a suicidal Santa runs out of Hatch Number 1 of the building , to of course meets with a horrible death . What's left of Santa is dragged back in , along with the Martian , who speaks not a word and is stoic throughout his questioning by the redneck commanding officer . Apparently one crew member is in charge of putting together a Christmas event for the rest of the crew , and the Martian is eventually volunteered to wear the Santa suit . There's a lot of strange things going on within this little colony , and there are equipment failures and crew members with degenerating mental states to deal with , but the benevolent Martian ends up wandering and manages to put some of the equipment failures to right . This is mostly filmed in black & white but some of the color sequences are pretty interesting , whatever we're meant to be looking at . There seem to be quite a few influences for this , and I was put in mind of " Dark Star " , " Solaris " ( the Russian one ) , " Eraserhead " , " 2001 " , and " Tetsuo The Iron Man " . The acting isn't the greatest but that doesn't really detract from the overall viewing experience . There's quite a bit of dark humor to this too . I was quite impressed , overall , and this even manages to have a rather magical and mysterious feel to it , and even a relatively upbeat ending . If you like cheesy science fiction & non-traditional type Christmas films then check this out , I found it to be a rather fun and interesting experience & well worth seeing . Not for the kiddies though , by any means . .
What if , many years ago , there was a radiation problem that caused the dead to come back to life ? And what if , to alleviate that problem , all cities and town in the US were surrounded by chain-link fences to keep the zombies out so they could live more-or-less normal lives ? And what if , with the help of Zomcom , some of these zombies were kept in check by special collars and used as domestic help & for things like milk men , crossing guards , etc ? Well , let's go visit the little town of Willard , which is just such a place . We have the Robinson family , mom , dad , & Timmy , who live across the street from where new neighbors are moving in . The new neighbors ( the Bottoms ) have LOTS of zombies working for them , but that's because Mr . Bottoms is the new head of Zomcom . So , since Mrs . Robinson has to keep up with the neighbors , she gets a zombie . Now , Mr . Robinson has a fear of these things , maybe because when he was a kid his dad died of a heart attack & came back & the then-11-year-old Mr . Robinson had to kill him . The zombie is not well received in the Robinson household until he keeps two school bullies from hurting Timmy , and then Timmy names him Fido . Now , it seems like these zombie control collars have some bugs in them , still , and when Fido's goes on the blink he eats Mrs . Henderson , a nosy neighbor . Fido also manages to tangle with the two school bullies again which results in their death but Mom is a tough gal & deals with the cover-up . If you've ever seen Lassie you will appreciate some of the humor in this too . . " What's the matter boy , is Timmy in trouble ? " . If you liked " Shaun of the Dead " then you'll most likely enjoy this too . " Fido " actually differs greatly from that film but it takes the zombie " mythos " and mixes it up into a weird black comedy . Goofy weird stuff and lots of fun . .
" Dr . Terror's House Of Horrors " involves 6 men who occupy a train car . The last arrival is one Dr . Schreck ( Cushing ) who brings with him a deck of tarot cards & after he's accidentally ( maybe ) spilled them onto the floor , he's asked to do a reading for one of the men , after which the rest are drawn into the game . The men are shown their possible futures , and the end result is always the same . . . . There's a man who returns from holiday with his wife & daughter , only to find some kind of strange plant growing in the garden , that begins with killing the family dog & eventually traps the family in the house . There's a jazz musician who goes to the Caribbean only to hear the music of a voodoo ritual which he thinks he can adapt for a more modern arrangement , with dire results . There's a man who goes back to his ancestral home which was sold , to supposedly consult on architectural changes but the new owner of the house really has other plans . There's a stuffy art critic ( Lee ) who is " made a monkey of " ( literally ) by artist Michael Gough , who then runs down the artist , who loses a hand and eventually kills himself , except the hand itself is still out for revenge . And finally a new doctor in a small town finds himself a pawn of his partner when he realizes his wife might be a vampire and sets out to take care of that . I like this a lot , and I have a fondness for horror anthologies anyway , but this is one of my favorites . It's not particularly scary , but it's more along the lines of " EC Comics " type stuff that " Tales from the Crypt " was based on . A fun Amicus film , unfortunately not released in the US but of course , you can find it if you look . .
This begins as a bunch of office workers in a drab old building are assigned their work for the week , and in the front of the building you see the clients drifting in from a fog , and going to the receptionist and being told to take their place in the lobby . Then you realize that the people that are showing up there have recently died and this place is a holding area for the afterlife , in which they are told that they must come up with a cherished memory and then in one week they will be allowed to move on . It's not so easy for some , who look back at their lives and can find nothing worth cherishing . Those who can not choose can't move on , and then you find that the counselors there are only there because THEY themselves could not choose , either . There are many touching and interesting moments in this , and the idea is that the cherished memories will then be staged and committed to film , and after viewing the film of their cherished memory the subject is then able to move on . Seems that there's a bit of overlap with one counselor and his subject though , because they had something in common in the way of a woman who became one man's wife after her fiancée was killed in World War II . This is quite good up to a point but then when the staging of the filming of the " cherished memories " begins , the film starts to drag some , and that segment goes on for too long for my taste . Still though , a very good film and food for thought if you're not living your life to its fullest . .
This is one of my favorite horror movies of the 60's , it has cool jazzy music & even a band singing Scream and Scream Again , it has Vincent Price , it has Peter Cushing ( as a honcho of some pseudo-Nazi type army ) , it has Christopher Lee , hard to tell if he's a good guy or a bad guy , actually , but overall it's just plain great entertainment . It's even got acid , no , not THAT kind , the kind that dissolves bodies . Yee-ha ! People are mysteriously disappearing or being killed , it seems , and there's evil afoot , since Price is doing a few little experiments to make superhuman beings . Police are hot on the trail , along with a coroner's assistant , to catch the perpetrators , but they have no idea what they're up against . I particularly like when one of the superhuman dudes is captured and leaves behind a body part as he makes good his escape . If you're a fan of 60's horror then don't miss this one . stars .
This is a low-budget flick that is already disturbing and creepy long before it actually even gets to the meat of what's going on . Three young men , who have a secret in their past that they share , are brought together in the same town again after the father of one dies and he returns for the funeral . Talk about dysfunctional families , too , sis is pretty wasted a lot of the time , apparently , and Uncle Tom , well , he carries a case full of cutting implements , and even gets frisky with his niece , wow . At any rate the secret these young men share is something to do with a foundling they took into their care and raised up in a cabin in the woods ( and named him Joshua ) until they decided that what they were doing had gone too far ( by far ) and they torched the place to be done with it . But one of the three wasn't having any of that and apparently none of the three went unaffected by what they had done later in their lives , which is now , while you're watching , and it's not pretty . For the most part , despite the low budget , this is excellent and the acting is good , and it's creepy and disturbing far beyond anything else that's come out in recent memory . An independent film will worth seeing if you're a horror fan . .
Nobody ( except perhaps Guy Maddin ) does weird as well as Jan Svankmajer . In this film he explores something that not many films dare to , and that's fetishes . There is a small group of people in a large Czech city that are not necessarily connected but they do interact . They all exhibit some pretty strange behavior when tucked away from prying eyes . One man makes himself a chicken costume complete with wings made from old umbrellas , sewn together on a sewing machine belonging to his equally-twisted neighbor while she's out shopping . A postmistress secrets herself away in little alcoves and such while she makes bread balls , which she keeps in a little container and when she's home after work , she sucks them up hoses into her nose . One man takes paint brushes and little snippets of women's fur coats to nail and glue onto rolling pins and pot lids , the better to rub himself with later . The interaction between the people in this film is usually not direct , like one man parks his car while another steals it , and one woman gets a box full of bread balls delivered by none other than the postmistress that makes them , etc . This is a finely crafted film and there's not as much " animation " as there has been in previous Svankmajer films but what there is works quite well . Overall this is a fascinating yet twisted view of human behavior and well worth seeing if you have a good sense of adventure . And if I've made it seem like it's a dirty movie , it's not really , but it certainly not NORMAL . , I feel a little guilty for liking it though .
I have no idea how this film was received upon release but it's a dark dark comedy , with plenty of bad words and plenty of controversial subjects , in other words , it's pretty offensive , and I loved it . George Segal stars as a lawyer with a senile mother ( Ruth Gordon ) who has apparently managed to scare away all nurses and housekeepers in NYC . The latest attempt at a care-giver is a young lady ( Trish Van Devere ) who Segal fell in love with at first sight but momma keeps getting in the way . This is full of unexpected jaw-dropping lines and situations and is basically a rollicking romp through the depths of bad taste . Ruth Gordon is excellent as always as the senile mother who is always wondering where Poppa is ( he's been dead for years ) . Now THIS is a comedy , perhaps more along the lines of a John Waters comedy but still probably a big chance in Hollywood 36 years ago . Check it out , well worth seeing . .
This is one of my favorite all-time Polanski movies , next to Repulsion , so I decided since it was on sale I'd spring for the Criterion Collection DVD , and while I haven't yet looked at the other disk ( which is a collection of Polanski's short films , some of which I've actually heard of ) , I found that this is nicely restored and clear but Criterion is way too overpriced . Now to focus on the movie , this is a strange little tale of a man & his wife , fairly well to do in Poland at the time as they have their own car and sailboat . On their way to the Marina to go out for the day sailing , they encounter a young hitch hiker who turns out to be a little strange . Not so strange that this is the blueprint for " Dead Calm " though , so cool your jets . Anyway , the husband & the young man fall into rivalry , the older man being somewhat of a control freak and show-off and the young man being rebellious . Tensions mount and tempers flare , but it never gets too out of control . Plenty of strangeness though , in an ordinary sort of way . I kind of liked seeing what life was like among the privileged in Poland in 1962 , like the woman frolicking in the water with the " crocodile " , an inflatable toy , and playing jackstraws in the cabin when they " docked " for the night in the reeds . There's more to it than this but you have to see it , I can't give away any more or I'd be including a spoiler . This is a tense little movie , and some may actually not find it very exciting , but if you're a Polanski fan and feel like shelling out the bucks for the Criterion DVD , then go for it , it's great . 9 of 10 stars .
As our story begins we see a man being directed to empty chemicals down a sink . He's reluctant as they're toxic and could cause problems , but he's ordered to do it anyway so he does . Fast forward to a couple years later when two fisherman are in the Han River fishing , and one sees something odd , which he catches in a cup , but he drops it and it swims away . Fast forward to the present , where it's an idyllic day by the Han River as people are enjoying the day & buying good things to eat from a little food shack , that being run by the seemingly narcoleptic Gung-Du Park and his father . Something is in the river and everyone's attention is focused on it , but suddenly it's NOT in the river anymore , it's on land and it's moving fast , and people are running for their lives . Sound like a nice day to you ? Now , Gung-Du's daughter Hyun-Seo has just graduated to middle-school and in the rush of trying to get away , even though he was holding her hand , Gung-Du loses track of her & she's seized by this creature who takes off into the river again & seemingly swallows her . All the people that live or are in that particular area are evacuated & there's some talk of viruses and infections , so effectively this family is kept from looking for Hyun-Seo , but she is alive and gets hold of her cell phone & calls in the middle of the night . Of course , no one believes she's alive but her family is determined to find her no matter what the consequences . This is a well done and EXCITING monster flick , with some decent humor and great effects . The monster itself is rather amazing and there's some humor to its movements too as it swings underneath bridges like a high-wire performer . The thing is sort of like a mutated two-legged tadpole with a bit of squid and who knows what else thrown in . Very much a winner , and a good balance of various genres makes it interesting and it's NEVER boring . .
