A Walt Disney GOOFY Cartoon . Goofy tries coping with the child , the pets and all the housework during FATHER'S DAY OFF . Here is a cautionary little film for any male who's ever thought his wife had it easy around the house . Pete has a tiny cameo at the end as a police detective . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . Toiling together , THE BUSY BEAVERS have devised many ingenious ways to complete their dam . After retiring to their lodges , a mighty flood threatens to wipe out all their hard work . Only one lone beaver has the energy to save the day . . . This black & white entry in the series is an exercise in dealing with the movement of light & dark forms ; action & reaction . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most interesting of series in the field of animation . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . It's dark and THE CAT'S OUT for the evening . A night spent screeching on the fence & stalking birds takes a strange turn when an accidental bang on the head throws kitty into a world of nightmare . . . This black & white cartoon is pleasant without being noteworthy . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most interesting of series in the field of animation . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
Although he's all but forgotten now , in 1930 , Hollywood's first full year of talkie films , William Haines was king of the box office . His movies - he starred in three of them - made more money than those of any other male star . WAY OUT WEST is one of those films . Haines plays a carnival shyster who cheats some cowboys out of their money with a crooked roulette wheel . They retaliate by kidnapping him , taking him back to their ranch and forcing him to work off the debt . There are some of the usual silly-billy antics you expect from a Bill Haines film . But there are also lapses into very serious areas as well . The look on Haines ' bleeding face after he's been roughed-up by a big cowboy , without a word spoken , speaks volumes . Also appearing are Leila Hyams , one of MGM's pretty starlets of the early 1930's ; Francis X . Bushman , Jr . ; the ubiquitous Polly Moran ; and little Cliff Edwards , who gets to play his ukulele & sing .
A handsome young merchant prince must fight first for his life and then for his identity . But when he struggles to keep the love of a beautiful young American , he is reminded that he is still but a SON OF INDIA . This is a decent little film , with good production values and MGM lavished a lot of care in making it look exotic . As regards the plot , Ramon Novarro is practically the whole story . Here he adds another portrait to his long series of ethnic interpretations . Silent screen star Conrad Nagel appears as Novarro's American friend & a lovely Madge Evans plays his sister , Novarro's love interest . Marjorie Rambeau is given little do to as their unsympathetic aunt , while old Sir C . Aubrey Smith has a tiny role as a wise old English doctor .
A Vitaphone Short SubjectA handsome South American lieutenant has his KISSING TIME with a beautiful American traveler rudely interrupted by his uncouth general , who wants the lady for himself . . . Although this short film can boast little beyond its ludicrous lovemaking , the songs are sung nicely , and the characters of the obese general and fey Englishman are slightly humorous . The unusually dense plot , with its ghostly , bell ringing hermit & unhappy ending , makes this musical somewhat atypical for its time . Operettas were idea subject matter for early talky two-reelers . They were swiftly paced , colorful ( even in black & white ) and rather cheap to produce , utilizing as they did the sets & costumes of the feature films . Their brief length negated any need for character exposition and the stories were easy to follow , even when sung by heavily accented voices . Best of all , they were full of Sound , and that was still enough of a novelty to keep most audiences from becoming overly critical or expectant of anything smacking of real art .
An MGM Oddity Short Subject . A menagerie full of fabulous fowls preen their FINE FEATHERS for the camera . Birds of all sorts , from the flamboyant Manchurian Crane to the ordinary Barn Owl , from the exotic Victoria Crown Pigeon to the unprepossessing Vulturine Guinea Fowl , are on exhibit in this humorous early Technicolor film . Explanatory remarks are by the ever-eccentric Pete Smith . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
' Those that go DOWN TO THE SEA IN SHIPS , that do business in great waters ; these see the works of the Lord , and His wonders in the deep . ' Psalms 107 : 23 , 24Filmed on location in and around the old sailing center of New Bedford , Massachusetts , here is a silent film with exciting drama & action . The production values are excellent and the necessary romantic elements do not intrude on the swift flow of the plot . With kidnapping & murder , mutiny at sea & hungry sharks , the pace never slackens . Marguerite Courtot is the pretty heroine who pines at home after her lover , sturdy Raymond McKee , is abducted and spirited off in a whaler . She is given little to do except play with her dolls and fend off a lecherous knave , but Mr . McKee is plunked right into the thick of things , engaged in all the most dangerous tasks which a whaleman must accomplish - and it is obvious that the actor is placed in some jeopardy as well . ( Beautiful Miss Courtot & handsome Mr . McKee were both popular players during silent days . They married a year after the release of DOWN TO THE SEA IN SHIPS . She ended her film career in 1923 , while his did not survive the coming of talkies . They remained married for 61 years , until his death in 1984 at the age of 91 . She died in 1986 , aged 88 . ) The film is also notable as providing the breakout role for 16-year old Clara Bow , playing the spunky niece of Miss Courtot , who becomes a stowaway on the whaler in order to be near the young cabin boy on whom she dotes . Clara is feisty and full of fight & fun and it's easy to see how this film helped make her a star . ( She would enliven the rest of the silent era , but her movie career would be over before her 30th birthday . She died in 1965 at the age of 60 . ) Patrick Hartigan , as a bestial seaman and J . Thornton Baston , as a half-caste Asian disguised as a Quaker , make very fine villains . The film offers interesting insight into the lives of the New England Quakers of the 19th Century . There is also much to be learned about whaling operations and the authentic footage of the capture and dissection of a sperm whale will either fascinate or repulse the viewer . The film's opening credits give special commendation to the brave cameramen who risked their lives to photograph the thrilling footage at sea .
A cunning young soldier of fortune finds himself in the employ of Cesare Borgia , THE PRINCE OF FOXES . The young man is sent on a diplomatic mission to pave the way for Borgia's conquest of Italy , but instead he falls in love - exposing himself to the full force of his master's wrath . . . Strangely overlooked & underrated , this is a wonderful film , full of swashbuckling action , intrigue & adventure . The acting is mostly first rate and the production values & photography are both sumptuous . But beyond this , PRINCE OF FOXES is blessed with a literate , intelligent script & story line in which it is an actual pleasure to immerse oneself . Intelligent viewers are amply rewarded for their time & attention . Tyrone Power is the valiant hero and he gives a good performance , even if his American accent seems a bit out of place . Always concerned that his handsome looks were more appreciated than his thespian abilities , he finds himself here surrounded by co-stars replete with protean skills . What can one say about Orson Welles ? That he takes the small role of Cesare Borgia and turns it into a fascinating character study ? This is only to be expected . But there is more . Welles ' oversized talent & personality nearly overwhelm the screen - the medium was almost too small to contain him . He imbues his part with such sardonic humor & sly cunning as to almost make Borgia - and this is high praise indeed - stand on a par with his forthcoming Harry Lime . In fact , Cesare & Harry have much in common , beyond the fact that they were both portrayed by the same splendid actor . They both reveal human evil in all its charming rapacity . Both are utterly , deadly ruthless . Borgia is Lime with an army . A further joy in watching PRINCE OF FOXES is the chance to see the wonderful old actor Sir Felix Aylmer in a role worthy of his skill . For nearly four decades this quiet , unassuming man appeared in a multitude of British films , usually in small , unexciting parts . Here , he is given a generous role as an elderly count who must contend with Borgia . Deftly underplaying his scenes & giving his lines full justice with his unique voice , Sir Felix gives a master's class in good acting . Everett Sloane , Welles ' old buddy from their Mercury Theater days , gives a finely nuanced performance as a hired assassin - his face a mask of treacherous villainy . As Power's peasant mother , Katina Paxinou is powerful in her small role . Filmed throughout Italy in various magnificent Renaissance locations , it is the fairy tale walls of San Marino which stand out in particular , doubling for the fictitious Citta del Monte . This tiny republic , the world's oldest , spreads its 23 square miles over Mount Titano , east of Florence , and is completely surrounded by Italy . ( Ironically , San Marino was actually captured by Cesare Borgia at one time ) . The triple fortresses of its capital , crowning the heights of Titano , provide the film with its most memorable vistas . And herein lies an interesting bit of cinematic trivia . Although it had been a safe haven for anti-Mussolini dissidents during the Second World War , the Republic had suffered damage to its majestic walls after being mistakenly bombed by the Allies near the end of the conflict . When the folks from Twentieth Century Fox arrived wanting to make PRINCE OF FOXES and use San Marino as a pivotal backdrop , the Republic agreed , on condition that the film company repair the bomb damage to the fortifications on Mount Titano . Which is why San Marino reminds some tourists today of a Hollywood set . . . The film ends very ambiguously as to the fate of Cesare Borgia , but history is not so vague . The illegitimate son of Pope Alexander VI , Cesare ( 1475-1507 ) started his rise to power early , first in his ancestral Spain and later in Italy . At the age of seven he was created prothonotary & canon of the cathedral of Valencia - but it was in 1491 at the age of sixteen that his career really started to move . Over the course of the next two years Cesare was quickly created bishop , archbishop & cardinal . In 1498 he renounced his cardinalate to become Captain General of the Papal Army . Working hand in glove with the Pope , they furthered their schemes towards wresting a northern Italian kingdom for Cesare . A marriage that same year with the sister of the King of Navarre and the acceptance of a French dukedom , gave Cesare & Alexander the French support they would need for their plots of conquest . The film begins in 1500 , by which time Cesare was fully immersed in his generally successful campaigns . ( The opening scene shows the funeral of Cesare's brother-in-law , Duke Alfonso of Bisceglie , the husband of Cesare's wicked sister Lucrezia ; that unlucky gentleman had been stabbed by a quartet of Cesare's assassins and subsequently strangled in his sickbed by Cesare's servant . ) Hated & despised by the rank and file of the citizenry of Italy , Alexander & Cesare had to constantly fight against the overwhelming tide of public opinion . Surviving one rebellion in his army - and treacherously murdering the ringleaders after feigning peace - Cesare's fortunes at last crumbled with the death of his father in 1503 . The new pope , Julius II , was an implacable enemy and demanded the release of Cesare's dominions . Cesare was eventually captured by the Spanish , imprisoned in Spain , and made a daring escape . He now offered his services to his brother-in-law , the King of Navarre . Cesare Borgia's short , violent , utterly fascinating life came to an end in 1507 when he was killed in a skirmish with rebels .
Can Lionel Barrymore commit the perfect crime , for the sake of his daughter's honor , and get by with it ? That's the question posed in this fine film which is NOT a " whodunit " . Almost forgotten by nearly 7 decades of bigger , splashier movies , fans of crime films will not want to miss this little gem . Tightly plotted and suspenseful , GUILTY HANDS ( yes , the title is important ) rewards the thoughtful viewer . Barrymore is great , as always . Kay Francis is a shady lady with too much past . Alan Mowbray - in a welcome departure from his comic butler roles - is suave and evil . Madge Evans , Polly Moran & Sir C . Aubrey Smith round out the supporting cast . And what a great ending - unexpected and appropriate .
A Walt Disney PLUTO Cartoon . PLUTO'S SWEATER , a gift from Minnie , gives him no end of trouble . Although not one of Disney's classics , this little film offers some funny moments as the Pup deals with his hideous new possession . Minnie Mouse is given a few moments to shine as the dreadfully dedicated sweater knitter . Making one of his limited appearances in a cartoon short , Pinocchio's pal Figaro proves to be a good antagonist for Pluto . Look fast for a cameo by Butch the bully bulldog . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
The evil Professor Moriarty plots to gain control of both SHERLOCK HOLMES AND THE SECRET WEAPON which could win the war for the Nazis . Basil Rathbone & Nigel Bruce return to the screen as Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's beloved detective and sidekick , Sherlock Holmes & Dr . Watson , in this entertaining little mystery . Universal Studios wasted no money on either fancy production values or a sensible script , knowing that its two stars would be all the attraction an audience would need . Indeed Rathbone , as the cerebral ego , and Bruce , as the bumbling id , seem to actually become the characters they are creating , gleefully keeping their faces straight while engaged in the most utter nonsense . Dennis Hoey makes his first appearance as the dogged Inspector Lestrade of Scotland Yard ; teamed with Bruce , these two good-hearted but pedantic fellows actually get to save the intellectually superior Holmes ' life twice . Lionel Atwill , a master of the sinister who deserves more recognition for his talent , does a fine job as Moriarty , making the wicked rascal a foe worthy of Holmes ' steel , relishing the scenes in which he gets to inflict torture & pain . William Post Jr . and Kaaren Verne play the Swiss scientist and his girlfriend who are at the heart of the mystery , but they're not given much to do . Sweet Mary Gordon makes a token appearance as Holmes ' landlady Mrs . Hudson . Rathbone spices up his already classic interpretation of Holmes by getting to appear in disguise three times during the story , thereby revealing to the viewer that the great sleuth was a bit of a ham actor at heart . This film - - which is based very loosely on elements in Sir Arthur's short stories ' The Dancing Men ' and ' The Empty House ' - - followed SHERLOCK HOLMES AND THE VOICE OF TERROR ( 1942 ) and preceded SHERLOCK HOLMES IN WASHINGTON ( 1943 ) .
A Warner Brothers Vitaphone Short Subject . With music provided by Roger Wolfe Kahn & His Orchestra , THE YACHT PARTY provides some snappy music for a few idle rich guests . Without enough plot to hang a yachtsman's hat on , this short film is simply an excuse for a few minutes of silly songs . Highlights are comic singer Gertrude Niesen's impersonation of Lyda Roberti and incredibly double-jointed Melissa Mason performing a solo dance in which she does things with her legs which scarcely seem human . Rich kid Kahn produces some enjoyable music ; the final moments , in which he supposedly conducts his orchestra from a biplane , presages his eventual career change to airplane design & testing . Music mavens will spot an unbilled Artie Shaw playing the clarinet . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
Here is the definitive video history of the art of the American silent film . This 13-episode documentary was literally produced in the nick of time , as many of those interviewed would be deceased in a few short years - their wonderful memories lost forever . Produced in 1980 for Thames Television , this is certainly one of the crowning achievements of the British team of Kevin Brownlow & David Gill , who together have done so much to preserve not only the history of silent cinema , but also the actual films themselves . The one great lesson of the series is that non-talking films were a distinct art form , complete & satisfying , which had developed a universal language , understood everywhere , through the perfected medium of mime . This was all swept away with the arrival of Talk . So complete was the dismissal of silent films ( which were never really silent ) that within a short period of time they would be disparaged as intrinsically valueless & technically inferior . As HOLLYWOOD triumphantly shows , nothing could have been further from the truth . Films of enormous expertise & intense emotional impact were almost routinely created by the pioneers who were perfecting their new invention . The achievements of Silent Cinema's 35 years constitute a new cultural renaissance . Episodes focus on such topics as Westerns , comedies , war films , stunts , camera techniques & scandals . Not only do we hear from such luminaries as Lillian Gish , Gloria Swanson , Douglas Fairbanks Jr . & even John Wayne , but we are also enchanted by the recollections of Viola Dana , Leatrice Joy , Bessie Love , Colleen Moore & Blanche Sweet , performers in danger of obscurement due to the fact that their careers were so very long ago and their films are largely unavailable or lost . Hearing Miss Dana discuss the death of the stunt pilot she loved , or Miss Joy recollecting a tender note from husband John Gilbert , or Miss Moore hilariously describing her voice lessons when talkies arrived , is to inculcate real human personalities into what would otherwise be only historical footnotes . A parade of directors , cameramen , stunt men & theater musicians also reminisce , as do writer Adela Rogers St . Johns & choreographer Agnes de Mille , who between them seem to have been everywhere & known everyone . Even Lord Louis Mountbatten recalls his memories of halcyon days at Pickfair . While some fans may not want to have all the mysteries revealed as to how Douglas Fairbanks & Harold Lloyd achieved some of their most famous stunts , it is still fascinating information and detracts not a whit from the stars ' prestige . It is rather sad , however , to see such stars as John Gilbert , Roscoe Arbuckle , James Murray & Ramon Novarro in their prime , with the knowledge of what Fate had in store for them . . . Fans of HOLLYWOOD will be pleased to know that in the decades that have passed since its production many of the silent films it highlights have been fully restored and show now to much greater advantage that the rather faded appearance they make in the documentary . Much appreciation must go to two men whose contributions go very far in contributing to the success of the series . Carl Davis provides a wonderfully evocative score for HOLLYWOOD , his use of traditional tunes & his own lilting melodies a splendid match for what is taking place on screen . James Mason's narration is absolutely perfect - his rich voice , so warm & intimate , ironically proving that there is a place for talking pictures after all .
Stan & Ollie arrive in BONNIE SCOTLAND to claim Stan's inheritance . Through a series of mishaps , the Boys end up in the British Army , stationed in India & threatened with imminent death at the hands of a fierce tribal chief . . . With rather more plot than usual in a typical Laurel & Hardy film - the romantic subplot has virtually nothing to do with Stan & Ollie - this is still a delight for fans of the Boys . By this point in their joint career they were past perfection & beyond praise . Seeing them act together is like watching an intricate piece of clockwork . Among the highlights here : the candle under the bed ; the ' invisible ' accordion ; and the dance to ? A Hundred Pipers ' . Stan & Ollie are given fine support by the rest of the cast : Mary Gordon , as the hotel proprietress ; David Torrence , as a crusty old lawyer ; Daphne Pollard , as a feisty little maid ; and James Finlayson , the Boys ' eternal foil , as their long-suffering Sergeant Major . June Lang & William Janney supply the romantics . The lovely opening shots of Village life set the mood beautifully ; early scene where blacksmith Lionel Belmore hammers out the ' Cuckoo Song ' - while the Boys make their first appearance & march towards the camera - is a joy .
An MGM TRAVELTALK Short Subject . This colorful little film takes the viewer VISITING ITALY , quickly looking at the highlights in the cities of Rome , Assisi , Pisa & Florence . The beautiful Italian countryside is also glimpsed in passing . This is one of a large series of succinct travelogues turned out by MGM , beginning in the 1930's . They featured Technicolor views of beautiful & unusual sights around the globe , as well as vivid , concise commentary . These films were produced & narrated by James A . FitzPatrick .
A meek & mild fellow , with the uncanny knack of picking winning race horses , is taken in charge by a trio of racketeering gamblers . Fast-moving & fun , THREE MEN ON A HORSE is another example of the comedy crime picture that Warner Bros . was so expert at producing in the 1930's . Casts & plots could be shuffled endlessly , with very predictable results . While this assembly line approach created few classics , audience enjoyment could usually be assured . Frank McHugh & Joan Blondell are both well cast in the lead roles , especially Brooklyn-accented Blondell with her unsophisticated charm & pert blonde looks . Interesting thing about the screenplay is that there is absolutely no romantic development between McHugh & Blondell . He remains true to his dimwitted spouse Carol Hughes , while Blondell carries the torch for her bad guy boyfriend Sam Levene . The rest of the cast is excellent . Guy Kibbee appears as McHugh's bad-tempered blustery boss . Plain talking Allen Jenkins & excitable little Teddy Hart play Levene's gang members . Slow-burning Edgar Kennedy has a good role as the bartender who wants to use McHugh's talents to finance his early retirement . Obnoxious Paul Harvey does very well as McHugh's bullying brother-in-law . In smaller roles , Eddie ? Rochester ' Anderson scores as a gambling elevator operator ; Harry Davenport has one tiny scene as an employee in a greeting card publishing house ; and Eily Malyon plays a stern maternity ward nurse . Movie mavens will recognize an unbilled Charles Lane playing a laconic laundry man .
While searching for THE PEARL OF DEATH , Holmes & Watson encounter a master criminal and his terrifying backbreaking thug . This vivid & suspenseful film makes a welcome addition in the series of movies highlighting the exploits of Baker Street's most famous inhabitants . There is danger around every corner and Holmes must match his intellect against raw brute evil as he attempts to recover the Black Pearl of the Borgias . As always , Basil Rathbone & Nigel Bruce are beyond praise as they bring Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's celebrated characters to life . To the viewers ' delight , Holmes finds he can be thoroughly duped and Watson uses his mouth for something other than gab . Holmes ' rivals for possession of the Pearl are little Miles Mander and pretty Evelyn Ankers . Together , they provide the master detective with one of his most challenging cases . All three characters ( most especially the men ) make good use of cunning disguises to try to find the diminutive treasure . Dennis Hoey as the inept but courageous Inspector Lestrade and dear Mary Gordon as Mrs . Hudson return to roles they've already essayed very well in the past . The always reliable Ian Wolfe has the small part of a helpful crockery shop proprietor . The most intriguing member of the cast is Rondo Hatton , a tragic sufferer from acromegaly , a terrible disease which deformed his body into a grotesque horror . He is most effective as the sinister Creeper , especially during his few moments with Rathbone at the film's climax , and he was immediately spun-off into cheaply produced chillers playing essentially the same character . Apparently he hated being exploited , but this was to end sadly with his sudden death in 1945 . Movie mavens will recognize an uncredited Billy Bevan as a meal-bearing constable . This film was loosely based on Conan Doyle's short story The Adventure of the Six Napoleons . It was preceded by THE SCARLET CLAW ( 1944 ) and followed by THE HOUSE OF FEAR ( 1945 ) .
A LAUREL & HARDY Comedy Short . Stan & Ollie save the life of a bizarre woman attempting to drown herself . Instead of gratitude , the ferocious female follows them home , ensconcing herself in Ollie's bedroom & demanding money . Not wanting to COME CLEAN to their wives only makes the problem much worse . . . A hilarious little film . Highlight : Stan in the bathtub . That's Mae Busch as the female ( her name is misspelled in the opening credits ) & Charlie Hall as the soda jerk .
Orphaned Betsy Brown is sent to live in a New York City theatrical boarding hotel and quickly becomes involved in the struggle to keep the sour old landlady from closing down the establishment . By starring as LITTLE MISS BROADWAY in a show staged in a judge's courtroom , the moppet hopes to sway the verdict in her friends ' favor . Shirley Temple shines in this pleasant musical comedy . Her youthful spunk and astonishing talent are very much on display . As her leading man , dancer George Murphy is elegant & charming , just what the audience expects from Shirley's knight errant . Murphy's flirtation with Phyllis Brooks is dull stuff ; we can't wait for him to dance again with Miss Temple . Along with Murphy , Shirley faces unusually stiff competition from the comics & character actors involved in this film . The inimitable Edna May Oliver is the villainess here , and she doesn't care a fig for the feelings of the little girl ; diminutive Donald Meek is her brother who longs for an adventurous theatrical life . The great Jimmy Durante brings his own brand of insanity to the proceedings as a band leader ; it's almost criminal that he's given so little screen time with Shirley . Dialect comedian El Brendel has some funny moments and gets to interact with a peculiar penguin . That's Jerry Colonna as one of the band members . Jane Darwell is sweet , as always , in her matronly role as the orphanage director - she would appear in several Temple films in similar roles . Old Claude Gillingwater has fun with his role as the sympathetic judge . George & Olive Brasno , two of Hollywood's famous Little People , appear as themselves . Movie mavens will spot an unbilled Dick Elliott as a cheerful cellist . Shirley warbles ' Be Optimistic , ' ' How Can I Thank You ? ' & ' If All The World Were Paper ; ' Murphy joins her in singing & dancing through ' We Should Be Together ' & ' Little Miss Broadway . '
Two American adventurers on a Mexican island find themselves swept up in the search for the fabled RIVER OF GOLD . This made-for-TV feature is an enjoyable tale , offering plenty of fisticuffs and romantics . Although the plot is a bit more convoluted than the film's 74 minutes can handle , there is still entertainment in enjoying the action , puzzling out the meaning of a mysterious poem ( don't try ) and enjoying the antics of a good cast . Playing an evil millionaire who won't shirk at murder , Ray Milland acts properly villainous in his three scenes . Lovely Suzanne Pleshette is completely fetching as an eagerly amorous young widow . As the buddy duo sailboating around the world , sensitive Dack Rambo & stalwart Roger Davis make an energetic team - - it's too bad the ratings didn't warrant producing more of their exploits . From the first edition of his 1974 autobiography , Wide-eyed In Babylon , it is obvious that Milland despised this film and had contempt for his two male costars . The name of the guys ' sailboat , the Fred C . Dobbs , was Bogart's shiftless character in THE TREASURE OF THE SIERRA MADRE ( 1948 ) .
Two failed vaudevillians take on the task of helping a sweet old lady save her rundown drugstore from foreclosure . Reinvigorating the establishment with a lunch counter & live radio broadcast , they soon have the business thriving . However , when a crooked businessman attempts to smear the place as a speakeasy , will the boys be able to trace the bootleg liquor , or simply get CAUGHT PLASTERED ? Wheeler & Woolsey are in top form in this sadly neglected comedy . ( Bert Wheeler is the curly-headed fellow , Robert Woolsey is the skinny , bespectacled one . ) Always much fun to watch , they've got great dialogue here and they keep it coming rapid fire . Their gags at the expense of the drugstore patrons ( society lady , nasty kid , effeminate gentleman , demanding diners ) are often hilarious . Once very popular , it's a shame this delightful duo has been virtually forgotten . Frequent co-star Dorothy Lee is still kewpie-doll cute . Lucy Beaumont is darling as the little old lady . Jason Robards Sr . is effective as the suave crook .
This is an unusual domestic comedy for Harold Lloyd . Instead of spending the movie trying to " get the girl , " he marries her in the first few minutes and spends the next hour dealing with the trials of wedded bliss . In a way , the feature can really be seen as a melding together of 3 shorts . In the first , Harold attempts to navigate his way home with multiple small packages & a very live turkey . In the second , Harold illustrates the pitfalls of taking the in-laws ( including a monstrous mother-in-law ) for a ride about town in the new family car . In the third segment , well - it's hilarious , but you'll need to see it for yourself . . . Harold Lloyd is wonderful throughout . But then you expected that , didn't you ?
Conscious stricken after abandoning Christ on the way to Golgotha , a jaded slave trader witnesses THE LAST DAYS OF POMPEII , and the city's horrific destruction . Although burdened with occasional wooden acting , this is generally a fine historical drama . RKO spent quite a bit of money on its production and it shows in the large crowd scenes and still noteworthy special effects . The film boasted a very fine team behind the camera , working together as they had on KING KONG ( 1933 ) . Directorial duties were shared by Ernest B . Schoedsack & Meriam C . Cooper . Special effects wizard Willis O'Brien worked his magic , while composer Max Steiner contributed a pounding score . Preston Foster had one of his finest roles as the stalwart blacksmith turned gladiator and slaver . His performance during the prolonged climax , while desperately trying to save the life of his doomed son , is especially effective . David Holt & John Wood , playing the youth at different ages , are also very good . Additional fine support is offered by Alan Hale as the rough mercenary who teams with Foster ; and by villainous Louis Calhern as Pompeii's last prefect . Acting honors , however , go to marvelous Basil Rathbone , who gives a most sophisticated performance as Pontius Pilate , by turns rogue , fate's victim & moral philosopher . Movie mavens should recognize Ward Bond as a boastful gladiator , elderly Zeffie Tilbury as a soothsayer , Edward Van Sloan as Pilate's clerk & Edwin Maxwell as a Pompeii official , all uncredited . The film makes rather a mishmash of historical chronology . Young Flavius appears to be about ten years old at the time of Christ's crucifixion , which occurred around AD 29 . It would be another fifty years - August 24 , AD 79 , to be precise - until Vesuvius ' eruption destroyed Pompeii , yet Flavius is still depicted as a youthful fellow , just reaching maturity . Early Christian tradition also holds that Pilate committed suicide in AD 39 - four decades before Pompeii's rendezvous with destiny . While using the same title & location , this film tells quite a different story from that of the classic 1834 novel by Baron Bulwer-Lytton .
A Walt Disney THE HUMAN ANIMAL Cartoon . Jiminy Cricket gives us just the facts concerning YOU AND YOUR EARS and how they are vital for our being able to hear & keep our balance . This is one of a short series of little films in which Disney educated his young viewers about the workings of their remarkable bodies , with comparisons & examples drawn from the world of nature . The film illustrates the fascinating journey of a tune from the outer ear , through the wonderful mechanisms of the middle & inner ears , all the way to the brain . Jiminy , as voiced by the inimitable Cliff Edwards , is the perfect pedagogue . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . THE BARNYARD BROADCAST from Mickey's Station ICU is disrupted by the persistent depredations of a stray cat & her incorrigible kittens . This enjoyable black & white film shows a little more about the euterpian versatility of Mickey's friends : Clarabelle Cow tickles the ivories , while Horace Horsecollar is proficient on both the violin and the musical saw & Minnie delights with the saxophone and harp . The scene showing the kittens attempting to nurse off of the electrical equipment dials is a bit of an eye-opener . Walt Disney supplies Mickey's squeaky voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A Walt Disney PLUTO Cartoon . A new SPRINGTIME FOR PLUTO brings butterflies & birds to delight him - but also a fair share of vicious bees , poison ivy , pollen & hail . There are some good laughs in this amusing little film - the Pup's modern dance with the beehive ( a probable salute to Charlie Chaplin & the globe in THE GREAT DICTATOR from 1940 ) is hilarious . The Spirit of Spring looks like a Greek demigod escaped from FANTASIA ( 1940 ) . The inimitable Thurl Ravenscroft , who would add his voice to so many Disney projects over the coming decades , is the bass singer heard briefly vocalizing about caterpillars spinning cocoonsWalt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Like the deadly game between THE CAT AND THE CANARY , so a young heiress feels trapped in a very peculiar haunted house , surrounded by lurking , unseen evils . . . This is a dandy old creeper of a silent horror film , with just the right mix of menace & mirth to please the uncritical viewer . Universal gave the movie very fine production values , which extend not only to the atmospheric sets , but also to the humorously spooky title cards scattered throughout . This film is really story driven , rather than dominated by the personalities of its stars . However , mention should be made of very entertaining performances by Tully Marshall as the scabrous old lawyer , Flora Finch as a terrified auntie , and Lucien Littlefield as an exceedingly strange doctor . Laura La Plante as the lovely , frightened heiress & Creighton Hale as her nervous , scatterbrained cousin give a light touch to the romantic subplot . THE CAT AND THE CANARY is a choice example from the Old Dark House genre of spook tales . All the elements are here : distressed young ladies , a crumbling mansion , a housekeeper of baleful aspect , a lawyer who knows too much , an escaped lunatic , stalking ghosts or monsters , missing wills , meetings at midnight , bony and / or hairy hands appearing from hidden bedroom panels , secret passageways , and sudden death . Unnerved characters are forever making silly choices which always lead them into the clutches of the ravening ghosts / monsters / lunatics . But the Old Dark House has for long years been a respected avenue in literature & movies to maximize suspense & tension . Indeed , it's only a short walk from West Mansion in this film to Wuthering Heights , Baskerville Hall , Manderley & the Bates House . . .
A Walt Disney GOOFY Cartoon . The Goof demonstrates HOW TO SWIM - and also how to sink and nearly drown . Here is another Sports Goofy film , enjoyable but routine . Diving & surf bathing are also briefly touched upon , with our hero equally inept at both . Some good safety tips are presented along the way . John McLeish narrates in his best documentarian manner . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A BUSTER KEATON Silent Short . A series of unfortunate misunderstandings leaves Buster being chased by seemingly all of the COPS in Los Angeles . This wonderful little film - one of the most hilarious shorts ever made - illustrates conclusively Keaton's mastery of the medium , most especially his ability to use very large spaces to his complete advantage . The running chase which climaxes the film is an absolute classic . Born into a family of Vaudevillian acrobats , Buster Keaton ( 1895-1966 ) mastered physical comedy at a very early age . An association with Fatty Arbuckle led to a series of highly imaginative short subjects and classic , silent feature-length films - all from 1920 to 1928 . Writer , director , star & stuntman - Buster could do it all and his intuitive genius gave him almost miraculous knowledge as to the intricacies of film making and of what it took to please an audience . More akin to Fairbanks than Chaplin , Buster's films were full of splendid adventure , exciting derring-do and the most dangerous physical stunts imaginable . His theme of a little man against the world , who triumphs through bravery & ingenuity , dominates his films . Through every calamity & disaster , Buster remained the Great Stone Face , a stoic survivor in a universe gone mad . In the late 1920's Buster was betrayed by his manager / brother-in-law and his contract was sold to MGM , which proceeded to nearly destroy his career . Teamed initially with Jimmy Durante and eventually allowed small roles in mediocre comedies , Buster was for 35 years consistently given work far beneath his talent . Finally , before lung cancer took him at age 70 , he had the satisfaction of knowing that his classic films were being rediscovered . Now , well past his centenary , Buster Keaton is routinely recognized & appreciated as one of cinema's true authentic geniuses . And he knew how to make people laugh . . .
A precocious little moppet mistakes a misanthropic tycoon for Uncle Sam . She believes that by helping the old fellow , Depression woes will cease for her father and the country JUST AROUND THE CORNER . This friendly , fanciful film was exactly what the nation needed to help it forget economic hard times . Shirley Temple is bright & cheerful , as always , and never fails to amuse . The talents which made her Hollywood's top box office draw for years are abundantly on display . Legendary Bill ' Bojangles ' Robinson is on hand with 3 of his celebrated dance routines . Watch , when he dances with Shirley , how she matches him step for step - a marvelous terpsichorean treat . Comedy is handled by Bert Lahr , Joan Davis ( why aren't they included in the climactic Benefit show ? ) & especially Franklin Pangborn , in his glory as the quintessential harried apartment manager . Charles Farrell , a big star himself a few years previous , does a fine job as Shirley's dad , while Claude Gillingwater once again has fun with the part of a crotchety , rich old man . Cora Witherspoon scores as a society snob . Movie mavens will recognize Charles Williams as a persistent photographer & Leonard Kibrick as Shirley's tough kid friend . Shirley , with help from Miss Davis , Lahr & Bojangles , sings & dances her way through ' This Is A Happy Little Ditty ' & ' Just Around The Corner ' .
An MGM PROPHECIES OF NOSTRADAMUS Short Subject . The strange story of Michel de NOSTRADAMUS AND THE QUEEN of France is herein related . This short film tells the intriguing tale of the prophecies of the famous seer ( 1503-1566 ) and how they reinforced the ambitions of the rapacious Catherine de Medici ( 1519-1589 ) and the fates of her three sons , each of whom would rule France : Francis II ( 1559-1560 ) , Charles IX ( 1560-1574 ) and Henry III ( 1574-1589 ) . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
Although it pales next to the 1939 classic version , as a made-for-television feature this film is well worth watching . It tells the story of a young Englishman driven to extreme lengths to prove to himself & his friends that he is not a coward . Surrounded by a fine British cast , Beau Bridges might seem wrongly cast in the main role , but he does a stalwart job throughout . Good action scenes set in Muslim Africa . Co-stars include Jane Seymour , Harry Andrews ( great as Bridges ' fierce old father ) , Robert Powell , Richard Johnson , Simon Ward , David Robb & Robin Bailey .
Six young midshipmen about to graduate from Annapolis dream about the glory of joining the FLYING FLEET , unaware of the heartache & happiness the future has in store for them . . . While almost a commercial for the Navy's aviation wing , this late MGM silent film is still very enjoyable . The flying scenes are well produced and exciting and the slight plot of friendships , rivalries , a pretty girl & a tragic flight to Honolulu grab the viewer's attention . Ramon Novarro does a sturdy job as the foremost amongst the six comrades . Ralph Graves scores as Novarro's best buddy . Anita Page is lovely in a role that calls for her to do very little else except look lovely . ( Decades later she claimed Novarro proposed marriage to her ! ) Unbilled , Alfred Allen does a fine turn as a blustery , comic Admiral ; and Gardner James is excellent as Specs the navigator , who's heroism & self-sacrifice effortlessly steals the climax of the film .
A SUPERMAN Cartoon . When America unveils its colossal new bomber , the JAPOTEURS , an elite force of Japanese spies & saboteurs , strikes . Stealing the behemoth , with intrepid girl reporter Lois Lane aboard , and the destination either Tokyo or destruction , it's time for Superman to get involved . . . This was another in the series of excellent cartoons initially created by Max Fleischer for Paramount Studio . They feature great animation and taut , fast-moving plots . Meant to be shown in movie theaters , they are miles ahead of their Saturday Morning counterparts . Bud Collyer is the voice of Superman ; Joan Alexander does the honors for Lois Lane .
A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . In order to ensure DONALD'S HAPPY BIRTHDAY , Huey , Dewey & Louie must first scheme a way to get the money to buy a gift . This is very much a routine Donald versus the Nephews cartoon , but it's pleasant enough . It is in this film that we learn that Donald's birthday is March 13th . Notice that Louie's name is misspelled ' Luey ' on the birthday card . Clarence Nash provided the voices for the entire Duck clan . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of naysayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
An OUR GANG Comedy Short . It's LAZY DAYS for Farina , who is so tired laying in the shade that the least amount of effort is a bother to him . Only Fat Joe Cobb's plan to make money by entering the Gang's younger siblings in a baby contest can get Farina on his feet . An amusing little film , with some good laughs . Chubby makes a unique ' baby ' , to say the least . Highlight : Farina washing his little brother , with help from a bee , frog & monkey .
An innocent & obscure German princess is sent to Russia to become the wife of Grand Duke Peter , heir to the throne . Her romantic dreams are shattered when she finds her new husband to be a childish imbecile . Quickly growing wise , she soon begins taking lovers from among the military guard . So begins the legendary life of Catherine , Tsarina of Holy Russia , The Messalina of the North , THE SCARLET EMPRESS . A riotous feast for the eyes , this is one of the great , unheralded films of the 1930's - enthralling for its visual impact alone . Seldom has an American film been filled with such lush imagery - tactile , grotesque , fascinating . The Russian royal palace is a charnel house full of ghouls & gargoyles - human & artistic . The actors share the scenes with fantastic statuary , twisting & writhing in silent , unspeakable pain . ( Notice the tiny skeletons on the dining table . ) Everywhere is death , moral decay & barbarism , even in the most powerful court in Europe . At the center of this ossuary is the gorgeous Marlene Dietrich . Her beauty radiates , but never dominates , throughout the film . She is splendid as a young woman in a very dangerous place , who gains courage & great determination in her ordeal . Equally good is Sam Jaffe as Peter ; with his leering grin & demented eyes he is the very picture of a murderous madman . Louise Dresser , as the Empress Elizabeth , is very effective as a comic bully . John Lodge & Gavin Gordon , as Catherine's military lovers , are both stalwart . Wonderful old Sir C . Aubrey Smith has a small role as Catherine's princely father . Film mavens will spot an uncredited Jane Darwell as Catherine's nurse . The highly emotional soundtrack , an amalgam of themes by Tchaikovsky , Mendelssohn & Wagner , explodes in the film's final moments into musical pyrotechnics .
Through a series of adventures with various creatures , tiny THUMBELINA continues to search for true love & happiness . This is a fine entry in the series of classic tales from the folks at Rabbit Ears . Hans Christian Andersen's diminutive heroine comes alive in a thoughtful , sometimes humorous production . The narration by Kelly McGillis , drawings by David Johnson , and Mark Isham's music are all first-rate . This little film should please all those who love fairy stories .
An MGM TRAVELTALK Short Subject . PARIS ON PARADE takes us on a dazzling exterior tour of the pavilions built for the 1937 Paris Exposition . The film ends with the wonderful waterworks & pyrotechnic display on and over the River Seine . This is one of a large series of succinct travelogues turned out by MGM , beginning in the 1930's . They featured Technicolor views of beautiful & unusual sights around the globe , as well as vivid , concise commentary . These films were produced & narrated by James A . FitzPatrick .
Warner Bros . trots out its Gold Diggers concept again in this amusing little musical which serves largely as a wistful reminder of the fun & vivacity of the original pre-Code feature . Perhaps Dick Powell's smarmy little mustache , seen immediately after the opening credits , should have been enough to signal that things were different now . The plot of every Gold Digger film is centered around its music . The songs here are pleasant , but unmemorable and the Busby Berkeley spectacle - - ' All's Fair In Love And War ' - - reveals the Master at his repose , his choreographed rocking chairs and banners not quite registering the requisite pizzazz one remembers from his earlier classics . Powell tries his hardest to ingratiate , but his preppy days appear to be passing and casting him as an insurance salesman is a bit of a ho-hum . Lots of fun , however , can be found with Warner's two sensational brassy blondes , Joan Blondell & Glenda Farrell , in their final film together . Still wisecracking & sassy , they grab the movie's best dialogue and run off with it , giving some laughter to their comedy duo swan song . Comic Victor Moore shines as a cranky impresario with a bad case of hypochondria . Sharp-eyed movie mavens will spot Fred ? Snowflake ' Toones as a shoe shine attendant ; Jane Wyman as an excited chorus girl at the station ; and Frank Faylen as a man shaving on the train , all unbilled .
Two little boys go for a secret nighttime adventure and have an encounter with a MOONBIRD . This absolutely charming little film is based on the ( apparently ) unscripted dialogue between two young brothers , Mark & Hampy Hubley . Created & designed by their parents , John & Faith Hubley , the effervescent quality of the conversation is matched by the limited-animation format which takes the simple story into flights of fancy . Winner of the 1959 Oscar for Best Animated Short .
A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . The famed Grauman's Chinese Theater is the Hollywood location for MICKEY'S GALA PREMIERE , with a multitude of luminaries showing up for the occasion . This is a marvelous little black & white feast for movie mavens who get to try to spot & name as many of the caricatured celebrities as possible . With this film Walt Disney was signaling that both he & his little buddy had reached the big time with the rest of Hollywood , literally , at their feet . The film within a film , GALLOPING ROMANCE , is treated like an authentic , stand-alone Mouse cartoon ; featuring Mickey , Minnie & Peg-leg Pete , it is necessarily short , but fully up to Disney's standards . Walt supplies Mickey's squeaky voice . Many of the stars whose likeness appears in MICKEY'S GALA PREMIERE are now quite obscure , therefore making their identification a difficult procedure . Here then , as much as possible , is a listing of the celebrities , noting when they make their first appearance in the cartoon ( many show up more than once ) : Out in front of the Theater : The Keystone Kops - Ben Turpin , Ford Sterling , Mack Swain , Harry Langdon & Chester Conklin . Emerging from limousines : Wallace Beery & Marie Dressler ( she was box office queen at the time ) ; Lionel , John & Ethel Barrymore ( all costumed for their roles in RASPUTIN AND THE EMPRESS , 1932 ) ; Stan Laurel & Oliver Hardy ; Groucho , Chico , Zeppo & Harpo Marx . At the microphone : Maurice Chevalier ; Eddie Cantor ( costumed for his role in THE KID FROM SPAIN , 1932 ) ; Jimmy Durante ; Ginger Rogers , Joan Crawford ( costumed for her role in RAIN , 1932 ) & Bette Davis ; Harold Lloyd , Clark Gable , Edward G . Robinson & Adolphe Menjou . Entering the Theater : George Arliss , Sid Grauman , Joe E . Brown , Sir Charlie Chaplin ( costumed as The Little Tramp ) , Buster Keaton & Mae West ( costumed for her role in SHE DONE HIM WRONG , 1933 ) . Emerging from limousine : Mickey & Minnie Mouse , Pluto , Horace Horsecollar & Clarabelle Cow . Seated in the Theater : Chester Morris , Gloria Swanson & William Powell ; Will Hays ( dressed in regal robes and crown to spoof his position as Censorship Czar ) ; Greta Garbo ; Will Rogers ; Ed Wynn ; Bert Wheeler & Robert Woolsey ; Bela Lugosi ( costumed as Count Dracula ) , Fredric March ( costumed as Mr . Hyde ) & Boris Karloff ( costumed as Frankenstein's Monster ) . Rolling in the aisle : Douglas Fairbanks . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A LAUREL & HARDY Comedy Short . Novice cops Stan & Ollie are THE MIDNIGHT PATROL , guardians of the night . Their complete incompetence dealing with crime , however , soon leaves a trail of chaos & destruction . A funny little film , although ending it with two murders is a bit much . Highlight : Ollie in the fishpond . That's Frank Brownlee as the Chief , Walter Plinge as the gentlemanly crook and Charlie Hall as one of the tire thieves .
A Walt Disney Cartoon . A hapless bee becomes a BUMBLE BOOGIE when it's caught in a bizarre world of Daliesque proportions . Wild & wonderful , this little extract from MELODY TIME ( 1948 ) allowed the Disney animators free rein to go wherever their imaginations carried them . Very fast moving . The music is a swing version of " The Flight of the Bumblebee " by Nicolai Rimski-Korsakov . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
An MGM SPORTS PARADE Short Subject . The training of a young trotter is observed from the time he's a colt until he competes in his first Grand Circuit race . This interesting little film explains the basics of harness horse racing , with emphasis on the trotter . The difference between diagonal verses lateral striding is discussed and the various leg & body accouterments are shown . This was one of the first directing assignments for Jacques Tourneur , who would later make his mark with stylish horror films at RKO . Pete Smith supplies the quirky narration . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something like writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
An OUR GANG Comedy ShortIt's just MUSH AND MILK for the Rascals to eat at the Bleak Hill Boarding School , which is run by a wicked old crone . Her elderly brother , Cap , loves the kids and has promised them a good life if ever his back pension arrives . Spanky , Stymie & the Gang wonder if that day will ever come . . . This is a very funny little film . Highlights include Stymie & Dickie trying to milk a cow , Spanky's recitation of Mary Had A Little Lamb & Butch's crooning ' Just Friends ' . That's Cap Leonard as Cap , Louise Emmons as his dreadful wife and - hilariously - James Finlayson as the banker . This was to be the last OUR GANG appearance by Dickie or Wheezer . Richard ' Dickie ' Moore had been with the Gang for two years and was featured in 7 of their films . He appeared in several other movies before leaving the business in the 1950's . He's now married to actress Jane Powell . Bobby ' Wheezer ' Hutchins had become a Rascal at the tender age of two , and now , at the ripe old age of eight , had starred in 59 shorts . He made no more films . In 1945 he died in a military plane crash - he was only 19 years old .
A madman commits a series of MURDERS IN THE ZOO , hoping to punish his adulterous wife and her lovers . Sadly neglected , this dandy little thriller comes from a studio & director ( Paramount , Edward Sutherland ) more noted for their comedy films . It holds its own , however , and offers several visual shocks which should more than satisfy its audience . Especially noteworthy are the opening credits which humorously compares the human stars with various zoo beasts , and sweeps immediately into an initial scene of unusually fiendish ferocity . From this point on , the viewer is hooked . . . Lionel Atwill adds another portrait of evil to his gallery of grotesques , here playing a villain not only morally twisted but positively vile . The gentle , daffy humor of top-billed Charles Ruggles might seem out of place in other horror films , but here it is a welcome anodyne to Atwill's monstrosities . The rest of the cast - Randolph Scott , Gail Patrick , Kathleen Burke , Harry Beresford - do very well in roles that are really little more than supporting parts . Movie mavens will recognize an uncredited Jane Darwell as a society matron at the Zoo Supper .
A Warner Bros . Short Subject . The Robert Mitchell Choir School of Hollywood , California , provides a solid education for talented boys from ages 8 to 14 , giving them the chance to perform and excel academically & musically . Nominated for an Academy Award , FORTY BOYS AND A SONG is an informative & highly entertaining little film which spotlights a premiere American musical institution from years past . We watch the young fellows in the classroom , at play and at church . Always , music is being taught , performed & enjoyed and we get to hear the boys ' renditions of " Home On the Range , " " My Bonnie Lies Over The Ocean " & " Shortenin ' Bread . " Born October 12 , 1912 , Bob Mitchell showed an acute aptitude & appreciation of music at a very early age . In 1924 , when still only 12 , Bob started playing organ accompaniment to silent films , beginning a passion for silent cinema music that would last a lifetime . In the 1930's he started his Boys Choir , which gained much success ; the Mitchell Singing Boys would appear in scores of films , most notably GOING MY WAY ( 1944 ) with Bing Crosby . On his 90th birthday in 2002 , Bob Mitchell was still keeping very busy playing the organ for church and weddings , personal appearances and silent films - delighting new audiences with his gift of music . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
A Walt Disney Commercial Cartoon . Parading in front of Ottawa's Parliament Building , a collection of Disney characters show they are ALL TOGETHER for buying War Savings Certificates to help win the war against the Axis . Commissioned by The National Film Board of Canada , this very short little film pulled no punches in its direct message to viewers to support their country's war effort by putting their finances into the fight . For the record , in the parade by order of appearance are : Pinocchio , Geppetto , Figaro , Donald Duck , Huey , Dewey , Louie & Pluto . On a vehicle rides Mickey Mouse , conducting his BAND CONCERT ( 1935 ) buddies - including Clarabelle Cow , Horace Horsecollar & Goofy - in Bagley's National Emblem March . Bringing up the rear are the Seven Dwarves : Doc , Grumpy , Happy , Sleepy , Bashful , Sneezy & Dopey . Of them all , only Donald speaks and his voice is provided by Clarence ' Ducky ' Nash . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
A Walt Disney PLUTO Cartoon . A friendly newborn turtle tries to cross a forbidden beach much to the annoyance of Pluto , who is on CANINE PATROL for the United States Coast Guard . The formula plot of Pluto confronting a cute little critter has certainly been used by Disney before , but that doesn't stop this film from being enjoyable . Walt Disney had these words placed just below the title : " Dedicated to the dogs of the U . S . Coast Guard . " Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A Walt Disney GOOFY Cartoon . Goofy strives to remind the viewer that TEACHERS ARE PEOPLE just like everyone else . Although humorous , many educators may not be too amused by this little film as it hits too close to the mark . Imagine a classroom with 4 or 5 kids just like young George . The animation & storyline are enjoyable , but routine . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of naysayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A beautiful young woman influences a callous lawyer into regaining THE RIGHT OF WAY to moral decency . Conrad Nagel dominates this little soap opera , based on Sir Gilbert Parker's novel , with his highly melodramatic performance as a hardhearted Quebecois lawyer who exhibits an enormous distaste for nearly every other human being . His behavior would repulse the viewer , were it not that his acting is so over the top that it becomes quite a bit of fun to watch . Beautiful Loretta Young appears rather late in the story and ushers in the best scenes of the film , when Nagel is suffering from amnesia . Their moments together , as she cares for him , are touchingly tender . A small group of character actors add much to their supporting roles : Olive Tell as Nagel's distraught wife ; William Janney as her pathetic brother ; Fred Kohler as the backwoodsman who saves Nagel's life ; Halliwell Hobbes as a benevolent seigneur who loves Miss Young ; little Snitz Edwards as a village tailor ; and George C . Pearce as a kindly priest .
A Russian baron evades the violent SCARLET DAWN of the Revolution by escaping Moscow with his faithful serving maid . Here is an excellent little film , from Warner Bros . and director William Dieterle , full of excitement , drama and pre-Code libidinousness . The production values - - sets , costumes , score - - are all first rate and the acting is of a high quality . The picture's only major drawback is its too-brief conclusion , perhaps necessitated by its short overall running time of under an hour , but this does not explain why the film should be so unjustly obscure today . It is a small gem awaiting discovery by viewers appreciative of quality cinema . Douglas Fairbanks Jr is properly dashing as the young nobleman whose life is suddenly tilted upside down by the political upheaval . The actor revels in giving a full-bodied portrayal , presenting a character both wantonly licentious and daringly brave . The sequence in which he dashes into the streets of Constantinople in search of Christian witnesses to his impromptu wedding is delightful in its unexpected sense of frolic & fun . Fairbanks is ably matched by Nancy Carroll , deftly underplaying her role as his adoring servant . The sweetness of her character's simple nature shines through , as well as a steely resolve , as she endures dangers and hardships to be with the man she loves . Lovely Lilyan Tashman , in one of her final roles before her early death , plays the scheming Russian courtesan who hopes to use Fairbanks as her ticket to the good life in Paris . Guy Kibbee , a very popular character actor at Warner's , appears for only a few moments at the end of the movie as a wealthy American visiting the Levant . Movie mavens will recognize Mischa Auer as a Russian cavalry officer ; beefy Dewey Robinson as a Bolshevik thug ; nervous Frank Reicher as a duplicitous pawnbroker ; as well as Mae Busch & Lee Kohlmar as the wedding witnesses - - all uncredited .
Like a river in the parched desert , so the lovely seorita known as RIO RITA brings joy to all who know her . But with her brother being chased as a bandit , unwelcome attentions from a brutal Russian general & a new lover who refuses to divulge his true identity , pretty Rita has plenty of problems to distract her . Florenz Ziegfeld's smash Broadway hit was brought to the screen in this very early movie musical . At times it wheezes quite badly and shows its age . The transitions into the songs look very stagy & artificial . Many of the lyrics , especially sung by the female cast , are completely indecipherable . But it should be remembered that movie musicals were still in their cradle and the studios only had stage traditions to draw upon at first . So the few innovations showcased here are welcome . Some of the dance numbers are pleasingly elaborate , even including a primitive overhead shot . Occasional outdoor photography helps open up the screenplay , and the early Technicolor featured in the last half hour is a big bonus . Bebe Daniels & John Boles play the romantic leads . She is saddled with a thick accent & ludicrous script . He appears somewhat awkward & ill at ease . Much better film roles would await them both in years to come . The real highlight of RIO RITA is the film debut of the wonderful comedy team of Wheeler & Woolsey , who had appeared in the Broadway version . Here , although somewhat gynandroid , they cement what will be their screen personas through 26 films together . Bert Wheeler ( 1895-1968 ) plays a young , naive romantic . Robert Woolsey ( 1888-1938 ) portrays a shiftless , cigar-puffing conniver . Together , they would make a hilarious comedy team , their partnership only being sundered by Woolsey's untimely death . Today they are all but forgotten . It is only fitting that pert little Dorothy Lee ( 1911-1999 ) , Wheeler's perennial love interest , should make the first of her 14 film appearances with the Boys here . This Kewpie-doll-cute actress would become an integral part of the Boys ' cinematic success , as well as a constant delight for viewers .
The young NIGHT NURSE watching two sick little girls finds herself pitted against a gang of heartless criminals . Barbara Stanwyck is a standout in this taut little film . Independent , resourceful and tough as nails , she pits herself against the bullying authority she encounters in the hospital and the absolute evil she must confront at the bizarre private home where she is sent to work . An intelligent & spirited actress , it was roles such as this which would hasten Stanwyck into becoming one of the biggest film stars of the 1930's . A fine cast gives Stanwyck ample support . Ben Lyon plays the free spirited bootlegger who takes a shine to Barbara . Brassy Joan Blondell portrays her worldly wise roommate . Charles Winninger brightens his few scenes as a cherubic doctor , as does Edward Nugent as a flirtatious intern . Vera Lewis is properly implacable as the stern head nurse and Blanche Frederici adds a note of strangeness as a distraught housekeeper . Not yet a star , Clark Gable is very effective as a menacing chauffeur . Movie mavens will recognize Willie Fung as a Chinese patient & Marcia Mae Jones as the sick child who needs the milk bath - - both uncredited . The Pre-Code status of the film is readily apparent . Stanwyck & Blondell are viewed in their lingerie as often as possible and Stanwyck must suffer some mighty rough handling from various villains in the movie . Capping it all off , Barbara exits the film with her new boyfriend , an unrepentant & unpunished crook involved in everything from thievery to murder , a situation certainly not allowed just a few years later .
In & out of prison , Stan & Ollie just can't seem to stay out of trouble . " PARDON US " was the Boys ' first starring feature film . Rather disjointed and poorly edited , it plays more like a few of their short subjects strung together . However , the Boys never falter and they deliver a film whose parts are greater than its whole . The film was meant to be a spoof of MGM's popular THE BIG HOUSE ( 1930 ) and it helps to have seen that earlier movie to fully appreciate this one . Many of the standard conventions of the typical prison film are mocked here : the ? understanding ' warden , the dangerous convict cell mate , the confinement in Solitary , the escape chased by bloodhounds , the prison riot . A few comedy pieces in particular stand out : Stan's loose tooth ; Ollie in the dentist's chair ; the Boys trying to settle into the constricted confines of an upper bunk . James Finlayson , Stan & Ollie's old nemesis , makes the most of his one scene as the prison schoolteacher driven to despair by the Boys ' good-natured idiocy . Walter Long is lots of fun as the Tiger , the meanest convict in the prison ( Boris Karloff played the part for the French language version ) . Movie mavens will spot an uncredited Charlie Hall as the dental assistant . An added delight is Babe Hardy's rendition of ? Lazy Moon , ' one of the decade's finest film songs . Ollie had a warm , evocative voice , full of feeling and emotion . Here , backed by the magnificent Hall Johnson Choir , his song reaches out of the screen and down the decades to touch the hearts of the audience .
A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Multitudes of naughty orphan mice nearly demolish poor MICKEY'S CIRCUS during a very chaotic performance . There are lots of laughs in this very well-animated little film . Temperamental Donald Duck is the center of attention as he attempts to control his ill-trained sea lions . Walt Disney & Clarence Nash supplied the unique voices for the Mouse & the Duck , respectively . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Minnie & MICKEY'S ORPHANS are a vast number of unwanted , mischievous kittens left on their doorstep one stormy Christmas Eve . Nominated for an Academy Award , this lively little black & white film derives much of its enjoyment from watching the tiny felines torment poor Pluto and nearly demolish the Mouse House . The performance of ' Silent Night ' by the Mice is charming . One of the kittens does a quick spoof of Charlie Chaplin . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
New York City - the height of the Great Depression . Four showgirls , starving , scheming for that next role in a Broadway musical comedy . Looking for the Big Break . Auditioning for every part . Often down , but never downhearted . Using men , loving men , cheating men . These are the GOLD DIGGERS OF 1933 . This is a wonderful comedy - funny , tuneful & easy on the intellect . Plus , the magic of Busby Berkeley's musical numbers . It's the kind of entertainment that kept audiences happy for a few hours during the dark days of economic despair in the early 1930's . The cast is first-rate : brassy Joan Blondell ; cynical Aline MacMahon ; innocent Ruby Keeler & on-the-make Ginger Rogers . Keeler lands handsome & mysterious Dick Powell , ( who gets to croon some attractive Harry Warren tunes ) ; and acerbic but loyal producer Ned Sparks . Warren William & Guy Kibbee turn up late in the proceedings , playing priggish bluenoses who are nonetheless highly susceptible to alcohol & feminine wiles . Movie mavens will recognize Charles Lane as a society reporter ; Ferdinand Gottschalk as a disgruntled club member ; and Sterling Holloway as a messenger boy . Some years back , in an introduction to a book about THE WIZARD OF OZ's Munchkins , dwarf Billy Barty stated that he was ' too young ' to appear in that 1939 movie . This , of course , is nonsense , and he can easily be spotted in the ' Pettin ' In The Park ' number here . As he would in FOOTLIGHT PARADE , he rather disturbingly portrays a lecherous tot , a sure indication , if nothing else , that this is a pre-Production Code film . Mr . Berkeley does get to have some fun . The film starts with ' We're In The Money ' featuring Ginger Rogers & girls clad in coins large & small ; Rogers even gets to sing one chorus in pig Latin . ' Pettin ' In The Dark ' extols the joys of bucolic lovemaking , segues to simulated , silhouetted female nudity and rather bizarrely ends with the chorus all metal-corseted ( Powell is given a can opener to use on Keeler ) . ' The Shadow Waltz ' is Berkeley at his most romantic , with its helix-skirted ladies pretending to play fluorescent , fake violins , all moving in a multitude of weaving patterns staged for the famous overhead camera shots . The film's emotional punch comes at the end , with Blondell's tempestuous rendition of ' Remember My Forgotten Man ' - with its endless marching men , a blues wail for the doughboys of the Great War , ruined by the Depression . The movie ends on this somber note . ( Powell also gets to warble ' I've Got To Sing A Torch Song ' ) . And just who are those hilarious , Yiddish Kentucky Hillbillies , anyway ?
A Walt Disney GOOFY Cartoon . The viewer is instructed in THE ART OF SKIING on snow - with the Goof giving the perfect examples of what not to do . This humorous little film was one of several made by Disney between 1940 & 1956 in which Goofy receives instruction in some task or pastime - with inevitably chaotic results . If one ventures beyond the chuckles there is plenty of pertinent information to be gleaned concerning ski clothing & equipment ; we even get the terms schuss & slalom explained to us . John McLeish provides the narration in his best documentarian manner . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
Henry Shoesmith is THE PAGAN , a happy , handsome half-caste , perfectly attune with his South Seas home . Henry is also the owner of the largest cocoanut plantation on the island , which arouses the greed of an unscrupulous white trader with a beautiful native ' ward ' . . . Ramon Novarro is charming in this , his final silent film . Once again , MGM has their Mexican star playing another in his wide range of ethnic roles . Here he is a Polynesian , but he plays his part so well , and is obviously having such a good time , that he gives one of his most entertaining of performances . He is served well by his excellent supporting cast . Dorothy Janis is Novarro's beautiful love interest - innocent , vulnerable & passionately in love . Donald Crisp is superb as the villainous white trader , consumed with lust for the girl he calls his ' Christian duty ' and embittered with hatred for Novarro . His final fate is most proper & welcome . Rene Adore scores as the island harlot , a staunch friend to both Novarro & Janis . Directed by peripatetic W . S . Van Dyke , the location filming in & around Papeete , Tahiti enhances the story greatly . Coming as it did at the very cusp of the new talkie era , this is essentially a silent film with an effective soundtrack that includes musical interludes & background dialogue . Novarro croons ' Pagan Love Song ' ( by Nacio Herb Brown & Arthur Freed ) to good effect - giving Hollywood one of its first hit tunes - and his fine singing voice would be heard again in forthcoming films .
A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . THE BAND CONCERT which Mickey is conducting in the City Park becomes a titanic contest of wills & determination as the Mouse lets absolutely nothing stop his little group from completing their performance . Mickey Mouse made his Technicolor debut & Donald Duck became a full-fledged cinematic star in this truly classic cartoon . It is easy to read so many things into this little film - Mickey as the standard bearer for stubborn authority & Donald as the leader of the coming revolution , for example - but perhaps it's safer to leave the philosophizing to the greybeards . Walt Disney and his animators wanted nothing more than to entertain an audience for a few minutes before the main picture began . What we now recognize as one of animation's seminal moments didn't even earn an Oscar nomination at the time . It is with hindsight that true appreciation grows . Perfection can be found in the details : Mickey's look of fierce resolve as he struggles to conduct in his oversized uniform jacket ; Donald's insouciant legerdemain as he produces an endless supply of fifes ; the naughty little bee which causes musical mayhem ; the absorption with which Clarabelle Cow ( flute ) , Horace Horsecollar ( percussion ) & Goofy ( clarinet ) relentlessly continue their performances ; the tornado , perfectly cued to the band's music , frightening away not only the audience , but their park benches as well ; Mickey , perched on his box , being swept through the storm's debris ( including the detritus of a destructed home's living room ) without ever missing a measure of the music . Any of these moments would have been the pride of a lesser film ; here , they are simply individual gems strung together to create a stunning whole . It is worth noting that Donald was originally slated to appear as the band's saxophonist , but Walt wanted his part expanded . The rest is history and the Duck ( his unique voice supplied by Clarence Nash ) never looked back . For the record , the music heard during the opening credits is from the 1831 opera Zampa , by the Frenchman Louis-Joseph-Ferdinand Herold ( 1791-1833 ) . Mickey's main offering , of course , is the Overture to the 1829 opera William Tell , by the Italian Gioacchino Antonio Rossini ( 1792-1868 ) . ' Turkey In The Straw ' is the triumphant tune played by the Duck . THE BAND CONCERT is the perfect short subject to watch before viewing either FANTASIA ( 1940 ) or FANTASIA 2000 ( 1999 ) . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . A tiny dreaming tot finds he & his toy dog in LULLABY LAND , where powder puffs & rattles grow on the vegetation and potty seats march over the quilted hills . Then there's the small matter of the bogeymen . . . This is an utterly charming little film , which entices the eye of the viewer to pick out all the baby motifs . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most fascinating of all animated series . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
An MGM COLORTONE MUSICAL Short . Once upon a time , there was a kindly old man who was THE SPECTACLE MAKER for his village . He is challenged to create a marvelous Glass , through which only Beauty can be seen . Reading the Bible shows him the meaning of true Beauty and , so , he creates the Glass . Instant fame is his , but then he's challenged concerning Truth . . . Not much as far as musicals go , and uneven dramatically , but as a morality tale it has charm . The Technicolor is very pleasing to the eye , as well .
Two ORPHANS OF THE STORM caused by the French Revolution desperately search for each other in the violent chaos of Paris . History's sweeping drama comes alive in this powerful epic film from legendary silent movie genius D . W . Griffith . Although much happens on a broad canvas , the director never loses sight of the intimate details of the heroines ' pitiful plight . In denouncing tyranny , Griffith always manages to keep the viewer engrossed in how the State's insidious evil affects the individual . Much of the film's success is due to the remarkable acting of the Gish Sisters , Lillian & Dorothy . Acclaimed for her comedic talents , Dorothy here gives an almost completely serious performance , portraying a blind girl cruelly separated from her beloved sister and forced to beg in the streets . Lillian , her classic face mirroring a myriad of emotions , plays the sibling persecuted by both lecherous aristocrats and rapacious revolutionaries . The scene in which Lillian , in an upper chamber , hears Dorothy singing in the alley below but is unable to reach her , is almost unbearable in its emotional intensity . A young Joseph Schildkraut plays Lillian's blue-blooded suitor , giving the viewer an intimation of the very fine character actor he would become with the advent of talking pictures . Lucille LaVerne steals more than a few scenes as the filthy harridan who enslaves and terrorizes Dorothy . Frank Puglia makes a poignant mark as Miss LaVerne's pathetic , downtrodden son . Comic actor Creighton Hale gives a lively performance in a small role as a mischievous , periwiged servant . A fascinating aspect of the film is its vivid rendering of two historical characters of great significance in the history of France . Georges Danton was probably not as noble as he is portrayed by Monte Blue , nor was Maximilien Robespierre necessarily as evil as Sidney Herbert depicts him . What is certain is that both men were responsible for the deaths of thousands of individuals during the Reign of Terror . Fittingly , each man had his own rendezvous with Madame Le Guillotine in 1794 . Movie mavens will recognize an unbilled Louis Wolheim as the executioner awaiting Miss Lillian on the scaffold . Griffith handles the sequences involving surging masses of extras with admirable dexterity . He also freely borrows a few plot elements from Dickens ' A Tale of Two Cities . In fact Miss LaVerne , with scarcely a costume change , would play the role of The Vengeance in MGM's 1935 version of that classic , violent novel .
A Walt Disney TRUE-LIFE ADVENTURE Short Subject . This excellent nature documentary examines a year in the life of the residents of BEAR COUNTRY . While we see that most of the creatures must work hard to find food and avoid being eaten , it is shown that the lordly bear has a wild bounty spread before him . The relationship between mother bears & their cubs is also examined . Highlight : bears & their itches . ' This is one of a series of TRUE-LIFE ADVENTURES presenting strange facts about the world we live in . In the making of these films , nature is the dramatist . There are no fictitious situations or characters . ' Winston Hibler is the narrator .
A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Assigned to peeling potatoes at Mallard Field , Donald wants more than anything to take to the air as a SKY TROOPER . Maybe Sergeant Pete can change his mind . . . Here is one of Donald's wartime cartoons , with lots of laughs and physical comedy . Pete has finally found his niche as a military noncommissioned officer . The legendary Carl Barks was one of the writers involved in this little film ; Clarence Nash provides the Duck with his unique voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
NIOK , the little forest elephant , is befriended by a young village boy . They will enjoy their delightful camaraderie , until the day a wily Chinese merchant takes the small pachyderm away . . . This French short subject is a fine family film . Children should love Niok , a most charming creature . The sparse narration is a bit stiff , but does not encumber the story . The ambiance is helped considerably by location filming at Cambodia's massive monastery complex at Angkor Wat .
A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . It is SPRINGTIME at the marsh , and the joy of the season is causing the various birds & bugs to dance about rapturously and eat each other up . . . This black & white cartoon is basically an exercise in action / reaction animation . The Disney artists seem to have an unending supply of posterior gags , often rather vulgar . The tuneful soundtrack with its familiar themes pushes the action along - most notably Ponchielli's ' Dance of the Hours , ' which would be showcased to great effect eleven years later in the Studio's FANTASIA . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most interesting of series in the field of animation . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
It's a shame that so few people have seen this gem of a movie during the last half century , as it is a little masterpiece , perfectly honed and crafted , without an unnecessary scene or line of dialogue . This is the kind of neglected film you dream about discovering , but so rarely do . Of all the celebrated productions given the world by the multi-talented team of Michael Powell & Emeric Pressburger , this is the one that should stand as their monument . The story , in its very bare bones is this : a stubborn & headstrong young woman of Manchester travels to Scotland's Inner Hebrides to marry her very rich fianc on the remote island he's rented . Foul weather strands her on the Isle of Mull where she meets a rather dashing , if somewhat penniless , laird . Then . . . you'll have to see the rest for yourself . Suffice it to say that the plot includes a ruined castle , an ancient curse , and the terrifying whirlpool of Corryvreckan . . . Dame Wendy Hiller & Roger Livesey are perfect as the main characters . The excellent supporting cast includes Walter Hudd as a highly efficient private secretary , Finlay Currie as a craggy old fisherman , Capt . C . W . R . Knight , F . Z . S . as an eccentric English colonel with a passion for raptors , Pamela Brown as a no-nonsense Islander , gentle Jean Cadell as the Tobermory postmistress , Catherine Lacey & Valentine Dyall as a slightly boorish English couple tenanting a large castle , young Petula Clark as their serious little daughter , Nancy Price as an elderly aristocratic Scotswoman with wonderful memories & John Laurie as a boisterous soldier celebrating his parents ' Diamond Anniversary . The splendid Glasgow Orpheus Choir appears as performers at the Campbell Cilidh . The production is greatly enhanced by location filming on Mull , and Erwin Hiller's special photographic effects .
An OUR GANG Comedy Short . When Spanky & the Gang put on a presentation of ' Romyo and Jullet ' out in the barn for the neighborhood kids , the audience is told they can ' PAY AS YOU EXIT ' if they like the show . But chaos ensues - especially after Alfalfa's onion-munching drives away leading lady Darla . A fine little film , short and to the point . Spanky's strongman routine is cute and if you ever wondered how Buckwheat would play Juliet's Balcony Scene , this is the place to look . That's Fat Joe Cobb as the big kid in the audience .
Peeping through THE KEYHOLE we find an unhappy wife who sails to Cuba to shake off a blackmailing former lover , not knowing that her millionaire husband has sent a handsome detective to compromise her . . . This elaborately plotted little picture is a very fine example of the kind of film Warner Bros . produced so effortlessly in the 1930's . Frothy , a bit silly & fun , it boasts entertaining performances and good production values . Depression audiences sat through scores of movies just like this , generally well made , but with interchangeable plots & stars . Kay Francis & George Brent handle the romantic situations very nicely . Sophisticated & charming , they keep their stock characters from ever becoming dull . The humor is supplied by brassy blonde Glenda Farrell as a gold digging shill & dumb-as-dirt detective Allen Jenkins . Henry Kolker as the suspicious husband , Helen Ware as his elderly , sympathetic sister , and Monroe Owsley as the oily Lothario , all add to the fun in their supporting roles . Especially enjoyable is little Ferdinand Gottschalk , appearing in only one scene as a comically flirtatious old banker . Movie mavens will recognize sour-faced Clarence Wilson as the head of the detective agency .
A dastardly Chinese criminal in OLD SAN FRANCISCO schemes to possess a lovely seorita and her Spanish land-grant rancho . Although replete with racial stereotyping , it must be admitted that this vintage Silent film is an awful lot of fun . Produced just before the onset of Talkies , the movie represents the high degree of expertise the Studios had attained in telling a story through the medium of filmed pantomime . Excellent production values , an exciting story and very good acting are all part of the mix in the film's success , while the climaxing special effects depicting the great 1906 San Francisco earthquake & fire are satisfying both visually and as plot development . Beautiful Dolores Costello is exceptional as the privileged young lady who must survive a terrible adventure into San Francisco's criminal depths , her lovely face & eyes conveying every emotion her character experiences . Joseph Swickard gives a noble performance as her proud , patrician grandfather . High-spirited Charles Emmett Mack ably fills the requisite hero's role as the courageous young Irish lawyer who loves Miss Costello . Looking like evil incarnate , Swedish actor Warner Oland steals a few scenes as the malicious malefactor who plots Miss Costello's undoing . Exotic Anna May Wong appears briefly as an Underworld minx . Tiny Angelo Rossitto is memorable as Oland's dwarf brother . Movie mavens will recognize Sojin as a Chinatown elder , John Miljan as a slightly craven Spanish-Californian , and Willie Fung as a smiling servant , all uncredited .
A young woman defies THE SINGLE STANDARD of morality which allows males freedom while restricting the behavior of females . Greta Garbo stars in this late silent trifle from MGM . Her flawless beauty is thawed somewhat by a script that allows her a sly sense of humor and a more approachable demeanor . Playing a character torn between the duties of a wife and the passions of a lover , she is always entertaining , even if the film isn't terribly significant . Nils Asther , who could almost match Garbo's exoticism , gives a fine performance as the celebrity artist whose adventurous lifestyle & romantic allure prove such a temptation to Garbo . Handsome Johnny Mack Brown gives a touch of nobility to his rather small role as the dull husband willing to sacrifice everything for Garbo's happiness . Elderly character actress Zeffie Tilbury scores as an observant society matron who speaks her mind . In unbilled roles , Robert Castle grabs the viewers ' attention as Garbo's tragic chauffeur and Wade Boteler provides a few chuckles as the merry masher who confronts Garbo in the rain . Movie mavens will recognize a young Joel McCrea as one of the trio of philandering husbands whose antics amuse Garbo in the film's opening moments .
A Walt Disney PLUTO Cartoon . Pluto attempts to turn Butch's tasty snack into a T-BONE FOR TWO . This is another formula Pluto film - fun , but without much to distinguish it from many other Pup cartoons . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Four former flying aces , scarred both physically & emotionally , make THE LAST FLIGHT through the bars of Paris & Lisbon with an eccentric American girl . Well-crafted & poignant , this film tells the sad tale of American World War One buddies whose lives are essentially over with the cessation of the conflict . Aimless & drifting , but seemingly very well financed , they stagger from bar to bar , looking for the forgetfulness that comes with drunken oblivion . If not for the noble loyalty they feel for each other their story , and the sundering of their quartet , would be almost unremittingly lugubrious . Director William Dieterle was given fine service by his cast : silent screen star Richard Barthelmess , leader of the band , as a pilot sensitive about his burned hands ; gunner David Manners dealing with a nervous tic in his left eye ; country boy Johnny Mack Brown letting high jinks and alcohol define his new existence ; and sharpshooter Elliott Nugent , shell-shocked into extreme lethargy . Helen Chandler is remarkable as the highly unusual young woman who is allowed to become an essential part of the fliers ' lives . Her kooky vagueness and affection for pet turtles is most endearing . Walter Byron gives an effective performance as a caustic reporter who tags along with the others for his own motives . At one point in the story Mr . Barthelmess & Miss Chandler visit the cemetery of Pre-Lachaise in Paris , where he tells her something of the history of the tragic lovers Pierre Ablard ( 1079-1142 ) and Hlose ( 1098-1164 ) , who lie interred there . Barthelmess mentions the terrible revenge visited upon Ablard by the Canon Fulbert , the uncle of Hlose , without actually saying what it was . Even with Pre-Code liberality , forced castration was not a subject to be broached lightly .
Beat until thick a highly libidinous young officer of the Guards . Sift together and stir in a pompous little king and his dowdy princess daughter . Whip in gradually a lovely female violinist . Gently fold in some beautiful music and a liberal amount of highly suggestive dialogue . Lightly bake in a mythical kingdom for 88 minutes . The results - THE SMILING LIEUTENANT . Director Ernst Lubitsch created a triumph in this scintillating pre-Code film which is as light and airy now as it was when first released . Replete with wonderful performances & an effervescent script , it is still sophisticated and remarkably frank . Lubitsch relied heavily on the intelligence of his audience . He knew that a delicate touch would be appreciated by those able to anticipate & understand the nuances of his humor . The fact that this worked so beautifully with both his dialogue and the film music - ( songs and background music , which serve to move the plot right along ) - only one year after Hollywood fully embraced sound pictures shows the genius of the director's craft . Oozing Gallic charm , Maurice Chevalier lets his musical skills and highly facile face telegraph to the audience exactly what kind of an amorous rogue his character is . Madly in love with the beautiful Claudette Colbert , but forced to wed the ( slightly ) frumpy Miriam Hopkins , he is highly amusing as he watches his romantic house of cards come crashing down . The ladies also add greatly to the fun , with sleek Colbert advising pouty Hopkins in song to jazz up her lingerie if she wants to win Chevalier's attentions . ( The idea that Hopkins must transform into a wanton woman to entice her husband to commence his connubial responsibilities is dubious at best . ) George Barbier plays the easily offended corpulent King of Flausenthurm . Wonderful character actor Charlie Ruggles is hilarious in the small role of the officer who wishes to woo Colbert first . Movie mavens will recognize an uncredited Elizabeth Patterson as the elderly baroness attending on the Princess .
Two lady process servers will stop at nothing to do their job - but then one falls in love with the man they are stalking . . . WE'RE IN THE MONEY was the sort of ephemeral comic frippery which the studios produced almost effortlessly during the 1930's . Well made & highly enjoyable , Depression audiences couldn't seem to get enough of these popular , funny photo dramas . Joan Blondell & Glenda Farrell are perfectly cast as the fearless , fast-talking females who will try anything to serve their subpoenas . Although Joan gets both top billing and the romantic scenes , both gals are as talented & watchable as they are gorgeous . Ross Alexander plays Blondell's love interest and he does a very nice job . Remembered now chiefly for his appearance in the classic A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM ( 1935 ) , this talented young man from Brooklyn was gifted with the good looks & acting skills which should have made him a major Hollywood star . Instead , Alexander ended up in mostly forgettable parts in obscure films . Tragically , Ross Alexander died a suicide in 1937 , at the age of only 29 . Hugh Herbert , whimsical & wacky as ever , appears as the girls ' boss . Whether driving a stolen car or piloting a speeding motorboat , he is equally hilarious . Behind him comes a rank of character actors - Henry O'Neill , E . E . Clive , Lionel Stander , Hobart Cavanaugh - all equally adept at wringing every smile out of any situation . Sharp-eyed movie mavens should spot an unbilled Walter Brennan as a witness at the wedding . While never stars of the first rank , Joan Blondell ( 1906-1979 ) & Glenda Farrell ( 1904-1971 ) enlivened scores of films at Warner Bros . throughout the 1930's , especially the eight in which they appeared together . Whether playing gold diggers or working girls , reporters or secretaries , these blonde & brassy ladies were very nearly always a match for whatever leading man was lucky enough to share equal billing alongside them . With a wisecrack or a glance , their characters showed they were ready to take on the world - and any man in it . Never as wickedly brazen as Paramount's Mae West , you always had the feeling that , tough as they were , Blondell & Farrell used their toughness to defend vulnerable hearts ready to break over the right guy . While many performances from seven decades ago can look campy or contrived today , these two lovely ladies are still spirited & sassy .
An OUR GANG Comedy Short . Although the Gang tries to be friendly with a snooty new rich kid - ' HI-NEIGHBOR ! ' - it's obvious he disdains them all . And when his spiffy fire engine impresses Jane , it's time for the Rascals to build their own competition vehicle . Some good laughs here . The building of the contraption , especially Spanky helping Stymie put on the wheels , is hilarious . Highlight : the race down the very steep hill .
A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . It becomes THE OLD ARMY GAME when Donald tries to sneak back onto base without Sergeant Pete catching him . . . Here is another of Donald's wartime cartoons , with lots of laughs and physical comedy . Pete has finally found his perfect niche as a military noncommissioned officer . The legendary Carl Barks was one of the writers involved in this little film ; Clarence Nash provides the Duck with his unique voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Five brothers , born & raised in a Jewish ghetto at the end of the 18th Century . Taught by their parents in the ways of international finance & commerce , but above all in living a life of dignity as Jews . Five brothers who grew to establish banks wielding enormous power from the five great European capitals - Frankfurt , London , Paris , Vienna , Naples - yet who always worked together for the common goal of peace in Europe & the destruction of tyranny . Five brothers united as THE HOUSE OF ROTHSCHILD . In this lavish film , Mr . George Arliss gives yet another splendid history lesson and this time the old fellow gets to play two roles : Mayer Amschel Rothschild , the founder of the dynasty ; and eldest son Nathan Rothschild , who established the London branch of the family . As always , Arliss is fascinating to watch , his every twitch conveying significance & meaning . It is a shame he is almost forgotten today , as he was a marvelous actor . But he does not act alone here . Indeed , his co-stars are quite accomplished . As in so many of his films , his real-life wife Florence Arliss plays his ( Nathan's ) spouse and is charming , as usual . The somewhat obtrusive romantic subplot is handled by the two Youngs , Loretta & Robert , who look lovely & handsome respectively . Helen Westley is exceptional as Mayer's wife Gudula , the matriarch of the family . Also on hand are Reginald Owen , Alan Mowbray , Ivan Simpson , Ethel Griffies & wonderful old Sir C . Aubrey Smith as the Duke of Wellington - it is a particular treat to watch his scenes with Arliss . A rather subdued & urbane Boris Karloff is the villain of the film , playing a Prussian nobleman who delights in being anti-Semitic . Pains are taken to show the evils inflected upon Continental Jewry during the age of repression & pogroms and it is important to remember that this film was produced in 1934 , as Evil was once again raising its head in Central Europe . The ideas of men in the 19th Century , such as Karloff portrays here , would lead inexorably to the gas chambers & furnaces of Nazi Germany in the 20th . Forget Frankenstein's Monster . This was Karloff's most horrific role . In the last 4 minutes , the movie turns from black & white to beautiful early Technicolor , a delight to the eyes . There are a couple of glaring historical inaccuracies in the movie that must be pointed out . Nathan was not the elder of Mayer's sons - in fact he was the 3rd born . And it was not he , but his grandson , another Nathan , who was raised to the peerage to become Baron Rothschild in 1885 , 49 years after the death of his grandfather . Trifling , yet significant .
Watching after her rich employer's motherless brood , elderly housekeeper EMMA finds love in a very unexpected place . But an accusation of murder is only one of the burdens she'll have to bear on her weary old shoulders before she finds a way to be useful again . At the time she made this film , Marie Dressler was Hollywood's greatest star . An unlikely celebrity sensation , with her homely face & shapeless body , Dressler was nonetheless adored by the American public who could sense her basic decency & goodness . For a few brief years she became the nation's grandma , someone with whom the public could feel completely comfortable . Dressler seemed to typify the virtues of hard work & plainspoken honesty - attributes which counted for much in the Great Depression's darkest days . This in no way is meant to denigrate Dressler's talents as an actress ; she earned her accolades . She had complete command of her craft , mobilizing her pliable face & large body into capturing & holding first the audience's attention & then their admiration , followed quickly by their deep affection . Marie Dressler was a unique cinematic phenomenon ; she stands alone , never replicated , duplicated or effaced - except by the vagaries of fickle time . Today in this new millennium , when her special earthy benevolence is needed more than ever , she is virtually unknown to any but the oldest or most nostalgic of movie mavens . As sole star , and with a script penned by her dear friend Frances Marion , Dressler is given free rein to beguile in EMMA . Whether dealing with tragic death , or engaged in comedic high jinks ( Dressler in an airplane simulator run amuck or chasing her lingerie-disgorging suitcase across a crowded train station is nothing less than hilarious ) she is as completely unforgettable as she was to prove utterly irreplaceable . Firm support is given by gentle Jean Hersholt as Dressler's kindly employer . As his son , Richard Cromwell gives an energetic performance . Lovely Myrna Loy , not-quite-yet a star , is strangely awkward as Hersholt's spiteful daughter . John Miljan is effective in the role of a relentless District Attorney .
A Walt Disney I'M NO FOOL Cartoon . I'M NO FOOL IN WATER when I follow the rules of only swimming when & where it is safe . This is one of a short series of little films in which Disney helped to inform viewers about basic safety concerns and the foolish ways in which lackadaisical folks can hurt themselves . The interesting history of man's relationship to water & his learning the various swimming strokes is also discussed . Jiminy Cricket , as voiced by the inimitable Cliff Edwards , is the perfect pedagogue . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A Walt Disney I'M NO FOOL Cartoon . I'M NO FOOL WITH A BICYCLE shows in how I maintain my bike and follow the safety rules of the road . This is one of a short series of little films in which Disney helped to inform viewers about basic safety concerns and the foolish ways in which lackadaisical folks can hurt themselves . The interesting history of self-propelled locomotion is also discussed . Jiminy Cricket , as voiced by the inimitable Cliff Edwards , is the perfect pedagogue . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A small plane is forced down somewhere near the Himalayas . On board are an English major , his young wife and their doctor friend . The plane lands in the tiny Princedom of Rukh , ostensibly under the British Viceroy , but actually ruled by a curiously deranged old Raja . The three visitors find themselves at the mercy of the Raja and are caught up in his lustful plots & plans . This very early talkie is an interesting little curio and still fun to watch . George Arliss is a fascinatingly sardonic Raja . His every word & gesture entertain the imagination . Mr . Arliss was a very important & distinguished English actor working in Hollywood in the 1930's , although now he's sadly neglected . This was his first talkie - ( but was released after DISRAELI ) . All of his Warner Brothers movies are very entertaining , if you can find them . In the supporting cast are Ralph Forbes as the heroic doctor ; H . B . Warner & Alice Joyce as the callous Major & his estranged wife ; gaunt Nigel de Brulier as a suspicious temple priest ; and Ivan Simpson as the Raja's wicked butler .
Cosmo TOPPER RETURNS and this time he's involved with murder ! Hal Roach Studios presents one more look at the continued supernatural adventures of Cosmo Topper . The Old Dark House routine is trotted out as our hero finds himself in a spooky cliff-top mansion replete with strange disappearances , hidden passageways and a fiendish knife-wielding killer . Roland Young & Billie Burke are back one final time as the Toppers and they remain a delight - - Mr . Young owl-like & serious in the scariest of situations and Miss Burke forever sweetly vague and befuddled . They are joined by vivacious Joan Blondell ( who actually snags top billing ) as a ghostess intent on forcing poor Topper into discovering who's just murdered her . More new costars are on hand to help liven things up : lovely Carole Landis as a rich girl in much need of protection ; Dennis O'Keefe as a taxi driver willing to provide that protection ; gaunt H . B . Warner as Miss Landis ' invalid father ; menacing George Zucco as his sinister doctor ; Rafaela Ottiano as a frightened housekeeper ; Donald MacBride as a moronic cop ; and the delightful Patsy Kelly , underused as the Toppers ' tough maid . Best of all is Eddie ' Rochester ' Anderson , ' more or less playing himself ( he even makes a gag about returning to ' Mr . Benny ' ) who rivals Miss Burke in getting the best lines in the picture . Contemporary references to Orson Welles ' radio plays and the Alfred Hitchcock movie REBECCA ( 1940 ) should amuse cognoscenti . The serious viewer must not expect to have all the mysteries solved by film's end ; indeed , most of the loose ends remain resolutely untied . Just sit back and enjoy the comedic chills served-up by this group of very fine performers . This was the third of a 3-film series , coming after TOPPER ( 1937 ) and TOPPER TAKES A TRIP ( 1939 ) .
A Walt Disney I'M NO FOOL Cartoon . I'M NO FOOL WITH FIRE , this strange & wonderful thing which can be my best friend or my worst enemy . This is one of a short series of little television films in which Disney helped to inform viewers about basic safety concerns and the foolish ways in which lackadaisical folks can hurt themselves . The story of man's use of fire since caveman days is discussed - as well as the consequences for not respecting its dangerous power . Jiminy Cricket , as voiced by the inimitable Cliff Edwards , is the perfect pedagogue . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Caught stealing food , hobo Donald is forced to work in Pete's TIMBER camp . Donald gives another robust performance in this funny little film . For the sake of the plot , Pete goes by the name of ' Pierre ' and assumes a phony French accent . The legendary Carl Barks was one of the writers of the script ; Clarence Nash gives Donald his unique voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Forced to sleep in the WIDE OPEN SPACES , the last thing a desperately tired Donald needs is trouble with his air mattress . . . This little film is routine in respect to animation & story , but it's always enjoyable to watch the Duck deal with inanimate objects . Clarence " Ducky " Nash supplies Donald's squeaky voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A POPEYE Cartoon . After crashing his plane in the Sahara , POPEYE THE SAILOR MEETS ALI BABA'S FORTY THIEVES when brigand Abu Hassan loots the desert village where the old spinach muncher has found respite . With Olive Oyl captured as a slave for the Thieves , it's time for our hero to come to the rescue . . . This was the second in a series of 3 excellent two-reel cartoons , created by Max Fleischer , in which Popeye & his friends are interpolated into the classic stories of The Arabian Nights . They feature great animation - notice the fascinating 3-D backgrounds - and taut , fast-moving plots . Meant to be shown in movie theaters , they are miles ahead of their Saturday Morning counterparts . Jack Mercer is the voice of Popeye ; Mae Questel does the honors for Olive Oyl .
A Walt Disney Cartoon with DONALD DUCKDonald demonstrates HOW TO HAVE AN ACCIDENT IN THE HOME . This informative little film warns against the improper uses of electricity & gas , the danger of littered floors & crowded stairways and other safety hazards about the home . Followed by HOW TO HAVE AN ACCIDENT AT WORK ( 1959 ) . Clarence Nash provides Donald with his unique voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
An MGM Colortone Musical . Murder has been committed in the old manor at Phwitterby-on-Thames , where elderly Barrister Butts was shot before the public reading of a will . Send Dr . Watkins to find the celebrated detective Philo Holmes ! Search the Piccadilly Club and bring the chorus girls & orchestra back with you ! Will Holmes make the right deduction ? And what does the homicide have to do with MY GRANDFATHER'S CLOCK ? This silly little film is a good example of the type of fluff popular with young audiences in the 1930's . Nearly all the spoken dialogue is in rhyme & the tunes from many familiar musical compositions are interpolated . The color production is very pleasing to the eye . Holmes & Watkins are played by Charles Judles & Franklin Pangborn ( who nearly steals the show with his prissy behavior . ) Film mavens will recognize Mischa Auer as one of the manor servants .
A Vitaphone Short Subject . Tabloid snoop sister HOT NEWS MARGIE will go to any length to ensure she gets star football player Babe Booth's admission to a secret marriage . This exceedingly brief & lively little film wastes no time going for the laughs . Marjorie Beebe gives a very boisterous performance in the title role . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something like writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
A Walt Disney GOOFY Cartoon . Big game hunter Goofy has no idea how much TIGER TROUBLE he's about to encounter in the jungle . The characters of the Tiger & Dolores the Elephant steal the show in this enjoyable little film , which depicts another truly brainless exploit by the Goof . Bill Peet , soon to become a celebrated children's author , was responsible for the story . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
A LAUREL & HARDY Comedy Short . Stan & Ollie head for an evening at a ritzy nightclub , against the wishes of a furious Mrs . Laurel . After getting BLOTTO on a mixture of cold tea & Tabasco , the Boys make a noisy spectacle of themselves . But just wait until Mrs . L . shows up with a shotgun . . . A very funny little film . Highlight : Stan's laughing fit . The tearjerker sung by the crooner that gets the Boys crying is ' The Curse Of An Aching Heart ' , a popular ballad from 1913 . Mrs . Laurel is played by Anita Garvin .
British homesteaders in Lincoln County , New Mexico , find that their best protection against the local murderous sheriff is a shy young cowboy called BILLY THE KID . Director King Vidor produced for MGM one of the first epic talkie Westerns , with plenty of action and violence and frequent musical forays to explore the new medium of sound . The acting is good and the authentic outdoor locations are expansive & eye-catching . In one of his best roles , Johnny Mack Brown portrays Billy as a quiet , dependable fellow , deadly with a gun but reluctant to boast or brag , attractive to the ladies and a determined seeker for justice over evil . Everything one could want in a Cowboy Hero . He's also just a little bit dull . This allows Wallace Beery , as Billy's friendly nemesis Pat Garrett , to steal the film , using his doughy face and shapeless body to great effect . Beery was right on the edge of becoming a major movie star and it was roles like this that would push him over the edge . Lovely Kay Johnson is on hand as the wife of unfortunate Russell Simpson , one of the men Billy initially defends , but the demands of her role are few and she gets to do little besides look worried . Silent comic star Karl Dane & champion stutterer Roscoe Ates portray friends of Simpson & Billy , and they are both welcome additions to the film . Dane , however , is given very little screen time , his thick accent obviously a problem for MGM . Silent screen cowboy William S . Hart acted as creative consultant on the film , but his only contribution seems to have been the loan to Johnny Mack Brown of a pistol which had once belonged to Billy . BILLY THE KID was originally filmed in the 70 mm widescreen Realife process ( no copies are known to remain ) with two very different endings - one for American theaters in which Billy eludes capture and one in which he is shot dead , for European audiences . In the film's written prologue , New Mexico's Governor R . C . Dillon admits to the movie's ? liberties ' with the truth . Indeed , there are few true facts in the film . Most radically altered is the character of Billy himself , who in reality seems to have been a particularly loathsome human specimen , unsavory & disagreeable in almost every way . But early in production MGM's Irving Thalberg realized the studio would have a hard time promoting a film about a disgusting murderer and he ordered a radical rewrite on Billy's biography , turning him into a pleasant , noble hombre . Good entertainment , bad history . There are a lot of ambiguities about Billy . We know he was born in New York City on 23 November , but both 1859 & 1860 have been cited for the year . We don't even know the guy's real name . Was it William H . Bonney , Jr . , or Henry McCarty ? ( For awhile he muddied the waters further by calling himself Kid Antrim . ) Billy's family had moved West , and after the death of his father Billy had travelled with his mother's new husband to the territory of New Mexico , ending up at Silver City in 1873 . We may never know what toxic mixture of heredity & environment stained Billy's soul , but we do know that he became a hellion young . He claimed to have committed his first murder at the age of 12 - he would kill at least 27 men during his lifetime . Billy became involved in an outlaw gang that created havoc on both sides of the Mexican border , with robbery , murder & cattle rustling all part of the routine . At the end of the decade , Billy became a gun for hire in the so-called Lincoln County War , that particularly nasty confrontation between cattlemen , townsfolk & corrupt law officers . Billy ran a gang that killed a sheriff and a deputy , for which he was arrested by Pat Garrett in December of 1880 . Billy was sentenced to hang , but during a daring escape on 28 April 1881 , Billy murdered two more deputies before hightailing it out of town . After weeks on his trail , Garrett finally tracked Billy to a ranch house near Fort Sumner , N . M . and on 14 July Garrett killed him there . The punk was dead , but the legend was born . Patrick Floyd Garrett ( born 5 June 1850 ) had been a cowboy & buffalo hunter in his youth and moved to Lincoln County in 1879 , where he became deputy and then sheriff . After he killed Billy , Garrett became a rancher near Roswell , N . M . from 1882 until 1896 . Returning to law enforcement , he became first the deputy and then the sheriff of Dona Ana County from 1896 until 1902 . He was the collector of customs in El Paso , Texas from 1902-1906 . Garrett then bought a horse ranch near Las Cruces , N . M . , but a violent dispute over a lease left him gunned down in the road on 29 February 1908 . A fellow named Wayne Brazel claimed Garrett drew on him first , a witness agreed it was self defense , and Brazel was let go . Garrett was 57 years old . It was a nasty way to die for the man who got Billy the Kid .
A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Bad behavior from Donald's Nephews draws the unwanted attention of a hungry Mountain Lion . Huey , Dewey & Louie are up to their usual high jinks again in LION AROUND , a fairly routine , albeit humorous , little film . Coupled with the Mountain Lion ( making one of his infrequent Disney appearances ) they provide poor Donald with almost more antagonists than he can handle . Clarence " Ducky " supplies he voices for the entire Duck family . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A Walt Disney PEOPLE AND PLACES short subject . This short film takes us for a fascinating look at a day in the life of a Japanese fishing village . We see how the lives of everyone is concerned in some way with the sea and harvesting its bounty . Special focus is given to the AMA GIRLS , those healthy young maidens who dive up to 60 feet beneath the waves in search of choice sea weed to sell . Scenes of domestic life are also shown , as well as how the entire village works together to process the valuable sardine catch . ' This film is one in a series presenting interesting PEOPLE and the PLACES in which they live . All scenes are authentic and the stories are factual . ' The narrator is Winston Hibler .
A Walt Disney FIGARO Cartoon . As if BATH DAY wasn't bad enough , a pampered & pomaded Figaro the kitten has a most nasty encounter with the meanest alley cat on the block . This was one of a short series of cartoons that featured the little feline from PINOCCHIO ( 1940 ) . There's plenty of good humor here , with the mangy villain getting exactly what he deserves . Minnie Mouse has a small role as Figaro's hygienically obsessed owner . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
