It was bound to happen , the TV reality craze bled into the film industry , but did it have to be so bad ? Shot in ten days then rushed into theaters a few weeks later it was then rushed into video stores where it destroyed countless more minds , this film has to have the fastest turn around time on record . Hey I've actually said something nice about it . . . amazing . The premise is that a bunch of hand picked jerks are flown to Mexico for spring break and we get to watch them behave badly . I'm sure it sounded good on paper but the people we are given to watch are such awful people we don't care . Any promised titillation and truly over the top behavior isn't there so this comes across as rather tame considering the promises the film makers made . I kept watching this wondering why I was watching it since I hated the people and their behavior . Finally after a just over half an hour of this non-event I turned it off . I suggest that you do better than I did and never turn it on .
This is the brief story of a bunch of male space explorers looking for women to impregnate before they are no longer able to have children . Somehow they end up on a planet where they are captured and chatter as women in latex clothing fight each other and roll around on the floor to really bad music . I can't say more than that because there really isn't much more to it than that . ( There may have been but I stopped caring ) Can we say cheap ? Can we say shot on video badness ? Can we please have an Ed Wood film , or better yet Orgy of the Dead where the women were at least topless ? Could we please have anything perhaps even a large rusted needle to poke out my eyes ? This set bound disaster is billed as being in the style of Barbarella . Say what you will that had a plot , and acting , and something approaching other than a bad TV talk show style set . This is awful . Should you be stupid enough to actually watch this you may want to be warned of the use of about ten or fifteen seconds of hardcore sex appearing during the solarized entrance from the desert to the blue bubble . Its off to one side of the screen and would not be really noticeable except the video effect only partially obscures it and so its the only thing you can really see . I had to go back to see what it was since it seemed out of place . Its not a reason to pick this up , but parents who intend to destroy their children's minds by showing this film to them may be offended , I was bored . Simply one of the worst piles of dog waste ever made .
This started as part of the double feature feature Grindhouse and it has now been released as a single film . I didn't like it in Grindhouse and seeing it alone I think this is a pretty poor film . The dialog is exactly like rejected dialog from Reservoir Dogs or Pulp Fiction . The most of the dialog serves no real purpose . Granted Tarantino is using it to blur whats going on , but its really just a series of discussions that lead , ultimately , nowhere . There is no deeper meaning to anything thats said . Since there is no " action " for the better part of an hour the dialog has to define the characters , however everyone speaks with the typical Tarantino cadence , think Travolta and Jackson in Pulp fiction on their vocal rhythms , with the result that most of the characters are not well defined The women in the first group all blend together with the exception of Rose McGowan and the " New Yorker " who seems out of place in Austin . Mostly the women stand out because of their hair and skin color . The car crash that takes these women out is spectacular , but only because we see it graphically three or so times with the severed limbs flopping about . Whats worse is that the accident ultimately makes no sense in any level at all , why do it ? There is no reason - even if the ineffectual sheriff tells you why he can't do anything is a scene that belongs in another film . For me I always lose interest in the film after that ( I've seen this and Grindhouse at least 4 times each ) , partly because the film starts over - sort of - with a bunch of kick ass girls - but also Stuntman Mike ceases to be a character that makes sense . There are no revelations about him - not that there needs to be - but his actions , by the car crash and the sheriff's speech implying more , leap so far out of believability that he stopped being menacing but became a joke . The next group of girls-all movie people are clearly outside Mike's league . Their dialog is slightly better than the first group of women but often comes off as shrill because its shouted . Their final confrontation with Mike is , to say the least disappointing . Okay they won't take Mike's nonsense and go after once he messes with them . So what ? There is no real fear on their part when Mike starts up his games so you don't feel any tension . Worse they seem to be enjoying the idea of pay back more than Mike enjoys killing women . I'm not saying this because I feel emasculated , rather because it changes the rules , it changes what we feel into a joke . Worse , he's beaten so easily as to be a paper threat , how can you cheer when Mike was ultimately impotent ? What's worse is the action is poor . The car chase is badly shot and really unexciting . I don't think I've ever seen such a dull chase in an exploitation movie ( and I've seen hundreds ) . I've seen bad chases , stupid chases , every other kind of chase-but nothing this dull . My reaction when I got to the end was well that added up to nothing . Its like bad sex thats stopped before you orgasm , it kind of ruins the whole idea of sex . I don't think Tarantino was making a real movie as much he was making what he thought a film like this should be . Clearly he doesn't know films as well as he thinks he does . ( I mean that literally as well as figuratively since there are times in the Grindhouse version when the film gets splicey and dialog repeats exactly the way a film wouldn't if you chopped out frames . and then repaired it . ) If it was anyone other than Tarantino the film would have been hidden away or burned . Worse , if the film had been made in the 1970's when the films he mentions were made this film would have ended up lost , probably never going to home video-or if not lost then boxed in those 50 movie DVD sets that contain a great deal of crap because no one would ever put the films out except as filler . While I will say that Tarantino borrows too much from old movies , he is a good film maker most of the time . That said , it becoming painfully clear as time goes on that his bag of tricks and his " encyclopedic " film knowledge is beginning to fail him more rapidly . I would say something about him looking too tan and well fed in this film but there are other ways to imply he's lost touch with the hunger he once felt and fed the movies he made . His fans will love him no matter what - but some of us - some who may have even seen more films than him - maybe finding the emperor has no clothes . I'm curious what the future will bring .
Maybe its the dubbing , but this story of a Greek hero who is at first the key to taking control of Athens and later to beating the invading the Persians , should have worked . Certainly it's the best looking Steve Reeves movie , with some really good action sequences but this movie is awful . If its not the the dubbing then perhaps its the editing and direction which appears to have taken the " lets use every piece of available footage " approach to film construction . Sequences go on and on and on . We Persians invade and we get to see every soldier land in Greece , and we see a boulder crash into a camera . Why couldn't the sequences have been trimmed . It makes things seem last for hours despite it only being 90 minutes long . Another clunker from Reeves .
Yes , yes it is . Its just so bad its heartbreaking . Its as if two movies , a sweet romantic comedy was grafted onto a low brow comedy with the effect being it just awful . I mean that not because I think this should have been a sweet romantic comedy , rather that its so bad that not even the low brow humor works . Ben Stiller kind of sort of almost pulls it off , but the shifting of tone just derails the whole thing . ( Coming from me , a man who normally hates Ben Stiller this is high praise . ) Then again any film that makes Jerry Stiller just vulgar instead of vulgar but funny isn't to be bothered with .
A newlywed couple spend their honeymoon in their " new " house instead of going to California . They are invaded by the police , a retired hangman , an escaped prisoner , a band of crooks and several dead bodies , all looking for something , either the crook or the loot hidden somewhere in the house . a humorous mystery follows . ( or not ) . This is a bad movie . Almost enjoyable it instead misses the mark and falls flat . Written by Morey Amsterdam it plays more as a series of loosely connected sketches rather than as a film as a whole . There are a good number of exchanges that have nothing to do with whats going on in the story ( they are funny but belong somewhere else ) . There is humor but the acting by the two leads is so broad and over the top that the film becomes annoying rather than amusing . I kept wishing that someone would kill the happy couple so that I wouldn't have to do it myself . The whole film looks cheap and the sets appear to wobble as people pass by . The direction is a mess . Even allowing for a cheapness that often allowed for only one camera set up ( count how many scenes are essentially done in one take ) this film has been put together by someone who seems to know nothing about how people really behave . Look at the scene where the bride to be is yapping away on the phone with her friends ; do people really stand around like that in real life as one of their number talks non stop on the phone ? Its like the most annoying sitcom you've ever seen , only worse . Bad . Bad . Bad . While not quite one of the worst films of all time , there are some funny bits , this is a film thats sure to induce sleep or pained screams in most people who see it . Avoid .
Madea , Tyler Perry's cash cow is back , this time under the direction of Perry himself , and we are not the better for it . The plot has Madea contending with family problems as she gets ready for her family reunion . Its typical Madea madness as we get both wild comedy and touching human drama . Unfortunately Tyler Perry is not a particularly good film director and the comedy and drama don't really mesh . The problem is Perry's performance as Madea is off . Clearly Perry has other things on his mind and it shows . Perry's mind is on the scenes he doesn't appear in , but anytime he's on screen things get lost . This is a bad thing since Perry's Madea is the glue that holds the stories together and with her essentially missing there is no reason to watch . Its as if Perry is on autopilot and goes back to the broad performances that work so well on stage , but which seem too out of control in the " real " world of film . ( Clearly Perry needs to let someone else direct him in the next film ) I have to say I'm a fan of Madea . I like the character that Perry has created and I like the stage shows that he's put on , which is why I'm disappointed when I see how the opening up of the plays tends to fall flat . If you want to see what I mean watch Perry in action in any of the videos of the stage shows that the Madea films have come from . They are very funny , very human morality plays that actually move you . . A misfire .
This movie is painful to watch . Why didn't some one stop director Stephen Sommers and his directorial excess is beyond me . I like The Mummy and The Mummy Returns , I even like Deep Rising , which this resembles in its desire to top itself at every turn . Van Helsing , a thousands year old man who works with the Vatican is sent off to fight Dracula , his brides , werewolves and the Frankenstein monster . Its everything to excess as the filmmakers rub your nose in everything that they've stolen by referring to every damned film they've ever seen . Its awful . The opening sequence in black and white is meant to be a throw back to the Universal horror films of the 1930's and 40's , it comes off as if a bad jokey TV commercial . The next sequence of Van Helsing in Paris with Mr Hyde is clever and works , except that its a rip off of the League of Extraordinary Gentlemen in the design of Hyde . At this point , with Van Helsing returning to the Vatican the film falls into an abyss of rip off mania , the worst being the Q like monk . You know Q from James Bond ? From here its off to Dracula and its over blown over done sequence after sequence as more and more and more crap is thrown into the mix . Sommers has said that this is a film that he would have made when he was nine . Well did he have to regress himself and allow that nine year old to actually do so ? Then again I can't see any nine year old actually liking this . . . Don't get me wrong , except for Igor's make up ( which would have been bad twenty years ago ) the effects and the technical film making and some of the script ( not all ) are okay , granted the effects can shift from good to laughable but mostly they are okay . The problem is that the film doesn't have any sense holding it together . There is no sense of anything other than more is less . More is less is also true of the acting . With the sole exception of Hugh Jackman everyone over plays it . I spent most of this movie physically pained , batter by the over done nature of it and the fact that all I could help but think was " this should have been better " over and over again . You don't need to give your money to the producers on this one . Only doing so will think we want a sequel and that would be a very bad thing . Stay home and begin a stamp collection , its a much more rewarding way to spend two hours .
Lar Von Trier picks up after Dogville as the characters drive across country and end up at a plantation where slavery is still in bloom . Deciding to to stay Bryce Howard ( Nichole Kidman previously ) tries to better things and soon finds out that things were better left alone . Intriguing to look at this is simply more of the same . While I enjoyed Dogville ( except for the length ) this was a chore to get through . Its not bad but more of the same with almost nothing new added . I've better things to do than watch a warmed over version of the earlier film . Sign its un-involving - I took a phone call in the middle of it and didn't stop the film - I sped it up .
I have to say that I'm not a Uwe Boll fan . I disliked his House of the Dead so much its on my worst of all time list . That film is a film of bad choices and missed opportunities that could have amounted into a good B horror film . Uwe's at it again here with a film that is even more confusing because on the face of it it should have worked , he put many of the right things together but somehow made one of the dullest films I've ever seen . Its so bad that I had to fight to become awake enough to stand up and walk out of the theater . Guns are going off , things are blowing up , monsters are attacking , people are running and screaming and the audience is sleeping . Part of the problem is that the cast didn't so much phone in their performances rather they hired cardboard cut outs to do it for them . There is no life in anything they do . They don't care about whats going on so we don't either . This is a movie for those who want to sleep and for no one else . . . well maybe those needing to see every movie monster ever created , but no one else . . Better than expected , but so painfully boring as to be unwatchable ( simply because you will be sleeping )
Turkey of a film . A Filipino fantasy film about the quest for pearls on a secret island where a bunch of bug eyed islanders ( when you see them you'll start laughing and want to turn it off ) are ruled by a beautiful blond who looks normal . The cast includes Patrick Wayne and Sid Haig and is so silly and stupid that its almost enjoyable . Almost . Its a trash film that you'll either love of hate . I'm going to bet on hate , which is a shame since the cast is good and the crew behind the camera is responsible for the Blood Island films as well as many other good exploitation films . If you get a chance to see this , take a pass , there are better films out there .
Gô Naga's comic story comes to the big screen in a big mess of a live action film . If it were enough to survive on looks alone then this might have had a snowballs chance in hell , but as it stands now this is a movie thats tough viewing . Where do I start ? The plot is whats best described as episodic . Telling the story of two friends who are become changed when a scientific experiment goes wrong and demon energy comes into our world . One becomes " Satan " the other becomes Devilman , a demon with a human heart . There are other demons on the loose , many hiding in human form and they go about killing and eating any human they find . The remaining humans fight back and a war between the demons and the humans ensues , which becomes a war between nations . As Devilman battles his friend and humans and demons battle each other it looks like its the end of the world . The simplicity with which I recounted the plot is misleading since the story makes no sense except on the simplest of levels . Things happen and are important until they are not . We learn of the creation of the demons in such a way that makes you think you've missed something . Who are these scientists ? There is a newscaster giving news reports in English in the middle of a Japanese language film . We are given endless scenes of goofy soldiers in white suits and gas masks shooting people they think are demons . An old lover of Devilman's demon side shows up for no reason but to have a fight . Events take a global turn except only to suddenly end up back in Japan . Characters come and go and we have no idea who they are , even though they seem to be important . Nothing holds together . The two leads are awful . Apparently they are non-actors , having made their mark a J-Pop idols . They should stay in the music field . They stand and stare . They walk or run then stand and stare some more . Mostly they look stoned . I've never seen a movie where the leads looked so completely fried outside of Dennis Hopper's Last Movie , certainly I've never seen a movie where the leads were so fried that they couldn't at least phone in a performance . They have no personality . Worse the kid who becomes Devilman is quite ugly for an idol and one makes you wonder why he was chosen to star . The effects are from a bad video game or from some of those low budget animated series . The design is good but for the most part they never drop into the world of the film , they are forever outside of it . At times the fights between demons shows its manga / anime origins by using the frozen image that artists use to produce an effect of action on a limited animation budget . It doesn't work here and just produces laughs as the two demons in question suddenly become statues instead living objects . its a WTF moment . I won't go into the makeup effects which are even worse , as spiky bones act like comes of latex rubber . And yet there is some good things in it . There are some nice designs , Devilman , his demonic lover and Satan all look great , at least in theory . The designs were what attracted me to the movie in the first place , and had they not been as good as they are I would not have even bothered with the film . The reaction of the frighten crowds is quite good , even if there is no logic , other than the need to move the story , for most of what they do . And there are some genuinely creepy moments such as the last moments of people's consciousness showing up on the back of the demon that ate them , or the weird eyes of the father of a little boy who doesn't know his dad has been taken over . These moments are sad because you get the sense of just how good this movie really could have been . I can't really recommend this movie . It's one of those annoying films that could have worked but doesn't so sinks to the bottom of the pile . They actually got some things right , but the fact that the leads , the story and to a lesser extent the effects don't work destroy this films hopes . ( Though if you study film visuals , then you might want to look , if you can see it for free ) A sad major misfire .
1930's sleep inducer about a sailing ship taking a side trip to find a native son of its home port who may be still alive on island in the south seas . They find the man and also battle the title monster which is a giant manta ray . Pure soap opera and hokum that gets points for the early scenes of a harbor full of sailing ships , some location shots of things that have now passed into history and for a giant manta ray as a monster , but the soap opera is terrible and trying to watch it last night I did the same thing I did when I taped this off cable a decade and a half ago-I fast forwarded through a good chunk of it . The unique visuals are a reason to see this , however only on scan . Only for those wishing for a good nights sleep .
A gambler just released from prison takes a game with a mob boss who never loses because everyone is afraid of him . He wins big and then has to accept help from two loan sharks with an agenda of their own . ( or something like that . ) Form over content from Guy Ritchie . Either you accept this head trip Kabbalah based mess for what it is or you use the DVD as a frisbee . Much maligned film is an interesting attempt but ultimately its a con game on Ritchie's part to think that the audience for his earlier films would put up with this sort on nonsense . To be honest its fair to say that nothing is as it seems . To be fair I like what its trying to do , but think its a mess because the lines between whats possible and what is never really line up ( and I won't say more since if you do see this you'll be better off getting slapped with this cold fish . )
Apparently re-cut episodes from the Gangbusters TV show on the big screen . While this was frequently done in the 50's and 60's because people didn't have a TV or a color TV and producers wanted an increased return on their investment ( big screen ticket sales or if it went to the small screen resale of a series that isn't in syndication ) , the results were usually less then the sum of their parts . The only time I've ever seen it work were where multi-part stories were put together ( Ala Rocky Jones or Man From Uncle ) or in the case of horror anthology ( The Veil and 13 Demon Street ) . Here the effect is to have stories of American criminals in the 20's and 30's ( Dillinger , Pretty Boy Floyd , Bonnie and Clyde , etc ) inter-cut with each other as a narrator talks about how the FBI hunted them down . Its a weird concoction that doesn't quite work because its clear that there are things here that don't belong together . More than once I looked at the TV oddly because things didn't seem right . In fairness I won't describe the cheapness of the production since this was what early TV ( and the series ) was like . Its not bad , but its not very good either . To be perfectly honest the episodes of the series that I've seen work better a single episodes where we're not expecting as much . Given the choice I'd rent dvds of the show instead of this movie .
Andy Lau stars in another cop undercover tale . Daniel Wu plays Nick who is working for the cops and is also close to the top of a drug dealing gang ( Lau ) . The movie begins as we watch the police try to make a drug bust only to see it go to pieces . We then are introduced to the young drug addicted mother and her daughter living near Nick and to his cronies and the cops , and 45 minutes in I shut off the movie and put on the news . Well acted and great to look at this is as uninvolving a movie as I've seen in a long time . Its not bad as such its just you really don't care . I mean I really didn't care at all . I actually started to do something else completely forgetting I had on a subtitled movie on , thats how much I didn't care . I wish I could have hated the film but the film is such a nonentity that it made almost no impression on me ( its not even something I could sleep to its just something to ignore ) . Come on the box called it the Chinese Scarface , what after he was dead ? This is one to avoid .
I've seen Cars twice now I didn't like it either time . For me this tale of a jerk who makes good is a technical tour de force as the Pixar animators push the envelope as far as one can in rendering a realistic world in an animated film . I'm not sure if thats a good thing since the cartoonish nature of the cars grates against the realistic world . I found it jarring and unpleasant to look at . It also creeped me out since the eyes of the cars looked dead and unresponsive . Sure the lids lifted and they moved back and forth , but they never changed they always remained static and equidistant . A HUGE problem for me is that the Pixar guys have made a world of cars that looks exactly like our world , but which is is only filled with cars , there are no people . This would be fine except for the fact that if you think about it it doesn't make sense , how could cars have made everything we see ? You can't argue people since we see cars in places they should be in houses and in the race stands . Yes I know its a cartoon , but at the same time it destroys the one thing a cartoon must have to work on any level and that is internal consistency and logic . This film doesn't have it at all . I hated that I felt that I'd seen this movie before a thousand other times in a thousand other movies . It was so bad that I was pretty much guessing what the next line of dialog was going to be . Worse this film felt like an eternity during its time on the screen . If you're going to give me left overs the least you could do is give them to me faster so I don't have time to notice they're stale . Major disappointment from Pixar . ( I saw it the second time because I couldn't believe it was that bad ) Wait for video .
I had a bit of hope for this hour long film made up of footage from old Poverty Row movies . Certainly it had the possibility to seem like more than a home video mass marketed to the world . Unfortunately while funny this movie still feels like a home movie , but with stock footage spliced in . The plot concerns the planned reading of a will on a liner at midnight somewhere in the tropics . The ship sinks and well . . . thats the movie . The film promises Karloff , Lugosi , Chaney and others being lifted from old movies to interact with new footage . We get that alright , but mostly we get lots of new video footage made to look like scratchy black and white film , in which new actors prance about . Old footage is inter-cut mostly to set the scene , but very little of the old and new actually matches so its clearly just a put on . Its not very convincing and is very disappointing for someone like me was looking for a better constructed film . Still if you know and love the old Poverty Row films , ( its very spoofy ) this might be worth a viewing . I would warn against buying this but it can be had for about five bucks , the price of a rental ) so the choice is yours ( Though if you can get away with not paying for it do so ) . Disappointing .
Michael Rennie stars as a block of wood . . . er as a stoic member of the Polish Resistance who along with a compatriot get themselves captured with the hopes of getting sent to a German labor camp where they can spy on the new wonder weapon the V-1 . Based on a true story and supposedly close to what actually happened , which usually keeps things lively , this was a tough go through for me . The problem was that the performances are very stiff . Michael Rennie's performance seemed to consist of standing rigidly and looking something like concerned . Most of his fellow actors were similar in what I can only describe as statue like performances . I'm forced to wonder if the stiffness was due to a limited wardrobe budget since no one seems to get dirty or change their clothes . Its all very serious in life or death way , but at the same time some of the deep pronouncements sound very silly in a " we must soldier on " sort of way . Christopher Lee , despite having a relatively high billing , is in a couple of scenes as a Nazi camp officer . His performance is as animated as Rennie's is rigid making me wonder if he either thought this was a comedy , or was angry with the director and gave a bizarre reading of the role . ( Of course it could be simply that he had some life while the rest of the cast was blocks of wood . ) The story is a good one , but as told here its a long 80 minutes that makes you wonder why they bothered . Recommended for those times when you are in a forgiving mood and want a WW2 drama you haven't seen before .
Dysfunctional family goes home for the holidays and murder and mayhem result . Violent sexy Milligan at his most home made . Little better than a home movie ( as much of Milligans films are ) this is a trip into depravity 1960's style . Notable for the copious nudity and sex this film is neither sexy nor gruesome , playing now more as quaint . ( though decidedly r rated ) . The film suffers from its uneven cast and from the cheapness of the production . ( No one was ever sure where the money went on his movies since he was always broke ) . Its a bad bad movie thats not worth seeing except as a Milligan completeist or because its got some good looking people fooling around .
In the house where Marie Latour , a woman supposedly a werewolf , once lived a museum dedicated to the occult is set up . Latour had disappeared years before after killing her husband who discovered her secret . Years later the daughter of Latour returns and takes steps to make sure that her mother's grave and the secret temple are not desecrated . Confused and confusing supernatural tale seems to be trying to do Cat People one better but actually ends up several worse . Honestly this film is a bit of a mess story-wise . Watching this on DVD I even watched some scenes twice and had no idea what was going on . I honestly had no real idea what was going on and what the point of it all was . The problem is not so much the individual scenes but the complete lack of an idea about what the film is about . Yes the film has plot branches , but it doesn't have a central trunk , or at least a strong one to support all of the ideas . I'm not sure the film is really worth seeing . Pieces are , the opening of the film with a tour of the museum is fantastic . ( Actually all of the bits are really good ) The trouble is it never amounts to much beyond the pieces .
Told in mostly in flashback this film is about the police investigation into the remains that are found in an apartment , and more to the point a Hello Kitty Mermaid which has been optically censored out of the film because Sanrio was unhappy . ( This is based on a true story and parts of the woman really were found in the Hello Kitty doll . ) What we find out is that the victim was a girl who made a wrong turn and life and the downward spiral lead to prostitution and worse . It all ends after she steals some money and she's brutalized to the point of death . The killers then dispose of the body in the title manner . This is a really unpleasant film . Its low budget adds a grittiness to to it . With in its limited budget its not a bad looking film which adds to the nastiness . The trouble is that the script is a meandering mess going from unpleasant person to unpleasant situation . We get to see more than we ever wanted about the lives of everyone involved . The only one you really feel for is Maggie , but even then you grow weary waiting for the inevitable . On some level I feel that the director's desire to do something with the story clashed with budget concerns and a need to make an exploitive film that would return its cost and so they ended up with a film thats neither socially relevant nor good exploitation . I don't like this movie much . Granted it gets points for provoking a reaction of horror and disgust , but at the same time it shouldn't be coupled with the question " Why are you watching this then ? " . What bothers me about the film is that I'm intrigued with it as close representation of what really happened . Its ghoulish , but it won't allow me to totally dismiss the film even though I really should . I can't recommend it since it is a really ugly movie , but its there if you want to try it , although you'll probably question why you're watching it . Rated because I'm so conflicted about the movie even though it should probably be lower .
This film looks fantastic . Its one of the most spectacular films I've ever seen . It seems as though Tsui Hark and crew suddenly were given away to truly unleash their imaginations for the first time with computer graphics and the went for it . This film is simply wonderful to look at . The problem is that the film feels like its starting in the middle and assumes you'll pick it up as you go along . Thats fine but its at least 25 minutes before we start to get anything like character development and by that time I was hopeless unconnected to anything except the visuals . The plot has something to do with the battle of good and evil in the sacred mountains of Zu in China . The story starts hundreds of years ago and then jumps forward once then twice in what becomes a story of lovers reunited over time while battling a great evil called , I kid you not , Insomnia . This is a remake / sequel / rethinking of the earlier Hong Kong film Zu Warriors of the Magic Mountain also by Tsui Hark . The earlier film looks less impressive compared to this one but it pushed the limits of what you could do with martial arts films and fantasy and set the stage for many classics that followed . The " original " film has a slightly tighter narrative thread , that film at least had a place to step on before things got jumbled . This is a great film to look at and I'm certain that should it ever get a US release this will play better on the big screen than it does on TV , simply because you'll get a sense of scale to the spectacle . Visuals are . The story telling is a two . Split the difference over all .
Remake of the Linoel Atwill thriller the Sphinx has been rethought so its now a jokey romance between an Assistant District Attorney and a reporter . Its not bad , but where the original was a creepy thriller , this is too light to be truly gripping , especially if you've seen the original . The plot has ADA Dick Purcell investigating the murder of a wealthy individual . The one suspect , a known deaf mute played by John Hamilton was seen to talk by a janitor ( Montan Moreland ) at the crime scene , while he was seen by dozens of witnesses , including the reporter , at a dedication ceremony . The solution here is so clumsy as to be obvious well before its revealed making the film unexciting . The result is we're left with the not a great deal to hold our interest , and the feeling that once again a very good original should not have been remade .
( This comment may not make sense - but then again neither does the movie ) Su-hyeon Kim the star of Old Boy directs a very strange , very disjointed movie about people living in a tenement . Centering around a father and his sons , who have names the S @ # $head , Dognose and So-So . This movie rambles from one bit to the next on a trajectory thats not quite aimed at the broadside of a barn . I wish I could tell you more about what this movie is but I have no real clue . Its just strange , really really strange . One son brings home an old girl friend for his father to have , another son has just gotten out of prison and likes to stab people , a third rides a motorcycle and makes deliveries . There are gangsters , and children , a guy who makes love charms . . . . . . and its brilliantly filmed and acted to such a degree that I was transfixed by the technical aspects and the greatness of the pieces as the film as a whole slid slowly into the surreal . As a series of unconnected moments , or as a calling card of a film maker who's got a future , its something to see . The problem is that each brief piece never really connects to the next and after two hours you're worn down by the disjointed nature and lack of a narrative whole . It just doesn't work , which is sad because so much of this is really good , just not when you place the pieces together . Despite my middle of the road rating ( for the pieces and certainly not the whole ) I can't recommend it except for those who are truly adventurous film fans , or for those who want to see something weird for weirds sake . Then again maybe I should just say stay away , since this really isn't something you'd want to see .
A teen scientist spikes the medicine his mother is testing on young woman and the result is gruesome death , for the drug turns pain into the highest pleasure and it doesn't take a clever mind what happens next . This is a slow movie that takes a while to get going . The drug takes a while to react , and the once it does the women infected by it self-mutilate horribly . Even though the effects are not the best at times this is a profoundly disturbing film with several images that will haunt you long after the film . Despite the gore , there appears to be a point about medicine and research and pain and pleasure , but the slowness and the grossness over whelm the film . In a twisted way I'm glad I saw it , but I don't need to see it again . - - - - but if you can't stand blood stay miles away from this film .
Nic Cage is a magician who can see two minutes into the future . After he stops a robbery at a casino the Feds zero in on his odd ability . They want to know his trick and if it can be pushed beyond two minutes because a nuclear bomb is somewhere in LA . Not very good chase film has its gee whiz moments as Cage steps through trouble , but the plot doesn't make a whole lot of sense and if you stop to think about it you'll have way too many questions . The film moves along with just enough speed to keep you watching in a " This isn't very good but I'm curious how it comes out " sort of way . I'm sure thats a ringing endorsement somewhere , but for my money and ten bucks a head at the local theater I'd wait to stumble on this on cable . I have to beat on the cast before I end this post . Cage isn't all that good , he wears the same expression for the entire film . He's not bad , but he's probably not the one who should have starred in this mess . Julianne Moore is completely wrong in a role thats seems to have been lifted from sequences in other movies . Jessica Beil looks good but has nothing to do . The rest of the cast , that actually have speaking parts , are fine and actually seem to be real characters , something that the three leads fail to do
A collection of vapid 20 somethings and 30 somethings find that their whole world and self definition in relationships with other people . Well done but so not in the place I'm in film about romance ( a vile thing if there ever was one ) that I had to give up on it a half way in or so . I just can't relate to the notion of looking for Miss or Mister Right being the be all and end all of life , or rather that the relationship is the be all and end all . Oh can you tell I'm long out of practice and the product of alien DNA . If you're into romantic comedies about relationships or feel that your self definition is based on whom you are with give it ago
) Documentary on a role playing universe called Darkon . Think Dungeon and Dragons but in the real world . The people go away for a weekend and and live an alternate feudal life where anything they can imagine is possible . The film examines the game and the people who play . I found the film to be very good at portraying the people and the game , but at the same time I found it very sad and troubling since its clear that many of the players have invested a great deal of themselves into this world and the game , more than is probably healthy . Too many people relate how they are nothing in the real world but in Darkon they are great warriors , princes , princesses or what ever they have chosen to be . They exist for the few moments where they can pretend to be something other than what they are . My heart breaks for these people since in many cases they are living for the weekend . For me its way too familiar a feeling . I have known too many people in my life who have given themselves over to a game and lost all touch with reality . ( of course they may understand too well the pain of life ) . Granted this is no different than any other mania we come across from sports to cars to Barbies to fish , but at the same time rarely is the separation between worlds as clear as with Darkon players , there is this world and that , not one unified place . Its on IFC so you may want to try it if you're so inclined , but be warned you may be struck with a severe case of melancholia , I was
An explanation of why I don't think this is a great a film as some have said : Unremarkable film for people who don't have much imagination . Its well made and well acted but the script is not very good , either they explain too much or not enough and almost everything is geared to driving the plot . I felt like I was being force fed the story , which didn't seem to spin out organically . Characters exist purely to serve the plot with the sole exception of Michael Caine who is the only one with a real character . There is a sense of place , but also the sense that somewhere just off the screen there is something else , the film crew ( in Bladerunner we got a sense of a bigger world - the space stations of the replicants exists - here I'd be hard pressed to wonder if anything other than England does ) . Indeed much of the film's world makes no sense , scene after scene I felt was staged in the backgrounds and not real . You have scenes where everything is chaos and others where there is some form of order , but it sees to be two separate films . Also in a world of declining population there seems to be way way too many cops . The best " new world " film exist and don't have to explain things to you . In the best you learn stuff " accidentally " on the way . In say Reign of Fire the world's rules are given to you in ways that are natural , as part of conversations , glimpses at headlines . In the worst they either explain too much or so little that nothing makes sense . Here we get endless droning from the TV and on on the signs . But ts almost too much information that only rehashes what we already know . There are these statements from the terrorists when Julianne Moore kidnaps Clive Owen that are meaningless dramatically since Owen would know it already , but which are fed in to inform us . We shouldn't be told in essentially declarative statements about things . Look at Bladerunner , we're dropped in this world and we don't get an explanation of anything , the world is . Owens story is potentially a prequel to Dekers so its odd that the world here is not as complete . And the plot goes on and on and on with out any real character development . There are few if any real characters , mostly its just odd people wandering in and out with no real sense of who these people are . It would be okay if there was something for them to do , but there isn't , they just move the plot along . What is it between Julianne Moore and Owen ? Who are these other people ? I don't know . there are huge streams of back story that are hinted at but never touched , which can be gotten away with if you have characters and not cut outs . It would also help if you had a writer who wasn't interested in just moving the plot , who could with a line say volumes , thats not the case . The words are constructed to move things along not build character and situations . I know part of the problem is changes from the book ( which I haven't read ) Julianne Moore's character is actually two characters combined , and there are other changes that probably didn't help . Again its not bad , its just not one of the best films of the year , technically maybe , and certainly Michael Caine should be up for an Oscar , but the story as told on screen doesn't amount to much .
I have no idea what to say about this film except that it struck me as really strange . Dunderklumpen , a lonely hobo breaks into a families home and brings several toys to life then carries them off so he won't be alone . The young boy of the house pursues the animated Klumpen into the wilds of Sweden . His father sees the boy running off and pursues his son . Surreal ( and potentially mind-bending ) adventures follow . Nothing like laying in bed not feeling well and watching a twisted children's film . A live action film with animated characters this is one of the most bizarre films I've seen in a while . I'm not sure if its the English dub or because I'm not a kid but this film comes off as really weird , and I'm not sure its in a good way ( this is definitely not Disney material ) . There is something about the odd mix of animation and reality that doesn't mesh for me , with some of the exploits of the characters ( breaking into the house , setting the fire ) seeming to be more dangerous than humorous . It reminds me of the bad " good for you " children's films that I avoided like the plague when I was growing up . Forgive me there is just something off about this film that I can't put my finger on . Maybe its because I'm not from Sweden or its of a time or a bad dub , but this film gave me the willies more than the sillies . It does have some really good animation which makes me wish it was in a better film . If you want a surreal children's film or some really good animation give it a try . Beyond that you're on your own .
Ex-cop , now drug dealer and addict tries to redeem himself by finding a missing kid with the aid of a hooker . Low budget film that strives to be more than a run of the mill story of a man reaching for redemption . Shot in a variety of different color schemes and styles the film makes the effort to be more than it well worn plot would lead you to believe it is . Peter Facinelli in the lead is merely adequate in a role that requires him to be stoned much of the time . I don't think the film really succeeds in what its trying to do , but I will give the filmmakers points for at last trying to spice things up . I think that one of the problems with the film is that its way too long at around two hours since its slender clichéd thread of a plot doesn't really have the strength to support the tale . I can't recommend it unless you're someone like me who is tired of seeing these ultra-low budget direct to video films that all look and sound the same .
This is a story about the end of the world . It takes two hours to get there but when it comes its quite spectacular . This is the story of two superpowers speeding toward war . In the middle are the Japanese and the people who live in Japan . We watch as the impending doom affects the lives of several regular Japanese , and we watch as the troops in the bunkers prepare to send their missiles . Its sad its maudlin and its very dated . Special effects aside the film when dealing with the military looks all wrong , the fake superpowers are distracting . The fact that both superpowers speak in often oddly accented English distracts from the film , as does the fact that what they say is basically stilted discussion of the wisdom of war . I can imagine that this film once rocked peoples world , in particular in the full 110 minute version , but now it remains as a talky , dated film about the end of the world . I'm not certain its worth seeing because it is so soapy and stilted , whoever it is important in that this film very graphically shows what will be left after the bombs drop , nothing , nothing but black ruins and dead bodies . As a film , as a warning . PS - If you want to see the bombs drop its about 100 minutes in
Girl in a cowboy hat , knee boots bikini and a feathered boa who is armed with two samurai swords tries to reverse a plague of zombies . Over the top action film is better than the similar films I've seen - the Swimteam VS the Undead one for example , but it some how has limited spark and zest with most of the effects seeming to be CGI . The film kind of works but the cliché plot of an evil corporation being behind it all adds to the been there and done this flavor . Granted it does go beyond the idea of a girl in a bikini with a sword killing zombies , but it doesn't go far enough to make it a truly great ride . Worth a look if you like this sort of thing . . . . others stay away .
Soviet produced look at the trials that followed the fall of Germany . Deadly serious , this film is almost too somber to be taken with a straight face since the narration often comes across as rather preachy and purple . Its pure propaganda in the " we were right to try these people " sort of way and is clearly biased against the defendants who had just set Europe aflame . The take is rather odd and unlike any thing that I've run across in American or in Western European films on the same subject . It seems to be trying to over explain why the leaders of Germany were tried , which in retrospect is painfully obvious . Its clear from the lean toward the Soviet take of events and of its lingering on the speeches by the Soviet prosecutors who was behind the film . Its not bad but the heavy handedness of the presentation becomes wearing after a while . If you keep in mind when the film was made its an intriguing look at how the events were viewed during their own historical period . However its probably too long at an hour , with its ponderous preaching taking away from any value the film might have had .
Its big . . . Its opulent . . . Its high camp . I found this version of the classic story of the Phantom of the Opera to be very silly . Big and beautiful and so over done that I came very close to laughing at it . Don't get me wrong its not bad , its just so over blown , over the top , over done that its very hard to take it seriously . Many people I know who saw it loved it , I just can't get past the silliness of it all . Should you see it ? Oh yes , simply because they don't make movies that look like this any more , if they ever really did . Will you like it ? Hey , thats up to you . If you hate the stage musical stay away . Beyond that you're on your own .
Movie based on a video game series . Here Agent 47 , a hit man for a secret organization finds that a change in a hit has left him a target . Wanting to know why , and how his target is still alive he begins to search for answers while Interpol and the Russian police pursue him . The action sequences are good but the rest of the film never really works . there is a lack of intensity and almost no suspense as 47 chases after his answers and is chased himself . It doesn't help that the plot is pure cliché from top to bottom and other then the Russian setting you've seen this all before . It also doesn't help that there is a lack of caring in the direction that makes what we are watching outside of the action scenes bland . Its a disappointing film . Its not bad , and it is worth a look , though I'd really wait for cable , but this should have been better . This should have been a neat little film instead of a bland retread . 5 .
This film is essentially 11 questions answered by various people who refuse ( rightly ) to accept all of the Bush Administrations pat answers concerning what happened on . The film takes questions like " Could this have been foreseen ? " , " Did the Government have any clue this was due to occur ? " and " Are there connections to the Government to the terrorists ? " and answers them in bite sized pieces . The answers aren't too detailed but enough is revealed to want you to know more ( especially when some of them are frightening , like the fact the multiple plane hijack had been done 31 years earlier to the day and ended up with the planes being blown up in Jordan ) . From a place to start investigating this is a good film since it lays out a number of key issues quickly . If however you want more meat this film is lacking since many of the questions and answers could use more than the cursory explanation . ( The recent DVD release adds some extended interview footage and a condensed panel discussion which are interesting but not as detailed as they could have been ) . Over all worth renting or catching on TV ( if anyone is bold enough to play it ) but not worth purchasing .
Geoffrey Wright , who did Romper Stomper and brought Russell Crowe to the attention of the world , brings Shakespeare's Scottish play up to date by setting it in the under world of Melbourne ( or is it Sydney ? ) . the speeches are there and so is the flashy trash of Silk Stalkings or one of the other cable ( before cable was cool ) series that surfaced in the wake of Miami Vice . Its an odd mix of guns and iambic pentameter , which works as well as that description . Not " bad " as such , the mix just doesn't work and the result is more grating then ingratiating . Part of the problem is the need to fit the plot into a new surroundings while retaining the language . the result is some odd sequences with no dialog and music that are suppose to get things across the dialog really can't because it doesn't pertain to now . The longish opening sequence before Macbeth meets the witches ( Goth School girls in Catholic School Girl Uniforms ) sets up the scenario which is changed from battling lords to battling crime families . This leads into the awkward meeting in an empty disco where Macbeth is holding a hostage . Turning on the lights and fog machine - for no real reason , Macbeth finds the girls coming out of the fog . My interest began to wane almost immediately and the scene where Macbeth's friend tells the drug lord of Macbeth's heroics kind of sealed the deal and I stopped watching and instead began to listen rather than watch ( or were the scenes reversed , I don't know I don't care ) . despite its awards down under the film just doesn't really work especially when the idea isn't a new one with earlier films like Joe Macbeth and Men of Respect floating around . If you must see it it wait for cable .
First Jacques Tati feature film . The film concerns a festival in a small town and the colorful postman ( Tati ) who serves it . Originally shot in both color and black and white , with the black and white to be used if something happened to the untried color film . As fate would have it the film remained only viewable in black and white until recently because no lab would attempt to process the color film stock . Recently the color negative was processed and edited together by Tati's daughter . The result is a film that looks like a slightly faded color postcard from days gone by . I mention this because the film feel like an old snap shot of days gone by . The film is an okay film . Its funny and charming and very rough around the edges as befits a first feature . Its not a terrible film by an means but its not a great film . The film at times in fits and starts and there often seems to be long build ups to jokes that misfire , while some seeming throw away gags bring big laughs . Its a problem that plagued several of Tati's other films to a lesser extent , but here seems a bit more rampant because there doesn't seem to be the same rigid control Tati had in the Hulot comedies . Speaking of the Hulot films this film appears to have been raided if not for gags but for a certain visual style . I think every later film save Play Time has echoes in this one . I like this film , but I don't love it . Its not a film that I'm going to be putting on again any time soon . Yes I will watch it again , particularly once the memory of my recent marathon viewing of the Huolt films fades . If you're a Tati fan I'd give it a try . If you've never seen a Tati film you could try it but be warned better films followed this one .
Five people stay over night in Hanley House , a supposed Haunted Mansion that has been left sitting unoccupied since the Hanley's abruptly up and left years before , leaving all of their things behind . Good little horror film that was the sort of thing to play on the bottom of a drive-in multiple feature this is a movie that seems to have been about five to ten years out of date from when it was released-Its black and white and low on gore and monsters meaning it had nothing on the films that say Roger Corman was turning out , nor does it have the shock value of Night of the Living Dead . Clearly made on the cheap the film still manages to create some tension with its use of shadows and dry ice . The cast is game if uneven and all over the place . Its worth a look if you're in the mood for a retro-drive in night or want something more akin to the Haunting then something more graphic .
You either accept this movie as it is or you don't . This is a very silly movie about a group of brothers who form a soccer team and find self respect in doing so . Its basically a kung fu movie done as a soccer film . As I said , its very silly , for example the villain's soccer team is called Team Evil . The film is knowing and cute and sweet and funny . . . . . . and I didn't care for it . Don't get me wrong , I laughed and I smiled and I thought it was way too long and occasionally over done . Perhaps this plays better in the " short version " that Miramax was going to release in the US which was to be about 20 minutes shorter then its original , and apparently now restored running time . To me its an hour long story , not two . What boggles my mind is that the film is going to get any sort of real release here . Granted the release date has been changed several times , which has caused the director and star to be on TV shows promoting a film that was now months away . But I can't help but wonder if someone really likes the film or if they think the combo of soccer and kung fu is going to play well in Peoria or at least to Peroria's help . Frankly its not that good and no better than any of several dozen comedies that Hong Kong film makers have produced over the years . Then again I know this has been a big hit on the festival circuit and I've been reading about it for a while in articles by people who really like it , so what the hell do I know ? If you like silly try it . Who knows it may strike you as something wonderful , as for me I'm simply going to remain puzzled . No I'm going to watch Bend it Like Beckham again .
Richard Gere stars in the story of Clifford Irving and his attempt to sell the the Howard Hughes autobiography . This humorous telling of the tale either will work for you or it won't for me it just sort of missed . The problem for me was that the same story was told with the actual people in Orson Welles great film F is for Fake . Having that film in may head made the often silly presentation here , difficult to take . Its not bad but it not really believable as Marcia Gay Harden's accent make abundantly clear . Its dress up time more than anything else . If you can get past the artificial nature of the presentation then you're going to have a good time .
Willem Dafoe is a troubled detective who is now teaching at the police academy . Years earlier he helped solve a series of murders that were laid out like works of art . . . especially when seen from a specific location . When a frisky couple knock into a door in their building they unknowingly step into a crime scene that once again has echoes to the earlier case . Dafoe is called in to take a look and it soon becomes clear that the killer is intent on bringing him into his ghoulish works or art . I want to say this is Saw for the art set , but its not quite that . To be certain the murders are gruesome and very clever , but this film aspires to be more than a catalog of death and destruction . For the most part this is a good little thriller about a troubled man searching for a unique killer that he doesn't want to deal with since its opening too many doors he wants to keep closed ( Dafoe's character is an odd duck . Points to the filmmakers for giving us a very odd man for a central character ) . For most of its running time I really enjoyed the film . The problem for me was that the ending didn't really come together . The film ends but it isn't really resolved , which considering how it ends makes sense but left this viewer ( and my dad ) going , thats it ? It was a disappointment . The real question is is the film worth seeing ? Actually yes . The murders are unique and the film keeps Dafoe's character is worth seeing . I don't know if I had paid 11 bucks to see this on the big screen I would have been so forgiving , but on IFC in Theaters on cable it was worth the time . ( because of the flat ending )
I'm at a loss here to be objective about this movie set in a persons mind simply because as good as it is , I can't get past reality . It begins on a railway platform with commuters waiting to go to work on Valentines Day 2004 , which would be nice , except it was a Saturday . While due to circumstances of the plot this could be okay , the problem is that the rest of the film was set in " real " places that I know , none of which seemed like the real place . I kept jumping out of the film despite excellent performances , to quibble about the reality of the film . That aside it wasn't a bad movie but more three stars rather than the four that most people are giving it .
Freddy Francis directs another retelling of Donovan's Brain . This is the story of a rich SOB industrialist who is killed , however his brain is saved . As scientists try to study the still living organ the personality of the " dead " man begins to exert itself on those around the brain tank . Good , with expressive black and white photography , this too is a bit unremarkable and slightly dull , which is odd considering Francis ' films tend to have a bit more life in them , even when they are poor . Interesting to see Bernard Lee ( M from the early Bonds ) in a different sort of role . Not bad but not really the gripping drama I wanted at 2am to keep me awake . . . it put me out .
Superman is back . Its been almost 20 years in the real world , but its been five in the movie world . He's been off to find krypton and now he's returned just as Lex has set his evil plan in motion . Lois is engaged and has a son and . . . Long and predictable this film can be an endurance test . Its not a bad movie but for me this film was mostly a series of been there done that moments occasional with an scene of something new . I don't know if its because the film borrows so much from before or because the trailer pretty much laid out the whole movie , either way I was way ahead of everyone by the time all of the major players had been laid out . Which is bad when the movie runs two and a half hours . This movie just goes on and on and on talking over an hour and a half to set up everything . I just wanted them to get on with it because what was going on was not as clever as they thought it was . Worse still is the never ending commentary track of plot related questions that played in my head : Why does only five years pass while superman is gone when Jor-el and Einstein mention that the equivalent of thousands of years will pass ? Why did Superman have to wait for our astronomers to find the remains of Krypton when Jor-el's crystals should have known where the planet and its solar system once was-after all it came from there . Why does Lex keep trying the same ploy from movie to movie when it never works ? Why does lex employ morons ? Why , why why , why . . . almost every move made me question the choice that was made . I finally gave up , not only wasn't the movie going to answer me , but also there was no way to change it . This isn't to say there aren't good things : Lex taking on Superman on the Kryptonian island is great ; Superman saving Metropolis from the effects of said island is great ; Superman in flight is often great ; after Superman saves the plane asking everyone - and just Lois - if they are okay is one of the best moments in a Superman movie . The movie gets it right in small moments but blows the larger picture . Unless I had seen this as an IMAX 3D movie I would have been better off seeing it home on my home theater system . Its not bad its just not super .
Boris Karloff stars in a strange stage based mystery set on a military base that has to do with the death of a weapons researcher . The film is set in motion when a bunch of soldiers on leave pile into a boat and head back to the island base . One of the men is smuggling his new wife over in the hope of a nice quiet wedding night . In the process of finding a quiet place to consummate the marriage they stumble upon a dead body . The base is locked down and a sleuth is flown in . Weird mix of wedding night comedy ( which really doesn't work ) and fast paced mystery this is a rather schizophrenic film that would have been so much better had the comedy been left behind . The mystery is a dark and troubling tale with a great deal of violence and suspicion . The mystery is played for all its worth and it makes me wonder what the play the film is based on is like . The cast is mostly excellent , only Marie Pratt , as the only woman in the cast , is less than good . The real treat here is Boris Karloff as one of the suspects . He gets a real work out as an actor going through a great deal of emotion . It was always clear that he could do more than horror parts to anyone who really watched his performances , and this is a film that proves the point . Very short , it runs around 55 minutes , this movie moves like the wind and it never gets boring or too comedic . Absolutely worth a look if you run across it . The mystery is The comedy is ( thankfully its very brief ) over all
This review contains a potential spoiler . Paul Haggis's bloated tale about one man's search for his missing son , a soldier who'd just returned from Iraq . Well acted by Tommy Lee Jones and Susan Sarandon as the soldier's parents this is an occasionally touching film that makes the mistake of trying to be about something more . The film spins out of control and into territory covered by Missing some 25 years ago when the young man is found dead and the army begins to weave its own investigation . Haggis has an agenda unfortunately it makes for a confused story since the whole cover up , " what really happened " and why plot line gets in the way of the lovely and heart breaking tale of parents dealing with the death of their son . Sarandon's quiet internal destruction upon seeing her son's remains will haunt you . Regrettably the emotion in those scenes are drained as we loop around in yet another government is bad and is only out to protect its own ass at the cost of the truth tale . It doesn't ring true , even if it is , and the denouncements of the end seem to be contrived . I'm disappointed . Honestly better than I thought it would be , but not as good as it should have been . Worth a look on DVD or cable .
This is the story of a girl who ends up trapped in a London subway station after hours , and who , as a result ends up coming face to face with a " creep " living in the tunnels and disused subway stations . I had read about this film awhile back and heard that it was pretty good . I stumbled upon it at a local video store and gave it a try . I was both pleasantly surprised and very disappointed . SPOILERS AHEAD . I was pleasantly surprised because this is a well made , good looking thriller . In away its a form of the mad slasher lurking in the woods by the summer camp films , but it has a greater degree of skill behind the scenes . There is also hints of a great deal more going on than just an inbred psycho running amok . I also liked that the film has some really horrifying scenes , such as the Creep performing an operation ( he performs all of the stereotypical actions we've seen in movies , but not with the same results . ) I also loved that there are some characters you really care about . The people , for the most part , are not just fodder for the killing machine . I'm disappointed in the film because there are HUGE gaps of logic that work against believing the film . SPOILER WARNING : A mystery train shows up at one point , which I can accept , but not with a dead driver ; a security man is killed in his office , how could he not be missed ? ; blood trails and bodies are left all about , how could anyone not notice ? Actually thats the real problem , how could this guy behave like this and not be noticed earlier ? London after all has a reasonably well monitored subway and I can't believe the madness in the stations wouldn't have been witnessed on the screens somewhere . Clearly what happens during the film would not be his normal behavior . END SPOILERS . In watching the extras on the DVD it became clear to me that the writer / director isn't a very good writer . Certainly he can direct a chilling film , but I have to question his ability to write one . Listening to his comments , it seemed to me that he can put sequences together that work onto themselves , but that don't work in the narrative whole . This film is flawed because there story doesn't really flow from piece to piece . Still you can't take away from the fact there this does raise goosebumps a couple of times because it is so well made . Ultimately this is a good film , but not a great one . The more forgiving you are the better it is . If you like horror films I'd give it a shot , but as with many of these things your mileage may vary .
Conrad Veidt plays Gil De Berault , a duelist and rogue who occasionally helps Cardinal Richelieu ( Raymond Massey ) . Needing to have an opponent to the crown found and killed , Richelieu sends De Berault on a mission . However De Berault finds romance with his enemies sister and must find away to keep everyone , especially himself , alive . Veidt makes an odd swashbuckling hero . To be honest he may have been a bit too long in the tooth , but he still manages to give a good performance as man who knows his way around a sticky situation . His witty delivery and occasional bits of daring do make up for any short comings his age may have inferred . While far from perfect it is the sort of thing thats perfect at 1am when you can't sleep , though odds are you'll be like me and end up really past your bad time waiting for the no always certain conclusion .
Troubled science fiction dystopia tale shows signs of the greatness that once attracted the cast and crew to it but also shows signs of being tinkered with the the edge of utter failure . As it stands now ( in the US version ) its an okay tale in need of further explanations and clarifications . Vin Diesel is a soldier of fortune who is hired by a Russian money man and fixer to take a young woman ( and her surrogate mother played by Michelle Yoeh ) from a monastery in one of the Russian Republics to New York in 6 days . Much of the world is in chaos and the borders are well protected and getting through the check points isn't easy . Complicating matters is a squad of men shadowing the trio who are looking to take custody of the young woman for themselves . Despite what you may have heard this film is not a complete mess . In some ways it is , but there is a core that works . Nor is it a rehash of Children of Men . ( but the comparison is partly possible but not justified ) . The US version runs some 15 minutes shorter than the International one and frankly its clear they left something out somewhere . After a really good set up ( the scene where the armed men , whom Diesel knows , break into his home is great ) the film becomes lost in reasoning . Yes I can follow whats happening , but why are we in these places ? I don't know nothing is explained as its happening , only in retrospect does any of it make sense . We see diesel lay out his trip on a map but it doesn't mean anything since we're not from the future world . Equally unexplained is the reasons behind what we're seeing . Ideally we should be like Diesel and not know anything , but we see little flashes to a religious order that implies much more than we are ever told while traveling to New York . Once we get to New York things are explained , but again I got a sense of studio tempering as we are told things that don't mean anything since we don't have a enough facts about this world for it to make sense ; in other words they don't explain the religious order that the girl belongs to until the end . The problems with the film is not that what they are telling us is silly , its that they are just not telling us anything at all . To be honest I'm reasonably certain that somewhere in the original script this all made sense , but either they didn't film or more likely they cut the life out of the film and turned it into what it is . ( Why do I think this was cut up by someone who was too close to the material and who knew what the film was suppose to be and then cut it down on the assumption that what he knew from seeing the full film would work in the shorter version ) I suspect that the film could be a really good film in a longer more coherent form . I'm hoping that when this hits DVD in the US we at the very least get the longer International cut . I would love to think that they'll let the film be re-cut to the way it should have been , but I'm not going to hold my breath . As it stands now , assuming you can forgive its numerous flaws , its a good ( barely ) little science fiction actioner that has signs and scenes of greatness . Worth a look on DVD or cable . I don't think a trip to the theater is in order . And yes , I will pick up the DVD if they give us a directors cut .
Abused clerk with a doll fetish tries to cope with memories of his abusive father develops a weird fascination for drinking the blood from corpses before amping it up toward murder . Disturbing , but in many ways not very good little horror film that is more than likely going to curl your toes . As with many of these films its the acts that disturb but not the whole package , since our " hero " is too crazy and too much of a milk toast to amount to much . And give it points for a non sensational , realistic ending . Worth a look only for horror fans .
Odd mish mash of a movie about Santa's brother Fred . When Fred needs money his brother offers him the cash if he'll come to the North Pole and work for it . Fred arrives just as Kevin Spacey as an efficiency expert arrives to see if Santa can stay in business . An odd mix of low brow humor and clever bits that never quite comes together . There is a good movie rattling in there that occasionally shows its head , more toward the second half when the film finally finds a direction . There is much to like , in particular the depiction of sibling rivalry ( the sibling anonymous meeting is hysterical ) and the sense of family . A misfire to be certain , but a misfire that will be very welcome on cable , especially when you get to the good parts . ( I want so much to tell you about the good jokes but I won't since I don't want to spoil them ) for the bits that work .
Boxing promoter in the underground fight game runs across a young woman with the power and ability to take out men twice her size . Hooking up they begin to make inroads into the fight game until the past and emotions begin to spin everything sideways . This fight drama is an okay little film . Its flashy low budget and independent attempts to spice things up ( there are distracting titles as to places and times-how many times is it New Years Eve ? ) never really amount to very much . This is a run of the mill little film who ? s dreams out distance its reach . Normally I ? d stop there and say that its worth seeing if you run across it but you didn't have to search it out . This time however I'm going to do something different and say that if you want to see a really good performance and what is sure to be an early performance by someone who is sure to be a big actress see this film . Rebecca Neuenswander who plays Katherine Parker , the fighter , is amazing . She gives a performance that is assured and radiant ( even when she ? s getting punched in the face ) . She is haunting in away that few actresses are . In all honesty I was ready to give up on this film early on but then there was this small young girl beating the snot out of this much bigger guy in an alley and I was hooked . Talk about making an entrance . Amazing . She has a fantastic screen presence something very few actresses , even established ones have . If she is can continue to get interesting roles and hopefully something that will get her noticed I think she ? ll be huge . Then again if she can be arresting with this mediocre script odds are she ? ll be able to make her own luck . She is an actress to watch . See this for Rebecca so that in five years you can say you saw her when . . .
Man who is the latest husband of a much married woman has to make do when she invites all her previous husbands , their new wives and families , plus some friends , all for Christmas . Things get complicated when his wife announces that she's pregnant . . . something that the husband makes him suspect that he isn't the father because he's had a vasectomy . Weird comedy drama from Sweden that made me unsure of what I was watching . Was I suppose to laugh ? Was it suppose to be more serious then it is ? The uncertainty was a little off putting . Its good but . . . I don't know . Maybe seeing this just before the end of summer or seeing it after three other fair films . . . or seeing it on an import Chinese VCD with English subtitles , I don't know , I'm going to try this again if for no other reason the line " Die you f-ing Santa " is too great a line in context ( delivered before Santa gets his butt kicked ) not to force a second viewing of the film that contains it . Maybe closer to Christmas
The sequel to Get Shory has Chili Palmer taking on the music business . Its not as good as the first film , but if taken on its own is a good time passer . The problem here is two fold . First the film has a running gag about hating sequels , which would be fine if it was just a joke and didn't extend to the film making . Few of the actors in this film seem to be doing more than walking through the film for the cash or as a joke and it shows . The second problem is that there is way way too much going on and way too many people doing it . It seems to me that every time that someone of note shows up the movie has to stop to give them their couple of minutes on screen . Usually the material is decent , but it slows the pace down . I kept wanting to speed things up . That said I did like the film , but regret having paid movie theater prices to do so . This is a rental , not something you pay ten bucks to see . If you get the chance to rent it or see it on cable give it a shot . Just don't expect an equal to Get Shorty .
WWE remakes running man by mixing it with Battle Royal as a bunch of convicts are dumped on an island for fight to the death on pay per view . What could have been good action film flounders under uneven direction , I don't mean the director is bad , I mean the film doesn't know where it wants to go . Is this a story of the people putting the show on or is it the convicts themselves . I don't hate the film I'm just disappointed in it if it had some sort of narrative vision . Yes the action is good but its undercut by the rest of the film . Worth a look when it plays cable or hits netflix .
M . Night Shyamalan's masterpiece of a misfire about the end of the world . The plot of the film has a sudden rash of suicides on a colossal scale spiraling outward from New York's Central Park . People freeze for a moment and then when they begin to move again do themselves in . In Philadelphia a school teacher and his wife decide to flee into the country with friends , but the danger is following them . What can I say I'm both floored and angered by this film . The premise and the scenes of ( self ) destruction are some of the most terrifying and unnerving scenes put on film . Shyamalan wins back a great deal of the points I held against him with some of the best horror scenes of the year . Its creepy . Even the neatness with which some people kill themselves is unpleasant . Many of the scenes are some of the best of the year . However before you run out to see this let me add a huge BUT the central characters , aided and abetted by Mark Wahlberg and Zooey Deschanel who play them , sink this film . Actually pretty much most of the " character " and non event scenes are really weak , its as if they were cut in from another movie completely . Some have complained its the performances that sink the film , I would argue that the writing does more damage then the poor performances . Its just that this is not a film for the sort of characters shown to us to inhabit its space . This is a film that should have had no stars and should have been almost documentary like in the telling . The conventions of typical character driven cinema don't work with a story like this . If we had somehow been allowed to remain thrust into things with out an attempt at making people we can follow in a nuclear family sort of way this would have worked so much better . Do we really need to know about what may or may not have happened at Deschanel and Wahlberg's wedding ? not really . This could have been a nice companion piece to last years The Mist , but its not . The reason we need a non-conventional means of telling the story is that once we know whats happening , nothing is really done with it . ( If nothing else you need a non-conventional story telling because the thing-the monster - is invisible or nothing ) There's this run up to the end of the world but by putting a conventional couple into it you realize that its only clever to a point and that it really doesn't go anywhere once its all set up . Its like having someone telling you the start of a great adventure story-that hooks you with a great set up only to the storyteller wander off with out taking it any farther - leaving you to go what happens next ? Better than the last couple of films made by M . Night Shyamalan , but not one I would say to run out to see in theaters . Worth a look on DVD or cable . Best way I can describe it - when it works its a nice companion piece to Shyamalan's Signs ( or the parts that worked before the illogic took over ) 5 ish out of 10 for the creepy parts
After the head of a Buddha is stolen , Ting , a young " warrior " from the village , heads to Bangkok to get it back . There he seeks the help of an old friend and is forced to fight various bad guys . The selling point of this film is the action . The hype says that its all pretty much real . I'm guessing with the fight scenes thats true , but with some of the motorized chases its not . Don't let anyone tell you other wise the fights in this film are spectacular , but are they the next big thing as one review called them ? I think not , if for no other reason that very few people would allow themselves to be beaten up like this . They also suffer from repeating a truly spectacular bit of acrobatics one or twice from various angles , its nice at first but then it gets boring , although it is a nice way to pick up with a different shot . The real trouble with the film is that outside of the fights there isn't much going on . The plot is one you've scene many times before . Its more an excuse to put our heroes int places and situations from which a fight will go . The non-fight scenes are a bit haphazard , , as if a different director had been assigned to direct and edit them because they didn't matter . The performances are as uneven as the rest of the film although Dirty Balls would make a great sidekick in Western films if someone would bring him over . This is a renter , not a trip to the theater but that said , you will enjoy it , although not as much as some people feel you will . ( Look fast for the invitation to Steven Spielberg to do lunch )
The Cartoon Network series goes to the big screen-or in this case the DVD . Its a strange rambling tale about the groups origins and he quest to stop the Insano-flex exercise machine from destroying the world . Rambling wildly from thing to thing in a logic that can only be described as ADD inspired , this is actually a funny movie . Yes , I who can't watch the the TV show for more than five minutes , has found this foul mouthed expansion of the series quite funny and clever . To be certain its not for all tastes since its the sort of thing that makes off beat seem common place , but for those with a slightly skewed sense of humor this movie is a funny romp . I don't know what else to say beyond that . If you have any interest in the series give this a try , its so scattershot odds are you'll find something to laugh at .
The tale of three cows going to save the farm is a pleasant way to spend 75 minutes . Although far from the best of Disney's animated features , its equally far from the worst . Its very funny , especially if you get all in jokes and spoofs that it contains . The music is very good , but won't win any awards . The voice acting isn't stand out , but its nice to have Roseanne actually be funny again . Definitely worth seeing if you have kids since both you and they will laugh and have a good time . My only regret about the film is that twenty minutes after its done you're ready for another movie . That isn't a bad thing except with movie admissions these days I'd like a bit of a filling meal . Three stars , lots of fun for the entire family .
Shintaro Katsu , best known for playing Zatoichi , plays the first Chinese Emperor , Qin . This is essentially the story of Qin from the founding of " China " by his unifying the various provinces , through the building of the great wall on to close to his death . Its a huge epic production thats been compared to western films like Ten Commandments , Lawrence of Arabia , and Ben Hur . This a film on a scale that they simply don't do any more . As a epic films go this is one of the most beautiful . Its amazing to look at . The sense of scale and place has been rarely matched . The battle scenes are wonderful and on a scale that few films have ever matched . This is a movie where every person on the screen is a person and you can feel the realness . As an epic spectacle this film is one of the best . Unfortunately when the spectacle subsides the plot takes over and while its not bad it is rather talky and soapy . Its not bad , but it seems out of place in an epic like this and somehow makes the characters less then the epic size the need to be to inhabit this story . It makes what should have been one of the great films of the world , simply one of the best looking run of the mill ones . If you can secure yourself a copy do make an effort to see this ( on a big screen , TV or theater , its a must . ) ( FYI - The full running time of this film is 161 minutes )
6 beautiful women end up in a house by the country where they are help captive by a crazy person who has strict rules they must follow . Odd , occasionally , disturbing horror film from Argentina . Its a film that works because it plays with the rules of horror films in such away that at times you don't know what to feel or expect . Scenes play out in a WTF manner , seemingly brought in from another film , only to turn left suddenly and have a shocking resolution . I'm not sure if I like it or not but it kind of got under my skin in a way that will have me recommending it to friends who like atypical horror films . between 6 and , maybe higher
How do you rate this movie correctly ? I don't know if its possible since this is not really a real movie so much as anti-communist anti-atheist propaganda of a most extreme nature . Basil Rathbone is one of two " few " survivors . He is lecturing to Mary Murphy about the history and evils of communism . Set in an nether world where Rathbone stands at a lectern upon which a large book rests he talks and shows ( in some really grizzly documentary footage ) all of the terrible things that the commies have done . He says he is preparing her for what is to come , so that she can keep her eyes open and not break down . They discuss the godless communist threat and speak of her role as mother and Saviour . Allegory ? Science fiction ? Psycho drama ( in both senses of the term ) ? Your guess is as good as mine . Clearly this film's time has come and gone since the communist " threat " as been replaced by other " threats " in our world . This film is also extremely sexist with the role of the woman reduced to that of breeder and mother . The film makes clear that the role of the woman is to raise kids and suffer as a result ( amazingly the film also acknowledges that she can do more but that society and " god " demands that she do only that ) Watching it now is a rather quaint experience . We really thought like this back in the 1960's , and for good reason , we really were on the brink of nuclear war thanks to things like the Cuban Missile Crisis . The urgency bleeds off the screen . Its not really possible to watch this movie as anything other than a historical document . Its not a narrative movie its a documentary with some very pointed commentary and political orientation . You can't watch this for entertainment like you would a comedy or drama , you have to look at it in terms of history and nostalgia . The performances of both Rathbone and Murphy are suitably intense for this sort of film . Rathbone is a scary authority figure while Murphy is a warm and loving woman , perfectly modulated for getting the point across . I liked it for what it is , anti-communist anti-atheist propaganda from a time now gone . If you watch it with that in mind you'll probably enjoy the experience . However if you watch it expecting a real movie with a plot instead of a political and social argument then you'll be bored silly . for the nostalgia factor .
Screwball comedy directed by Norman Z McLeod the man behind several Marx Brothers and WC Fields films is pure silliness . The plot has a family of semi-crazies taking on a man they think is a hobo to be their chauffeur . He is actually a writer of some renowned . As he navigates the waters of the familial home romance and madness blossom . I stumbled upon this on Turner Classic Movies and was amused from the very start . Very much akin to My Man Godfrey this film takes things into territory that one would expect from the under appreciated McLeod who always managed to produce a unique form of madness akin to the Warner Brother Cartoons . There are some wonderful set pieces such as the much too late arrivals of everyone in the family , each not wanting to wake the rest of the house , or the fainting at the end both of which produce genuine laughter . Its a pleasure to be hold . I love that the film is populated with a bunch of great characters that you care about and stick with you after the movie ends . This is a wonderful and unsung and seemingly rarely seen movie . If I have any complaints its perhaps that the film has too many things going on at once . This is a film that easily could have gone for twice its length and not felt forced ( a rarity with comedies ) . This is a movie to keep an eye out for . Turner Classic movies would be well served to get this into the rotation more frequently or better yet to simply get it out on DVD so everyone can enjoy it .
In these " enlightened times " I'm hard pressed to know if one should admit to having seen this movie , but considering that its actually a pretty good erotic sleaze film , I'll happily say I saw it . The plot is told mostly in flashback . It begins with a young girl seeing her mom have ( simulated ) sex with a dog . Dad comes home drags mom and the girl away and then sets fire to the house with the dog inside . The film then jumps forward as we watch a man waiting for something . The story then flashes back as we see the man and his wife arrive at an island full of party people . Periodically the man and woman catch sight of a young woman with a dog . The woman looks like a younger version of the woman at the start . I'll leave it for adventurous film goers to unravel what happens next , though I will say while its often sexy it all ends badly . Despite this film being in Italian , a language I don't speak , I rather enjoyed this movie . Sure its sleazy but at the same time it seems to be a well done drama with an " off-beat " edge . I had no problems following the plot . I liked that after the opening you were very much of balance wondering what sort of madness was going to show up . Granted its a cheap trick but it did help to keep things properly tense . Obviously this is NOT for all tastes . I think most people will have shut it off during the opening credits . If you can get past them and don't mind sleazy sexy drama I think you'll enjoy this , on some level , if you're open to it . . . . . . Just don't look for an English version of this film . I can't imagine anyone being bold enough to attempt to release this in either England or the US , its opening is just a bit too much for most people .
Dirty Harry like cop investigates the murder of a fellow cop and beats up and kills a good number of bad guys in the process . Violent police drama keeps your attention focused thanks to an almost constant stream of beatings and shootings . Not the best film and certainly far from the worst , this is just a good solid action film for a rainy Sunday without the kids . The best thing is this is a regular in bargain bins for around a buck which , as entertainment goes is quite a bargain for a film as good as this . Go get some popcorn and some sodas .
The plot is a simple one . On an alien world an alien invasion force comes and tries to take over . The aliens are humans who need to terraform the planet for it to be of any use to us . One alien with an incredible ability to build things ends up rescuing a downed human pilot and a bond is begrudgingly formed , that is threatened by an evil earth general . You know the drill . Its a well worn tale that plays okay in 2D . In 3D its another matter . There really is a difference between 3D and 2D with Battle for Terra . The difference between the two ways of viewing the film is vast , greater than with any other 3D film I've seen and there have been a lot . For the first time here is a 3D film who's use of depth has a purpose-it puts you into a world you could never go to . Yes I know I said there is a difference between the 3D and 2D of a good number of films - Beowulf for example , since the 3D in Beowulf made the film a thrill ride . It didn't enhance what was and is a really horrible story . Here the film gets better , yes it makes things better because it gives weight to the events . The characters suddenly become realer . There are no items popping out at you but the film doesn't need it , its not that sort of film . This is a film that puts you into its world . One of the most amazing things in the film is the climatic battle which knocked my socks off in 3D . You've seen space battles in any number of films including the star wars films but here it is in 3D . Amazing . ( George Lucas is rejiggering the Star Wars films in 3D but I doubt the battles will improve them enough to make them any more gee whiz than this films battles ) The writing is not a well worn as the basic plot . Other than Brian Cox's villain things are not entirely clear cut as to characters . People change and shift . The plot also deals with some dark ideas . Frankly there are a couple of twists that I was shocked that the filmmakers had the guts to include in " a children's film " . Its not a children's film . There is death and destruction and I am glad that the film doesn't shy away from it . Actually one of the plot points is the devastation of war . There is some adult writing here and assumption that the audience isn't stupid which is a welcome relief . If you can see the film in 3D I highly recommend you do so . Its a very different case then seeing it flat . Flat this is just another space opera , in 3D its an affecting tale of alien species colliding . Its a trip to a place you've never been . in 3D Around 5 or 6ish out of 10 in 2
A good but unremarkable story of the Lafayette Escadrille in World War One . This is the story of a bunch of men who volunteered to fly for the French prior to the American entry into the war . Its the usual cross section of guys , most on the run from something who learn to come together in the skies of France . What can I say I liked it . Its not anything remotely like brain surgery , just the story of some guys living and dying during war time . The performances are fine and the action is exciting , though I'm really getting tired of everything being done by computers . I know its cheaper but I never really accepted that anyone was really flying because I knew that it was all make believe , spectacular make believe , but make believe none the less . If the film has any real flaw is that its a bit too long for what it is . Running close to two and a half hours this movie could easily be trimmed down . Length or no , this is a good movie for a slow Sunday afternoon . It probably won't win any awards but it will keep you entertained . ( There have been some complaints that the film lifts sequences from Howard Hughes Hell's Angels . I think it probably does , but I don't think that its fair to complain about it since George Lucas did the exact same thing in his Star Wars films and no one said a word )
This is essentially an updated Abbott and Costello film for 1969 with Rowan and Martin standing in for Bud and Lou . The plot has the boys wandering around a " haunted " house looking for hidden jewels while trying to remain alive and avoid " werewolves " and " vampires " . Its a weird mix of comedy horror and mystery put together in a psychedelic blender . Its very much of the time , and of Laugh-In with the brand of humor that was a huge hit on TV interlaced into a murder mystery . Forgive me I have no idea how to explain this movie except that its a bunch of very good actors being very silly , I mean where else can you see Fritz Weaver channeling Bela Lugosi for giggles ? The humor is uneven , with some of the jokes dating badly to the point that unless you lived in 1969 you won't get the joke . Its an odd film . I don't know if I can really recommend it , though if you like Laugh-In you stand a good shot at enjoying this 90 minute fluff ball . ( though I do have to point out I grew to dislike Dan Rowan's character a great deal since he was much too mean spirited and sleazy for my tastes )
Steve McQueen's film of the events around the hunger strike that took the life of Bobby Sands and others . Well made and harrowing this is a film I admired more than I liked . A film you have to watch , most of the film seems to be visual , you watch the characters in their cell , with friends who visit , being beaten by the guards , sitting and talking and finally starving to death . Its all well and good to hear about being on a hunger strike or protesting in prison , but its another thing to see it . You are there in long sequences , often static shots , you are put into the prison with the men who wanted a little human dignity . And yet I never really connected with anyone . Certainly there is the long central section , essentially a single take of two people talking that puts a great deal in perspective . But outside of that I never really felt for anyone , on either side . The documentary like approach keeps us distanced . Yes the close up of Sands ' body drives home how uneasy death by starvation is , and I felt for as I would any human being , but at the same time I never felt the movie explained why he mattered and what he did mattered . I know of course why from having watched the events unfold on the TV news night after night , but I didn't leave with any greater understanding beyond that which I had going in . Its that final connection that prevented me from saying this very good and very troubling film was a great film . Perhaps seeing this on TV , I saw it as part of the IFC in Theaters cable service , diminished its power , perhaps not . Reservations aside , I do recommend it for those wanting to see what it was like .
The title is the sound that one of the characters makes as he drives his imaginary trolley across the garbage dump where the characters live . The film is based on a series of stories by Shugoro Yamamoto and tells the story of a group of people who effectively live in ramshackle homes on the edge of the dump . It's a mix of laughter and sadness . First color film made by Akria Kurasowa has been something I've wanted to see for a long time . Weirdly it was often listed as being only available in a shortened version from a three or four hour original due to an error in the run time in some promotional material . I was holding out for the full version , waiting to see what Kurasowa wanted us to see , only to find out on the recent release by Criterion that the 140 minute version is the full version . Finally sitting down to see the film last night I'm of mixed emotions about the film . First and foremost its visually linked to every film that followed . You can see every other of Kurasowals remaining six films reflected in this movie , down to the painted sunsets . Its a striking film in its use of color and you can understand why it took him so long to a film stock he would he happy with ( of course there are failed projects as well ) . The film is a visual work of art . ( Though be warned if you're going to see this on your widescreen TV this was shot 1 . 33 so will appear in normal TV ratio . ) The rest of the film is a mixed bag . Part of the problem is that the lives of all of these people don't quite come together . As separate tales they all work well but as a filmic whole they don't hang as one . I don't blame Kurasowa since one can't always hit things out of the box , especially when some one like Robert Altman who specialized in multi-character films of this sort occasionally bombed himself . This isn't to say that there aren't reasons to see the film . As will all Kurasowa films there are always reasons to see his films , whether they work or not . The first trip of the " trolley " is one of the best things Kurasowa ever did and is worth the price of a rental . Its one of the most magical moments in film history as the trolley is inspected and taken out . The father and son living in the car is touching ( though ultimately very sad ) and there are other bits and pieces that shine ( like the cast which is across the board great ) and one should at least try the film as something different from a man we usually associated with samurai films or crime dramas . Its an intriguing misfire from a master filmmaker which means in this case means its better than most other filmmakers successes . Between 6 and 7 as a whole , much higher in pieces .
I delayed for a long time in watching Dodgeball because I despise Ben Stiller with an unnatural passion . While I think he's fine as a regular actor I find any and all of his attempts at comedic acting unbearable . I have to say that this was a major loss on my part because this is a funny funny movie . This is the typical outcasts against bullies stories but with gyms and dodgeballs . Its great fun and the cast is mostly fine , and Rip Torn standing out as the old salt dodgeball expert . What more can I say , you know the drill . rent the DVD and have a good time .
The title is a reference to the destruction of the remnants of a harvest , like rice husks , by farmers who burn them creating fires on the plains . This is a bleak tale of the destruction of the Japanese soldier . The story is set in the closing days of the Philippines campaign as a soldier with TB who returns from a hospital because since he can walk , they have no room for him . His superior officers don't want him around since he's really too sick to work or fight . Abused by his officer he's sent back to the hospital with orders to either be admitted or kill himself . They still won't take him and he's soon left to wander across the war ravaged landscape trying to find help or a place to stay or even just food . Its a bleak journey with no hope in sight and only death and man's inhumanity to man at every turn . Billed as a harrowing journey into the dark heart of man and war this is also a very funny movie . This isn't to say its not horrifying , it is at times , but its also darkly comic . How could it not be ? Here is a film where madness and insanity run rampant , people are constantly trying to hustle tobacco leaves for food , trying to get even a slightly better pair of shoes , trying to remain a Japanese soldier in the face of absurdity by marching constantly but never getting anywhere and you can't help but laugh . To be sure things go darker as it becomes clear that cannibalism maybe , literally and figuratively , the only way to survive , but at the same time there is something uncomfortably funny about the human comedy . Hailed as a great anti-war film its stark photographic style makes clear the insanity of war even as it dazzles our eye with its beauty . Here we see landscapes full of bodies that include the soldier and the civilian . set amid fields forests and trees that would otherwise be , and to some extent still are , quite beautiful . Its a jarring sensation . What intriguing is that I read that this is based on a novel about the redemptive power of Christianity . The director removed all over the religious references to hope and salvation and instead used it as to show that life stinks , war stinks worse and that there is , ultimately no hope . Intellectually I admire the film , emotionally I don't . Part of it is a strident downbeat score which , for me over accentuates what we are seeing on the screen . Its almost gilding the lily since the imagery is so strong it doesn't really need to have the music force you into feeling one way or another . Is it a great film , thats for you to decide . For certain its unlike any other war film , bloody , horrific and real in ways that big budgeted films claim to be but never are . This is not for those adverse to blood and gore since its here in spades . Definitely worth a look .
This is a good little thriller from the beginnings of sound . The only real problems it has are due to the era it was made , one when music wasn't a standard part of talkies , so the pace can seem a bit slow . The plot concerns a murder during an elaborate game of charades . The bullets fired aren't blanks and as a result no one is playing dead . Of course since the game was taking place during a very fancy party everyone is a suspect . A neat twist is that any of the stereotypical scenes of the detective bringing everyone together are at the beginning of the movie , well before the denouncement . The dialog is witty and the mystery keeps your interest , which is a big plus . I'm reasonably certain that the mystery is played pretty fairly which is nice since many times in movies the murderer comes out of left field . Despite this not listing as available on video , Alpha Video does have it as a double feature with the very short Moonstone , and the pair makes a nice evenings viewing .
Its a pirate porn movie thats actually plays as a decent little movie . Sue me I liked this film . I'm not sure I liked it because its better than most adult films or because its a good movie in its own right . Certainly the fact the film can have 40 minutes of sex removed and have it survive says a great deal ( The full version runs over two hours ) . Better than many soft-core trash films that play late night on cable this is actually a movie I'd want to see again . The plot has something to do with a pirate captain wanting to get a magical Incan scepter that will give him great power to this end he kidnaps a recently married man who holds the key to the hereabouts of the scepter and throws the wife overboard . He is pursued by some pirate hunters who pick up the wife and remain close on the heels of the villains . What can I say the acting is wildly uneven , but the cast is still game . The effects are uneven , but serviceable ( and provide a great homage / spoof with a marvelous riff on the skeleton scene in Jason and the Argonauts ) . The script is actually reasonably good and properly silly ( though with some of the cast anything beyond silly might have been a stretch ) . I'm guessing in mainstream hands this might have been a successful pirate action film . My only real complaint is that all of the main women look about the same , large breasted blonds of similar stature and builds . They all pretty much blend together . Its an odd thing to do when the film tries very hard to be something other than a stereotypical adult film . If you're tired of the typical late night fare you find on many pay cable stations give this film a try . You will laugh with and at the movie , especially if you keep in mind the fact that its source is an adult film .
One of Bruno Mattei's women in Nazi Prison camp sagas . It tells the story of a female doctor plucked from the ranks of prisoners to help with the Nazi experiments . Lurid , Vile and nasty this is 90 odd minutes of women being abused and debased and raped and ( fill in the blank ) Amusing for a while ( watching the technical problems - modern buildings in the background , modern locations , bad acting ) but it becomes drag rather rapidly . Even allowing that many of the horrible experiments alluded to were real , there is no one to root for or care about . Its by the numbers cruelty for a low brow audience . That said its a good example of this the Nazi exploitation genre , and worth a look if you like that sort of thing - However it's not for the easily shocked .
This should have retained the title Sineater since thats more to the point of what the film is about . This is one of those movies that shows signs of being tinkered with , mostly in that chunks of it don't make sense , or a sense that seems to have been cut out . Basically the film has Heath Ledger as a priest going to Rome to investigate the death of the head of his order . Its more complicated than that , and for a good chunk of it , it doesn't make sense , not that it ever fully does . Frankly for good or bad this film is going to stay with me for a long time . Its not what ever it was advertised as , its an occult mystery thats closer to the Club Dumas , the source of the Johnny Depp movie , the 9th Gate , than to a conventional horror film . I like the film . Its very flawed but its interesting enough and raises some good questions about salvation and the church . If you want to try something different , and don't mind that its not perfect , I say try this . ( forgive me there is an urge to wax poetic about bits of it . . . )
I'm trying to figure out what this film is doing in a DVD collection called Tales of Voodoo where its paired with a movie called Scorpion Thunderbolt ( which is about a killer snake-man ) since the two films have nothing in common and this film has nothing to do with voodoo . I've tried to work out the connection , but I'm not sure I'll ever figure it out . I'm just glad it happened since I would not have run across this very good tale of a political prisoner on the run . Jason Miller stars as the prisoner who manages to escape from a prison work detail when an accident on the road gives him a chance to flee . He is pursued and is recaptured , but circumstance again gives him an opportunity for freedom , which he takes , only he still finds himself being chased by one of the dogs . Far from as simple or as simple minded as I've made it out to be this is a good thriller / allegory . Things don't always go the way you expect ( especially if you're like me and were expecting a schlocky exploitation film ) . This is a movie thats both entertaining and enlightening . Certainly worth trying f you're in the mood for something other than typical exploitation fare .
The plot is simple two girls , one with yellow hair and one with orange hair pick up a guy in a club and they end up involved with him . When its revealed that he has a girlfriend he wants to return to things get ugly . I'm of mixed feelings about this movie . Its a beautiful movie with sexy women , a tense story and a great artistic and music sense ( I love the club scenes ) . The problem is that somehow it never comes together enough to be as good as the combination of its parts . Don't get me wrong its good , especially if you like sexy thrillers . I'm just annoyed that in some ways it simply refuses to be more than just an exploitive thriller instead of rising to something else , which it seems capable of doing since it has all of the material there . This isn't a bad thing , since the film as it stands now is a very good thriller , but some how I thought it could be and should be more , though I don't know what it would have taken to make it cross the line into greatness . Reservations aside , I think this is worth a shot especially if you like sexy thrillers . Certainly its infinitely better than most of the American and Euro crap that shows up late on Friday and Saturday nights on stations like Cinemax on their " adult " movie blocks .
Gospel version of the Bishops Wife about an angel who comes down to help a clergyman find direction in a battle between family and the pressures of his job . Denzel as an angel is inspired casting . Actually the cast is uniformly good , I only wish the script hadn't let them down . I supposed the fact that 50 years had passed since the first film required that some changes be made to the script and plot , but did they really have to move in the direction of TV movies ? Its good but things could have been so much better , and I'm not saying that as a fan of the original . Certainly worth seeing but given the choice see the original since it will make you feel good all over for days , this one does the same thing , but only for its running time .
First of three post war Falcon films is very different than the Tom Conway / George Saunders series . Certainly the character is unrelated being named Michael Waring as opposed to Gay or Tom Lawrence . This is an extremely poverty stricken film that looks more like the shot on film TV series from a few years later . Still it manages to score points for being its own little engine of entertainment . The plot has Waring , played by John Calvert as a wise talking , magic doing , detective given 500 dollars by a client to hold on to a key for him . He is to give the key to his attorney when he asks for it . The client it seems has just committed a well publicized murder which he thinks he won't be tried for . Not long after the client is taken into custody Waring begins to be tailed , some one wants the key . Someone also wants his client dead and he somehow murdered in his jail cell . While not the Falcon most of us know , this is a good little mystery . The plot takes a few unexpected turns which coupled with Waring's magic and attitude makes this one to watch despite its cheapness . This is one to find and watch with a big bag of popcorn .
The one enduring image from this film that has haunted me across the years is the weird hunchback assistant to the villain . Its an image that was splashed across horror magazines of my childhood . There was something about the twisted fellow with an eye that drooped to his cheek that made you want to see the movie . I never saw the film as a kid and it wasn't until tonight , well into my adulthood , that I managed to see the film . I can't say I was disappointed . The plot concerns Dr John Pierre who is wrongly thrown in jail . He is redirected to the asylum / prison run by Dr Callistratus so that John Pierre can help Callistratus with his experiments concerning blood . As those outside the prison attempt to free him through legal means Pierre is forced to deal with the strange goings on in the prison , including fending off the sadistic Carl , the hunchbacked assistant of Callistratus . Gothic , and grandly over the top in the way that most of the Hammer films weren't this is a cheesy but fun attempt at copying the Hammer Studios formula . It looks and feels very much like Hammer in it styling and plotting ( Then again Jimmy Sangster of Hammer wrote the script ) . Shot in color , the print I saw was well worn and a bit faded . I wonder how this would have looked at the time of its original release . It must have looked great . I loved the sets which were done in such a way as to give the illusion of space , unfortunately it turned every location into spaces the size of football stadiums ( though in several sequences things were much too cramped ) . The whole thing reminded me of the sort of thing you used to run across at 2am on late night TV with too many commercials . Actually as much as I liked the film I do think it is a bit plodding and probably could have used either trimming or a commercial break or two . Strangely this film is very difficult to see . I'm at a loss as to why this film has fallen through the cracks over the last 40 odd years . Its not a bad movie , though it is a tad creaky and of a style they haven't done since Hammer stopped making movies . Perhaps its simply a matter of falling between the cracks in finding a distributor ( it was not done by a " major producer " ) , or more likely the fact that there is no vampire with wings and fangs as promised in the title . What ever the real reason its a shame because this film is worth a look . If you like Hammer style horror or good but rarely seen films , search this one out and give it a try . Its certainly worth a bag of popcorn on a Saturday night watch movies .
Cabal of armament manufacturers conspire to wreck a peace conference and start a war for profit and personal reasons . Standing in their way is a pair of newspaper reporters who stumble upon the plot when a fellow reporter is killed to prevent him telling all . Very good fast moving thriller that feels some of the German crime films from the lat 1920's merged with British thrillers of the period . Its almost Hitchcockian in many ways and one could easily imagine the great director directing it himself . The plot is slightly science fictiony with radio controlled planes and large machines but they are merely window dressing as hero and heroine try to get to the bottom of the plot . While not quite perfect its is a nice dark little thriller perfect for a rainy night .
Bloodbath ? Yes , yes it is . There is truth in the title it is a bloodbathThis is a fast moving and very violent revenge tale of a man returning to Mexico to get revenge on the drug lord who killed his family . Things get even more complicated when our hero ends up having an affair with the drug lord's wife . If you want action this movie is for you . Its rare that more than five minutes pass with out someone dying ( sometimes its less than that ) . Frankly the film is never really boring because something is always happening . Is it a great film ? No but it is an entertaining one because it never stops moving . Definitely worth a look for those wanting a non stop action film and don't mind a low budget .
Darius , son of of the king of Sparta is thrown into the arena for allowing five gladiators to escape . Fighting and winning a huge victory he is freed . Returning home he finds his father dead , supposedly a suicide , but really murdered by the new King . Rounding up the gladiators he helped escape he fights to get back his throne . This is a good movie . It starts and goes right to the end with no side trips . Even the romance which normally handled badly in most films of this type doesn't intrude , although it isn't really resolved either . Its the perfect rainy day film where everything simply works .
Teenaged superhero angst in a friendly Disney sort of way . . . and whats wrong with that ? Will Stronghold is going off to the first day of high school . Since Mom and dad are the world's greatest superheroes he's off to Sky High for the kids of superheroes . The trouble is he has no powers , a fact he hasn't told dad about . Shunted off to side kick training , something he doesn't tell dad about , Will has to deal with not only the pressures of going to school , but also the problems of being the sidekick son of the world's greatest heroes . I smiled and I laughed as they got the story so wonderfully right . Its goofy and off beat and its aimed at a certain audience , which means it should work for no audience but some how it works . It reminds me of those wonderful superhero stories from the 1960's at DC when things were very serious and not so serious at the same time . We have a bunch of nice kids who sort of get along , a villain from the past out for revenge , giant robots attacking cities , super powers and ago for it attitude . Maybe its a live action Teen Titans with the kids learning the ropes . Yes , the effects are cheesy . . . but how could you expect great effects in a story like this ? It wouldn't work , it would just make the rest of it work less well . It fits the timber of the story , its comic book made movie My only complaint is the pacing gets a tad slow when we come to romance . Sorry to say that the battle between which girl will get Will's affection is the only slow part - but its minor , before long there's some super battles taking place and all is right with the world . And if you have any doubts about the quality of the film consider we have BOTH Bruce Campbell , as Coach Boomer , the man who chooses whether you're a hero or side kick ; and Dave Foley as Mr Boy , one time side kick to Kurt Russell's Commander Stronghold and now teacher for the sidekicks . This is a tough movie to rate . As a movie looked at coldly and rationally its probably a seven or eight . However as a movie that makes you grin and smile and laugh your knowing ass off its easily a nine . I really like this movie emotionally and can't wait for the DVD . ( Note to Disney : please no more , unless you have a really really good script and please no TV series , that will kill the charm instantly )
When North Korea invades the South , two brothers are forcibly drafted into the army . The older of the two , hoping to win a medal and ticket home for his younger brother , begins going on every suicide mission offered . This , however , puts a strain on his relationship with his brother and those in the platoon . Worse the course of the war has several nasty turns waiting for them . . . I'm of two minds about this film . Despite the fact this is a graphic example of both the physical and psychic effects of war , the narrative is more than a bit disjointed . The film is loosely connected snapshots of the course of the war , beginning right before the invasion , then several weeks later before jumping about a month at a time to certain key events . I'm sure that had I better grasp of the history of the war I would have understood the events better . I felt lost and wished there had been more explanation . The lack of a narrative that follows all the way from start to finish hurts the film since we're moved a bit too much from place to place and situation to situationBut the course of the war is not the purpose of the film , rather its the relationship between two brothers . How war changes them and everything in and around them except the love they have for each other . Its a bit hokey but its dead on , just ask anyone who's ever loved their sibling unquestioningly . You understand how one brother would spend 50 years trying to find the other . And then there are the battle scenes which are wonderful and frightening and seem to be the total chaos that war really is . People die horribly and the experience is far from fun . Is the movie worth seeing ? Yes . Its not perfect but its a kick in the pants . .
Ice Cube stars in the inspiring and very well done ( by Fred Durst of Limp Bizkit ? ) of the first girl to quarterback a team in the Pop Warner Championship game . Yes its by the numbers and yes you kind of almost ( though not quite ) know how its going to come out , but at he same time Ice Cube and the rest of the cast sell the cliché and you really don't mind watching . High art ? Hardly , but a good little film that is surprisingly better than the dozen or so similar films from the last couple of years ( and trust me I think I've seen most of them and suffered through the uninspiring lot of them . Worth a look on cable if nothing else .
Simply put one of the most beautiful films I've ever seen . I adore the first three minutes of the film and have just watched them several times now . I adore the music and will have to see if I can run down a CD of it . The plot concerns an old man who lives on a derelict boat in the middle of the sea . He ferries people to and from it so they can fish . Living with him is a young girl who came to the boat when she was seven . The old man intends to marry the young girl when she turns 17 . All is fine until one day a young man the girls age shows up and begins to awaken her curiosity about the outside world . Ultimately more fable than real life this is a very good film . The odd dynamic between the old man and the young girl may upset some people but it flows naturally out of the situation . Its also a film that doesn't play to expectations , so much so that I really will have to sit down and watch the film again , there are a couple of things that happen that seem odd or out of place on first viewing that may not be that way once you reach the end . I'm not sure what I make of it all , however I do know the film still haunts me and on some level colored everything I watched after that .
" 911 showed us what human beings were capable of , certainly the evil , but also the good . . . . " paraphrase of Nicholas Cage toward the end of World Trade Center Oliver Stone puts you into Manhattan on the day the towers fell and shows you the story of a couple of Port Authority Policemen who were trapped in the rubble and what happened to them and their families . Some people love it some people hate it . I really like it . Stone manages to convey what it was like in New York and what it was like for the cops and firemen down at ground zero . These are not macho men but regular guys simply doing what had to be done . Every act of heroism is tinged with " I don't want to be here " which makes it even more touching . The film is essentially split in two , the people at ground zero and the people back home waiting for word . Its an odd split and its the films biggest weakness . I understand that by showing the families Stone makes the story bigger than just some guys trapped , but at the same time the split makes the film remain a Hollywood film instead of something greater . Its not bad , its just that the story down in the rubble does not come across as cliché tinged . Technically this film is amazing . It looks and sounds good . The shots of Manhattan and around ground zero are frighteningly perfect . Yes I know a portion of the film was shot in NYC but much was shot elsewhere . Having wandered around the streets down there I can guess which shot is which street and the sense of it all being real comes not from having seen photos but rather from seeing the real places . The best part of this film is that its about hope and the goodness of people . The world is shaken and people attempt to fix it . As Cage says at the end its showed us what people are capable of . . . this film is a celebration of the good .
First off two questions : 1 . How well do you know Japanese pop culture ? Have you seen Japanese yakuza films ? Godzilla ? Do you know Zatoichi and Lone Wolf and Cub ? How about Ultraman ? Have you watched things like Extreme Elimination on Spike ( which is a Beat Takeshi TV show ) ? Do you know about their attitudes towards sex ? 2 . Are you bothered by base humor that goes for the lowest common denominator ? Get you get past woman being nothing more than objects to take their clothes off ? Do you laugh at poop jokes or for that matter just really dumb jokes ? If you know a bit about Japanese culture and can laugh at stupid jokes then this is for you . Starting as one man's quest to get a car so he can have sex in it , this film morphs into a destruction of dozens of Japanese icons . It proves that Western eyes aren't the only ones who find much of Japanese culture silly . If you have a passing awareness of what they are sending up and tearing down this is absolutely hysterical . Granted you won't get everything , but you'll probably smile from start to finish with frequent bursts of laughter . One of the chief reasons this works is that there is intelligence behind the humor . Yes , the hero is a pig , and his attitudes towards women are terrible , but thats the point and much of the pain that he ends up getting he deserves for being the way he is . The jokes about the icons is often dead on , for example the film dismantles Lone Wolf and Cub in a minute and a half so perfectly I doubt that I'll be able to watch the movies with a straight face ever again . If you know Japanese culture and love to laugh see this movie . You may not love it all , but you will laugh . A word of warning - this movie would be rated R if released in the US . Not just for the sex and nudity , but for the scatological humor which cross over into the graphic . For Japanophiles with a low brow sense of humor . For everyone else .
Story of a cursed jeweled snake that when has the potential to make the possessor invincible . The snake is hidden in a burial crypt in a pagoda in Hong Kong . When thieves try to steal it , killing someone in the process , the owner knows that a great evil is in the land . Sending his son to London to marry , despite his protest of wanting to stay and find the men behind the attack , the battle for the snake heats up . In London the son meets his half brother , a rich man who is half Chinese , who has designs on the snake . The battle between the brothers becomes a struggle for control of the world . This is a yellow peril story that is more akin to a Fu Manchu story then the mysteries that are the norm in the Edgar Wallace series . Actually it isn't surprising since Wallace was the man who came up with the story for King Kong , so a tale of high adventure is right up his alley . This is a very good little film , not just because it breaks with the conventions of the rest of series , nor just because it's a ripping yarn , but the film is unique in that while all of the characters are likable , most of them are not wholly nice . Our hero is roguish and almost rakish , his father is willful and clearly possessing a past of darkness , his brother is charming as well as villainous , the heroine is at times almost mousy , her sister a bit too self centered , and the girls ' father is a shady business man who will do anything to keep himself afloat including offering up the girls . No one is spotless , except perhaps for the hero's antique loving friend . It's an interesting group of people and it makes the film have a great sense that anything can happen at any time . More than worth a bowl of popcorn and a soda .
One of the great animated films of all time Grave of Fireflies tells the story of a couple of kids as the try to survive in war time Japan . What happens to them should be seen by anyone thinking of starting a war since it tells very graphically what happens to those often forgotten , the children . Like its companion piece , Barefoot Gen , which tells the story of survivors of atomic bombing and the horrors that were experienced by those unlucky enough not to have been killed out right , this film proves that war is hell for everyone , especially the children . Its very hard to send anyone out to see this unhappy little film ( The previously mentioned Barefoot Gen spawned sequels , this has not ) but at the same time you owe it to yourself to experience , however distantly what sort of monster we unleash upon the world every time we go to war . It helps that however depressing this is , its also a damn good and incredibly compelling story .
Keenan Wynn shows up on the door of several of his old army buddies promising a fortune in lost Nazi gold if only they join him to get it . Crazy as it might sound they join up and before long they are hip deep in intrigue . This is a well acted story of post war greed that doesn't want to be anything other than an entertaining evening . There are plot twists and a traitor in their midst and if you put your mind to it you might be able to figure things out , but its so much fun just watching whats going on on screen that it really isn't worth the effort . If you come across this film take the time to watch it since its 90 minutes well spent .
On the surface this is the story of an investigation of sex bots that kill , in reality this is an examination of what it means to be alive and to experience the world . Its a head trip . I'm finding it hard to express what I feel about this film . Visually this film pushes animation and visual story telling to new places . I know that some of the look of this film can be found in video games but never has the current state of art on many levels been brought together to rattle , nay destroy , the cage of the status quo . Much of this film had my jaw hanging open , often with tears welling up at the beauty of the imagery . This film rocks and then some . The computer generated worlds of Immortel and Sky Captain are blown away by the magic worked here . The plot is too murky . Frankly , I was lost half way into the movie as to what the plot was , however I was seriously getting off on the visuals and most of all the ideas that were being batted about . How do we know whats real and what isn't ? This film makes it very clear that we can never know , nor can we know what it is to be alive . Certainly not all of it works but enough does , and all I can say is wow . I have no idea how to adequately rate this film . I'm sure some people will find it form over substance and others will think little of the visuals . Me they rocked my world and I gave it a , but I'll add that your mileage may vary .
Eddie is a transvestite hostess at one of Tokyo's clubs . He / she spends her time working , being in the films of a friend , taking drugs and trying to find love . Said to be one of Stanley Kubrick's favorite films and a big influence on Clockwork Orange this is probably one of the best films most people have never seen . Released in 1969 this film is as fresh and shattering as it must have been back when it was made . Set in a " Gay " world this is actually a movie about people and how they act and feel , the fact that they are gay is irrelevant . These are real people in a real world that seems to be happening now instead of when it was made ( due no doubt to the stunning black and white photography ) . The film uses just about every 1960 " art film " technique you can think of and does so better than any film in from Europe ever did ( Buñuel , and Bergman should have been this successful ) . Interviews of the cast , sudden juxtaposition of scenes , shifts in tone and style , sudden bursts of violence , all blend together to tell a story of a search for identity and place that is in its way universal , even if its outcome is not . This is a movie that is simple to explain , but difficult to sum up . The effect of it being somewhat greater than the simplicity of the storyline . See this movie . This is one of those movies that movie lovers should search out . ( Because to be honest I'm not sure if I'm more in love with the technique or the film itself - though either way its a great film )
This is a most amazing documentary about Merian C Cooper , the man who created King Kong . Cooper's statement that he was King Kong was made when he described his life to the man who was helping put together his ( unfinished ) autobiography . It was not an idle boast since Cooper did more than 20 other normal people , from fighting in three wars , escaping from a Russian prison camp , making movies , running an airline , having a family , and on and on and on . This documentary about his life is a wonderful look at man little known to most people . Thats due , as one person says , to the fact that he was doing so much you could never get a hold of him . Done for Turner Classic Movies and on the new DVD release of King Kong , this is a must see documentary for anyone who loves movies , regardless of if you like King Kong or not . This is the story of a man that changed the face of not only the movies , but the world we know today . What he did , what he developed influences how we see the world and what we think America is ( This goes for everyone in the world who has ever seen any of his films as well ) . This is a movie that will move you and make you wonder why someone hasn't made a movie about Cooper himself since it has more drama than 99 % of the movies ever made . The only flaw in the film , and the one thing that prevents me from giving it a is that after the film deals with King Kong the film loses sight of Cooper the man , instead focusing on his technical achievements . Cooper's life should have been told in twice the 57 minute running time . Its a minor flaw , that doesn't diminish the " Oh Wow ! " factor , however it does increase the " I want more " factor by several degrees . See this film .
After getting out of a hotel room like prison a man searches for answers and revenge . The description is simple , direct and probably the best way to explain this great film . Its not that a more detailed recounting of the plot would ruin it like say the Sixth Sense , or The Village , rather its simply that the plot is so layered that to know more simply may result in too much confusion . Containing a central performance that is simply one of the best performances of the last five or ten years this film is Oscar worthy from top to bottom , which is a shame since as of this writing the film has not yet been released in the United States where it would undoubtedly blow away almost any film it comes in contact with . Ultimately it is better than even the Michael Moore film it lost to at Cannes . This is grand film making and I can not recommend it highly enough . However be warned , its violent and dark at times . It will disturb you , the same way that Silence of the Lambs or Seven disturbed you ( although there are no serial killers ) .
