Do you know what's worse than a movie directed by Coleman Francis ? A movie directed by and starring Coleman Francis . I simply cannot imagine anyone watching this thing without the Mystery Science Theater 3000 commentary . I'm a fan of " bad " movies , but Red Zone Cuba would be too much on its own . A nonsensical plot involving a Cuban invasion , the worst acting imaginable , and editing that looks as if it were done by monkeys are just a few of the " highlights " . I defy anyone to find a frame of this movie that in some way isn't flawed . Every moment presents a new and even more amazing decent into putrid film-making . I cannot see giving this abomination anything higher than a . But , with the MST3K commentary , Red Zone Cuba becomes absolutely hysterical . I laughed so hard during the film's second half that I had tears in my eyes . I'll put this episode near the top of my list of favorites . Episode # 619 gets a on my MST3K rating scale .
As a point of reference , I don't rate every other movie I see a . Of the 1 , 005 movies I've bothered to rate over the past few years , I've only given 20 of them a . It takes a " special " movie can join the ranks of Prime Evil , The Creeping Terror , and Curse of the Swamp Creature . The Swarm is one of those " special " movies . Watching The Swarm is something of an endurance test . At one point , I felt like I had been sitting and watching for days . I checked the counter and discovered I had only seen 76 minutes ? I still had another 80 minutes left to go . So what went wrong ? In a word - everything . As I've already indicated , The Swarm is dull and tedious . If I'm ever forced to watch this movie again , I can only hope it's the 116 minute version and not the 156 minute director's cut . In addition , the characters do and say the most unrealistic things . Take the movies supposed hero played by Michael Caine and the General played by Richard Widmark . Every conversation these two have is full of absolute nonsense and done in volumes usually reserved for football games . The fact that these two NEVER attempt to work together to accomplish anything is ridiculous . Or , take the fact that Caine's character , who has been appointed by the White House to head up the operation , spends more time tracking down a 10 year-old runaway than he does finding a solution to the bee problem . Unrealistic . The Swarm also features a couple of the most inane love story subplots I've seen . The first features Caine and Katharine Ross who never seem to get beyond admitting they " like " each other . How old are these people ? 12 ? The second is the senior citizen love triangle that goes nowhere and has no real purpose . It's like watching a bad episode of " The Love Boat " . Finally , some of the acting is downright atrocious . Caine and Ross are good actors when given decent material . But in The Swarm , Caine appears to be in it solely for the paycheck and Ross acts as if she realizes how bad it is and just wants out . Picking the negatives out of The Swarm is like shooting fish in a barrel ? it's impossible to miss . And I haven't even discussed the plot ? killer African bees threaten the Southwest . Not a bad idea , but the execution in The Swarm is the worst .
I see a lot of " Worst " movie lists on IMDb . If I look at one of these lists and don't see Hobgoblins , I can't take it seriously . Hobgoblins represents a standard in bad movie-making that all other bad movies should be measured against . Personally , I don't have a " Worst " list , but if I did , you can bet that Hobgoblins would be in the top three alongside Curse of the Swamp Creature and Prime Evil . I defy anyone to sit down and watch this trifecta of crap back-to-back-to-back . . I've now had the misfortune of seeing Hobgoblins three or four times in my life . And , I can't think of one positive thing to say about it . Everything about the movie is pathetic . The horror elements aren't in the least horrific and the comedy elements are in the least comedic . Nothing works . Why am I not surprised to discover that the four lead " actors " ( and I use that term very loosely ) have one other movie credit between them ? I suppose a better question would be just how was director Rick Sloane able to find a job directing anything after helming this abomination of film-making ? The special effects consist of the director throwing stuffed animals at the cast . There are more continuity errors in Hobgoblins than in a dozen Ed Wood movies . The plot is utterly ridiculous and would have made more sense had my three year old written it . In short , Hobgoblins is a truly painful movie experience . Of the three or four times I've seen Hobgoblins , this was my second with the MST3K commentary . And even though Hobgoblins is one of the worst movies I've ever seen , it makes for one of the best MST3K episodes . Hilarious !
- Such as it is , I'll try to give a brief outline of the movie . During a photo session , the photographer strangles his model . Meanwhile , a bookstore owner stalks and knives a wino . Later , the same photographer strangles another model . The bookstore owner stalks and knives another wino . This continues until the two meet . Without a word , they seem to fall in love . But what kind of relationship can two serial killers have ? Apparently , not much of one . - The Hollywood Strangler Meets the Skid Row Slasher is the perfect example of inept film-making . If you're idea of a good time is watching people you don't know kill other people you don't know , this may be the movie for you . This basic premise is repeated over and over and over . Eventually , I just wanted to throw something at the screen . How about a little explanation as to who these people are and why they are doing what they do ? Unfortunately , concepts like a plot don't get in the way of the killing . - Steckler filmed this movie without any dialogue . He later added some voice overs at the insistence of his distributor . Dialogue may have helped , although I doubt it . - If you really must see this movie , watch it with Joe Bob Briggs commentary . There are a few laugh out loud moments . Otherwise , I found it impossible to get through even the first 10 minutes .
For whatever reason , I have now seen Track of the Moon Beast on two different occasions ? once with the Mystery Science Theater 3000 commentary and once without . Should I decide to waste another 90 or so minutes for a third viewing , there's really only one viewing option ? watch the MST3K version . Track of the Moon Beast is painful . The idiocy on display can actually start to hurt without the MST3K commentary to take the edge off . From Native American anthropologist Johnny Longbow and his stew recipe to the terry-cloth hot-pants worn by Donna Leigh Drake , Track of the Moon Beast is filled with a nonsensical plot , uninteresting characters , bad acting , poor special effects , brainless dialogue , and bottom of the barrel sound , cinematography , and lighting . You don't get much worse than this . One of my " favorite " moments occurs when old Johnny Longbone is relating the Native American legend of the Lizard-Man to the sheriff . He has an overhead projector with a number of transparencies he uses to illustrate his story . Well , Longbritches ' drawings look about like something you would see drawn in my son's Pre-K class . They're so ridiculous looking ! It cracks me up every time I see it .
Even though I watch a lot of bad movies , it's been awhile since I've seen a plot that made less sense than the one found in Blood Waters of Dr . Z . For reasons known only to him , Dr . Kurt Leopold decides the planet would be a better place if fish were to take over . After a rather lengthy voice-over soliloquy on the subject , he dunks himself into a tank and comes out transformed into some sort of poorly designed would-be fish-creature . With his handy spray bottle filled with I'm not sure what , he sets out on his mission to lead the catfish in a takeover of the Earth . Before you can say " carp " , Dr . Leopold's plan seems to be forgotten in favor of finding a mate he can transform into a would-be fish-creature . ( Actually , I'm of the opinion that getting laid was Dr . Leopold's goal the whole time . Forget about the nonsense of a master race of fish . ) As the bodies start to pile up , old fish-boy soon has some scientists and the local sheriff on his tail . Can they put a stop to Dr . Leopold and his plans for world domination ? Whether you call the movie Blood Waters of Dr . Z or Zaat or ZaAt or Attack of the Swamp Creatures , it really doesn't matter . Crap by any name is still crap . The movie is Grade A bottom-of-the-barrel film-making . As I pointed out , the plot is ridiculous . The technical aspects of the films like lighting , sound , special effects , editing , etc . are beyond bad . The direction is amateurish at best . And as for the acting , I'm not in the least surprised to discover that no one involved ever did anything other than appear in this monstrosity ( okay , one guy does have one other credit , but that's it ) . Quite honestly , my rating of a is incredibly generous . I'm sure there's a reason I didn't give Blood Waters of Dr . Z the dreaded , but sitting here 12 hours after watching the movie , I can't come up with a valid explanation . One of the comments on IMDb bemoans the fact that the majority of people rating and reviewing Blood Waters of Dr . Z have only seen the Mystery Science Theater 3000 version ( that's how I saw it also ) . The comment states that the real movie has 30 or so minutes edited out by the MST3K crew and the movie shouldn't be judged unless someone has seen the whole thing . Well why in God's name would I want to see 30 more minutes of this trash ! The time I've already devoted to Blood Waters of Dr . Z is above and beyond what it deserves . Just be glad more people haven't seen that additional footage as I'm guessing the rating would be even lower if they had .
By the time The Final Frontier was released in 1989 , it's amazing how far the crew of the Enterprise had sunk . Gone was the campy appeal of the original series - replaced by childish jokes and lame one-liners . The plot involving Spock's half-brother ( Was there ever any mention of a half-brother before this movie ? How convenient ! ) searching for what is essentially God is so utterly ridiculous that it hardly merits mention . Most of the crew is shoved to the background as the movie centers on Kirk , Spock , and McCoy , who I swear seem to be doing their best Moe , Larry , and Curly routine . Shatner seems intent on embarrassing himself at every possible turn , Nimoy acts as if he'd rather be anywhere else , and Kelley is just pathetic . In the end , I've got nothing positive to say and I'm scratching my head in vain trying to remember why I rated this dog a instead of a . It's that bad !
A couple honeymooning in Transylvania is attacked by a ruthless group of killers . With the husband dead , the new bride , Justine ( Shirley Corrigan ) , finds safety in the home of her rescuer , Waldemar ( Paul Naschy ) . But Justin learns of Waldemar's " illness " that causes him to turn into a werewolf when the moon is full . Justine is certain that her friend in London , Dr . Jekyll ( Jack Taylor ) , may be able to help Waldemar . Will Dr . Jekyll's cure work ? Or will more people die at the hands of the werewolf ? What Works : - Nothing . I can't think of anything in Dr . Jekyll vs . the Werewolf worth recommending . It's really quite bad . I haven't rated it a because , in comparison , it's not as wretched as most of the movies I've rated at the very bottom . What Doesn't Work : - Paul Naschy . I realize that Naschy made a boatload of werewolf movies and is generally considered a cult icon . Why ? I don't know . I've never understood the appeal of Naschy or his brand of werewolf . Naschy is one of the more unappealing " stars " of horror . He is terrible at playing the sympathetic figure , which I think is necessary for the character of the tormented werewolf . Also , Naschy is just too small to effectively play the role . His midget werewolf just doesn't work for me . - The Acting . None of the acting , including Naschy , is very good . The worst is Corrigan as the stranded bride , Justine . She only appears capable of two emotions : fear , which she is terrible at playing and always ends in screaming , and sadness , which is equally annoying and always ends in crying . What range ! - The Lack of Anything Found in a Good Horror Movie . The things I look for in a horror movie include atmosphere , suspense , tension , and plot . You can forget about atmosphere , suspense , and tension . All the horror elements in Dr . Jekyll vs . the Werewolf are treated like everyday , common occurrences and nothing to be afraid of . In fact , the group who kills the husband is more menacing than the werewolf . As for plot , the movie does have one , but it makes so little sense and is filled with the most ridiculous sounding science that it's impossible to take seriously . In the end , I found Dr . Jekyll vs . the Werewolf to be a complete waste of time . I don't remember enjoying a single frame . And it's not cheesy enough to be bad in that " so bad it's good " sort of way . I really do try to enjoy Naschy's films . I'll keep trying , but for now , I'm not impressed .
What's up with David Janssen ? I've seen any number of films he stars in and I've yet to see why or how the guy made so many films , especially late in his career . I know he made some good stuff early on like The Fugitive , but does anyone find the David Janssen that appeared in The Swiss Conspiracy appealing ? Are we really supposed to believe the scenes of him in bed with Senta Berger ? I'm not buying it for a second . He's got that greasy , unwashed look to him like he's on a three-day bender and has had one too many bottles of Scotch and just finished his third pack of cigarettes before noon . Actors like Clint Eastwood can scowl through a whole movie and look tough . Janssen just looks like he's got some sort of lower intestinal problem . And what's with that hair ? Why in the world would anyone grow their sideburns long enough to comb them back over their ears ? Did he really think that was a good look ? As for The Swiss Conspiracy , there's a reason you can buy it in the U . S . for $1 from every public domain company to come down the pike ? it's not very good . It's amazing that you can take a cast that includes the aforementioned Janssen ( regardless of my rant , I still like him ) , Senta Berger , John Saxon , John Ireland , Elke Sommer , Ray Milland , and Anton Diffring and make something this bad . Each of these actors appeared in any number of films that I enjoy . But not here . Part of the problem is that most of these actors are so underutilized that you wonder what made them want to do this film in the first place . Take John Saxon . His tough , Chicago hood character would have been great had he stuck around for more than 10 minutes . What a waste !
It doesn't take long to see why Code Name : Diamond Head didn't make it onto the network schedules . The TV pilot movie doesn't get past the credits before it's obvious just how bad it's going to be . Maybe I missed something , because the plot didn't make a whole lot of sense . Based on what I got out of the muddled mess , a terrorist or thief or something named " Tree " ( Ian McShane ) goes to Hawaii to steal something to do with a secret weapon . The world's dullest secret agent , Johnny Paul ( Roy Thinnes ) , is out to stop him . There might have been more , but trust me ? it really doesn't matter anyway . Action movies should have action . Suspenseful moments should have suspense . And dramatic moments should have drama . There's none of that in Code Name : Diamond Head . I've seen others use the word " turgid " to describe this made for TV snoozer ? and it's better than any one word description I can come up with . None of the characters is in the least bit exciting or worth caring about . And Roy Thinnes makes for the worst leads imaginable . His charisma is just slightly north of a slug . Ian McShane is easily the best thing the movie has going for it , but unfortunately for everyone else involved , it doesn't appear he was going to be back as a regular cast member . Now if McShane had been cast in the series lead , well then you might have had something . I'm quickly discovering that these Gawd awful 70s made-for-TV movies make great Mystery Science Theater 3000 episodes . And that goes double if Quinn Martin was involved . Very funny stuff from Mike and the Bots . So while I may only give the movie a , I rate Episode # 608 a on my MST3K rating scale .
Having read comparisons between this movie and Mario Bava's films , I'd looked forward to seeing it for sometime . It's the story of a horribly disfigured woman who goes to a doctor for some unconventional treatments . It seems he has developed a serum that will restore the woman's beauty . But , the serum must be applied regularly and the supply soon runs out . As the doctor has fallen in love with the woman , he must do whatever it takes to get the ingredients to make more serum ? even if that means killing other women . Let's see , comparisons with Bava . 1 . Black & white ? so is Bava's Black Sunday . 2 . Well , there really isn't a 2 as far as I'm concerned . Atom Age Vampire makes most other " slow " movies seem like roller coaster rides . I actually had to wake myself twice and rewind the movie . Also , while I'm generally one of those people that will defend dubbing in Italian movies , I can't do that here . This is one of the first times I can actually say that the dubbing got in the way of my enjoyment of a movie .
It's a romantic story that's as old as time ? boy meets girl , but girl is destined to wed Satan . Seriously , that's pretty much the whole plot . A girl is born and raised to make the perfect bride for Satan . Her whole life has been carefully planned and mapped-out for her . So when love enters her life , those who have worked to protect her must put a stop to this new threat . Good Against Evil is a 70s television movie that looks like a 70s television movie . Acting , sets , and other technical aspects are just what you would expect if you grew up in the 70s huddled around the television waiting for the Movie of the Week . Most everything in the movie is safe and sanitized and ready for general consumption . The exorcism scene , the supposed highlight of the movie , is subdued in comparison with others that have been dramatized on film . In fact , the whole movie could be described as subdued . It's incredibly slow-paced and predictable . It doesn't take a psychic to spot the twists and turns in the plot . And the ending is about as jarring a finale as I've seen . It seems that Good Against Evil was meant to become a regular , weekly television series . So the movie just abruptly ends with several unanswered questions and was to be continued in the next episode . The problem is there never was a next episode . The exception to almost everything I've written is the opening scene of the baby girl's birth and the death of her mother . In comparison with what follows , it's quite creepy . It's a dreamlike sequence that doesn't look or feel like the rest of the movie . Had the movie followed the tone of the opening set-piece , it might have been a much better movie .
This is going to start to sound confusing because I feel exactly the same about The Day the Earth Froze as I do the other two movies I've seen directed by Aleksandr Ptushko . My comments for The Magic Voyage of Sinbad and The Sword and the Dragon are applicable here ( and this is where it gets confusing ) ? " ' The Sword and the Dragon seemed to be filled with such broad overacting that it became absurd . I realize that the movie was made over 50 years ago in the Soviet Union . I understand that the movie is filled with messages and other pro-worker propaganda . And I appreciate the importance of the film as a relic of the communist system . But none of that means I have to actually like the movie . ' If you change the title of the movie , this quote accurately reflects my feelings on The Magic Voyage of Sinbad . " ? This time , substitute The Day the Earth Froze and you've got a quote that accurately reflects my feelings on the movie . Also , I'll add that , if anything , The Day the Earth Froze is actually duller than the other two movies . Even with the Mystery Science Theater 3000 commentary , I had to wake myself at lest two times before I made it through . In the end , while these movies may appeal to some people , they're not my cup of tea . Just being honest here .
What a mess ! The remake of The Stepford Wives takes everything that made the original such a good movie and throws it all away . Instead , the movie goes for comedy and generally misses its mark at every opportunity . I'll admit that I did find myself smiling and almost laughing at a couple of scenes , but they are too few and too far between . And when the funniest bit in the movie is a 10 second Christmas sing-a-long , you can probably get an idea of how lame I found most of the comedy . But the biggest problem I see is a lack of any sort of realism . I understand that with comedy it's often necessary to stretch believability . But The Stepford Wives attempts to inject realism by also being a drama , a thriller , and a sci-fi movie . It's none of these . There's no drama when the movies main plot point is beaten to death within the first 15 minutes of the movie . The mystery of Stepford in this remake doesn't exist . As for being a thriller , The Stepford Wives is the kind of movie that all along you just know everything will be fine in the end . What kind of thriller doesn't at least make you think someone may be in danger ? Finally , most of the sci-fi elements are presented in cartoon format . How can you take that seriously ? In the end , other than a very few moments of comedy , this thing is a stinker .
You can pretty much guess my feelings of this movie when I say that the two best things about it are the movie's title and the presence of Edwige Fenech . Other than that , I can't find much to recommend . The killer isn't very interesting . The mystery elements of the film aren't engrossing . And the kill scenes are poorly done . There's just no tension that is necessary for a good Giallo . And the final reveal of the killer is anything but suspenseful . In the end there are only three people left alive . If two of the characters are being chased by the killer , it doesn't take Sherlock Holmes to figure out who is under the motorcycle helmet ? Sure , there's plenty of sleaze , but it's not done in what I found to be a fun or entertaining way . Unfortunately , I found Strip Nude for Your Killer to be a boring watch . I found myself looking at the clock about half way through just wishing it would end . As a group , Gialli are often criticized for their misogyny . Consider Strip Nude for Your Killer as the poster child of misogyny in this type of film . Not one woman is presented or treated as anything but a mindless object . Take our heroine Edwige ? her boyfriend acts as if he is going to strangle her in one scene . Does she send him packing or show any sign that she objected to being treated in that manner ? No !
I realize that Scooby Doo 2 is basically a kids ' movie . I realize that I am long past the target audience's age . And , I realize that it's a sequel to a movie I didn't care for . However , I grew up a fan of the original Scooby Doo cartoon . I was 6 years-old when the cartoon originally aired and I have fond memories of those Saturday mornings . The people responsible for making these movies have taken most of what made that show good and thrown it out the window . The ghosts and monsters weren't real . There was always a rational explanation behind everything that went on . Part of the fun was trying to wrap my 6 year-old brain around how the bad guys were doing their evil deeds . But a movie based in anything approaching reality wouldn't work as a big , over-bloated , CGI mess like Scooby Doo 2 . It's unreal , it's loud , and it leaves nothing to the imagination . The film consistently makes fun of itself in that I'm-smarter-than-you , self-referential way that I find so annoying . It's a shame to me that young kids today will not grow-up understanding the charm of the original Scooby Doo .
Phyllis Allenby ( June Lockhart ) is about to be wed . But a series of murders in a park nearby the Allenby estate attributed to a werewolf have her rethinking her plans . Phyllis is sick over the thought that she may be responsible for the grisly deaths . Muddy shoes , wet clothes , and blood on her hands found in Phyllis ' bedroom led her to believe that she may be the werewolf . Is Phyllis a werewolf , prowling the night looking for her next victim ? Other than the title , I'm not sure why Universal decided to include this one on their Wolf Man Legacy Set . She-Wolf of London has nothing in common with The Wolf Man . It's not a horror film . There is no werewolf ( or she-wolf for that matter ) . Instead , She-Wolf of London is an average , but unoriginal , little mystery . For the film to work , you have to believe that Phyllis Allenby is a murderer . Unfortunately , I never once bought into the notion that Phyllis was the killer , let alone a snarling werewolf . My real problem with She-Wolf of London is in the casting . While there are some nice performances from Sara Haden as the overprotective Aunt and Lloyd Corrigan as the bumbling Detective Latham , June Lockhart is horrible as the film's heroine . She is terribly miscast . Maybe it's just that I've seen her in too many roles as the caring , All-American mother , but she's not a believable killer .
I think most fans of cannibal / jungle type films will agree that Cannibal Holocaust is the Granddaddy of the genre . Amazonia : The Catherine Miles Story was originally marketed as a sequel to that film . But , Cannibal Holocaust it ain't . To my surprise , most of the reviews of Amazonia that I've read have been positive . And while I certainly found elements of the film enjoyable in the way that only a good exploitation film can be , there are far too many problems I have with the film for me to consider it much more than average at best . What Works : - The Gore : If you're a fan of the red stuff , Amazonia delivers . While the total number of scenes of gratuitous gore may be fewer than in some other films of this type , the gore is very well done and , for the most part , reasonably realistic . I was especially impressed with a scene depicting a human head being cut off . There are scenes in this movie that are definitely not for the squeamish . - Plot Ideas : It may not be completely original , but I liked the idea of the kidnapped young girl living with and growing in the Headhunter society . It presents the opportunities for some interesting set-pieces . What Doesn't Work : - It's Not Really a Cannibal Film : Regardless of how it was marketed , Amazonia isn't really a cannibal movie . The film's only real cannibals are dispatched within five minutes of making their appearance . - The Acting : Elvire Audray as Catherine Miles is positively wretched . Everything she does and says further reinforces the notion that she's a second rate actress . The rest of the acting is no better . One look at the courtroom scenes should be enough to demonstrate to anyone just how bad the acting is . - A Sappy Love Story : If I sit down to watch a trashy , Euro-cannibal film , I want a trashy , Euro-cannibal film . Unfortunately , Amazonia is full of too many melodramatic , sappy moments . And that ending is straight out of a Lifetime movie . It's beyond ridiculous . - The Headhunters : I hate to compare any film of this genre with Cannibal Holocaust , but it's hard not to . The cannibals in Cannibal Holocaust look like the real deal ? wild , savage , dirty , and all but alien . In contrast , the natives in Amazonia are too clean . Most look like they've just had a shower , a shave , and a hair cut . And am I seriously supposed to believe that one of these Headhunters knows English ( or Italian or whatever language ) ? That must have been some kind of correspondence class she was taking . Overall , Amazonia is a weak film when compared with other movies of its ilk . It's neither as good and powerful as Cannibal Holocaust nor is it as silly and fun as something like Massacre in Dinosaur Valley . If you're a fan of this kind of movie you might find something worthwhile , but , overall , it's liable to be a disappointing experience .
I expected a bit more from a movie with Brigitte Bardot and Anthony Perkins . They're both okay , but they just don't have much to do . The script lets them down at every opportunity . The Ravishing Idiot ( or Agent 38-24-36 ) is the story of a bumbling spy played by Perkins . He enlists the aid of a dipsy Bardot to help him steal some secret plans . The comedy is , for the most part , lame . There are moments I enjoyed , but these scenes were too few and too far between . Anytime you rely on speeding up the film so the actors will move fast as a basis for comedy , you're in trouble . And The Ravishing Idiot uses this type of trick far too often . The Ravishing Idiot isn't the total waste of time I've made it out to be . There are a few scenes that were quite funny . The bit where Bardot and Perkins lose the plans over and over at the party was actually quite good . Also , it's interesting to see Perkins doing a film in French . I'm no expert , but I thought he did a good job .
Plot : A woman inherits a castle from a distant relative . When she arrives to take possession , she learns her castle is a home for the undead who want to bring her into the family . I really wanted to like Fangs of the Living Dead , but two things really hampered my enjoyment . First , there are far too many stretches of the movie that are quite simply boring . It's not that I mind a slow moving story , but this thing is downright dull in places . Second , and this more of a personal preference , but the main character as played by Anita Ekberg is annoying . For a horror movie to be really effective , it helps if you care about the characters . I wanted Ms . Ekberg's character ( and Ms . Ekberg for that matter ) to die within 10 minutes of her introduction .
Here's a an idea ? let's round-up a bunch of Hollywood has-beens , second rate TV actors , and a bunch of no-names and put them all on board a cross Atlantic flight . And let's add a crazed mechanic with a grudge . Oh , and how about adding a deadly virus that fills the plane ? You've got the recipe for a 1970s TV movie-of-the-week ! How many of these doomed airplane movies did they make ? If you believed what you saw at the movies and on television , planes were dropping out of the skies like flies in the 70s . These kinds of movies were all the rage and SST : Death Flight was meant to grab onto the disaster-cycle coattails . I'll give the movie credit , though ? it's actually not much worse than most of the rest of its ilk . The acting is what you would expect from the likes of Lorne Greene , Tina Louise , and Bert Convy . The manufactured tension comes across 30 years later as more humorous than anything else . The characters are cardboard cutouts with overly dramatized problems that can miraculously be solved in an hour or so . The one thing SST : Death Flight has going for it is a slightly unusual twist at the end where the characters the choice of life or death . Other than that , it's cookie-cutter 70s disaster film-making at it's best ( or worst , depending on how you look at this stuff . )
- Aliens land on Earth to determine whether or not the planet is suitable for raising their Gargons ( a creature raised by the aliens for consumption ) . It seems that these Gargons are quite ferocious and as big as a house when fully grown . Therefore , they require their own planet . But releasing the Gargons on Earth will wipe out all of humanity . One alien , Derek ( David Love ) , has second thoughts about killing the inhabitants of Earth . He leaves the group to warn the citizens of Earth . What he doesn't know , however , is that one of the other aliens has been sent to stop him . - While I've seen worse , Teenagers from Outer Space is really not a very good movie . Most of the acting is terrible and the dialogue is even worse . The " teenagers " mentioned in the title appear to be mid-20s to early-30s in age . The flying saucer used by the aliens is about ten feet in diameter , yet can carry 6 or 7 human sized aliens . The Gargons are really just lobsters . The full-grown Gargon is a shadow of a lobster projected onto the film to make it look huge . Much of the movie is laughable at best . - But , Teenagers from Outer Space is not as bad as it could have been . Underneath the cheese is a nice little story just aching to get out . The two leads ( David Love and Dawn Bender ) do their best . There is a real chemistry between the two that comes through even the most hokey of scenes . Although they might have lacked real talent , they appeared to be trying . So many of these 50s sci-fi films have actors that just appear to be going through the motions . - The aliens use some sort of hand-held death ray weapon . And , for this kind of movie , the results are rather gruesome . In a lot of these movies , when someone is shot with a ray gun , they either fall down without a scratch to be seen or just disappear . Not here . When the human ( and canine ) victims are hit with these ray guns , all tissue disappears leaving only a ( obviously plastic ) skeleton . It's not a very pleasant way to go . - I watched the MST3K version of the movie . As usual , there were a few good laughs to be had . But this is one movie that I'm going to try on its own . I think it deserves to be judged that way .
- The plot gets a bit muddled , but I'll give it a go . A mad scientist is trying to create a superior race . To do this , he has his henchmen kidnap and shrink his victims to the size of a Barbie doll . The " dolls " are then transported to his research facility for . . . I'm not sure what . Anyway , the scientists picks the wrong woman when he kidnaps the girlfriend of a space commander . He and his buddies go looking for the mad doctor's lair . - Antonio Margheriti made several of films I really enjoy - The Virgin of Nuremberg and Castle of Blood immediately come to mind . I cannot , however , include Wild , Wild Planet on the list of my favorite Margheriti films . If I had any inkling of an idea why the mad doctor was kidnapping and shrinking people then I might have enjoyed it more . I'm not asking for the movie to come out and spoon-feed me all of the plot points , just have a plot that's coherent . - The mad doctor's henchmen are about as un-threatening as a basket of puppies . The henchmen work in pairs - one is a beautiful woman with a beehive hairdo while the other is a bald , black trench coat wearing guy . The henchmen look more like 60s European models than evil kidnappers . - The sets are obviously made of miniatures . A couple of the scenes are unintentionally hilarious . The first involves a small flying craft that maneuvers around the city . Ed Wood's hubcap on a string doesn't look to bad in comparison . The second is a shot of a futuristic land vehicle that runs of the road and catches fire . The tiny fire looks like someone lit a couple of matches . It's really bizarre to see .
- A local trapper claims he saw something odd in the swamp . Of course no one puts much stock in his claims , so nothing is done . But as the bodies start piling up , the local officials realize that something strange is going on . They can no longer deny the fact that monsters live in the local waters . One of the locals wants to bomb the swamp and force the creatures to the surface . But the game warden is sworn to protect all life in the swamp and must be convinced ( he's gotta see the monsters for himself ) before he will allow such a dramatic step to be taken . - After you've seen as many of these quick , cheap , sci-fi / horror movies from the 50s and 60s as I have , you start to run out of adjectives to describe the abysmal acting , dialogue , and production values . I have now reached that point . The lack of what most people consider qualities of a good movie are as readily apparent here as any other movies of this type . So , I'm not going to even try to discuss these things . - I haven't rated this movie as low as similar movies . This one has a quality about it that I found enjoyable . It could be that the characters in Attack of the Giant Leeches are somewhat likable . It could be that the story is presented in a more clever manner . Or , it could be that the movie is so bad that I reveled in the dreg . Whatever , unlike some of its brethren , Attack of the Giant Leeches is a movie I could see myself watching again in the future .
- I , Monster is Amicus ' take on the Jekyl and Hyde story . I won't go into details on the plot as most everyone is familiar with the story . From a couple different sources I've read that I , Monster may be the most faithful adaptation of Stevenson's book ever put to film . I don't know about that , I've never read the book . The biggest change from the book seems to be the names - instead of Jekyl and Hyde , we have Marlowe and Blake . - I had been looking forward to seeing this movie for a while . Any movie with both Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing is high on my " to see " list . To say that I was disappointed would be an understatement . Usually , no matter how bad the material may be , you can usually count on Lee and Cushing to at least provide some degree of entertainment . Not here . This is the first movie I've ever seen with Cushing that I did not enjoy his performance . He acted as if he knew how bad things were . Much of the movie is an utter bore with everyone just sitting around spouting inane dialogue . I don't mind a slow moving story ( for example , The Mummy ( 1933 ) is one of my favorites ) but this is torture . - In I , Monster , Marlowe is allowed to slowly progress with each injection into a hideous monster . It is a progression into evil . It's a nice touch that I think improves on past versions of the story . But it brings up one of my major complaints about the movie . I do not understand how some of Marlowe's friends failed to realize he was Blake the first time they ran into him . Just ridiculous . The only physical change that Marlowe experienced at first was a grin on his face and messed up hair . - Next time I have a desire to see Lee and Cushing together , I'll pick something like Horror of Dracula or The Curse of Frankenstein .
Lucio Fulci made some real stinkers in his career and Manhattan Baby comes close to being the worst . The problem is the incoherent plot that I'm not even going to attempt to explain . The plot centers around an Egyptian amulet with evil powers . The evil powers manifest themselves in a series of totally unrelated events . In fact , almost every event in Manhattan Baby is completely unrelated to what came before or what is yet to come . Fulci and screenwriter Dardano Sacchetti had some wonderful ideas , but there is nothing holding these ideas together . As a series of standalone set-pieces , Manhattan Baby isn't that bad . But trying to make sense out of a plot that's all over the place can give you quite a headache . It's too bad . The movie gets off to a good start with some nice looking and mysterious Egyptian scenes . But don't let that fool you . Once the movie gets back to New York , things fall apart . As I wrote previously , there are some good set-pieces in Manhattan Baby . Among the highlights ? the tomb exploration , the opening of the children's door by a friend of the mother , and the final bird attack . As I've said before though , a few good set-pieces cannot save a movie .
- Giant of Marathon could have been a really good movie . It's got a lot going for it . Steve Reeves , fresh off his stint as Hercules , is good and dependable in this kind of movie . He did Sword and Sandal as good as anyone . The movie also has some very nice action sequences . I'm far from an expert , but the battle scenes in Giant of Marathon are the best I've seen in a Sword and Sandal . My favorite bit had to be the ship equipped with James Bond style pinchers that were used to sink other ships . Nice touch . The movie also features a " good " bad guy . Teocrito is about as villainous as they come . - But the movie isn't what I would call " really good " . It has far too many problems . The first is the love story underlying the action . The love scenes are so corny that they are difficult to watch . Cringe inducing is the best way I can think to describe it . Another real and more important problem is that parts of Giant of Marathon can be incredibly boring . When the battle scenes aren't on screen , nothing happens - a lot of ridiculous talk that isn't in the least interesting .
As a curiosity piece for fans of Charlie Chan , Eran Trece is rather interesting as it represents a peak at the lost film Charlie Chan Carries On . It gets bonus points from me for that fact alone . But without that connection and bit of trivia , Eran Trece is a weak film . My problems with the movie do not include most of the actors or technical aspects . Here , the film is comparable to any other Charlie Chan film . Instead , my problems with the movie rest with Chan's lack of involvement in most of the movie and the actor playing Chan . Chan only shows up in the final third of the film . And he doesn't really do much other than make a few wild guesses about the killer's identity . Chan seemed to be as in the dark as I as to who the killer was until he gave himself away . And Manuel Arbo's Chan leaves a lot to be desired . Instead of the intellectual , thinking detective , Arbo plays Chan as more of a fool who would rather wrestle over a clue than logically think things out . Maybe I'm just comfortable with Oland and Toler as Chan . But I sincerely think it's more than that . Arbo , with his lack of screen presence and overly animated acting style , isn't very good . Even with the film's shortcomings , I'm glad I finally had the opportunity to see this film . I also appreciate Fox for putting Eran Trece on their new Charlie Chan Collection . Unfortunately , however , I doubt I'll be watching it very often .
Dr . Leon Kraval ( Boris Karloff ) has developed a radical means of treating cancer using a freezing therapy . But before he can prove the success of his procedure he is accused of murder . An accident in his lab locks him , his accuser , the judge , the coroner , and the sheriff in his hidden freezing chamber . All are declared missing and presumed dead . Ten years later another doctor is onto the same research and decides to visit the now derelict home of Dr . Kraval in search of his secrets . What he doesn't expect to find is Dr . Kraval , frozen but alive , and ready to continue his experiments on his human guinea pigs . Anytime a new Boris Karloff movie that I haven't seen is set to release on DVD , there's reason for me to rejoice . It's rare that the man and his work have ever let me down . To say that I was under whelmed by The Man with Nine Lives would be an understatement . There's just not much here to get excited about . I wasn't expecting the second coming of Karloff's Frankenstein monster , but I had hoped for a lively , engrossing story . To put it kindly , much of the the movie is dull . A portion of the enjoyment I was able to derive from the movie came from my almost fanboy like appreciation of Karloff and his work . The man simply amazes me every time I see him on screen . Which makes it amazing to me that my favorite part of the movie was the exploration of the Kraval's house that actually takes place before Karloff makes his appearance . It wouldn't be fair to discuss The Man with Nine Lives without mentioning the set design . It's the real highlight of the movie . I've already mentioned the house . In old , dark house fashion , it's riddled with secret passages and mysterious locked doors . But the best part of the set design had to be the freezing rooms that were supposedly carved out of a glacier . To my untrained eye , I found them very believable and authentic looking . Very nice .
One Body Too Many is a fairly enjoyable The Cat and the Canary style film . It's not great , but it's certainly not the worst piece of trash to come down the pike . As I alluded , those familiar with The Cat and the Canary aren't going to find the plot groundbreaking with its originality ? an old dark house with secret passages , greedy family members gathered for the reading of the will of an eccentric and rich patriarch , the will includes all sorts of unusual stipulations , and at least one person in the party proves to be a killer and begins bumping off other family members . It's nothing new . This basic plot structure was fairly common in the 40s and One Body Too Many is a typical example . As I've learned to expect from a comedy / horror / mystery / thriller from the 40s , some of the movie will work and some won't . Going in , I always hope that what works is more than what doesn't work . One of the things that worked well for me in One Body Too Many was Bela Lugosi . Playing what is essentially the supporting role of butler , Lugosi steals scene after scene . The running gag involving Lugosi and the coffee is very nearly laugh-out-loud funny . Jack Haley ( who generally gets on my nerves ) also has his moments that really work . He has at least one scene where he ends up naked in a clothes hamper that I found hysterical . But even with these great moments , overall the good and the bad in One Body Too Many pretty much balanced out , resulting in what I'll call an average way to spend 75 minutes .
In many respects , Gidget Goes Hawaiian is a better movie than Gidget . Some of the comedy is actually funny , it's less sappy , and Carl Reiner is a much better father . Also there are fewer of the seemingly endless surfing scenes that make up almost half of Gidget's runtime . Unfortunately , however , not every aspect of Gidget Goes Hawaiian is better . The biggest and most obvious problem is Deborah Walley in the title role . In short , she's HORRIBLE ! I couldn't believe I found myself missing Sandra Dee . Dee possessed qualities ( bubbly , spunky , cute ) that are sadly missing from Walley . I could never get past her or her performance long enough to enjoy what the film had to offer .
Gorgo follows the basic plot premise laid out by the much better known Godzilla . A giant monster is awakened from the depths of the ocean and begins destroying everything in its path . The difference , and this is a matter of personal preference , is that Toho did the giant rampaging monster better than anyone . For a lack of a better word , the Toho films are more " fun " . I will give the makers of Gorgo credit , though , for the special effects . They are some of the best this sub-genre has to offer . As for the rest of the film , it's lacking in a lot of areas . The acting is key among them . These people look like their sleepwalking through the film . They look bored to tears . A little energy on the part of the cast would have gone a long way to making Gorgo a better movie .
Moon Zero Two features two seemingly unrelated plot threads with Capt . William H . Kemp ( James Olson ) as their only connection . In the first , a distraught woman is looking for her brother , a miner on the far side of the moon . She enlists Capt . Kemp to help her by taking her to the brother's claim site . In the second , a very wealthy individual hires Capt . Kemp to help him catch an asteroid and bring it crashing to the moon's surface . The asteroid is actually a giant sapphire . It's near the end of the movie before Capt . Kemp is able to put the two pieces of the plot together , discover the brother's fate , and make a decision on helping with the sapphire plan . What Works : - Acting : Overall , the acting in Moon Zero Two is a step above what I expected . But then again most Hammer films , regardless of any other shortcomings , generally featured above average acting . I was especially impressed by Catherine Schell and Warren Mitchell . - Style : A lot of people knock it , but Moon Zero Two has more style going for it than a runway in Paris . If you liked the retro look of something like Austin Powers , you'll see the real thing in this movie . From the go-go dancers and their mod outfits to the far-out bar furnishing , the movie's got style to burn . I suppose the best example is the outfit worn by Catherine Schell when she makes her first screen appearance . Words cannot do it justice ? suffice it to say that it is the epitome of 60s style . - The narrative : As I've already indicated , Moon Zero Two features two seemingly unrelated plot threads that are brought together only near the film's end . While I watched the movie , I realized the plot would come together , but I never once guessed correctly how this was going to be pulled off . It's a clever bit of screen writing . What Didn't Work : - James Olson : It's not that Olson is particularly bad in Moon Zero Two , but he lacks the qualities normally associated with the lead in a movie . He's just not a very interesting actor ( a nice way to say " He's boring " ) . Someone with a little more pizazz would have been preferable . - Pacing : The biggest single problem I had with Moon Zero Two is the movie's tendency to bog down and go nowhere for extended periods of time . There are great stretches of the film where nothing interesting at all is going on . A little tighter editing might have been a judicious choice . - Music : I don't remember the last time I found a film score as annoying as the one in Moon Zero Two . I suppose it could be called freestyle jazz or something like that , but to me , it was just plain headache inducing . And it all seemed so inappropriate given the action on screen . For example , the two main characters might be riding across the moon's surface when out of nowhere the audience is treated to a random trumpet blast . Annoying ! Overall , while there's much I did enjoy about Moon Zero Two , there's an equal amount that bothered me . But in this case , the " fun " factor wins out and I'll give it a . The copy of Moon Zero Two I have was aired as part of Mystery Science Theater 3000 . This was a first season episode and it suffers like a lot of the early episodes from inconsistent riffing from the guys at MST3K . Some of the jokes are funny , but there's either not enough of them or they miss their mark . Either way , I found myself wanting to turn down the comedy track to pay attention to the movie . I'll rate Episode # 111 a on my MST3K rating scale .
I'd be lying if I said 1990 : The Bronx Warriors was a good movie , because its not . In fact , the rating I've given it is probably too high . But there's a certain amount of fun to be had with the movie . It's one part Jack Hill's The Warriors , one part John Carpenter's Escape from New York , a sprinkling of the Hell's Angels , a dash of bizarre costume design , and just a pinch of homo-eroticism all covered in Italian cheese . 1990 : The Bronx Warriors unashamedly rips-off just about everything . I'm not sure what it is about the movie I like , but I found myself oddly enjoying much of it . Maybe it's the overacting , scene-chewing Vic Marrow , maybe it's the bad-ass Fred Williamson , or maybe it's the bizarre set-pieces like the one featuring the song-and-dance street gang . Whatever " it " is , 1990 : The Bronx Warriors has " it " . Even though I had fun with the movie , there are too many problems and weaknesses to just ignore them . Beyond the less than original screenplay , the movie has other problems . Chief among them is the " acting " on the part of the male and female leads . Actually , I'm not sure " acting " is the right word for what these two were doing . They're as stiff as boards . The scenes of the pair in an emotional moment are all but laugh out loud funny . Other weaknesses include ridiculously large plot holes , bad fight choreography , and unnatural dialogue . But if you're able to look past these shortcomings , 1990 : The Bronx Warriors can be fun .
IMDb lists this film as a Comedy / Horror / Musical / Mystery . While it does have elements of all four genres , none are portrayed very well . The comedy is weak . The horror is almost non-existent . While there are musical numbers , none is very memorable . And the mystery could be solved by a first grader . Sounds pretty bad , huh ? With all this having been said , I still enjoy this movie . Why ? Boris Karloff , Bela Lugosi , and Peter Lorre make their only joint appearance in a film ( that I'm aware of ) . Each provides a level of excitement and enjoyment to what would otherwise be a very forgettable movie . In the film , they are plotting together to scheme a rich heiress out of her fortune . It's up to Kay Kyser and his band to save the day . The plot involves psychics , poison darts , ghosts , trap doors , and hidden passageways . If you're a fan of Lugosi , Karloff , and Lorre , You'll Find Out can be fun .
It was inevitable . The string of winners churned out by Pixar and Disney had to end sometime . And it ends with Cars . That's not to say there aren't moments in the film to enjoy . The beginning and ending of the film are great . As long as the action is centered on the racetrack , Cars is good and entertaining . Unfortunately , there's that whole middle hour or so where things get incredibly dull . After the slam-bang start , the next hour is talk , talk , and more talk . I took my three year-old to see the movie and both he and I were squirming about half way through . I had to bribe him to get him to stay through the finish . The problem with much of the film is that it's so predictable . There are no surprises anywhere in the bland and tired script . I'll give the makers of the film credit for one thing ? Cars looks good . There was a time when I thought Toy Story was the be all , end all of computer animation . I couldn't have been more wrong . Cars looks far better in comparison . Finally , one of the great things about the Disney films of the past is how well they have withstood the test of time . I wonder if some of these newer Pixar films will do the same . For example , Cars features Darrell Waltrip doing the same lame shtick he uses when broadcasting a race of television . How well is " Boogity Boogity Boogity ! Let's go racin ' ! " going to stand-up ?
A jewel heist is going just about as planned until the loot ends up in the back of a pick-up truck . Unaware of what he's carrying , the unsuspecting driver of the truck takes the fortune in jewels home with him . His young daughter finds the treasure and stuffs it into her doll . Unfortunately for this suburban family , one of the robbers is also a killer and he'll do anything to get his hands on the jewels . I'd be stretching the truth if I said Psycho a Go-Go was a good movie . It's got far too many problems to be " good " . Spotty acting , giant plot holes , bad editing , and poor sound are among the many problems you'll find in the movie . But the film's biggest weakness can be traced directly to its director ? Al Adamson . Adamson is responsible for some of the worst , albeit entertaining , movies made in the 60s and 70s . In Psycho a Go-Go , Adamson's biggest sin is losing focus of what's going on . Too often , he lets the movie grind to a halt before going on to the next set-piece . Stronger direction and better pacing would have made a world of difference in the movie . But the movie isn't without its strong points . Chief among them ( and I'm not really sure how to put this ) , the film is just whacked-out enough to be fun despite itself . From the go-go dancers at the beginning , cool music choices , a coherent and interesting plot ( yes , an Al Adamson movie with a plot I found interesting ) , and a prolonged chase through the snow , Psycho a Go-Go is at least worth a watch . There are also a couple of songs performed by Tacey Robbins with The Vendells that are almost worth the price of admission alone . The opening number , My L . A . , is especially catchy . Finally , even though I called the acting spotty , the movie is not without at least one standout performance . Roy Morton plays the menacing killer to perfection .
A photographer and model are flown to a new resort hotel in the middle of the jungle to shoot some publicity photos . The hotel is owned by a ruthless developer who appears to have little regard for the environment or the people surrounding his paradise . He has hired many members of a local tribe to work for him in his hotel . But what the developer hasn't counted on is that the land Paradise House sits on is sacred to the tribe . It's the home of their giant alligator god , Kroona . After the model goes missing , the photographer finds it difficult to convince anyone that something is wrong . Has the model become another sacrifice to Kroona ? The Big Alligator River is a mish-mash of ideas from a lot of other movies . The most obvious influence comes from Jaws . Martino admits on the DVD that Jaws was the inspiration behind this movie . The scenes of kicking legs in the water being stalked by a POV shot or of a large unseen creature attacking a boat or of the alligator's inevitable demise are almost direct rip-offs of Jaws . Among the other influences I noticed was King Kong . A woman being tied sacrificially to a wooden raft is very reminiscent of Fay Wray's plight . As for the alligator , it hardly comes across as realistic . Instead , it looks almost like a stiff rubber child's toy . Victims must remain virtually immobile if the alligator is to get his mouth around their bodies . In recent reviews I've read of Jaws , I've noticed more and more complaints about how " fake " the shark looks . I would advise anyone who feels this way to steer clear of Kroona from The Big Alligator River . Beyond the bad special effects , The Big Alligator River features a less than stellar storyline ( it drags in many places ) , generally poor acting ( there are exceptions of course ) , and just plain silly dialogue . But given these weaknesses I can't bring myself to rate this movie any lower . I had too much fun with it and will eventually watch it again . Despite the flaws , I found it to be good cheesy fun . It might not be everyone's cup of tea , but it's mine . On the positive side , The Big Alligator River has one of the best , most enjoyable set-pieces I've seen in a while . The scene where many of the hotel guests are trapped in the water between the alligator on one side and a group of natives throwing flaming spears at anyone attempting to escape on the other side is remarkably effective . Pick your poison ? being chomped by an alligator or being shish-kabobed by the natives . It's the definite highlight of the movie for me .
I'm not sure that anyone ( especially fans of horror ) doesn't have any idea of what to expect from the plot of The Texas Chainsaw Massacre . For those who live under a rock , here's a very brief synopsis of the plot - TCM revolves around a group of friends who become stranded while traveling the back-roads of Texas . Unfortunately , they look for help in the wrong place and are soon under attack from a chainsaw welding maniac and his loony family . Most of the lost group of friends will pay for their mistake with their lives . What Works : - Kill Scenes . This is one of the few areas where the remake actually surpasses the original . For all the hype , TCM 1974 is not a very explicitly violent movie . Sure , we know people are dying , but we see very little of the actual carnage . TCM 2003 presents a lot of the gory details very effectively . - Tension . Surprise , surprise ? a modern American horror movie with some atmosphere . While I never felt the sense of dread or foreboding I do when watching TCM 1974 , I must applaud the efforts to create tension through some relatively effective atmosphere . A perfect example is the scene where Jessica Biel hides in the closet . Very nicely done . - R . Lee Ermey . While I'm not a fan of most of the members of the " new " family , Ermey is the exception . He would have fit right in with the Sawyers from TCM 1974 . What Doesn't Work : - TCM 1974 . It was all but impossible for me to watch this movie and not compare it with the original . The original is superior in many ways . Here's a laundry list of things I preferred in the original : the demented , over-the-top family ; Marilyn Burns ' escape and constant screaming ; the dinner scene ; the house decorated with human and animal remains ; character motivation ; and authentic 70s feel . The last item on my list may be a bit unfair , but the remake might have been better had the decision not been made to set it in the 70s . Few of the characters look , act , or " feel " authentic . - Leatherface has a Medical Condition . Please just stop it ! Why do many modern movies feel the need to create these ridiculous explanations for every character's motivation ? What's wrong with having characters whose motivation is either that they are cannibals , backwards , or just plain evil ? - Why Doesn't Jessica Biel Die ? This is almost exactly the same problem I had with Wrong Turn . Obviously I know why Biel doesn't die ? you can't kill off the lead actress in the tight white t-shirt . It's all too unrealistic given the other events in the movie . All of the other members of her group are either immediately killed or so severely maimed that there is no real hope of their escape . But not Biel . With only a few scratches , the members of the family seem to take care to keep her " intact " to facilitate her escape . I never got the feeling she was in any real danger . It's probably easy to see that I'm a fan of TCM 1974 . It's difficult to explain , but the original has a gritty , brutal , savage " feel " to it that I find missing from most of the remake . And while I enjoyed the remake on a certain level , it has too many problems for me to completely endorse or recommend it .
After a three-month absence , Sir Richard Fordyce and his new bride return to his estate under a black cloud . A young woman who lived on his lands was brutally raped and murdered just two days prior to his return . Her last words seemed to accuse Sir Richard of being the culprit . In addition , several of the locals report seeing Sir Richard's dead first wife chasing him through the village on horseback yelling " Murderer ! " Sir Richard is at a loss to explain these strange events . He has been more than 100 miles away for months . Is it witchcraft or something equally sinister ? As the dead bodies begin to pile-up , Sir Richard must discover the truth to keep his tenants from revolting and losing his new wife . What Works : - The Opening . The movie begins with a woman we know nothing about running through the forest frantically trying to escape an unseen assailant . Unfortunately , she doesn't make it . This scene provides a wonderful opening and a lot of promise for The Black Torment . There is some real tension and atmosphere in this scene . It's a shame the rest of the movie couldn't be as good as the first five minutes . . - Other Set-Pieces . Other than the opening , there are a couple of other set-pieces that work reasonably well . The ending features a twist and a showdown that are nice . Nothing spectacular , just nice . But the best set-pieces are the ones featuring the dead first wife . The sight of the shrouded woman either lurking through the garden or riding a horse through the forest was a treat to a fan of Gothic horror like me . What Doesn't Work : - The Cast . I can't think of one member of the cast that I enjoyed watching . The actors are unappealing and the characters they play are unlikable . The worst are the two leads - Heather Sears as the new wife and John Turner as Sir Richard . I didn't think it was possible for two people to annoy me as much as these two do . Every time either opened their mouth it was like fingernails on a chalkboard . I really wish the killer could have gotten hold of their necks . - Talk , Talk , Talk . In between the bits of horror , The Black Torment turns into an incredibly inane melodrama . Now it's not that I mind melodrama as long as it's done well , but much of this is painful to watch . - The Stupidity of Sir Richard . The character of Sir Richard has to be one of the dumber characters put on film . Had he stopped yelling at everyone long enough , solving the mystery would have been easy . Instead , every little thing seems to unrealistically upset him and send him off half-cocked . A little rational thinking on the part of Sir Richard could have cut the runtime of The Black Torment in half . To say that I was disappointed in The Black Torment would be an understatement . The plot description I had read across the internet made the movie sound like an undiscovered Gothic gem . And while a few bits of the horror were fun to watch watch , these moments seem to be enjoyable almost by accident when compared with the bulk of the movie . The ideas for a good movie are here , but , unfortunately , neither the script nor the actors were able to turn The Black Torment into one .
I may be the only person alive who has seen both One Million Years B . C . and When Dinosaurs Ruled the Earth that actually prefers the sequel to the original . Not that either is something I would recommend very highly , but at least there's a sense of goofiness about When Dinosaurs Ruled the Earth that's not present in the overly serious Raquel Welch film . When Dinosaurs Ruled the Earth also features a bevy of scantily clad cave women ( could Victori Vetri fill out a bikini or what ? ) , stop-motion dinosaurs that almost outdo the ones from Harryhausen , and a few nice action sequences . Based on my rating there's obviously a flip-side . The negatives for me include too much dialogue ( in a made-up language no less that's completely impossible to follow ) , an overly involved plot ( at least overly involved given the lack of language ) , and too much caveman butt . The language business actually had me laughing a couple of times . Apparently neither the cavemen nor the screenwriters could agree on what certain words meant . " Akita " appears to have meant anything from let's go over there to I really like you to your ham sandwich is ready ! Unintentionally , it's hysterical ( and distracting ) . In the end , I can't in good conscious rate When Dinosaurs Ruled the Earth any better than a ? not the best movie in the world but worth seeking out if you're a fan of either this kind of dinosaur movie or a Hammer completist .
Vicki Robbins ( Suzanna Leigh ) is a singer in bad need of a rest . Her doctor contacts his friend , Ralph Hargrove ( Guy Doleman ) , with a farm on a remote island that promises to provide Vicki the relaxation she desperately needs . When Vicki arrives , she discovers that Mr . Hargrove raises bees . So when Mr . Hargrove starts acting suspiciously and people begin dying from deadly bee attacks , it's natural for Vicki to suspect her host . But is Mr . Hargrove behind the trouble on Seagull Island ? Given the names behind The Deadly Bees , it's understandable to hope , if not expect , something better than this . Even with Amicus Productions , Freddie Francis , and Robert Bloch involved with the movie , there are far too many problems to call The Deadly Bees " good " . Three prime examples of the movie's many faults include : - Special / Visual Effects ? Most people tend to focus on the bee attacks when discussing the effects found in The Deadly Bees . And with good reason ? they're bad . But the bee effects practically shine in comparison with the matte painting used as the background for the farm . In a word , it's pitiful . It wouldn't fool anyone . - Characters ? None of the characters involved with the plot are in any way likable . Even the films heroine , Vicki Robbins , hasn't got much going for her . And that makes it almost impossible to root for her or care what happens to her when she comes across as so unlikable . - Plot ? For a movie that throws one red herring after another at the audience , it's too easy to see the outcome of The Deadly Bees from a mile away . None of the many plot twists actually work . Only the incredibly dimwitted characters in the movie like Vicki Robbins would find the outcome mysterious in anyway . There are more . I haven't even mentioned the unforgivably large plot holes or the ridiculous lapses in logic . But regardless of The Deadly Bees myriad of problems , I can't bring myself to rate the movie any lower than . Why ? Despite itself , The Deadly Bees never fails to provide me with some degree of entertainment . Otherwise , how can I explain why I've now seen the movie at least three times ? And , as I've always said , entertainment is the most important thing when it comes to movies and the reason I watch them .
When a mysterious ray destroys a space station and sends a spaceship hurtling off course , a group of astronauts finds themselves on a strange , seemingly deserted planet . Seemingly deserted , that is , until the inhabitants of Venus make themselves known to the astronauts and take them prisoner . The first thing the group of Earthlings notices ( and how could they help but notice ) is that Venus is inhabited by women only ? there are no men . Fearing the group of men might be an advance team scouting for a possible invasion from Earth , the Venusian Queen sentences the astronauts to death . But a scientist named Talleah ( Zsa Zsa Gabor ) would rather make love - not war . She leads a group opposed to the Queen's ways and does what she can to help the men escape . Queen of Outer Space is another of those movies that I find very difficult to rate . On the one hand , you've got an incredible amount of camp appeal . The movie is a mix of Zsa Zsa as a scientist who can't stand still without posing , some inspired set design , vivid colors , leggy Venusian women in short skirts and high-heels , wacky dialogue delivered with a completely straight face , arcane sexist jokes , and some of the best unintentional ( at least I think it was unintentional ) humor you can find . It's so completely off the wall and deliciously silly that I cannot help but like it . But where there's one hand , you usually find the other . The movie has its share of problems that I cannot overlook . Chief among them is some very uneven pacing and a plot that has a tendency to drag . Add to that some less that stellar acting from some of cast and what seems to be disinterest on the part of others , I can't rate Queen of Outer Space as high as I would like . In the end , I've taken the easy way out once again . I've split the difference and given the movie a - while it may be a camp lover's dream , there are problems that kept me from fully enjoying the Queen of Outer Space .
- Elvira moves to a small town to claim her inheritance - an old , rundown house . Although most of the townspeople don't approve , the kids in town are only too happy to help her fix-up her house . Elvira finds what she believes to be a cookbook in the house . Her uncle offers to buy it from her , but she won't sell . The book , it seems , contains more than ordinary recipes . It's a book of spells that Elvira must learn to use to save herself and the town . - I've seen this movie several times over the years . And with each viewing , I find myself enjoying it less and less . Elvira is a one note character - boob jokes . And , while some of the jokes are funny the first couple of times , the jokes get tired real quick . Without the comedy , Elvira becomes little more than a bad actress in a very revealing dress . - The brightest spot in the movie is Edie McClurg . She's one of those people that can make me laugh regardless of how bad the material may be . When you see her , she's the exact opposite of what you expect a comedian to look like . And she uses that to her advantage here playing the holier than though Chastity Pariah . - Even though Elvira , Mistress of the Dark may not be as good in my eyes as I once thought it was , it's still miles better than Elvira's second movie , Elvira's Haunted Hills - another one joke movie .
I didn't think it was possible for Otto Preminger and Gene Tierney to make something this un-extraordinary . Preminger does a decent job with the direction , the acting ( other than Richard Conte who comes across as a stiff ) is fine , and the movie looks good . So what went wrong ? The plot has so many points that stretch believability to the limit that I couldn't ever " get into " Whirlpool . There's too much of that psycho-mumbo-jumbo that really annoys me . What I know about hypnosis wouldn't fill a thimble , but I simply refuse to believe it's possible to use in the manner presented in this film . Without a strong grounding in reality as I understand it , an otherwise normal film about a murder isn't believable . I would love to go into more detail , but I don't want to ruin the film for those who haven't seen it . Just trust me when I say that what Jose Ferrar's character is capable of is as far-fetched as any fantasy film I've seen .
In light of an upcoming peace conference between the Klingons and the Federation , Captain Kirk puts aside his personal feelings and welcomes a Klingon delegation to dine on the Enterprise . But soon after the Klingons return to their ship they are attacked and the Klingon Ambassador is assassinated by someone believed to be from the Enterprise . Kirk and McCoy are put on trial for the murder , found guilty , and sentenced to hard labor . Surely this can't be the end of Kirk and the rest of the Enterprise crew . I'm not even sure I can be fair to these Star Trek movies anymore . I'm finding it harder and harder to take them seriously . The situations , dialogue , and action are quite ridiculous . Add to that the incredible over-acting on the part of William Shatner and his hair-piece and you're left with something I find more comedic ( albeit unintentional ) than dramatic . For example , watching Kirk score with Iman or watching Kirk make goofy faces as he fights his double ? laugh out loud funny ! In reality , however , Star Trek VI : The Undiscovered Country is the best of the three Star Trek movies I've watched recently ( Generations and The Final Frontier being the other two ) . I actually had fun watching it . I attribute much of that to the direction . Is it a coincidence that without Shatner in the director's chair ( as he was in Star Trek V ) that much of the movie actually worked for me . Sure , the writing , etc . may have also been better , but I'll argue the direction was as well . The mystery elements of the story were nicely handled even though much of the solution was way too easy to guess . There's nothing quite like a good conspiracy to keep a movie interesting . Finally , it's difficult to watch Star Trek VI and not be impressed with the considerable talent of Christopher Plummer . He makes several of the Star Trek regulars look like chumps in comparison . His General Chang is one of the more interesting characters I've run into in a Star Trek movie .
Talk about dj vu . I feel like I've seen this movie several times recently . It may be older than either Missile to the Moon , Queen of Outer Space , or Fire Maidens from Outer Space , but I saw those first . So for me , watching Cat-Women of the Moon is like watching what is essentially the same movie for the fourth time . And despite the familiarity and a whole slew of other weaknesses , I found myself enjoying it . The 2 . 5 IMDb rating seems a bit harsh ? especially when you consider the rating for Missile to the Moon . Not only does Missile to the Moon follow almost the exact same plot , but it appears to even reuse some of the props ( giant puppet spiders ) from Cat-Women of the Moon . The story ? five astronauts blast off for the moon only to meet a race of women whose world is slowly being destroyed . The women ( known for some inexplicable reason as Cat-Women in this movie ) want to use the astronaut's spaceship to take them to Earth to find a new world to conquer . Maybe I'm just weird , but I get a kick out of some of the same things that a lot of other comments bang on . Weak set design ( metal rolling office chairs with a seat belts used in the " spaceship " ) , poor special effects ( once again , the giant puppet spiders ) , bad acting ( could Sonny Tufts be any worse ) , and bad science ( just watch as a cigarette burns on the moon ! ) ? you'll find them all in Cat-Women of the Moon . But it's this naivet to the whole thing that I can't help but enjoy . It might not be for everyone , but I'll give it a even with all its flaws .
Abbott and Costello get mixed-up with tomb robbers , a dead archaeologist , and a cult of mummy worshipers in this , their last of the Meet the Universal monster films . Growing-up , I thought A & C was the height of comedy gold . I couldn't wait for this movie to appear on the local television listings . Not being 7 anymore , I realize now how unoriginal and tired much of the comedy in A & C Meet the Mummy is . Most of the comedy had been done before and better . For example , the " The Shovel is My Pick " skit is an obvious and inferior rip of their " Who's On First ? " bit . So even though my brain tells me the movie probably isn't as good as the rating I've given it , there's no counting for nostalgic value in things like this . As a 7 year old , my favorite bit in the movie ( and it still is today ) is the whole notion of three mummies ( one real , two fake ) running around the tomb . I still chuckle to myself at the scene where the three mummies back into each other . Also , I get a real kick out of Richard Deacon ( best known for playing Mel Cooley on The Dick Van Dyke Show ) as the leader of the mummy cult , Semu , playing it straight instead of for laughs . I can't think of a more unlikely casting decision .
- A retired safecracker ( Lee Van Cleef ) is lured out of retirement by the son of one of his buddies who is in trouble . The job - steal a load of diamonds from a warehouse safe . Things go terribly wrong . Van Cleef is wounded and everyone else is dead . Now , Van Cleef must elude the man who set-up the job , the man who owns the warehouse , and the police . It seems that Van Cleef's only ally is a crazy woman ( Karen Black ) who is the only other resident in an abandoned apartment building . - Over the years I've noticed that when the material he's faced with isn't first rate , Lee Van Cleef can overact with the best of them . And that's what he does here . There are many scenes where Van Cleef makes some of the most ridiculous faces for no purposes other than overemphasizing his point . It get very distracting . But in The Squeeze , he's outdone by Karen Black . She chews scenery like her life depended upon it . I just had to laugh a couple of times ( inappropriate times ) because it was all too funny . I suppose that most of the blame for the acting weaknesses could be traced directly to the script . The characters are given some really lame lines . - The story itself is quite nice . There's one double-cross after the next . The ending really caught me off guard . Just when I thought I had things figured out , I was hit with another loop . The plot is the primary reason I've rated this movie as I have . If you're a fan of heist films , much of The Squeeze will appeal to you . - I would be remiss if , even in this short review , I didn't mention the soundtrack . The music is pure ( bad ) 70s disco . The main theme song is especially annoying and presents everything that was wrong with music from this period . Even worse , it's stuck in my head - Oh the Pain !
Stephen King and George Romero combined their talents to create the 1982 horror / comedy anthology Creepshow . They do an excellent job of giving the whole movie 50s / 60s pulp magazine feel to it . Short stories , vibrant colors , and a nice wrap around sequence contribute to this feeling . Like those pulp magazines , Creepshow is divided into segments or short stories ? five to be exact . While some are more entertaining than others , none are unwatchable . 1 . " Father's Day " ? A murdered man returns from the grave to " get his cake " . The special effects are the highlight of this segment . It may not be as scary as I would like , but it's reasonably entertaining . Rating ? . 2 . " The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill " ? A man gets a little to close to a meteorite and finds himself being transformed into a plant . This segment is played for laughs , but unfortunately , none of them work . Stephen King stars as Jordy Verrill . This vignette might have been better with a real actor instead of King . Rating ? . 3 . " Something to Tide You Over " ? A man uses the tides to do away with his cheating wife and her lover . If this segment weren't so predictable , it would be among the best . Tom Savini's makeup is the real star of this segment . Rating ? . 4 . " The Crate " ? A henpecked professor uses the contents of an old , forgotten about crate to help him with his problems . This is easily the highlight of the movie and would have made a nice feature length movie by itself . Adrienne Barbeau and Hal Holbrook star and are both great . The creature effects and design are a winner . Rating ? . 5 . " They're Creeping Up On You " ? A man with a cockroach phobia finds his home inundated by cockroaches . E . G . Marshall is good enough in the portion of the movie , but I find it dull . This vignette does have a great set design , though . Rating ? If you average the ratings I've given the individual segments , you'll come up with my overall rating of a . As you can see , I find Creepshow very hit-or-miss . If the entire film were as good as " The Crate " , it would easily be on the list of my favorite horror movies .
Woman Haters is far from the best of the Three Stooges , but it is a nice start to the Columbia shorts and does offer a unique and interesting thing or two . The plot sees the boys joining the Woman Haters Club ? a club that prohibits its members from carrying on with women . But no sooner than they become members , Larry ( they actually have character names , but they don't really matter ) finds himself at the altar . He does his best to keep Moe and Curly from finding out he's secretly gotten married and he does his best to keep his new wife from finding out about the Woman Haters club . As expected , a great deal of eye poking and head knocking ensues . The two best things Woman Haters has going for it ( beyond its curiosity value ) is the rhyming scheme of the dialogue and Marjorie White as Larry's wife . While I've seen some complaints about the rhyming dialogue , it worked for me . I thought it was very clever . Now , it might not have worked for a full feature , but for a two-reeler , it's okay . As for Marjorie White , she more than capable of holding her own with Moe , Larry , and Curly ? more so than most women I can think of off the top of my head who appeared in other Three Stooges shorts . It's too bad she didn't live long enough to see where her career might have taken her .
Frankenstein ( 1984 ) is yet another of the seemingly endless versions of the Frankenstein story . This one was apparently made for British television . The director , James Ormerod , has put together a nice little movie given the obvious limitations to his budget . I won't go into the basic story as most already know it by heart . The cast is good . The movie stars Carrie Fisher , Robert Powell , and David Warner . Although listed as the ' star ' , Fisher's role of Elizabeth has little screen time . She is , however , good when on screen . As for Powell , other than looking like a 1970s porn star , his portrayal of Dr . Victor Frankenstein is also good . But , the real star is David Warner as the monster . His portrayal of the monster is one of the better I've seen . In a very believable performance , Warner plays the monster as a very sympathetic creature . For example , I really felt the monster's pain when his only friend is killed . I would easily rate it as on of the top three performances of Frankenstein's monster I've seen . Of note in the supporting cast is John Gielgud as the blind hermit . The make-up is also good given the budget . Instead of the scars and neck bolts we're all familiar with , this creature looks more like a burn victim . It's understandable given the high temperatures generated from the electricity that brought the monster to life . While not the best Frankenstein I've ever seen , the movie held my attention throughout . At the start of the movie , I was ready to hate it , but ended up having a great time watching the story unfold . Warner's monster was a treat .
When it comes to giant bug movies , Earth vs the Spider is one of my favorites . Yeah , parts of it are definitely corny and unbelievable , but for me , these things only add to the movie's charm . What's not to like about watching Fred Ziffel getting backed into a corner by a giant spider . And the special effects , while not up to today's standards , are really nicely done . I've seen a lot of big bug movies that don't look half as good as this one does . Another highlight is the casual way the cave is blown-up and , later , the way our heroes are rescued . They just don't make ' em like that anymore . Good stuff ! I suppose my biggest complaint with Earth vs the Spider has always been with the title . A more appropriate title would have been One Small , Sleepy Town vs the Spider .
Nancy Drew , with the invaluable assistance of her friend Ted Nickerson , comes to the aid of two old spinsters about to lose their home . As part of their father's will , the old women must live in the house for 20 years or its ownership will change to the city . But the death of the chauffeur , a theft in the middle of the night , and voices in walls have the sisters ready to abandon their home and their legacy . It's up to Nancy and Ted to find out what's going on and , in the process , unmask a killer . Nancy Drew and the Hidden Staircase is probably my least favorite of the series . That's not to say it's a bad , unentertaining movie , it's just not as good as the three movies that came before it . If I had to point to any one thing that bothered me about the movie it would be the complete lack of reality . While I realize that none of the four movies in the series is set in what I consider the real world , Nancy Drew and the Hidden Staircase takes it a bit too far . For example , while Nancy is quite often misleading about what evidence she may have found while investigating a case , she crosses the line in this movie when she fabricates a suicide note and / or fails to tell the police about a bullet casing she's discovered . I don't care whose daughter she is or how much she has helped the police in the past , you get into real trouble when you start tampering with evidence . But enough of my preaching . Nancy Drew and the Hidden Staircase is still a lot of fun . Bonita Granville and Frankie Thomas are as enjoyable as ever . The movie is well paced and at an hour in length there's not enough time for a wasted scene . The comedy is often quite funny . I found myself chuckling at more than one scene ( the ice piling up on the ice box for example ) . While there's no real mystery as to the killer's identity , watching Nancy and Ted discover the how's and why's is a lot of fun . Finally , I'm a sucker for a movie set in an old house with moving walls and secret passages . They're just too much fun !
Three American's leave Hong Kong headed for Macao . While the three don't know each other , their lives are soon to be intertwined . Macao is essentially run by a gambler and crook named Vincent Halloran ( Brad Dexter ) . He's always on the look out for American cops looking to put the clamp on his operation and take him back to the U . S . to stand trial . Halloran is convinced that one of the new arrivals , Nick Cochran ( Robert Mitchum ) , is his man and wants to get him off the island before Cochran can get the drop on him . Complicating matters is Julie Benson ( Jane Russell ) , who both Cochran and Halloran have a thing for , and Lawrence C . Trumble ( William Bendix ) , a man who seems just a bit too interested in what's going on in Macao . It's not that Macao is a bad movie , but you can certainly find better . Macao does nothing outstanding or overly memorable that allows it to rise much above the average mark . Take the film's two leads , Robert Mitchum and Jane Russell . I thought the pair was pretty good in His Kind of Woman . But here they're basically playing the same roles . It's the same relationship and dialogue all over again . How about something to spice things up a bit ? The rest of the movie is similarly uneventful . Brad Dexter's tough guy Halloran isn't that tough . Thomas Gomez's Lt . Sebastian isn't as slimy and underhanded as he might have been . And William Bendix's character is far too easy to see through and figure out his motivations . Like I said , it's not that Macao is bad , it's just not as good as it could or should have been . If you enjoy watching Robert Mitchum play the same role he played dozens of times and if you enjoy watching Jane Russell sing and wear fabulous clothes , Macao might be the movie for you . If you want real excitement , suspense , and drama and the chance to see Mitchum and Russell do something that will " wow " you , you'll be disappointed .
Summoned to Baghdad at the behest of a Russian Countess , Hercule Poirot ( David Suchet ) instead finds himself mixed up in a murder at a nearby archaeological dig . This is , however , no ordinary murder . With only one entrance to the room the woman was found in and several witnesses to the fact that no on entered or exited , Poirot will have to come up with a clever solution to trap a clever killer . Even with my rating , I feel I may have overrated Murder in Mesopotamia . It's got some good points ? the exotic Tunisian locations standing in for Iraq , David Suchet , the archaeological dig setting , and an interesting , if improbable , means of murder . And there's something extra appealing about a locked room type mystery . But Murder in Mesopotamia suffers from one hugely ridiculous plot point that I am completely unable to overlook . It's not really the fault of the makers of this adaptation - instead , I lay the blame squarely at Agatha Christie's original work . - BIG SPOILERS AHEAD ? Are we really supposed to believe that Mrs . Leidner could marry a man and not realize he was her supposedly dead first husband ? I cannot fathom something so far-fetched as this actually happening . I don't care how much his face has changed , I'm unwilling to take that kind of leap in logic . I've always thought it was one of the silliest things Christie ever wrote . Unless she was a complete idiot , surely Mrs . Leidner would have realized at some point that she had married the same man twice . ? END OF BIG SPOILERS
Just as I did with Massacre in Dinosaur Valley , I've probably overrated Eaten Alive . I readily admit that it's not a very good movie . But it's so bizarre and so much fun that I can't help myself . If you throw in cannibals , a religious nut , bad dubbing , and Me Me Lai , you've got a sure fired winner as far as I'm concerned . It seems to me that Umberto Lenzi had an idea for making a film based on the Jim Jones story , but decided to spice it up by placing cannibals in the jungle . The Jonesesque aspects of the story are undeniable ? a cult , under the control of a ruthless leader , set-up a jungle compound to practice their strange form of religion . The followers are kept in line through the use of physical punishment and are threatened with death if they disobey . There's even a plan to distribute something similar to the poisonous Kool-Aid used in Guyana should the need arise for a mass suicide . Even the name Lenzi selected for his cult leader ? Jonas ? seems to have been done so to remind viewers of what happened in the Jungles of Guyana just a year or so earlier . While the Jim Jones story had been told before , Lenzi puts in a few of his own original twists and keeps it at least interesting . The cannibal scenes , on the other hand , lack any form of originality . It is all too obvious that most of these scenes were lifted from other cannibal films ? Lenzi's and other directors . For example , Me Me's death scene is the same one from Ruggero Deodato's Jungle Holocaust . I don't mean to imply that Lenzi shot a scene similar to Deodato's . That would have required effort . Instead , Lenzi included Deodato's footage from Jungle Holocaust in Eaten Alive . And this is not the only example . Besides originality , there's no continuity . Me Me's death scenes starts out in broad daylight but suddenly shifts to a night time as filmed in Jungle Holocaust . And the fact that the cannibals never look the same in any two scenes is a bit disconcerting . Finally , as with most of these Italian cannibal films , those who are squeamish about real animal deaths should avoid Eaten Alive . I'm certainly not a fan of these scenes either .
Going into a plot summary is a bit tricky with one of these Poirot mysteries . It's difficult to do so without giving away too much . It's hard to know where to stop . I'll just say that in typical Agatha Christie style , there is no shortage of suspects , everyone has a motive , and the victim was so nasty that he almost deserved what he got . Sound familiar ? If it weren't for one key incident in the movie , I would be happy extolling all of the positive aspects of Lord Edwige Dies . I'm sure I would mention the authentic looking sets ( at least , authentic to my untrained eye ) , the attention to detail , the acting , the score , and all of the other aspects that make each and every Poirot installment I've seen special . I'm also sure that I would go out of my way to mention Helen Grace who affected me much in the same manner she did Poirot . And , I'm sure there are other positives I would not doubt list . But , because of an unforgivable flaw , I cannot be positive while writing this . If you don't want to read possible SPOILERS , please skip the rest of this review . SPOILER WARNING Lord Edwige Dies contains one of the biggest cheats I've ever seen . The whole solution to the mystery revolves around Jane Wilkinson being in two places at the same time . It's not physically possible . So , in the solution to the mystery , we see that Jane asked a friend gifted in impersonations to " play " her at a dinner party as part of a joke . The other guests hardly know her so the actress should be able to pull it off . I'm okay with this , but the director commits an unforgivable cheat with the dinner party scene . The Jane Wilkinson we see as an audience at the dinner part is the real Jane Wilkinson . It's not the impostor . Trust me , I went back just to make sure . I cannot believe any director would have thought he could get away with something like this . END SPOILER
The Dark Corner is the story of a P . I . framed for the murder of his ex-partner . Not only does he appear to have had the opportunity to commit the crime , he also has a very good motive . The partner was responsible for the P . I . ' s two-year stay in prison . But who's the real murderer ? With the help of his plucky girlfriend , the P . I . has to get to the bottom of this case before the police find the dead body and send him back to prison . I've seen several wonderful noirs lately that have become " new " favorites , but I can't include The Dark Corner on this list . It's good , but it's just not great . Much of the blame has to be put on the P . I . as played by Mark Stevens . He is one of the most un-charismatic characters of this type I've seen . For the movie to work , you have to care about his plight and I just couldn't feel anything for him . If it weren't for his secretary / girlfriend , I doubt he would have ever been able to clear himself . He's just doesn't seem that bright or ambitious enough to pull it off on his own . I'm not that familiar with him , but if this is the way Stevens played characters in his other films , it's no wonder he never became a big star . The rest of the cast is generally good with a real standout performance from Lucille Ball ( yes , the same Lucy who would go on to eat chocolate off a conveyor belt and stomp grapes with her bare feet ) . I had no idea Lucy could " play it straight " . She's wonderful . I'll have to track down some of her other early film roles . Other cast members include William Bendix as a big bruising heavy and Clifton Webb basically reprising his role from Laura . But as good as each of these actors are , they never felt like more than actors . The roles were too stereotypical to be as believable as I would have preferred . One of the highlights for me is the feel and look of The Dark Corner . The film has a dark , gritty feel to it that adds to the characters ' desperation . Lighting and cinematography are more than adequate . Director Henry Hathaway has given The Dark Corner a mood and atmosphere second to none . And , as a bonus , The Dark Corner includes some wonderful on-location shots of New York City in the 40s . Forget about studio sets when you can film in the real thing .
If you can't beat ' em , join ' em . That would seem to be part of the thinking behind 100 Rifles . By the late 60s , the traditional American Western had been replaced by the Euro or Spaghetti Western with more emphasis on violence and blurred lines between bad and good . 100 Rifles was filmed in Spain and has that same raw , dirty look to it that most of the Westerns coming out of Europe had at the time . The biggest difference is that 100 Rifles is an American production . The film features an interesting storyline and several good action sequences with a couple of train shootouts being the highlight of the film for me . A lot of the action may seem over-the-top , but that's the way I like my Spaghetti Westerns . 100 Rifles actually has four main characters played by Jim Brown , Burt Reynolds , Raquel Welch , and Fernando Lamas . Brown is by far the weakest of the four . To describe his acting as wooden would be an insult to trees everywhere . He's simply out of his league with the rest of the cast . Reynolds is surprisingly good as the half-breed Yaqui Joe Herrera . At first , he may seem to be little more than a mischievous drunken outlaw , but there's a definite intelligence behind the hyena like laugh . Besides being one of the most beautiful women who ever walked the planet , Welch throws herself into her role and is reasonably convincing . But Lamas is the real standout . His General Verdugo is a marvelous character more obsessed with personal revenge than in doing what is necessary to beat his enemies . Other than Brown , it's a solid cast . While the story is good , if not predictable for this kind of movie , it runs on a little too long . Cutting about 20 minutes out of the film's 110 minute runtime and making it tighter would have gone a long way to making 100 Rifles a much better movie . One of the biggest draws of this film upon its initial release was the scandalous love scene between Welch and Brown . It has so little bearing on the plot that cutting it out would have been a good place to start with the editing scissors .
Traveling from Monte Carlo to Nice , Charlie Chan and No . 1 son Lee discover and abandoned car . Inside the car , they find the dead body of a bank messenger who was transporting $1 million in bonds belonging to a wealthy industrialist named Victor Karnoff . There are not shortage of suspects : Paul Savarin ? Karnoff's business rival ; Joan Karnoff ? Victor's wife who was being blackmailed ; Al Rogers ? a shady bartender ; Evelyn Gray ? a woman living above her means ; or Karnoff himself for the insurance money . It's up to Charlie Chan to discover the truth . Charlie Chan at Monte Carlo would be Warner Oland's last performance as the venerable detective . Unfortunately , it's one of the weakest Chan films Oland would make . It's not his fault ? instead the blame can be placed on a weak script and a couple of other factors . Chan films notoriously cheat the viewer in that the solution to the mystery too often relies on facts not available to the audience . Charlie Chan at Monte Carlo is especially guilty of this . Key clues that help trap the killer are known only to Chan and the French Police Inspector . As for the other factors I mentioned , one of these would be Harold Huber . Huber , who appeared in two other Chan films , really lays it on thick here with his over-the-top acting and ridiculous French accent . It gets annoying rather quickly . Still , this is Charlie Chan I'm talking about so it's not all bad . In fact , even a weak Chan film is still an enjoyable experience . It's just a shame that Oland couldn't have gone out on a higher note .
The Templars are back in action , this time terrorizing a local village . And while I found a lot to enjoy , the movie suffers because it is a sequel . I suppose selecting a favorite depends on which Blind Dead movie you see first . I happened to see Tombs of the Blind Dead ( the first in the series ) before I saw Return of the Evil Dead . As a result , a lot of the suspense and mystery surrounding the Templars is lost in this movie . I already knew what the Templars were all about and wasn't as shocked as I was with the first movie . That's not to say there aren't moments of horror gold to be found in Return of the Evil Dead . Once again , the Templars rising from the grave is very well done . The scene where the villagers are trapped in the Plaza by the Templars on horseback is one of the best of first two movies . And Return of the Evil Dead has characters that are easier to care about . Add to that the requisite amount of violence , blood , and general creepiness and you've got a very solid horror movie .
Mary Eldredge , a wealthy older woman , is prepared to make a substantial donation to the school Nancy Drew ( Bonita Granville ) attends . But when she disappears before the gift can be finalized , Nancy immediately suspects foul play . And when Nancy witnesses the local doctor being kidnapped , she's sure she's on the right track . Can Nancy , with the help of her friend Ted Nickerson ( Frankie Thomas ) , find and rescue the old woman ? Honestly , I wasn't expecting to enjoy Nancy Drew ? Detective quite as much as I did . Sure , I'm a fan of 1930s-style mysteries like the Charlie Chan or Falcon series , but from afar , I've always thought of the Nancy Drew movies too lightweight and fluffy in comparison ( though when I think about it , there's nothing deep and meaningful about Chan or any of the other movies I've enjoyed for years ) . And though Nancy Drew ? Detective is a breezy affair , it's still very enjoyable . I cannot come up with enough positives to write about Bonita Granville . She has an infectious charm that dominates the entire movie . It's hard to watch her and not have a smile on your face . You just naturally root for her . The supporting players , particularly John Litel as Carson Drew and Frankie Thomas as Ted Nickerson , also add a lot of enjoyment to the movie . The mystery elements of Nancy Drew ? Detective hardly matter . It's quite obvious from the start what has happened to the old woman Nancy is looking for . But none of that really matters . The important thing is watching Nancy and the gang get to the final solution . It's just a lot of fun !
Count Massimo Contini ( Nigel Green ) is the mastermind behind a billion dollar gold robbery . His plan is to send the world markets into chaos . He may get away with it unless Matt Helm ( Dean Martin ) can track down the missing gold . But along the way , Helm will meet up the Count's hired muscle , a gorgeous female killer , and a ditsy woman who insists on helping him . I suppose the best way to describe a Matt Helm film would be a light and breezy spoof of the James Bond movies . Nothing is very serious and you're sure that everything will work out in the end . Dean Martin plays Matt Helm about as laid back as could be imagined . Instead of a gun , you're more likely to see him with a drink in one hand , a cigarette in the other , a beautiful woman to ogle , and a quick quip . His fights scenes may leave a lot to be desired , but there's no denying his " cool " . The Wrecking Crew is actually one of the better Matt Helm films . The hiding place of the gold is ingenious , the spy gadgets are plentiful , and the women are everywhere . The cast is one of the better assembled for any of these films . Nigel Green and Elke Sommer make a wonderful pair as the distinguished master criminal and the sexy killer ( roles very similar to the ones they played in 1966's Deadlier Than the Male ) . But Sharon Tate really shines as the ditsy Freya Carlson . It's incredibly sad to think that this would be Tate's last role before her brutal murder . She's a joy and a real pleasure to watch .
After her mother's untimely and violent death , Diane Shaw ( Belinda Montgomery ) meets a woman named Lilith Malone ( Shelley Winters ) who claims to be one of her mother's old friends . Lilith invites Diane to stay with her for a while . At first things seem almost ideal , but a series of strange events soon puts a different spin on things . Diane decides to leave Lilith's house , but can't seem to escape her control . Is Lilith who and what she claims to be ? Or is she the devil in disguise ? I just love watching Shelley Winters in a movie like this . Although she's in control most of the time , there's at least one scene where Winters loses it that's too much fun . I don't think her turn in The Devil's Daughter is anywhere near her best , but she always a joy . The rest of the cast is good . Jonathan Frid , Abe Vigoda , Diane Ladd , and Joseph Cotton are all good in their respective roles . I also love these 1970s made-for-TV movies . As I wrote in a comment to another Movie of the Week , young people today would be surprised at how much we enjoyed watching these movies . And if it was horror or horror related , it was something we really looked forward to . Movies like Satan's School for Girls , Gargoyles , and The Night Stalker were the highlights of the television schedule . The Devil's Daughter is another fine example of made-for-TV horror . It's not the best of the bunch , but it is effectively creepy in spots . A few of the scenes , like the party Diane attends where she discovers her titular birthright , are eerily reminiscent of Rosemary's Baby . Overall , it's an enjoyable little film ? not great by any stretch of the imagination ? just enjoyable . I would rate it even higher if the screenplay weren't so predictable . I defy anyone who has seen more than a handful of horror to find many surprises in the plot . But even as predictable as the film's climax may be , it's still a trip to watch unfold .
Sergio ( Richard Johnson ) responds to a " Help Wanted " ad for a librarian that seems to have been written just for him . When he arrives at the rambling villa , he meets an old woman who has been following him . At first , he writes her off as a nutty old broad and wants nothing to do with her or her job . But then he meets the old woman's daughter , Aura ( Rosanna Schiaffino ) , and decides the job might have a few more perks than he at first imagined . But is Aura for real and to what lengths will he go to get her . The Witch is a very slow moving , but incredibly intriguing film . The movie takes its time in building the suspense and ultimate horror . And while many of the plot points and twists along the way are surely obvious to most anyone , the fun is watching these plot points and twists unfold . I generally don't put much emphasis on things like this , but the relationship Sergio and Aura is as erotic as I've seen . The passion is all but palatable . And when Aura disappears , it's easy to feel Sergio's pain . The final scenes present a more than satisfying conclusion to the film . Although most viewers will have guessed that the old woman and Aura are really one and the same , the whole notion and the way it's presented in The Witch makes for a nice ending . The acting in The Witch is easily its highpoint . Richard Johnson is outstanding as the love-stricken librarian slowly going insane . As for Rosanna Schiaffino , I don't know where these Italian producers found these incredible women . It's not a stretch of the imagination to believe Schiaffino could force any man to fall for her . Finally , Gian Maria Volonte is tremendous as Aura's former lover . I've only seen Volonte in his crazed , over-the-top roles in Spaghetti Western roles , so it was a nice to see him in a more subdued , yet just as crazed , role . In the end , if you're a fan of Italian horror , The Witch is definitely worth seeking out .
- When the owner of a football team is found dead in his pool , it looks like an accident . That is until Columbo starts poking around . He quickly latches on to the man who runs the team , Paul Hanlon ( Robert Culp ) , as the primary suspect . But how could Hanlon have committed the murder ? He was at the ballgame at the time it was committed . - The best thing about this The Most Crucial Game is the interaction between Robert Culp and Peter Falk . Culp is great as the suspect who grows more weary of Columbo's continual antics . There are a couple of scenes where Culp looks like he's really ready to blow a fuse . In contract , Falk's Columbo is calm , cool , and collected . Great stuff . - The actual murder is also a thing of genius . Using a block of ice to bash someone in the head while in a swimming pool is a masterful idea . The intended victim is dead and there is no murder weapon . - The weakest point of The Most Crucial Game is unfortunately the ending . It's rather poorly handled . It's almost as if the writers couldn't come up with a good way to end it . The solution is fine , it's just that the revelation of the solution seems very awkward .
Dr . Campbell is a sick man . Just before he dies , he gives a bottle of tablets to Dr . Paul Beecher ( Paul Beal ) . Quite by accident , Paul takes one of the pills thinking it's his migraine medication . The pills were part of Dr . Campbell's work on mind regression to a more primitive state and were made from the blood of the vampire bat . Paul immediately becomes addicted to the pills and begins taking one each night . Coinciding with Paul addiction , people in town begin dying mystery deaths . Each has strange bite marks on their necks . Paul begins to suspect himself , but surely Paul's suspicions can't be true . Are the pills turning him into some kind of vampire ? While I don't think it's quite as good as his later film The Return of Dracula , Paul Landres ' The Vampire is still a solid little horror film that takes much of the existing vampire mythology and stands it on its head . For example , the creature in The Vampire isn't the suave , cape-wearing , seducer that we've all become familiar with over the years . Here , the creature is a primitive being that seeks blood for survival . It is more bat-like in appearance and action . I'm not saying that one interpretation is better than the other , I just appreciate the difference . There's a lot to like about The Vampire . I love the way the film introduces an element of horror into an otherwise safe and comfortable Leave It to Beaver type setting . The contrast is interesting . And I for one appreciate the make-up effects . I realize they were done " on the cheap " , but I found them very eerie . Landres direction is solid . He keeps things interesting without a lapse during the movies runtime . But the area I find the most enjoyable in The Vampire is the acting . Everyone involved gives a performance far better than you would expect from a film of this type . As others have noted , Paul Beal gives real outstanding first-rate performance . Overall , The Vampire is a very satisfying film . I look forward to revisiting it for years to come .
- The basic premise of Cannonball has been done several times - a diverse group of drivers compete in a cross-country race where anything goes . Sound familiar ? Hal Nedham ripped the guts out of Cannonball for his Cannonball Run made five years later . The difference , though , is that while Cannonball is often funny with some great action , Cannonball Run is often too over-the-top and unwatchable . It's too bad that Bartel's movie isn't as well known as Nedham's . While it will never be confused with Citizen Kane , Cannonball is a thrill-a-minute , cheese-filled good time . - Bartel's direction is one of the highlights of the movie . You would think that a 90 + minute movie of watching cars race might get boring . It's not . Bartel keeps things moving and there's never a dull moment . Bartel does a great job of mixing race action , comedy , fight scenes , and a little drama to create a well-balanced , enjoyable movie . - As far as acting goes , David Carradine naturally stands out . He's a car driving , butt kicking machine . Carradine is able to add a little authenticity to the movie by doing a lot of his own driving . There are a couple of spinouts where you can actually see that it's Carradine sitting behind the wheel . - My biggest complaint with Cannonball involves the spectacular pile-up at the end of the movie . It gets off to a good start with cars plowing into each other followed by explosion after explosion . The problem is that it goes on for so long that it started to have a morbid feel to it . It bothered me that , as a viewer , I could only assume that there were people supposedly driving those cars that were bursting into flames and I didn't see any survivors . I can only assume that everyone was burned to a crisp . Sure it's a little picky , but it bothered me .
A group of six young people find themselves stranded in the mountains of West Virginia . When four members of the group leave to find either help or a phone they stumble upon a cabin that at first appears to be deserted . But what they find in the cabin proves that it is actually inhabited and not the place they want to be when the owners return home . Just as they are making their exit , a truck pulls to the front of the house and three inbred mountain men enter the house carrying the dead , butchered bodies of their friends with them . What Works : - Inbred Hillbillies . Movies with backwoods murderous inbred hillbillies have always fascinated me . Some of my favorite movies ( The Hills Have Eyes , The Texas Chainsaw Massacre , The Final Terror , etc . ) feature this kind of character . These characters are frightening because you know they're based in reality . There really are people out there who look and , to a lesser extent , act like this . As a bonus , the make-up used on Three Finger , Saw-Tooth , and One-Eye is excellent . It's another argument in favor of traditional quality latex make-up . - No Jokes . Other than a few bits of comedy that fit within the framework of the plot , Wrong Turn is played straight . Most movies made today with this many horror clichs would turn into one big self-referential jokefest . I'm glad Schmidt avoided going down this road . There is no attempt to go out of the way to create comedy or fill the movie with inappropriate one-liners that only serve to ruin mood and atmosphere . - Scenes of Violence . I found many of the scenes of violence particularly well done . These inbred hillbillies are brutal and savage . They care not for human life . Their methods of killing are primitive but effective . One of my favorite scenes involves a bow , an arrow , and human eye . Nice ! What Doesn't Work : - It's Not West Virginia . My wife is from West Virginia and I've been there any number of times . I could tell almost immediately that the film wasn't actually made in West Virginia . I wasn't surprised to discover that the actual location was Ontario , Canada . If you're going to film a movie that is set in West Virginia , why not film it in West Virginia ? This just bugged me throughout the entire movie . - Why doesn't Eliza die ? With the exception of Eliza Dushku's character , every other victim the inbreeds run across is immediately slaughtered . So why did they ( or better yet , why does the script ) treat Eliza differently ? Why is she spared long enough to be rescued ? Obviously I know the answer , but it's an inconsistency in Wrong Turn that I didn't appreciate . Wrong Turn is a nice throwback to the 70s movies I grew up with . It's vicious , raw , brutal , and a lot of fun . In short , it's my kind of horror movie . Just thinking about the movie should make my family's annual October camping trip to West Virginia a more interesting .
Before his company will pay out , an insurance investigator ( Dennis O'Keefe ) arrives in a small town to look into an apparent suicide . But he immediately begins to suspect something's not quite right . No gun , no powder marks , no bullet , no coroner's report , and no sheriff's report seem to lead to no suicide . Was it suicide ? or was it something even more sinister ? It may not be the noir I was expecting , but Cover-Up is a nice little 40s style mystery . The plot kept me going up to the end . It's full of red herrings and I could have never guessed the outcome . Other than the It's a Wonderful Life style ending , I've got nothing to complain about . The cast is more than capable with Dennis O'Keefe , William Bendix , and Barbara Britton giving nice performances . I'm not all that familiar with Britton , but it's easy to see why she was a Revlon Girl for more than a decade . The cast also features Doro Merande who steals every scene in which she appears . I picked up the DVD on the budget Geneon label . If you don't mind a lack of extras ( and that includes the absence of a menu ) , it's not a bad deal for the money . The cover art is misleading . I have no idea what movie it was taken from , but it most certainly wasn't Cover-Up .
The Cabinet of Dr . Caligari is , for me , a tale of two movies . On one hand , there's no denying the film's historical significance or amazing " look " . Instead of going into detail on the film's historical significance , I think that simply stating the fact that The Cabinet of Dr . Caligari is a German horror film from 1920 pretty much sums it up . As for the " look " of the film , The Cabinet of Dr . Caligari is a beautiful nightmare . The twisted images are something to behold . It's like a work of art come to life . The sight of Conrad Veidt dressed in black , looking like a shadow that has taken on human characteristics , slinking down a hall on the way to his next victim is an image that stays with you . The set design is brilliant . The skewed shapes of ordinary objects like windows and doors and the use of paint to represent light and shadows is stunning . Filmmakers today could spend literally millions trying to create the " look " found in The Cabinet of Dr . Caligari and never achieve anything nearly as memorable . But , as I said , The Cabinet of Dr . Caligari is the tale of two movies . Once you get past the film's place in history and the stylized look , you're left with the plot . And this is where I have problems with the movie . As I've said any number of times , I ultimately watch movies for entertainment . It may seem shallow to some , but if I'm not entertained , I can't in good conscious rate a film highly just because of technical or some other achievement . As a vehicle for entertainment , The Cabinet of Dr . Caligari let me down . I was never drawn into or felt engaged by the story . The plot is so overly simplistic that I found much of the goings on dull . Don't misunderstand . My problems with the film have nothing to do with it being a silent movie . It may sound clich , but some of my favorite movies ( The Unknown being at the top of the list ) are silent . It's unfortunate that the plot of The Cabinet of Dr . Caligari is in no way as memorable as the " look " of the film .
- Abbott and Costello ( A & C ) get mixed up with a gangster and become his sole heirs upon his death . The estate consists of an old roadside inn that may or may not be the hiding place for the gangster's money . But , there are a lot of other people who want to get their hands on that money - and some of them may be ghosts . - I have seen some people who claim that this is the best movie A & C made . While I don't necessarily agree with that , it's a solid effort . The mix of A & C , an old dark house , ghosts , gangsters , and a good supporting cast are a sure fire winner . - The supporting cast is stronger her than in many of the movies A & C made . On hand are Richard Carlson , Evelyn Ankers , and Marc Lawrence . But Joan Davis comes out looking the best . She's an actress who I've never really cared for , but in Hold That Ghost she makes the perfect companion for A & C . One of my favorite bits is the dance scene with her and Costello . Funny stuff .
As a primer for the better known Cannibal Holocaust , Jungle Holocaust is definitely not a movie for all tastes . It's rough and raw presentation of savagery would put-off many a viewer . And because director Ruggero Deodato chose to use real aboriginals as his cannibals and real jungle locations , the movie has an authentic feel to it that serves to increase the unsettling feeling Jungle Holocaust produces . I've never run into a real cannibal , but this is what I would expect them to look like . They're dirty , vicious , and wild and ( other than one exception ) completely believable . The situations our hero Robert Harper ( Massimo Foschi ) faces seem real making the horror in Jungle Holocaust very effective . Beyond the gruesome on-screen action , the acting is a real highlight of Jungle Holocaust . Foschi has the most screen time and does the most with it . His slow disintegration into madness and to the savageness of the cannibals around him is fascinating to watch unfold . It's a terrific piece of acting . Me Me Lai has the second most screen time and while she's good in her non-speaking role , she's also the one exception to the believability factor in the movie I mentioned previously . I sincerely doubt that any stone-age , cannibal tribe in the history of the Earth contained a woman that looks as good as Me Me does in Jungle Holocaust . She looks too good to be believable and stands out like a soar thumb when compared with the other tribe members . Finally , a word of warning : Those who do not want to see real animals die on-screen had best be advised to stay away . If you are easily offended by this kind of stuff , don't ' watch the movie . While I personally find these scenes unconscionable and disgusting , I was able to get past them and appreciate and even enjoy the brutal nature of this fascinating film .
A young woman named Anna ( Virginie Ledoyan ) is hired to help clean an abandoned orphanage , Saint Ange , after a series of accidents forces its closure . Anna has been forced to leave her previous job after her employer raped her and left her pregnant ? something she desperately wants to hide . She's not completely alone at Saint Ange as the cook ( Dorina Lazar ) is still around to help Anna and to care for the one remaining orphan , a disturbed older girl named Judith ( Lou Doillon ) . Before long , Anna begins to experience some unusual things in the house including mysterious noises , voices , and footsteps . With Judith's help , Anna begins to investigate the giant house and its history . The cook claims to have noticed nothing and questions Anna's sanity . Is Anna mad or does the house have secrets to hide ? If nothing else , I would call House of Voices an ambitious film . I got the distinct impression that the director , Pascal Laugier , was attempting to bring back some of the style of the 1970s Euro-horror films to a modern audience . The film has much of the look and feel you would find in some of the best classic Italian horror films . Many of the camera shots are reminiscent of something you might find in an Argento or Fulci film . Laugier went so far as to cast Catriona MacColl , best known to me from her roles in three of Fulci's zombie films , as the headmistress of the orphanage . If Laugier was actually going for something akin to the films I've mentioned , then he succeeded . I noticed it straightaway . House of Voices is a very slow moving and very atmospheric film . Laugier takes his time telling his story and the movie benefits from it . If you're looking for a thrill-a-minute , stay away . But if you enjoy leisurely paced films where the horror is more subtle than in your face , you'll appreciate Laugier's efforts . As for atmospheric , there are moments in the film where the atmosphere is so thick you can all but cut it with a knife . There's a real sense of foreboding throughout the huge house . The feeling that Anna is in real danger is inescapable . It's one of the films real highlights . The acting in House of Voices is quite good . I was extremely impressed with Virginie Ledoyan . She brought real believability to her role . I could feel the fear and pain she was going through . I don't think I've seen her in anything before , but I'll keep an eye out for her in the future . The supporting cast is equally good and enjoyable . I've got no complaints as far as the acting is concerned . Unfortunately , there are some real problems with House of Voices that keep it from being a great film . Chief among them is the screenplay . It's so utterly confusing that it almost feels purposeful to make House of Voices seem deeper and full of hidden meaning that's really not there . I don't mind a film that makes you think , but there are too many loose ends and plot points that make no sense . Who killed the kittens ? What was in that box Anna found hidden in the wall ? What really happened in the orphanage years previous ? Was I right when I said Anna was raped by her previous employer ? I can make educated guesses , but there are too many of these nagging questions left unanswered at the films end . A script that actually explains a few of the major plot points would have made House of Voices a real winner .
To the Shores of Tripoli is the kind of movie that I generally don't care for . The title may conjure images of Marines fighting and dying on some foreign shore , but you won't find that here . Instead you'll find a flag-waving recruitment film that makes Marine basic training look like a trip to summer camp . The movie makes it seem that the entire eight week training is made up of little more than marching and doing drills in a parking lot . And when these guys aren't in the parking lot , they're pulling pranks and wooing nurses they've been told to leave alone . Abbott and Costello's Buck Privates has more in the way of military realism than To the Shores of Tripoli . Yet despite all its shortcomings , forced patriotism , and light as air plot , I enjoyed To the Shores of Tripoli . I was somehow able to put my brain on hold and go along for the ride . It's harmless , good-natured fun . Most of my enjoyment probably comes from the three main leads . John Payne , Maureen O'Hara , and Randolph Scott do a solid job with what they're given to work with . Much of the comedy works , particularly the hospital scene where Payne fakes an injury to be near O'Hara . And , To the Shores of Tripoli has an innocence to it that you don't find in movies anymore that I find appealing .
Even though the comparisons with James Bond are inevitable , I don't think they are fair . I enjoy the Bond movies and however similar , the two Hugh Drummond films from the 60s have their own , unique style . They're played a little more for humor and lack some of the big budget special effects . But fans of the better known Bond films should find something to enjoy in either of the lesser known films Deadlier Than the Male or Some Girls Do . I can just about sum up what I like about Some Girls Do by using what I wrote for Deadlier Than the Male as a guide . However , if push comes to shove , I actually prefer Some Girls Do to the first film in the series . The 60s feel , Richard Johnson's Drummond , the villainous James Villers , scenes stealers like Ronnie Stevens and Robert Morley , terrific locations , and the implausible yet wonderful gadgets and traps , including a small army of female automatons , are all a delight . As with the first movie , my absolute favorite moments are those with the two female killers . Daliah Lavi and Beba Loncar make the movie worth checking out just to see them . Lavi , in particular , is one of those women that seem to have only existed in the 60s that I enjoy watching so much . It's too bad they only made two of these films . I would have liked to see this series continued .
I just love these old , dark house style horror / mystery / thrillers from the 30s . In this one , Lionel Atwill plays Dr . Xavier , the head of a surgical research institute . A series of brutal killings committed by a gruesome figure , nicknamed the ' Moon Killer ' , points to someone within the institute . The police allow Dr . X the chance to perform an experiment to uncover the killer . Dr . X decides to move the experiment to an old , dark house in order to avoid the prying eyes of the press . The ' press ' is played by Lee Tracy in that 30s wise-cracking , fast-talking way that all newspaper men were portrayed . ( I was immediately reminded of Glenda Farrell from The Mystery of the Wax Museum , only in this case Lee Tracy is even more annoying . ) As the experiment begins , it soon become apparent that the police were right . Someone within the house is a killer , but who ? Any more of the story would be too much . Although the movie is not without flaws , I found Doctor X very enjoyable . The supporting cast includes Fay Wray as Dr . X's daughter . She does her best to prove she was the original ' scream queen ' . Also , the staff members / suspects are all wonderfully played in eccentric fashion . Other things I enjoyed and found to be above average were the set design and the makeup . The set design is impressive . The manor house has everything one comes to expect in this kind of movie . It only adds to the wonderful atmosphere . Also , I felt the makeup ( done by Max Factor ) was ahead of its time . I found it far more frightening than most movies from this period . The director , Michael Curtiz , does a wonderful job of building the tension in the final scenes . Very impressive . I really can't say enough about how well he pulled this together with the seemingly limited budget he was working with . ( BTW , Curtiz went on to direct such a variety of movies that it really boggles the mind . Included on his resume are the previously mention Mystery of the Wax Museum , The Walking Dead with Boris Karloff , Casablanca , and Elvis in King Creole . )
Gillian Holroyd ( Kim Novak ) is a witch . Secretly , she's attracted to her quite normal neighbor Shep Henderson ( James Stewart ) . She casts a spell on Shep that forces him to dump his fianc and fall for her . Things are going along quite nicely until Gillian discovers she really cares for this mortal man . She decides to tell him her secret . But how will Shep react when he finds out that he was " tricked " into falling in love with Gillian ? As far as light-hearted 1950s comedies go , Bell Book and Candle is good , but nothing spectacular . It's an enjoyable enough watch and should appeal to almost anyone who sits down with it . Just don't go into the movie expecting the greatest thing since sliced bread . The movie's cute , funny at times , and touching in the end . Kim Novak and James Stewart do their best and have some real chemistry . Novak ( as others have pointed out ) looks quite incredible in an understated sort of way . The supporting cast with Jack Lemmon , Hermione Gingold , and Elsa Lanchester is often laugh-out-loud funny and steals a lot of the spotlight from Novak and Stewart . The biggest problem I see is that Bell Book and Candle can't quite decide what kind of movie it wants to be . Is it a screwball comedy ? Is it a romantic comedy ? Is it a supernatural comedy ? Had director Richard Quine stuck with just one approach , the movie might have been even better and more memorable .
To be honest , I've never been the biggest fan of the original Dracula . To me , Dracula never held the excitement of some of the other Universal classics . It always seemed too " stagey " for my liking . That's not the case with Dracula's Daughter . Gloria Holden is mesmerizing as Dracula's daughter , Countess Marya Zaleska . Her attitude , look , and performance are what one would expect from a vampire . She plays a vampire in a similar manner to the way Lon Chaney , Jr . played a wolf man - as a tormented soul , longing to be free from a curse . You can almost hear Larry Talbot asking to be released from his nightmare . The rest of the cast is also quite good . Edward Van Sloan is back as Von Helsing . Irving Pichel is especially creepy as the Countess ' henchman Sandor . Marguerite Churchill is a real cutey playing the female in trouble . The weakest cast member is the hero played by Otto Kruger . His character is too unsympathetic to be effective . The atmosphere is just right . From the fog shrouded London streets to the castle in Transylvania , the perfect horror atmosphere is achieved . The story is simple and straight forward . I would , perhaps , have preferred a few more twists along the way . I'll take Dracula's offspring ( either son or daughter ) any day to the original .
Nice Spaghetti Western . The story concerns four rival groups out to get a chest full of gold . While the plot is actually almost incomprehensible , it's fun to watch Sartana and others switch allegiances about every five minutes . But the story here is secondary to the action . The body count is very high with entire gangs being wiped out by the burst of a Gatling gun . Gianni Garko as Sartana and William Berger as Lasky are just fun to watch . It's not the best Spaghetti Western I've seen , but I'm glad to finally have a copy . While the movie prominently lists Klaus Kinski in the credits , his screen time totals about 10 minutes .
Mun ( Angelica Lee ) is a young woman who has been blind since she was two years old . A cornea replacement surgery offers hope of being able to see . But once Mun's vision is restored , she gets more than she bargained for . She is bombarded with images of places and people that don't quite seem right . Mun sees ghosts . But that's not the worst of it . When presented with a picture of herself , Mun realizes that the image in the picture is not the same woman she sees when she looks in the mirror . The first half or so of The Eye is an incredibly creepy little film . There are moments like the elevator scene or the first time we see what Mun sees in the mirror that had me sitting on the edge of my seat . It's all very nicely handled . But the film switches its narrative tone about half way through much to its detriment . The Eye goes from being a subtle , effective horror film to being a special effects extravaganza . The Pang Brothers appear to have the same problem ending a movie that a lot of Hollywood filmmakers seem to have ? if you can't come up with an ending , blow something up . Had the movie ended when Mun discovered the secret of her new eyes , it would have been a better movie and worthy of a higher rating . The acting in The Eye is as good as I've seen in a modern Asian horror film . I've only seen Angelica Lee in one other film ( Koma ) , but she's quickly become a real favorite of mine . The two roles I've seen her play are vastly different yet Lee handles each in a believable , very enjoyable way . While The Eye may not be the best Asian horror film I've seen , the first half makes it more than a worthwhile watch . I'm looking forward to getting a chance to see The Eye 2 .
I just finished watching " The Hardy Boys / Nancy Drew Mysteries " Season One DVD set . I must admit that I had a great time with the series . Sure , this stuff is pretty simplistic , but it's fun . The show is really pretty tame and the mysteries aren't very involved . It would probably be a good watch for the whole family . Highlights of the first season include - Richard Kiel in The Mystery of the Haunted House , Shaun Cassidy singing in a couple of the later Hardy Boys episodes , Jamie Lee Curtis and Robert Englund in The Mystery of the Fallen Angels , and the way a couple of the episodes , particularly The Mystery of the Whispering Walls and The Disappearing Floor , were put together . Good stuff ! I'm probably a little more biased in favor of " The Hardy Boys / Nancy Drew Mysteries " than some would be . In 1977 , I was 13 and fit perfectly into the shows demographic . Back then , I thought this stuff was better than sliced bread . Ahh , the memories .
- Liza Merril ( Catriona MacColl ) takes possession of a hotel in Louisiana . She has plans to renovate the place . But a series of seemingly accidental deaths may put a stop to her plans . She's unaware that her hotel has a past . Many years ago , a warlock was lynched in the basement of the hotel . Before dying , he claimed that the hotel was one of the seven doorways to hell and that his death would lead to its opening . Is his prophecy coming true ? - I've never been the biggest fan of Lucio Fulci . Other than a couple of gialli , my experiences with his films have not left me with much of desire to see more ( For example , I thought House by the Cemetery was terrible and I walked out of the theater during City of the Living Dead ) . So , I had never been in a rush to see The Beyond . While it has problems , The Beyond is much more enjoyable than a lot of Fulci's other work . - Two things work for me in The Beyond - atmosphere and Catriona MacColl . When watching some of his other films , I came away with the impression that Fulci wasn't patient enough to allow atmosphere to build . He always seemed to be in a rush to get to the money shot . The hotel in this movie is filled with a good amount of atmosphere . There is a sense of dread hanging over the place . You can especially feel it when the characters venture into the basement . It's all but palatable . - As for MacColl , through her acting she's able to pull together the barest of story lines and create a character I could care about . It's difficult to enjoy a horror movie when you don't care about the characters . A little more insight into the MacColl's character would have been very welcome . - As I stated previously , the movie is not without problems . The biggest is the plot . It's all but non-existent . The actual why's and how's of the doorway to hell opening are never really explored . We only see some of the aftermath . We know that the doorway to hell is in the basement of the hotel , then why does half of the movie take place at a hospital ? Furthermore , the weak plot does not allow the characters to be fleshed out as much as I would have liked . I knew so little about most of the characters that I really didn't care what happened to them . The plot seems to matter little to Fulci as its main function is to string together a series of gristly set pieces . And that's always been my biggest complaint about Fulci - he throws tons of gore into his movies , not to advance the storyline , but for the sake of showing gore . Gore does not necessarily equal horror . I'll use the spider attack scene from The Beyond as an example . While I'll say that it certainly was gross and very nicely done , but it's not scary because it happens out of the blue to a character I know nothing about . Gore does not bother as long as it is presented within the context of the story . - Overall , my experience with The Beyond has made me rethink some of my thoughts of Fulci . I may need to see some of his other films that I've been putting off .
- While plowing a field , a young man uncovers what he believes to be the devil . Soon , all the children and young people in the tiny village are performing pagan rituals in the woods . Very nice movie . - Blood on Satan's Claw is loaded with that key ingredient : ATMOSPHERE . Good acting by a cast of British horror regulars , although none are very well known . Linda Hayden is just so deliciously evil as the leader of the cult . It's too bad the movie didn't feature a " big " name actor . Blood on Satan's Claw would probably get the attention it deserves if it had . The ending was the only let down as far as I'm concerned . - With a decent DVD transfer , my overall enjoyment of the movie might actually increase . The copy I have is a very old VHS that I bought used at a video store .
- It's been five quiet years since a group of councilors were murdered at Camp Crystal Lake . But when a new group of councilors arrives to open a nearby camp , the killing starts all over again . Who's behind the murders ? The original Camp Crystal Lake Killer is dead . Could it be her son who was believed to have died in the lake years earlier ? By the time someone figures out who the killer is , most everyone else is dead . - Friday the 13th Part 2 has always been my favorite installment in the series . I've always thought that Jason was more frightening before he found the hockey mask and became the unstoppable iconic killer zombie . This Jason is human and that makes him more real . And , to me , the horror factor is increased when the killer is based in reality . He's a primitive being ( not unsimilar to the inbred mountain men I recently wrote about in Wrong Turn ) capable of extreme brutality , out to avenge the death of his mother . - Most of the movie is about what you would expect - grisly murders , an absence of logic , woeful dialogue , and iffy acting . Friday the 13th Part 2 also features just about every horror clich that fans have come to expect in a teen slasher . When I saw this movie in 1981 , a lot of what we consider teen slasher clichs were still being developed . Back then , a lot of this was still fairly new and fresh . And whether I should or not , I still see the movie the way I did in 1981 .
I've lost count of the number of times I've seen Evil Under the Sun . The natural question may be " Why watch a mystery more than once when you already know whodunit ? " The simple answer ? entertainment . Evil Under the Sun never fails to provide me with almost two hours of entertainment . The movie is so much more than the mystery . Truth be known , Evil Under the Sun is one of the weakest of Agatha Christie's novels relying far too heavily on some absurd coincidences . So beyond the mystery , it's the location , the acting , and the character interactions that bring me back time and time again . - Location : The island scenery is simply breathtaking . The rocky cliffs set against the blue Mediterranean are beautiful . It's hard to believe that such places actually exist . The palace / hotel in which much of the film takes place is filmed in grand style . In short , Christopher Challis ' cinematography is stunning . - Acting : Evil Under the Sun features some wonderful actors having what appears to be a grand old time with their characters . Peter Unsitnov , James Mason , Diana Rigg , Roddy McDowell , and Jane Birkin are all truly wonderful in their performances . But for me , Maggie Smith makes Evil Under the Sun something special . Her catty Daphne Castle is a remarkably enjoyable character . - Character Interactions : Watching any of these fine actors working together is a real treat . But the best example of what makes Evil Under the Sun so much fun is watching Maggie Smith and Diana Rigg go at each other . One of my favorite moments has to be when Smith characters describes why Rigg's character went further as an actress than she did . She explains that not only could Rigg's character kick her legs higher , but also farther apart . It's a wonderfully funny moment .
As the movie opens , Charlie Chan finds himself at the sentencing phase of trial he has given evidence in against a criminal named Steve McBirney . After McBirney is sentenced to be executed , he shoots his way out of the courthouse and makes his escape . He heads straight to a wax museum dedicated to figures depicting famous crimes and criminals . The museum is run by Dr . Cream . But Dr . Cream has another profession ? he's a plastic surgeon who specializes in making the faces of criminals unrecognizable . Dr . Cream also hosts a regular weekly radio show in his museum dedicated to crime . He invites Charlie Chan to be a guest on the next program . Reluctantly , Chan agrees to appear . But unfortunately for Chan , this week's radio program is a set-up for McBirney to get his revenge against the detective he blames for getting him convicted . If someone would have asked me twenty-five years ago what my favorite Charlie Chan film was , I would have most likely answered Charlie Chan at the Wax Museum . It's got a whole lot to like and a whole lot that appealed to me during my youth . Secret passages , a dark and stormy night , and creepy wax figures all add up to one of the more atmospheric movies in the Chan series . Charlie Chan at the Wax Museum probably comes as close as any of the other Chan films to having actual elements of horror ? something I always go for . As an added bonus , # 2 son Jimmy is less of an annoyance in this film and actually gives an interesting performance as he helps his Pop with the case . It's really not difficult to see why this movie appealed to me . It's just a fun movie ! Well , and unfortunately , my tastes seem to have changed over the past couple of decades . Thanks to the recent R1 DVD release , I was finally able to revisit Charlie Chan at the Wax Museum . And while my rating indicates I enjoyed the experience , it wasn't what I remembered . I could cite a number of problems I had with the film , but I'll just go into the most obvious . When it is discovered that someone was trying to use the wired-up chair to electrocute Chan , why doesn't Chan seem more interested in looking into this particular clue ? Other than being mentioned in passing a few times , the chair is almost forgotten . Shouldn't Chan have tried to discover more about the chair like who hooked it up to the wires or what Dr . Cream knew about it ? Instead , Chan spends his time running around in the dark ( both literally and figuratively ) trying to find a murderer . Sorry , but it doesn't add up .
The House on Telegraph Hill is a wonderfully entertaining thriller dealing with a woman living under an assumed identity and the child she claims as her own . The movie may be part of Fox's Film Noir Collection , but it's really more of a Hitchcock " woman-in-peril " type film . The movie may seem unusual when seen today with the modern emphasis on the plot twist . Throughout most of the film , I kept waiting for the inevitable twist that never materialized . The lack of a twist each time I thought I saw one coming was , in its own way , the best twist of all . The House on Telegraph Hill is deliberately paced and shot beautifully by Robert Wise . Some of the interior scenes , especially those in the hallway of the old house , look as good as you'll see . The acting is great with the relative unknown ( at least unknown to me ) Valentina Cortese giving a real standout performance . She has an undeniable screen presence and the ability to draw a viewer in . I really felt for her character's situation throughout the movie . The ending of the film is very nicely done and had me on the edge of my seat . As I was waiting for a twist , I was completely surprised by the final act . The drama and suspense are almost palatable throughout the film's finale . Overall , The House on Telegraph Hill is a very nice , under-seen film .
What a wonderfully creepy and atmospheric film about a witch getting her revenge from beyond the grave . Several centuries ago , Vanessa Whitlock was accused of being a witch and put to death by the ancestors of the Lanier family . Since then , the two families have feuded . As fate would have it , during one of Bill Lanier's building projects , the grave of the accused witch , Vanessa Whitlock , is disturbed . She is set free to finally get back at those she holds responsible for burying her alive . With its recent release on DVD , I've been excited about the opportunity to see Witchcraft . And while I had hoped I would enjoy it , I never expected it to be this good . In short , I loved it . I mentioned it was creepy and atmospheric ? quite honestly , that doesn't begin to describe the sense of unease , the feeling of foreboding , and the numerous frights found in Witchcraft . I admit it ? the first time that Vanessa Whitlock pops up in a room where she shouldn't be , I just about jumped out of my seat . I don't know when I last found a character in a movie that actually frightened me like she did . Actress Yvette Rees doesn't do much other than stand about looking menacing , but does she ever do it well . Freaky stuff ! The credits would have you believe that Lon Chaney , Jr . is the " star " of the movie . While he's the big name in the cast , he's hardly the focal point of the story . As much as I hate to admit this , Chaney actually represents one of the few problems I have with the movie . It's not that he wasn't capable of giving a good performance in a horror movie in 1964 ( because he's not bad in his limited screen time ) , but he's horribly miscast . This is a British movie . It feels British , it looks British , and it sounds British . So just what is the decidedly American Chaney doing in the movie ? It's just silly .
What fun ! I hope the over-abundance of negative reviews found around the internet don't dissuade anyone from checking out this very nice piece of 1960s low-budget British sci-fi / horror . The Earth Dies Screaming deserves to be seen . The plot is not dissimilar to that found in both The Last Man on Earth and The Omega Man except that here we have a band of survivors and not a solitary individual . With the rest of humanity seemingly wiped out by an alien gas attack , a handful of varied individuals come together to seek safety in numbers . To make some sense of their situation and to better their condition , our heroes will have to avoid the alien robots and their zombie slaves ? not to mention quarrels within their own ranks . The Earth Dies Screaming has a lot going for it and at the top of the list is Terence Fisher . The man who directed some of the best that British horror has to offer was more than capable of adding atmosphere , tension , and a sense of isolation necessary for the success of this movie . Unlike some of his vividly colorful Hammer films , The Earth Dies Screaming was shot in stark but beautiful B & W . I suppose it's fitting given the nature of the movie's plot . The music by Elisabeth Lutyens is likewise stark but beautiful and compliments the images on the screen perfectly . The acting is solid . The cast may not be filled with A-list British horror stars , but everyone involved gives a good accounting of themselves . Dennis Price gives a particularly good performance as the selfish , self-centered character out for only himself . Finally , I love the ending . Some may argue that The Earth Dies Screaming doesn't really have an ending , but I would disagree . Sure , it's ambiguous , but that's as it should be . The characters ' futures are just that ? ambiguous .
I am by no means an expert on the 19 or so Terence Hill / Bud Spencer films . But of the handful I have been able to see , They Call Me Trinity just might be my favorite . I distinctly remember watching this movie over 30 years ago and thinking it was one of funniest , most enjoyable movies I had ever seen . Re-watching it last night , I realized that , although my opinion isn't quite as high as it once was , I still enjoyed They Call Me Trinity immensely . It's not perfect , but it sure it fun . Hill and Spencer play off each other as well as any of the better known Hollywood duos . They complement each other in both style and appearance . There are a few moments that had me laughing out loud . Their first meeting with the Mexican bandits while unintentionally disguised as Mormons is one of these moments . Hill also has some particularly funny scenes on his own . One that I remembered from my first viewing three decades ago was the scene where Hill eats the entire plate of beans . Good stuff ! And who doesn't get a kick out of the dust-covered Hill being pulled along behind his horse . It's a classic image right up there with Django dragging the coffin through the mud . There's just something about both of these scenes that I find very funny . But what I really enjoy the most is the way They Call Me Trinity makes fun of some of the better known Spaghetti Western clichs . There are several examples I could use , but I'll just cite one . In most Spaghetti Westerns , the main character is usually an expert shot . So expert , in fact , that they almost never miss . Look at Lee Van Cleef in Sabata or Clint Eastwood in The Good , the Bad , and the Ugly for example . Van Cleef's Sabata is able to his any target at any distance and Eastwood's Blondie has no problem hitting the rope about to hang Tuco . Trinity takes this already exaggerated ability to the absurd . As seen in the one of the bar fights , Trinity can hit targets behind his back - without looking . If you're a fan of these movies , you'll enjoy They Call Me Trinity's poke at Spaghetti Western conventions .
- Kubrick's The Killing is very nearly a perfect movie . The story centers around the daylight robbery of $2 million from a racetrack . A varied group of five men are brought together to plan and execute the hold-up . Kubrick's decision to tell the story in a non-linear fashion was a good one . The viewers attention is focused on each part of the hold-up and how each part relates to the whole . The detail is amazing . Through different eyes and ears , we see and hear the 7th race begin at least four different times . - The heist itself is a thing of beauty . Every part fits perfectly into place . There are very few lucky coincidences ( which always angers me in a heist movie ) necessary for the hold-up to work . The plan goes like clockwork . My favorite part had to be the bar fight scene between wrestler Kola Kwarini and fifteen police officers . It might seem like a silly thing , but it was absolutely necessary to divert the attention of track security . - The acting is great . Sterling Hayden is outstanding as the schedule obsessed head of the group . Elisha Cook plays Elisha Cook . If you're a fan of Cook from other films , you'll like him here . Marie Windsor is especially conniving as the cheating wife who is out for herself . And I always enjoy seeing Jay C . Flippin . - I started by saying that The Killing is nearly a perfect movie . But it's not perfect . I was ready to rate The Killing a until the final five minutes . The ending is a clich ridden disaster . Surely Kubrick could have come up with something better than having a poodle running onto the runway . It's hard to believe that a simple moment like that almost ruined the movie for me .
When a blond warrior claiming to be Xena begins killing innocent people , the real Xena and sidekick Gabrielle decide they must do something to put a stop to it . The mysterious killer turns out to be Callisto , a woman who has known nothing but hatred for Xena all of her life . Callisto blames Xena for the death of her family and has vowed to destroy Xena and everything she holds dear . The introduction of Xena's nemesis Callisto is easily one of the highlights of the series ' entire run . Xena is the Ying to Callisto's Yang ? they're oil and water ? they're sweet and sour ? they're any tired old clich you can think of . But when they're together , it's fantastic ! Their fight scenes are wonderfully entertaining . The ladder battle in the episode titled " Callisto " is one of the best the show ever presented ( and that's a lot of fight scenes ) . Fortunately for fans of the show , the producers saw fit to bring Callisto back season after season ? even after she had been killed several times over . But it's this meeting , their first , that I find extra-special . I think much of credit for the success of the Xena / Callisto relationship has to go to Hudson Leick . The hatred she expresses with her eyes , the contempt conveyed through her body , and the snarl of her voice ? it's all so real . You can all but feel the venom she spews forth . It's almost palatable . Answering Xena's question about what she would do if she were set free , Callisto answers , " You let me go , and I'll dedicate my life to killing everything you love . Your friends , your family , your reputation - even your horse . " Now that's hatred !
Finally ! After 30 some odd years , I finally got the chance to see The Hardy Boys : The Mystery of the Applegate Treasure in its entirety . In the early 70s , one of the local UHF channels ran repeats of the Mickey Mouse Club from the 50s . Included was the daily serial The Mystery of the Applegate Treasure . For whatever reason , I never got to see the whole thing . So for over 30 years I was left wondering about the show and what happened and how the mystery was resolved . And for 30 years , I've had the theme song stuck in my head . I'm very happy Disney released this series . So was it worth the wait ? You betcha ! While The Mystery of the Applegate Treasure may not have been as " spooky " as I remembered , it was a lot of fun reliving this moment of my childhood . The story is solid in that innocent , child-friendly , 50s sort of way . Remember , this is a serial designed for kids and made more than 50 years ago . The acting is actually quite good . While neither Tommy Kirk nor Tim Considine is what I would call a world-class actor , both give it their all and are a joy to watch . The supporting players are just as good ( if not better in some cases ) with Arthur Shields , Florenz Ames , and Carole Ann Campbell really shining . The sets are much better than I remembered . Sure , it's all stage-bound , but the Applegate Tower looked as good as I remembered . The direction is capable at a minimum with the usually dependable Charles Haas at the helm . Overall , it's a good show . Disney has released The Hardy Boys : The Mystery of the Applegate Treasure as part of their Walt Disney Treasures line . While I didn't really care about seeing the Mickey Mouse Club stuff or some of the other extras , the overall package is very nice . It makes for a very welcome addition to my DVD library .
The basic story : Sir James Forbes ( Andr Morell } and his daughter Sylvia ( Diane Clare } visit a doctor friend and his wife to help with some strange goings-on in town . Sir James soon suspects supernatural forces are at work . After the doctor's wife dies of a strange illness , Sir James and the doctor spend the night in the cemetery to see what will happen . Sure enough , she rises from the grave . When Sylvia begins showing similar symptoms to that of the doctor's wife , Sir James knows he must find who or what is behind the dead coming back to life . Anymore of the story would be too much . The acting in The Plague of the Zombies is excellent . Andre Morell ( who also played Watson in Hammer's excellent version of The Hound of the Baskervilles ) is very believable and effective as Sir James . And , Diane Clare is perfect in the role of the fragile Sylvia . This is Hammer , so Michael Ripper is here doing his usual steady work as the local police sergeant . The rest of the cast is more than adequate . Most every Hammer film I've seen is a treat for the eye , but this is one of the more visually pleasing Hammer films I've ever seen . The sets , the Cornish village , the vivid colors ( example : the deep , rich red Hammer blood ) , and the costumes are dead on . But what makes this film so impressive is the intelligent script written by Peter Bryan . Bryan has crafted a script with characters that act and speak appropriately . For example , instead of just accepting the fact that the dead are coming back to life , Sir James ( as a scientist ) must have proof . The steps he takes to find out what's going on are believable and realistic . Too many horror films have supposed scientists jumping to the wildest of conclusions without a shred of proof . Today's script writers could learn a thing or two from this movie . A word of warning to fans of more modern zombie films - these are not the zombies of Fulci or Romero . The zombies in this movie more closely resemble those in White Zombie or , one of my favorites , King of the Zombies . Instead of being mindless flesh-eaters , these zombies appear to have some reasoning ability and serve a master as a slave . The make-up is not as gruesome as modern zombies , but given Hammer's usual limited budgets , it's quite good .
When there's something I enjoy as much as the Val Lewton movies , I simply cannot get enough information . Shadows in the Dark : The Val Lewton Legacy is a fascinating look at the man and his work . The documentary covers everything from Lewton's arrival in America as a child to his early work for David O . Selznick to the nine horror films he made for RKO . The stories and details of Lewton's life and films are presented through a series of interviews with experts on cinema , directors and screenwriters working today , and Lewton's son . The documentary obviously focuses and spends most of its runtime on the RKO period . The film makes it clear that what I've come to know as the " Lewton Look " was as much a budgetary issue as a conscious decision on his part . The only complaint I have is that it wasn't longer .
When Baron Wolf von Frankenstein ( Basil Rathbone ) arrives to take over his father's estate , the locals immediately begin to fear for the worst . Wolf's father created a monster that terrorized the community and the townsfolk want no more of that . Wolf assures everyone that he has no intentions of creating a monster . But when Wolf finds Ygor ( Bela Lugosi ) living in the ruins of his father's laboratory , he is soon headed down the same path of destruction that claimed his father . Over the years , there have been volumes written on the Universal classic horror movies . Realizing that it would be foolish of me to attempt to improve or add much to the writings of these scholars , I'll instead focus on a couple of areas that make Son of Frankenstein so special to me . 1 . The Acting . Son of Frankenstein features a Who's Who of the best of the classic horror actors . Joining Rathbone and Lugosi in the cast are Boris Karloff and Lionel Atwill . While each gives a noteworthy performance in their own right , Lugosi's performance is generally held up as the best of his career . And while I agree , Rathbone makes Son of Frankenstein a joy for me to watch . There are very few actors that I can think of who could have played Wolf with the same type of intelligent energy that Rathbone exhibits . He's wonderful . As for Karloff , I'm glad he decided to make Son of Frankenstein his last as the monster . By the time of the second sequel , Karloff's monster became little more that a prop for Lugosi , Rathbone , and Atwill to fight over . 2 . The Sets . I'm not exaggerating when I say that the sets in Son of Frankenstein are among the best I've ever seen . The sets are amazing with their bizarre angles and shadows . Two that immediately come to mind are the dining table set and the staircase set at the beginning of the movie . They are in a class of their own . Every fan of horror , or just good classic movies in general , owes it to themselves to see Son of Frankenstein . It may not be as well known among the casual fan as either Frankenstein or Bride of Frankenstein , but it many ways it's the equal of those two films ( if not better ) .
Desiring to learn the secrets of Dr . Quest's latest invention , the para-power ray gun , Dr . Zin sends a robot spy to check it out . Dr . Zin's unmanned ship lands near the Quest compound . Upon investigation , Dr . Quest and Race find a mysterious orb . They place it in a storage building for latter examination and go about their usual nightly routine . But , as they will soon discover , the mysterious orb is far from routine . Even if you are only familiar with Jonny Quest on the most casual of levels , I'm confident that The Robot Spy would likely be the episode that most people would recognize . The image of the giant , indestructible , spider-legged mechanical creature is an iconic memory for many of us who grew up in the 60s . It's even prominently featured in the opening credits . Beyond the images , The Robot Spy's status as one of the best Jonny Quest episodes is well deserved . There's plenty of action , mystery , and suspense - what more could you ask for ? The first time the robot hits a guard with one of the tentacles - wow ! How cool was that ? I enjoyed this episode as a child and still find it entertaining . I'm not sure at this point whether it's my favorite episode or not , I'll have to get through the other 18 or so episodes to make that call . But I have no doubt that it will end up in my top five .
- Throughout the great length of his career , Boris Karloff played a number of horror cinema's most memorable characters . But I've always been of the opinion that his work in Universal's The Mummy is his best . - The story in The Mummy is , in many respects , almost identical to Universal's earlier Dracula movie . Exchange a mummy for a vampire and Cairo for Transylvania and the rest is quite comparable . Both movies are basically love stories - regardless of how twisted the " love " may seem . Ardath Bay's sole purpose in life ( or should that be afterlife ) is to resurrect the spirit of his long dead love , Princess Anckesen-Amon . His 3 , 000 year obsession and devotion is demonstrated in the line , " Anckesen-Amon , my love has lasted longer than the temple of our gods . No man ever suffered as I did for you . " The response he receives a few scenes later , " No . No , I'm alive . I'm young . I won't die . I loved you once , but now you belong with the dead . I am Anckesen-Amon , but I'm somebody else too . I want to live , even in this strange new world " , is heartbreaking . - Other obvious and less obvious examples of how the two movies are similar include : the use of religious symbols to repel the monsters , the use of hypnosis , the close-up shots of the eyes , and cast members who play basically the same roles ( Edward Van Sloan and David Manners appear in both films in almost identical roles ) . Finally , a similarity that I've always noticed that I've not read anywhere else concerns the Renfield character from Dracula and poor Ralph Norton in The Mummy . Both become stark-raving , hysterical-laughing , mad lunatics . And whether intentional or not , both assist their respective monsters with their plans ? Renfield by actively helping Dracula and Norton by accidentally bringing the mummy back to life . - Karloff is perfect as Imhotep / Ardath Bay . I've said a number of times that Karloff was born to play this role . His slim , long body looks like what I imagine a mummy might look like after 3 , 000 years in the hot , drying desert . Karloff's face , with the help of Jack Pierce's make-up , looks like it would turn to dust at the slightest touch . And , as most would agree , Karloff's voice has an otherworldly quality that sounds as if it were coming from the grave . Karloff's acting abilities also add to the illusion that he is the mummy . Whether his decision or that of director Karl Freund I don't know , but Karloff gives a very understated performance that is necessary if he is to be believed . The understated performance without wild , exaggerated movements is perfect for a 3 , 000 year old mummy . His carriage suggests a very fragile being that fears crumbling with any strenuous action . To me , Karloff simply is The Mummy . - Every time I watch The Mummy , I'm amazed at how little screen time Karloff has as Imhotep . To think that he spent 8 hours a day getting the full-body mummy treatment only to appear for a few minutes in the final film ( and never a full body shot ) shows an amazing amount of restraint on the part of Freund . If you're a believer in the " what's not shown is more frightening that what is " theory of horror , you'll appreciate Freund's decision . But the few shots where Imhotep does appear are , for me , the definition of movie magic . I'll never forget the first time I saw The Mummy . The scene where Imhotep slowly opens his eye to reveal for the first time that he is alive immediately became ( and remains ) for me one of the most memorable moments in horror history .
