Continuing my weekend of R21 movies , given that almost every screen in Singapore is showing Spider-Man 3 at the moment , and gives a clear indication on how the other blockbusters in the next 2 months will be treated as well . The Passion was a disappointment , and Summer Palace , somehow didn't live up to its hype , probably drawing curious audiences by the banning of its director Lou Ye from making films in the Mainland for the next 5 years , because he had failed to obtain official permission before screening Summer Palace overseas . In any case , the same old marketing gimmick was to hype that this as the most erotic movie from China , and naturally drew audiences in like bees to honey . I've long classified broadly that movies of the romance genre can usually be grouped into the romantic comedies which Hollywood does well enough , and the romantic tragedies which try to bring out those tears . I've forgotten one more group , so add this to the broad classification now - those that want to titillate . Summer Palace attempts to explore relationships from its leads against the historical backdrop of change in China , but falls flat and seemed to prefer to focus on humping . And even that it degenerates itself into soft porn territory , but at least soft porns are being honest about it . The story is neither a tragedy , or comedy , just plain boring drama infused with plenty of sex , which becomes meaningless , and mechanical after a while with repeated actions that drills down to lack of skills in bed . Both the action and the characters lack the emotional core that grabs the attention of the audience and engage some cerebral on why they are doing what they're doing . Yu Hong ( Lei Hao ) is a village girl staying near the border of China and North Korea , and qualified for Beijing University in the late 80s . Leaving behind her shopkeeper father and a postal service boyfriend who deflowered her in the middle of a road late one night , she goes to the big city , but inside is quite unhappy about it . You know , she's one of those girls with huge emotional baggage problems that nobody , including herself , understands why . Friendship comes in the form of fellow hostel mate Li Ti ( Ling Hu ) , who introduces her to Zhou Wei ( Guo Xiaodong ) at one of those jam and hop sessions , and thereafter they become sex partners trying to heat up the screen . It becomes love found , love lost , making love , love lost , love found , you get the idea . We have confused characters who do not know what to do with each other , and to make things worse , they're promiscuous too , making everything quite frivolous in their quest to satisfy their lust for sex . Even the direction and story became schizophrenic , and with the lack of skill , breezes through events like the Tiananmen Incident , and the fall of Communism with the collapse of the Berlin Wall , Gorbachev's resignation , Yeltsin's ascension to power , and the likes , with just archived images , and subtitles indicating the event and the year . It's cheap , lazy film-making . Before you know it , it's down to the last hour where the characters have grown up , and apart in different countries . There's a general feeling of lost , and if that's the filmmakers ' intent , they have succeeded . Perhaps the best part is the reunion , where I thought is the only time when it's realistic with the feeling of helplessness and being tongue tied when meeting up with a loved one after donkey years - things are never the same again , and could never be the same anymore , and do you wish to hold onto the past , or move on to your own future ? Despite the pretentious plot and characters , the movie does feature an excellent eclectic soundtrack , and there thankfully helped keep everyone awake . Otherwise it's as hokey as the inscription on the tombstone - unless it's a mega tombstone , I don't see how those words could have been inscribed on it without running out of space .
Painted Skin is the last movie that King Hu made , and while he revisits Pu Songling's material from Liao Zai , which he last did for his masterpiece A Touch of Zen , this movie however seemed a little strange and terribly dated , with uninspiring plots and despite the power cast , the characters all came off to be going through the motions , and not injecting any life at all . I am not sure why or how this project came about , but there were a number of missteps along the way . For example , prior to this 1993 release , Joey Wong had already been type-casted for her many roles as the ethereal ghostly enchantress with her roles in the Chinese Ghost Story franchise by Tsui Hark , up to a point I remember that audiences were sick of her portrayal , and cemented her reputation as a one-act actress . Here , she gets cast again as a spirit of sorts who cannot go to Heaven or Hell , and is practically stuck in limbo . Her You Feng meets with yet another scholar type character ( do I hear the yawns and groans already ) Wang Hsi Tzu , played by Adam Cheng , but instead of the usual dashing swordsman type figure that Cheng is famous for , he takes a turn and portrays a character who's main objective is to find a woman who can bear him an heir , because his wife is found barren . Now how this develops is almost comedic - right from the start after Hsi Tzu's initial encounter with a playful priest , he bumps into You Feng , gets horny , brings her home and wants to hump her immediately . If this is not a King Hu movie , I would have fallen out of my chair laughing at this juvenile turn of events ! Painted skin refers to the makeup that ghosts put on to pretend to be humans , because they're stuck in the middle of two planes . It's always interesting to note that the Chinese believe that when you leave this world , you head straight to hell for judgement and punishment , contrary to Western believes that you get to at least line up at the pearly gates ( and gawk at the saints ) , whether or not you get to enter it after the verdict is passed is a different story altogether . When you're in hell suffering , you will start to long for the time to reincarnate ( whether as a human is also a different story ) , but that's basically the gist . However those stuck in this yin-yang domain , as this story goes , are ruled by an evil spirit called the Yin-Yang King , a faceless creature who later on has someone portraying him to duke it out with the heroes . And the battles here , while choreographed right for excitement , doesn't seem to be sophisticated enough . Bear in mind that this was in the year 1993 , where films like Once Upon a Time in China , and Swordsman II were released . Having what is perceived to be a rehash storyline and setting didn't help either , as audiences probably were tired from the female spirit-male scholar-priests-demon king connection . There's no grandeur fight sequences of epic magnitudes , or memorable scenes such as the chase in a bamboo forest . Here , chases are aplenty , more with the good guys running away from a crazed , powerful demon king , than actually engaging it in meaningful combat . We have multitudes of priest characters here , from the 2 resident bumbling , incompetent ones played by Lau Shun ( who was the evil eunuch in Swordsman ) and Wu Ma , to Sammo Hung as a mysterious High Monk who chooses to hide his identity , and a cameo by the late Lam Ching-Ying ( everyone's favourite Vampire Hunter ) as a Purple Taoist . But despite its almost A-list cast , the story was still all over the place , with flashbacks and truly strange scenes which doesn't add much depth to the story , as if to want to cover a wide breadth versus digging in for depth . If compared to A Touch of Zen ( which seemed to have its ending parodied here in one of the scenes ) , Painted Skin is unfortunately no match on all fronts , and it's actually quite a pity that King Hu should bow out with a lacklustre piece such as this .
I've become wary should any Korean movie calls itself , or touts itself , as the largest action movie for the year . Remember the woeful debacle of Typhoon ? Well , it seems that Fate belongs to the same mould , with the assembly of the best looking men the country has to offer , and put them in roles against each other , topped with plenty of angst , misunderstanding and failure from which they find it hard to crawl out from , and you have what hopefully could bring the crowds in . And not to forget too , the poster with the half-naked men laughing while showing off their sculpted abs , which had adorned our train stations for weeks before the movie's debut ( and in which a cigarette had been photo-shopped out to appease local authorities it seems ) . Song Seung Heon plays Woo-Min , a hotheaded man whose charisma and tenacity makes him the de-facto leader in his gang of four . His plan with his brotherhood of merry men , as we see in a thrilling opening , was to break into a casino's vault , and make off with the loot . They succeed of course , thanks to sheer brutality and prowess in fisticuffs and metal pipe wielding , but with betrayal in the form of Kwon Sang Woo's Cheol-Jung , they get caught up , and disbanded . Fast forward to two years later , Cheol-Jung continues as a hoodlum with a higher rank , while Woo-Min gets released from prison , bitter towards the former for his lack of loyalty . While the story might fit into a typical John Woo movie , it lacked any further set action pieces to make you sit up . What you get , in terms of action , are metal pipes upon metal pipes swinging wildly around , and that too being few and far between . Worse , it decided to dwell a lot on the typical melodrama of troubled relationships with each of their loved ones , with Woo-Min being unable to forget his ex , and taking it upon himself to lift his friends from their respective doldrums , and Cheol-Jung having a field day with an uncouth mouth , as he battles it out with his workers on strike on a failed construction project . For the most parts , these two loggerheads steered clear of each other , and the story lacked efforts in wanting to build up on their disgust for the other . It attempted instead for the audience to try and sympathize with their individual predicaments , and that they have circumstances in which they are driven to make their choices , but even so , there's a lack of connection between the two men , and the audience is denied any satisfying climax of a settlement . While the characters in general are all unlikable - going to show that it's what inside that matters - instead it brought to mind of the vultures that circle around , waiting for opportunity to pounce when the chips are all down . For that bit , I'd have to give it some credit . Otherwise it was really painful to just watch the macho men getting around trying to solve their respective wimpy issues , or just using violence as a means to an end , since after all , they're just gangsters with little soul , and you really couldn't care much about how their characters develop , and only wish for the film to quickly get to the finale of its 120 minute run time .
The poster may look menacing , but Skinwalkers is actually a tame pussycat . In the hands of ordinary filmmakers , this is what you get - mediocre , " have we seen this before " moments , and plenty of unintentional comedy , for a werewolf genre that tried to reinvent itself , and exhausted its game plan . To give itself a mystical feel , it developed its own uninteresting mythos about some prophecy ( not again ! ) that will come true after the appearance of the red moon . Zoom past the intertitles , and hey , the red moon ! From then on , it's Terminator-hasta-la - vista baby ! The prophecy seemed to dwell on the fate of a 12 year old boy , who is said to have some rocking puberty mumbo-jumbo happening to him ( no , it's not the sudden growth of extra hair in certain parts ) . So his mother , Rachel ( Rhona Mitra ) becomes an unwitting , uninspiring Sarah Conner clone , while relying on a bunch of rag tag team mates led by Jonas ( Elias Koteas ) , to keep them alive . Jonas and gang however , have a deep dark secret . They're werewolves , but good ones , who get strapped up before dusk so that they can be artificially restrain their blood lust . On the other hand , the bad mofos ( who are also werewolves ) are led by Lorenzo Lamas . Wait a minute , that couldn't be him ! He's still looking . . . so young ! No , it's Jason Behr , who I swear in his unshaven face , and wavy shoulder length hair , shades and bad attitude , seemed to have crawled out of a typical Lamas made-for-video movie . As with the many Lamas movies , it's almost guaranteed to have bad cheapskate action . It screams B-Flick with sirens blaring and strobe lights flashing , and frankly , Skinwalkers is nothing except that . Like I mentioned , it's Terminator all over again . Bad guys want to annihilate the kid so that they can prevent the prophecy from coming true ( whatever that is , which they have no clue whatsoever ) . In between , they kill and have edited sex , which is bad , in both sense . The good guys just want to stand in the way ( hey , we don't feed on blood , so we're cool ) and they too have no idea just in case the kid turns into some hybrid - OK , wrong movie - while we see the toughening up of Sarah Con , I mean Mitra's Rachel , that it all reeked of plagiarism . If anything can justify labelling a werewolf movie as cheap , then it is the distinct lack of on - screen transformation . The wolves just appear , in full hairy costume , bad teeth and probably stinky breath and all , without any attempts to allow a glimpse at the transformation . Not only that , the local distributors , in attempts to make money hence requesting this to be passed with a lower rating , removed all sex scenes . No wonder we see macabre , gruesome high profile killings , and low birth rates . We can't even watch sexy on screen . Bring the sexy back ! Anyway I digress . Skinwalkers was pretty bad from the get go . Hokey prophecies , cheap makeup , and horrors , guns are used with glee from all quarters , and the gunplay's probably the laziest I've seen in a long time . Laughable effort , especially when you realize the cop out made just for the bigger names in this picture . Only suitable for that DVD rental on a lazy weekend afternoon at best .
Ever since the success of Stephen Chow's Shaollin Soccer in 2001 , he's been asked time and again whether a sequel was in the works . There still isn't , but he sort of franchised the idea out to the Japanese and served as executive producer , so the outcome of the deal , was Shaolin Girl . However , the net of it all is that while the intent for a quasi-sequel is there , having the Japanese play characters experts in the classic Chinese form of martial arts might seem a little wrong , just like how the hue and cry came about with Chinese characters portraying Japanese geishas . But if the source in contention was treated with respect , I guess there would be no qualms moving forward , though with the way things were treated here , you would've pondered whether it was done in jest , or in mockery . For instance , the numerous Bruce Lee homage . Yes , we all know about all things yellow , so it's a no brainer here . But to have a lookalike come out as a villain , dressed in a white singlet , black pants and emulating Lee on the nunchuks , was a tad below the belt , especially the way he was disgracefully dispatched . A friend of mine said it was perhaps a kick in the face toward all the imitations and wannabes , but I'd like to think otherwise . The finale look straight out of Game of Death where our alpha-female do battle floor to floor encountering various martial arts masters , but come to think of it , they were dispatched with incredible ease . And don't get me started on the corridor of mirrors too , which served no purpose other than to show that the filmmakers can . Lead actress Kou Shibasaki ( from Crying Out Love In The Center of the World ) in the titular role looks good and cute for the part in order to draw in the crowds , and granted she has no martial arts background ( ala new female warrior Jeeja Yanin in Chocolate ) she makes up for it with artificially choreographed grace that made her a little believable . What's not believable , was her ability to speak Chinese , and the Shaolin monks as well , because they are clearly Japanese , but had to pass off as experts in the language , which came off as unbearable and laughable . You might think that director Katsuyuki Motohiro , with his Bayside Shakedown pedigree , would be deft at handling stories with multiple subplots . However , Shaolin Girl bitten off more than it could chew , and couldn't decide what it wanted to be . On one hand , it wanted to spread the love for Kung Fu , or specifically , the Shaolin brand of fist-fighting . On the other , it had to reflect on its supposed predecessor and fuse in a sport different from soccer ( here it's Lacrosse ) . And it wanted to weave kung fu into the game , only to hold back to prevent itself from being a clone . So while you get a sport , there isn't much copycat kung-fu styles and stances , until the end credit roll when it became obvious . Shaolin Girl Rin Sakurazara was sent as a kid by her grandfather to China's famed Shaolin school of martial arts to learn to curb and control her wealth of potential , promised power . What this power was , nobody knew , except that everyone knew she had to be protected from the villains lest she gets tempted to go to the Dark Side ( yes , so very Star Wars ) . But she returns upon completion of her training to revive her grandfather's dojo , and does so in quite an impetuous headstrong manner , that she has a few lessons to learn herself , such as humility , camaraderie and teamwork , before she can impart those martial arts lessons . However , despite all that talk about teaming , it still boiled down to a one-woman whackfest for the last act . If you're looking for some serious fighting , then the first two acts of the movie will bore as you only get teases spruced very much by special effects , some bits too , especially those involving Lacrosse , got too repetitive . Kitty Zhang , Chow's new muse from CJ7 , ends up in this movie too to provide some lesbian undertones ( ok , so I chose to read it that way , but think about it ) . and although she has a meatier role here as a naive do-gooder , the role still boiled down to a flower vase in cheongsam . And if you're patient and were waiting to be rewarded with some proper combat for the finale , be prepared to be disappointed too . For all the talk about her prowess , you'll laugh at what Rin pulled off . Not that it's a comedy and you're supposed to chuckle , but you're laughing at its delivery instead , for all the wrong reasons . Never have I seen something that hokey , and anti-climatic as well . Not only that , the fights were unimaginative and , horrors , boring too , while the villains were all reduced to mindless goons ala Crazy88 style , with some tendencies to caress man boobs , and totally unmenacing , with lead villains having zero motivation other than to desire to fight . I nearly fell off my seat when it ventured close to The Promise territory with its take on the tykes . Even supporting appearances by characters from Shaolin Soccer couldn't save the day , and became ridiculous caricatures of themselves . Perhaps what could rescue Shaolin Girl , was a cameo by Chow who probably might have upped the credibility of this flick , but alas , knowing that it would stink , he rightfully kept his distance . And so should you , unless you're a fan of either Kitty Zhang or Kou Shibasaki , then you can lap up all the close-up shots .
The marketeers bill this as a modern horror masterpiece and ranks up there with recent horror stories like Ringu . I'd say phooey , it doesn't even come close , not by a huge mile . Starring probably Korea's most recognizable face Jun Ji-hyun , I'd admit I was curious enough to see how she would take on a horror story after a series of romances and comedies like Daisy , Il Mare , and possible her most popular film to date , My Sassy Girl . In fact , The Uninvited has little horrific moments in the traditional sense , and its attempts at being a psychological thriller falls flat too with its meek attempts to weave and associate itself with the unknown power of the mind . Its fault lay in not being able to provide its characters with much to do , often having them wallow in self-pity because of their scant abilities to see dead children , and in coming up with too many supporting characters whose purpose serve only one scene , and not the story . Case in point , those 2 kids often used to spook potential audiences , have absolutely nothing to do with the story at all . Except perhaps to introduce its male lead Mr Kang Jung-won ( Park Shin-yang ) , an interior designer who chanced upon them during a late night train ride , only to know of their deaths in the news the next day . Soon after he sees them sitting around his dining room of his new would-be matrimonial home , and spooks the heck out of him , enough to move back to his father's home . Again by chance he meets up with willowy Yun-jung ( Jun Ji-hyun ) at his customer's place , a mental clinic , and learns that she attends his father's church too . Yun - jung could have been an interesting character , given her mysterious background , innate shaman like powers and her narcolepsy illness which makes her faint when she least expects to . Just when Jung-won thinks he's mad to be seeing the dead children , Yun-jung seeing the same thing makes him curious enough to want to know her , and tap her shaman like powers to explain his forgotten childhood . But to get to this point was a drag which takes 90 minutes to have things move onto a higher plateau . There's plenty of unnecessary back and forth of scenes with rather plain characters populating the story , like Jung-won's fiancée , Yun-jung's estranged husband and his mother-in-law , Jung-won's father and sister , Yun - jung's best friend who's there just to provide a tragic element , and the list goes on . What's peculiar in this movie , is how it prefers to try and shock with its plenty of leaps off buildings , balconies and parapets as its preferred method of death . Even supporting characters are dispatched cleanly through this method , as if they're introduced precisely for this purpose . And it's shown by an unflinching camera too , which doesn't cut away to dampen its desired effect . I had to admit that I was in awe at how it showed head on , the crushing of a toddler by a lorry tyre . Just like that . And of course it's done by special effects , I can't help but to pause the DVD , rewind , and look at it again , thrice . You have to give credit to its technical strengths , which doesn't rely on cheap tricks like how a typical genre flick would try . But back to basics , what is required is a strong storyline , which The Uninvited doesn't have and squanders its potential . It played out like a hydra with too many things happening at the same time , or brewing in the background , with neither sub plot being developed adequately , and often left hanging and forgotten . It had a theme which could have been made primary - that of the concept of how Truth becomes , only from acceptance , and like that immortalized line from A Few Good Man , can you handle it ? But alas it's too little too late , and with its boring and unnecessary meandering , The Uninvited sinks , and seriously , it's an uninviting movie to sit through for all its blandness .
As mentioned in my earlier review of Swordsman , it isn't easy condensing plot elements from Louis Cha's richly textured martial arts novels for the big screen . In The Proud Youth ( bad title by the way ) , somehow it managed to do so , given a screenplay written by Ni Kwang , but it's ultra summarized , with zero room for character development , and scenes which don't seem to flow smoothly from one to the other , resulting in episodic treatment of sub plot development . But the most unforgivable thing done to it , was complete name changes to almost 90 % of the characters . Gone are Linghu Chong , Renwo Xing , Dong Fang Bu Bai etc , and in place were some generic names like Gongsun Song for Linghu Chong ! My guess was that given the summarized nature , having the actual names will do no justice to the original source material . So the next best thing would be to change the names , while retaining certain character traits that will allow them to be distinguished and mapped back to the original . It's a pity though , while the names of the 5 sword sects are kept , the ultimate swordplay technique had to undergo a complete , unnecessary revamp of title and style , which made it look like a very lame , generic martial arts move , with totally different origins . Fans of Du Gu Jiu Jian , I'm sorry but you won't get to see it demonstrated here . The fight scenes are reminiscent of styles of old though , with the heavy reliance of " ketchup " as a substitute for fake blood . While the fights look interesting , at times they turn out to be quite clumsy , with its special effects being shoddily done ( yes , I'm aware it's the 70s ) , and camera angles being out of position , and revealed quite clearly that swords were flimsy cardboard , and driven into the sides of bodies only . There are familiar plots like the introduction / battle with Dong Fang , the book Kui Hua Bao Dian requiring the practitioner to castrate himself , the rescue of Ren Wo Xing , the driving out of Linghu Chong from Hua Shan sect , and his learning of the Du Gu Jiu Jian , the musical number consisting of the flute and zither , and on hindsight , it's pretty amazing how all these were squeezed into 90 minutes . I was surprised at the exposure of a boob though , and in slow motion some more . And that was in 1978 , for a martial arts movie some more ! This is no Xiao Ao Jiang Hu . In name only , but definitely not in spirit . Please give this a miss , and proceed to the version starring Sam Hui . Code 3 DVD contains very limited special features . There are a few production and movie stills , one original poster , a one page one paragraph worth of production notes , the theatrical trailer and other trailers of the same genre , and a very short cast and crew biography . No qualms about the transfer , and traditional Chinese and English subtitles are available over a Chinese language soundtrack .
Not another crocodile movie again , you might groan . I did too , as I wonder just how many killer shark and killer crocodile / alligator movies need to be made , before they finally die off . Not too long ago we had Primeval , which was a crocodile movie set in the African continent which had attempted to weave local politics into it . Here , it's set in the Northern Territories of Australia , and with such killer-reptilian movies , the more exaggerated the size and aggression of the animal , the better . So we have a seven metre long crocodile for the characters to contend with . It's a simple set up , in which Radha Mitchell plays Kate Ryan , a river tour guide who pilots her own boat to ferry tourists down a river to experience the wild life , as well as learning little details such as them not getting themselves attacked by any crocs because their tour boats are larger , or so they would like the tourists to believe . That said , our monster in question took about 30 minutes before deciding to increase the pace and tension of the movie , by knocking up against the boat of our merry bunch when they respond to a distant distress signal . It takes a while to get things moving because writer-director Greg McIean ( Wolf Creek ) had dedicated the earlier portion of the movie to get the audience chummy with the characters , before they become fodder for our hungry crocodile . And surprisingly , I have to say that Rogue Crocodile did work , despite it being a crocodile movie done countless of times over , and whose plot development we can see coming from a mile away . What probably worked in its favour , is that there aren't any gung-ho heroes in the story - no cops or natural crocodile dundees , but everyday folk like you and I , and we naturally would root for them as they try to escape their predicament . And it looks like a typical episode from the television series Lost too . You have a makeshift island where our temporal inhabitants seek refuge from , though the tide's coming through to flood it in time , and with water comes natural territory for the crocodile to wade through . Communication devices aren't working and they're cut off from the rest of the world . So they can only rely on their own ingenuity , plans crafted with time working against them , if only they can get past their occasional bickering on what to do . There are enough tension filled moments to excite you as this crocodile chomps without remorse , and it doesn't shy away from showing some gory bits , though the number of set action pieces are limited , and involves a little too much thrashing about by the roguish reptile which turns out to be not too smart , relying on plain brawn . Suitable for those lazy Sunday afternoons .
Anne Hathaway stars in no less than three films being released this month alone in Singapore . There's Rachel Getting Married , the upcoming Bride Wars , and Passengers . Amongst the three , and I'm counting my chickens before they hatch , Rachel Getting Married is a must watch to see how Hathaway has nailed it as a credible actress , while Bride Wars from the trailer does suggest she has some comedic flair , and this one , well , is one of those attempts at her trying to diversify . She did credible , but still couldn't shun away from being a pretty vase in her Claire Summers role . But she uses it to her advantage here , as her struggling grief councilor character uses her charm to disarm , and is getting used to all the unwanted male attention courtesy of patient Eric ( Patrick Wilson ) , who is one amongst the group of an airplane crash survivors that she's tasked to work with . Two separate threads develop here , one on the romantic front with a clash of morals given a conflict of interest with a patient , and the other some creepy mystery with regards to the shrinking size of her group therapy class . The former thread is easy to follow , since it's all about Eric and Claire playing games with each other , with every approach met with icy cold defense , until of course persistence finally paying off . Don't expect any sparks to fly as both Hathaway and Wilson felt as if they're going through the motions with their characters . The latter thread is where the fun should be , with its brewing conspiracy theory with the airline's involvement to something sinister , given contradictory reports with the survivors ' experience , as well as shadowy figures following everyone's movement . However , Ronnie Christensen's sleight of hand technique can be detected and seen a mile away . In its buildup , suspense wasn't considered , and it plodded on with issues and unfinished business being piled one on top of another , though credit must be given to David Morse in his creepy rendition as an airlines representative , as do Andre Braugher and Dianne Wiest . By the time the movie rolls around its half way mark , those alert can already know what the big revelation will be . Which is nothing groundbreaking already since a number of films already use similar plot devices and revelation that it's no longer surprising , but the norm . I only felt that the revelation could have been less clumsy and made clearer , given the many bewildered responses heard all around the cinema hall . Passengers is one of those films that you don't expect to see on a plane's inflight entertainment system , together with the likes of Flightplan and the first Final Destination . It does boast a spectacular plane in distress scene , though it dangled that prospect for the longest time before delivering its effects laden payload to the audience .
The opening just might inspire the return of the flashmobbers , a fad which picked up for a short time in Singapore ( of which I did participate in one ) , and then faded into oblivion . From the get go , it seemed like a unique idea , until you realize it's all staged to gain street cred in this Youtube age , performed by " crew " members of reigning street dance champions 410 . But Step Up 2 retains much of the superficial facade of the original movie , with the setting in the same elite school , only with a different cohort . From what we've seen in the first , those snobby arty farty dance kids no longer hog the spotlight , as it is firmly on a group of misfits who are here to replace the loss of the previous two leads Jenna Dewan and Channing Tatum , although the latter did land a guest appearance to cement the excuse for a sequel , as well as to pass on the troubled teen mantle to Andie ( Briana Evigan ) . Whatever troubles these teens have , it's all secondary to the purpose of making the movie . Sure , you have the outcast who don't look right and get prejudiced against , a typical younger brother trying to step out of the shadows of his more illustrious brother who's now school principal , and some might even deem it condescending to have an Asian character who speaks in a funny accent . Too many characters here and all of them turn out to be one - dimensional and cardboard . But all that camaraderie building aside , which is what is formulaic glue , the main draw is undoubtedly the street dancing moves . I'd bet everyone in the audience , who are mostly teenagers into free form dance , will lap up all the moves that the cast put on display . And there are plenty of set pieces for one to gawk at . However , in my own personal un-dance-like opinion , the dancing here pales in comparison to the first . What made the first interesting to watch , is the fusion of two different schools of thought , and having them come together for an explosive finale which was worth the wait . Here , it's more improvisation , and even then , you can't help but notice the very individualistic styles that stand out on its own , never for a minute trying to blend in with the rest of the crew . Coming together for the expected finale was also very staged and forced , and in no way given the story development , can they pull off something like that . Even so , instead of one coherent act , you get many disjointed short sequences being force fit together . Not very effective , or interesting to sit through unfortunately . So I am going to state that Step Up 2 the Streets is strictly meant for street dance fans , otherwise this makes the first movie look like a class act of its own .
Human Lanterns is probably widely talked about as a cult martial arts film with some dabbling on the macabre . The opening credits show a warehouse with plenty of human remains atop a bloody grinder . In fact , it has all the ingredients of a torture porn flick , except that , horrors of horrors , this DVD edition comes censored ! So gone are the scenes where the victim's skin are peeled off their bodies to make the titular lanterns , though there was a fleeting boob shot from afar that the censors seemed to have missed . Anyway , the story is nothing remarkable , with two town braggers , Master Lung ( Tony Liu Yong ) and Master Tan ( Chen Kuan Tai ) at loggerheads and always scheming to be one up against the other . Tan shows off his latest human-sized lantern which gets the admiration of the simple townsfolk , and Lung decides to go one up on his rival . His search for a master lantern maker leads him to one time love rival Chun Fang ( Lo Lieh ) , who agrees to make him the most stunning lanterns ever seen , with a condition that he never visits his workplace . Best of all , they celebrate their strange union by visiting the whorehouse . Hmm . Also , a mysterious masked creature looking like an overgrown hairy ape with highly skilled kungfu start to terrorize the town , kidnapping young nubile females such as the # 1 courtesan and the sister of Master Tan , and given the nature of the disappearance , the animosity between the two men deepen to a deadly duel . However , it doesn't take you a second to figure out just who the man is behind the creature , and there's some needless tension built up around this mystery which seemed a little waste of time . The " police " too turn out to be rather foolhardy and inept , with the sergeant always listening to the two rich men , allowing his investigations to be poisoned by ill opinions from each of them on the other . Talk about siding with those who are rich or in power . While it can't be comparable to stuff we see today , for it's time I think the fight scenes were still interesting enough to engage audiences , given its myriad of weapons from swords to fans ( and the creature's gloved claws ) , and stunts . In fact , the stunts and sets were really impressive for its climatic battle , and I thought there was no stinginess in creating multi - layered sets for the actors to ply their martial arts abilities . What seemed to be interesting here though , is not the choreographed martial arts display , but rather the portrayal of the women's role in cultures back then . They are treated like playthings , with zero say in the ways of the world , reduced to gossipy aunties , and helpless damsels in distress . In fact , Lung's wife had to even tolerate , and even approve of her husband's infidelity . That said , Human Lanterns could have been a more entertaining watch , if not for the censoring of those crucial moments , making it like eating Char Kway Teow without the See Hum !
Billed as a romantic sex comedy , Bewitching Attraction is neither full of raunchy sex ( ala another movie in town now - Lie With Me ) , nor is it full of laughs . It's an acquired taste , with sporadic nudity and sex , and rests its wit in black comedy instead . Starring Moon So-Ri in the female lead role of textiles professor Eun-suk in a rural town , and Ji Jin-hee as Park Seok-gyu , a comics illustrator turned lecturer , Bewitching Attraction relies heavily on the chemistry of its leading cast to carry through a convoluted plot . Eun-suk , a lady with a limp , is extremely promiscuous , having had sex with most of the men in her faculty , possessing with her much influence on the men with her sexuality . An environmental activist , she also harbours ambitions in branching into television , hence the early sex sequence with a TV show producer - nothing much really , just full of pumping action . Enter Seok-gyu into the fray as the new lecturer , and the other folks feel threatened with the arrival of the good looker . You'd thought for a minute that the two will hit it off straightaway , but both have this cold shoulder exhibited . The rest of the story deals mainly with the slow revelation of a deep dark secret these two share way back in high school , which involves death in a plot line similar to that of Dorm's swimming pool . In some sick fashion , I kinda enjoyed ( ! ) the way it was played on screen , it looked horribly realistic . And the black comedy continues from then on , as if both characters are that forbidden alignment of the stars , that when brought together , will cause the tragic demise of those around them . I've got to give the movie credit though , that these sequences happen when you least expect it , or if you are expecting it , the delivery will still manage to surprise you for a bit . And is it just me , or does Moon So-Ri look like Michelle Chia from certain angles in the movie ? Somehow she looks really to die for at certain angles , while other angles made her look pretty ordinary . You gotta check it out to see what I mean . But it's recommended only if you cannot get tickets to other more worthy summer movies . With the barrage of Korean movies of the same genre lately ( dealing with romance ) , this could possibly be one of the weakest K-offering this season .
Touted as the sequel to King Hu's Come Drink With Me starring Cheng Pei Pei , this movie is anything but . Except for the return of Pei Pei's Golden Swallow role , Chang Cheh's movie doesn't share any similarities with King Hu's original , clearly stamping his own take on his movie utilizing the lead character from Come Drink With Me , and relegating her to supporting role status . As a fan of the original , this is downright disappointing , as I had expected to see Pei Pei kick some serious rear again as the fabled swordswoman . Instead , what we get is a story involving a love triangle of sorts , with costars Lo Lieh as Golden Whip Han Tao , a man who saved Golden Swallow from bandits and nursed her back to health , and Wang Yu as a beau from long time ago , who now calls himself The Silver Roc . The Drunken Cat , with whom Golden Swallow rode into the sunset with , is clearly forgotten and totally written out . In actuality , this movie can be renamed The Silver Roc . The story centers on this figure , an orphan bearing a scar on the forehead similar to Harry Potter's , and is one of the fellow disciples to Golden Swallow's teachers . Disappearing one night to seek revenge on his family's murderers , he resurfaces to look for Golden Swallow , and does so by killing villains in her name , in an attempt to lure her out of seclusion . Being the self-proclaimed number one swordsman with an attitude helps too , and not before long , our trio will meet , with Golden Swallow being indecisive about both alpha males , that they have to duke it out to settle scores . In Chang Cheh's signature ketchup blood style , this movie doesn't lack in the gore department , with really bloody scenarios , dismembered bodies , slashes to face and an inspiration to Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom , albeit done in a more straightforward manner . But some of the kung fu moves seemed recycled from One Armed Swordsman , especially Wang Yu's Silver Roc , who holds his sword akimbo similar to his One Armed days . And his much revered " Coup De Grace " killer move was never seen until the finale , and that too was too weakly executed and laughable . I wondered too about numerous scenes where characters liked to leap out of windows , clearly to a mat at the bottom , out of the screen . But one thing's a bonus , and that's having plenty of outdoor shots versus indoor studio ones , which boosts production values a little . Still , it's a decent martial arts flick , but one which could have been miles better . With Wang Yu hogging too much of the limelight with his character in this movie , it suffers by neglecting the other leading characters by Lo Lieh , and especially Cheng Pei Pei , because the movie , after all , is named after her Golden Swallow , or in the original English title , it's the Girl with the Thunderbolt Kick ( apparently it's a misnomer , she doesn't have that skill , nor executed any recognizable kicking moves ) . If anything , watch out for a young Wu Ma as Hu Zhen , a supporting character and friend of Golden Swallow and Han Tao . Nothing memorable , but just a getting a kick out of recognizing a star ( to me at least ) in his earlier youthful looking days .
What had drawn me to watch Death Defying Acts , is that it's a story with Harry Houdini , arguably the greatest illusionist and escape artist of our time . A few days ago I was browsing through a book which revealed the secrets behind his brand of death defying acts , and really he's a man of science , engineering and most of all , a performer to bring to life the act of fooling an audience into believing his stunts . Sure there's an element of danger , but with proper risk assessment and safeguards , they strip away all the mystique that serves to confound . But contrary to the title , there's nothing really death defying about the movie , as it treaded on safe ground and doesn't dwell any more on the illusions that it has to . In fact , you can count the number of stunts which involve Harry Houdini , and the filmmakers left that for another biographical movie that someone else should pick up on . What we have instead are glimpses into the man's personal life , and Guy Pearce provided quite an intense and charismatic Houdini with personal demons of his own to do battle with , though the story seemed to rein him in from dwelling too much on that aspect , and preferred to have a more romantic tale weaved in . The romanticism of the movie is not with his illusions , but with a single parent who's a psychic of sorts , relying on her street smarts to get her own act going . Catherine Zeta-Jones plays Mary McGarvie , who has to rely on her wits to build credibility for her stage character . Together with daughter and sidekick Benji ( played by Saoirse Ronan of Atonement fame ) , the mother and daughter team tries hard to make a living from their acts , but realize that they're by no means close to Houdini's widespread fame and fortune . However , Houdini himself throws a gauntlet to all psychics far and wide , that whosoever can accurately reveal what his late mother had last said to him , will inherit US$10 , 000 . His purpose it seems is to reveal that the majority of these soothsayers are tricksters in disguise , until of course he meets the luminous Mary , and affairs of the heart throws him off course . Naturally , Mary and Benji find themselves up against the best in the business , but when your back is against the wall , there's nothing much to lose it seems . As mentioned earlier , this movie's more of a character study of the master magician , and explores things like his guilt because of dedication to his craft and performance , as well as his questionable motives in being attracted to the fictional Mary McGarvie . Narrated by the character of Benji , we see things through a child's eyes , and perhaps therein lies the loss of some pathos in the romantic angle of it . On one hand , it isn't your classic romantic story , while on the other , it doesn't seem to want to preach the method , rationale and mindset of Houdini himself . So what emerged is a mixed bag . Beautifully shot , but again falling on the emptiness of its effort in trying to allow the audience to feel for the characters . At least Timothy Spall , who plays Mr Sugarman , Houdini's manager , allowed for some light moments as the guarded and wary person that he is . And credit goes to keeping the ending quite right too .
Neil Gaiman was in town last July , and MirrorMask was one of the yet-to-be-released film projects that he had scribed . It was supposed to be scheduled for release here late last year , but somehow the plans got shelved . Good news though , it will make its theatrical release in the local GV theatres next week . It's pretty abstract at times , and I admit there were portions which I completely zoned out . Directed by illustrator Dave McKean , you'd come to expect the stunning visuals which MirrorMask offered , right from the opening credit sequence in 3D . MirrorMask tells the story of protagonist Helena , a young girl belonging to a family of circus performers . She often dreams of life outside performances , that of what she deems as " real life " , as opposed to her own fantasy world of make believe inside the Big Top . Blaming herself for her mother's ill health after a heated argument , she begins to dream and fantasize herself in being in a world ruled by two queens , a world filled with strange and bizarre beings , where everyone is masked . In parallel to her life , the white queen is also ill , and she's tasked with the quest of finding the fabled MirrorMask to save her . Think of it as sort of a darker , Gaiman-ish take to Alice in Wonderland , with plot devices and scenarios which leap from wild imagination , accompanied by beautiful surreal environments . MirrorMask suffered from a pretty draggy beginning , and it took a while before the plot began to pick up , with Helena's quest and wondering if what was happening was truly real , of really nothing more than just a dream , which of course offered ample avenue to flex those creative juices . It's filled with special effects that boggles the mind , and offbeat characters made so beautifully by Jim Henson's Creature Shop . However , this movie is strictly for fans of Neil Gaiman only , as those not accustomed to his style of story telling , might be overwhelmed by the visuals and get lost in the plot . But for those who persevere , if you strip away the eye candy fluff , at its core , it's a fairly simple , straight-forward storyline of an adult fantasy .
The opening film of last year's Tokyo International Film Festival , the reviews for Midnight Eagle has so far been less than stellar , and I was curious to find out why . I mean , a disaster - like movie with elements that threaten in epic proportions couldn't be all that bad , what with a nuclear bomb atop a snowy mountain , with the risk of a nuclear fallout causing death and environmental damage through all of East Asia , and a race against time to prevent it from happening , relying on the heavy shoulders of a few , seem like a stroll in the park right ? The Japanese are in familiar territory , given the experience learnt from the old days when Gozilla stomped Tokyo , right up to the recent Sinking of Japan remake , you'd come to think by now they can fuse the best practices from such movies , and put together something with enough thrills and spills to excite the action seeking audience . Wrong . In fact , nothing much really happens here , and I have to admit that Izuru Narushima is no Michael Bay , who can really pump the adrenaline in folks with just a clock on countdown . Here , although there's a need to wrap things up in 48 hours , everything proceeds with a severe lack of urgency . Which really puts the damper for it to be a " race against time " thriller . In trying to tell a story in as large a scale as possible , it incorporated three fronts before converging them all in the finale ( Transformers , anyone ? ) , but does so in a very slow manner . You have the political front , led by Prime Minister Watarase ( Tatsuya Fuji ) who on one hand declines to reveal the incident to the public lest a panic occurs and he loses his job , and on the other pandering to the US request of maintaining confidentiality , because they had actually flown nuclear bomb carrying stealth bombers over the skies of Japan . Yes the USofA again conveniently becomes the blame victim just had how it was in Korea's The Host , which one wonders whether their allies are becoming tired of their military antics . Then there's the " action " front with war photo-journalist Yuji Nishizaki ( Takao Osawa ) , who on his frequent journeys to the Northern Alps , photographs the incident , and on the cajoling of his friend Shinichiro Ochiai ( Hiroshi Tamaki ) , they decide to scale the mountain to investigate up close , only to have " agents " ( North Korean spies actually , in lieu of the more politically correct subtitles ) also on the same mission , but to finish off what was started . The duo need firepower to handle the adversary , and that comes from the Defense Forces ' Major Akihiro Saeki ( A-Saku Yoshida ) . Lastly , Nishizaki's sister in law , whom he isn't on good terms with , given the sexual tension between them ( or so I read their body language ) , handling some events on the domestic front with some injured North Korean and his girlfriend , who holds the key to end the danger . In some ways , it resembles Robert Redford's Lions for Lambs , which also has a battlefront created on the high mountains , while pencil pushing decision makers survey the action from the comfort of their warm , sparse bunker operations room . Since it's a drama more so than an action movie , a lot of extras are just sitting in the background , trying not to sleep while the actors emote , and looking prim and proper in their starched uniforms decorated with countless of medals . The Japanese seem to be unable to get rid of showing off technical superiority with long distance communications over huge television monitors that give unprecedented clarity in both video and audio , of course with plenty of loopholes abound too . While there's a lack of urgency , the enemies are faceless too , with inanimate objects like " the bomb " and plenty of snow-camouflaged , masked soldiers armed with automatic machine guns and RPGs , so they don't really present themselves as menacing or life-threatening , just as another generic goon that gets dispatched easily . Midnight Eagle could have been a taut action thriller , but what we got was plenty of unnecessary drama that bloated the plot .
There are three distinct characters here , each played by someone of different nationality , and had in their own fiefdom , crafted scenes within their own comfort zone , but when put together , seem to have awkwardness stamped all over it . I shall begin with the strongest . This is no doubt Jang Hyuk's vehicle , as he stars as Tae , a Korean whom as a boy , thanks to his mother who took him to a dance performance , fell in love with the art , and vow to pursue this dream of his despite not knowing how to , and facing great opposition from his father , who deemed it a sissy sport and would have preferred he picked up martial arts as a hobby . So when he reached adulthood , and with savings from his factory job , he bids his parents goodbye , and off he comes to Singapore to attend a dance audition . American Idol style no doubt , with artificial caustic remarks being thrown about by a lacklustre panel of three , but not before having a Singapore Tourism Board approved montage of the usual Singapore Skyline , Esplanade , Raffles Place et al shots that always plague every Singapore-based movie . And from here , let's move on to Fann's Emi Lim , whose signature is so easy to copy , I could've written plenty of cheques in her name . A has been dance instructor whose weak ankle meant a halt in competition , her retirement at the top of her game allowed her to sustain a school with plenty of students who can groove ( much better than her of course ) , while she harbours the thought of one day returning to the ballroom . Taken in by the strikingly good looking Tae , coupled with the fact that he's a virgin ( of dance ) , she relishes the challenge of unlearning what he had learnt , without partner and teacher , and I tell you , always cock teases him so much so that he begins to fall for her . Alas Emi has a beau who doesn't pay her any attention , and Jason Scott Lee fills in this jealous boyfriend role with flared nostrils and wide hard-staring eyes with aplomb . As Cheng , who's also a has-been given his injured knee ( a lot of injured has beens in this movie , and this pair's like made one for the other ) , his dojo , set up opposite the dance school along the same Wong Street , is running in the red , and he deals with shady characters like Lim Kay Tong's in order to keep his school afloat . Not happy with the good vibes between teacher and student , he tends to show off a lot of his martial arts capability in a bid to scare off the newbie dancer , only to set up an inevitable showdown between the two in due course . To the movie's credit , the story's quite coherent , except that it relied on a number of clichés to carry the movie through , and not necessarily for the better . There were plenty of superficial subplots and elements that could have been developed further given the running time of close to 2 hours , but instead there were a number of slow moving scenes which while nice to look at , didn't provide depth any more than to establish some background for the characters . Amongst all , I liked Tae's story best , well since he's the main character and had adequate screen time dedicated , where the relationship between him and his father was one of the strongest in the movie with so much meant despite so little being said . Besides , I always enjoyed characters who can learn by observation or from books and videos , and in doing so , lack the basis of understanding which can sometimes plague their execution . And there are a couple of really creative and unexpected development which I thought I had it nailed , but was wrong . Which of course is a plus point . But the more important question here is , can the leads dance ? Scenes of dancing together were limited , and for the most parts Fann and Jang Hyuk danced solo . They were given plenty of opportunity to air the armpits , and the filmmakers were smart to have spliced little set pieces together rather than have dances in one continuous motion and scene , since this will definitely expose plenty of shortcomings especially for Fann's Emi , supposedly being World Class and all . What was worse , was the sudden inject of the song Hero by Enrique Iglesias , which I thought was somewhat inappropriate for a ballroom dance sequence , but I suppose fitted the scene at the time . Thankfully though , the rest of the score for the movie was beautiful and memorable , the same one in which you can hear in the trailer . If memory serves me correct , almost every scene had a score to accompany the visuals , making it a rather musical film to sit through as well , though at times you have to grit your teeth as Emi seem to have a knack of spouting hokey dance philosophy . Production wise , I would liken it to last year's Cages , which set itself in a Singapore that's of its own artificial creation . Dance of the Dragon is not all bad , just that it lacked some amount of heart and detail to truly make it excellent . There's no doubt fans of Fann and Jang Hyuk will turn up in droves to catch this movie ( like in today's screening ) , though there are also those who decided that enough is enough and had to walk out . In my opinion , this movie shouldn't have warranted that , but just don't set your sights and expectations too high in wanting to watch a movie with superb dancing or martial arts , of which it has neither , but took effort to craft believable scenes as best as it could .
I haven't really watched the original from start to end , so I can't say for sure how well this version was vis-a-vis the Korean one , which shot Jeon Ji-Hyun to prominence in the starring role . The Hollywood remake however , went straight to DVD , but you know that it's Uniquely Singapore that we give DVD releases a chance on our big screens . That said , I thought this remake wasn't as bad as it was made out to be , what with some screaming blasphemy , and calling it inferior . Truth is , I was entertained from start to end , nevermind if certain scenes seemed implausible . After all , this is a romantic movie , and in the genre , if the man says he's gonna fetch a moon , he jolly well plucks it out from the night sky and delivers it . And if we're talking about implausible romance sequences here , then director Yann Samuell would be the right guy at the helm , after all , he brought us the French movie Love Me If You Dare . Elisha Cuthbert takes over the role immortalized by Jeon Ji-Hyun , as Jordan Roark ( whose last name becomes a running joke ) the ditzy , crazy and perpetually drunk lass whom Charlie Bellow ( Jesse Bradford ) falls for in one random night where he saves her from potentially injuring / killing herself at the subway . So begins the abusive person versus the Mr straight - laced all round nice guy in comic routine after comic routine , which for the most parts , weren't exactly funny to begin with . And their outings all stem from her dictating where and what time to meet , in which he dutifully obeys , not knowing what's in it for him . Maybe he's a wuss but I guess it stemmed from his being a romantic and genuinely wanting to do whatever she dictated , for the simple reason that he's smitten . After all , I guess who wouldn't , given her attractiveness , and the extremely strange circumstances , which do get explained , in which she behaves . But while both leads are good looking , they do lack a certain chemistry when with each other , making it look like a very forced meeting of lovebirds , in a very artificial way . That aside , the movie does have its slick ending to thank for in weaving together their respective back stories , though they do detract and distract from the main narrative , and bring some attention to how beautiful those shots were made , in having to integrate seamlessly one scene to the next . And its concept of Destiny , and dealing with it , on one hand felt completely honest with its building of bridges to each other , of having to know it and to work at it , but alas the movie eventually fell back on what it had preached , opting instead to leave it to the stars , and a very quick and coincidental one at that , which you can see coming from miles away . I guess for those who have not seen the original , we might be blown away by the story and revelation , given that Korean romantic movies / weepies do not come only at face value . However , having seen some Korean remakes , I would reckon that those who have seen the original will call this a travesty . The jury's still out however , until I get my hands on its Korean predecessor , and then I'll let you know what I think . That I believe I should be able to do so since this version has intrigued me to give the original another go . Otherwise , this movie's still adequate for a decent romantic date . I did however , feel sorry for actresses who played the 11 Woman of No Consequence - sheesh , what a title !
Taiwanese auteur Hou Hsiao-Hsien's movie at The Picturehouse is a movie with three stories told very distinctly , one story after another . Take it as three short films rolled into one , with each actor playing different roles , each character having no distinct relation to their counterparts in different eras . Having them set in 1966 , 1911 and 2005 provided vastly different material for each short film to stand out from one another . The first , " A Time for Love " , is set in the swinging 60s of 1966 . Chang Chen plays an army enlistee who chances upon Shu Qi's working girl in a billiard parlor . He gets attracted to her , but she , not being a permanent staff , flits from one town to another . Undetered , he spends the weekend off to hunt for her , starting from KaoShiung where they last met , following a trail of different mailing addresses which takes him all over Taiwan . This short plays out like a bittersweet tale of budding love , where one will spare no effort in wanting to meet the girl of one's dreams . The second , " A Time for Freedom " , however , is a tough one to swallow . Set during 1911 , there is color , but alas , there's no audible dialog save for opera lyrics sung and Chinese classical music to set the stage . It plays out as a silent movie of sorts , and the dialog pieces are set in inter-titles which you have to read off to understand what the heck they're saying . Very stylish way to portray the era , one which attracted some snickering from the audience , but soon after , you'll have to get very used to the way this section gets presented . The story however , is nothing to shout about , and perhaps the most boring of the lot . Very easy to doze off in the Oscar chair I tell you . The last section , " A Time for Youth " is set in 2005 . Chang Chen plays a photographer , and Shu Qi , a bisexual Goth chick who is on the road to becoming straight , I think . Her character here is the most interesting of the lot , and also because Chang Chen's male leads in all three parts were somewhat ordinary , without an edge . While the first part's environment was in Taiwan's rural areas , which is probably used as it's easier to simulate the retro environment of the past , and the second's highly likely in a sound-stage , this one is familiar urban territory - capital Taipei . It probably is hip to feature lesbians in movies these days , as we see Shu Qi grapple with a clingy lesbian lover . But after having passionate throngs with Chang's character , I guess she must be having second thoughts , or really , is bothered by the clinginess . Throughout the three sections , dialog is quite scarce , except for perhaps the first one . Peppered most of the time in Hokkien , it was peculiar that the subtitles only had the Mandarin translation , totally neglecting English speaking folks . But for the Mandarin dialog , there was English subtitles . So for those who don't read Mandarin or understand oral Taiwanese styled Hokkien , be prepared to be lost for a bit during the movie . I didn't manage to tie down the inter-related themes of all 3 parts , except for the obvious one on love . The first , being in the 60s , was portrayed quite innocently , with shy smiles and little surprises and all . The second was more restrained in nature . Fact is , there's very little physical contact between the lovers . While the third opened with sex , which I suspect was snipped off here ( didn't see what was in the trailers : P ) . All three had appropriate music to accentuate the era's mood . You have classics like Smoke Gets In Your Eyes , and Rain and Tears ( the one used in the trailer ) , up against Operatic music , before closing the film with alternative music , sung in heavily Chinese accented English , whose lyrics don't make much sense , being adapted by Shu Qi's character encounters . Communication techniques used in the three movies were as accurate as can be , with A4 sized pen-written love letters , in contrast with ink-brushed wordings in large thin paper , and today's prevalent electronic communication with email and SMS . Perhaps it also serves to highlight the idea of love in those eras . One very innocent , one very plain , and one , non-permanent and fleeting . Maybe it's just me , but having watch three very arty representations by directors such as Malick , Retaruang and now Hou , made me a little jaded what with having movies where style takes precedence over substance . I think I need to chill out with something as mindless as Ice Age 2 or Ultraviolet soon . Need balance .
When I was young , I had placed my hand at a door hinge , and without realizing , my mom slammed the door shut . Naturally the door cannot close , I felt no pain and didn't scream , my mom wondered whether the door was faulty , until we both realized that one of my fingernails was completed smashed in . Then the pain set in , I screamed my lungs out , and the look on my mother's face and reaction , was completely the same as that of Noguchi Hideyo's . Faraway Sunset tells the story of the famed bacteriologist who is known to have discovered the agent that cause syphilis , and for his relentless search for a cure to yellow fever . As a toddler , his mother's neglect had caused an accident to his left hand , fusing together all the fingers in a bizarre twist of fate . Naturally extremely remorseful for being the cause of her son's handicap , she does everything she could to ensure that he gets to lead a normal life , despite having to fend off bullies and unfair prejudices . If you're wondering if the movie provides you any insights to his professional life , then you , like me , would be disappointed . That part of his life is only glossed over quite quickly , and what's the main meat in Faraway Sunset , is the human drama and personal relationships with the different ladies in Noguchi Hideyo's life . Chiefly , it centers on that with his mother , having her cause his handicap , but more than making up for it , as she is probably the main player in getting to wake his idea up , reminding him of the promises he made to achieve his dreams . The other ladies on focus are a fellow Japanese student who spurns his love he has for her every step of the way , and I suspect this is due more to his handicap than anything else . A good loooker no doubt , but one who looks ugly on he inside . And finally you have his American wife , played by Julie Dreyfuss , but in a role that is pretty much a cameo by any standards . But what is inspiring about the character of Noguchi Hideyo , even if you slowly start to loathe his ways , is that he's a go getter who doesn't know when to stop , nor is able to take no for an answer . Relentless in his pursuit either in his love life or his professional objectives , he bugs and begs to be accepted , and has a skin that is extremely thick in order to open his mouth for favours and loans , more often than not , succeeding of course . What I didn't like though , was his triumphant return to Japan . In an effort to gain respect back home where he was despised , he had to make a name for himself worldwide , before deciding to trudge on home soil . And what I thought was particularly unfilial , was that he left the visit of his mom to the very last , after meeting up with politicians , businessmen , and check this , celebrities . What gives ? I felt you should give priority to the lady who sacrificed big time for you , and one who has been bearing the responsibility in trying to make things right within her limited ability . The pace of the movie treads real slow , and told in pseudo-docu style when his professional life is touched upon . As mentioned , the human drama factor takes centerstage here , and Mother's Love cannot be any more than emphasized by the time the end credits rolled .
My only trip to the US ( not counting the toddler days ) where I can remember what the heck I was doing , was back in December 2005 ( gee , time flies ! ) where I spent a total of 7 full days trawling the streets as well as the casinos up and down the Strip and its outskirts , and seriously , it's never as sexy as that portrayed in the movies ( or that television series ) , though you'd truly never really run out of things to do , despite everything being overly expensive at tourist prices . I think I still possess a mental map of everything on the Strip ! And of course , Vegas is famous amongst other things besides the Elvis impersonators , live entertainment etc , is the ability to conduct quicky marriages , which is what Ashton Kutcher's Jack Fuller and Cameron Diaz's Joy McNally get themselves into during a night of drunken stupor and cheap dares , two lonely souls who journey to Sin City as an escapism from their failed lives , where you can enjoy all the pleasures the city have to offer , before the drudge comes kicking in when you receive that credit card bill . So begins the story when the duo find themselves in a situation to annul their marriage given a night of impulse that they cannot remember , but cannot do so when McNally's quarter was inserted into a jackpot machine by Fuller , and that brought them a cool 3 million dollars jackpot . Which they can't agree how to split the money , and a quirky judge sentenced them to 6 months " hard marriage " to work through their marital vows , before their frozen cash can be touched . As what the trailer had already explicitly spelt out , it's War of the Roses in Mr and Mrs Smith styled couch-therapy sessions by Queen Latifah , with comedy ranging from the slapstick , to the plain juvenile toilet tricks . Attempts to elevate the movie and give the characters more depth , come in the form of Jack Fuller learning to believe in himself and to shed his playboy , non-committal ways , and with Joy McNally having to learn to let her hair down , lighten up , and basically doing something she loves rather than to continue doing things that she dislikes , in true " live your dream " fashion . And throw in a quirky boss and ideal parents into the mix , you'd have a whole host of supporting cast to boost variety in this rather predictable tale , where you can see the outcome shining brightly like a star in a moonless night . I thought Ashton Kutcher and Cameron Diaz could be playing themselves , i . e . one's dating an older woman , the other other no qualms in dating younger men . Well , at least their characters had never felt the need to reveal their ages , but you can tell Diaz is a spring chicken no longer since her big screen debut in The Mask . Typical of all her roles , Diaz again plays a ditzy blonde with quirky skill sets , and I thought somebody should really consider giving her a role in an action movie , since she has on display , really menacing looking biceps , and a scene where she got to show off her combo moves of a right hook and reverse roundhouse kick . Kutcher on the other hand is , well , Kutcher from Punk'd , with nothing really new offered in his role of the smooth talking slacker with brooding good looks . Instead , the one who stole the show was sidekick Rob Corddry as Hater , Fuller's best friend and lawyer . He would already be familiar to some as the crazy Homeland Security agent in Harold and Kumar Escape From Guantanamo Bay , and I'd stick my neck out to say this is one guy to watch over the next few comedic movies , as he totally let it rip in this movie with his crazy antics . At best , What Happens in Vegas is ideal for those itching for yet another formulaic romantic - comedy from the factories of Hollywood , or for those who missed out on the hot tickets for Speed Racer . Stay behind after the end credits roll for a final coda . There are 2 at the beginning of the end credits , but hold out right until the end before you decide to make for the exit .
Then again , it's a comedy , and the whole intention of Tong was to try and emulate the classical 80s comedies from Hong Kong , especially those Stephen Chow " mo lei tau " ( nonsensical ) movies , which Tong confessed this evening to being probably his # 1 fan in Singapore . Unfortunately those movies are in a class of its own , and the actors in MiW are certainly not in the same league too . But you can't fault Tong for trying , as MiW was more like a shotgun firing its rounds - some pellets hit the mark , while some others totally miss the target . Technically , Tong has shown that he understood the elements of suspense - the prologue showed that he is more than capable to helm another horror movie though he overdid this bit to achieve some comedic effect , a subtle prod on those horror movies with extremely closeups of facial expressions , especially that of Asian horror favourite - the widening eyeball . Alas , in treading onto comedy in almost Jack Neo fashion , MiW too felt like little skits pieced together to make a feature length film . And Neo's style of meshing songs into the narrative , became no less than 3 musical pieces popping up as music videos , complete with sing along lyrics , karaoke style . But I like these songs - they are fun , at times nonsensical , and are in dialect with no English subtitles , which to some , might have been lost in translation ( ahem I'm multi-lingual , so no problem lah ) . The music comes courtesy of Joe Ng ( Mee Pok Man ) , and the sound effects and design is probably one of the best in a local movie , especially since it was relied on heavily to deliver those cartoonish effects with aplomb , and you definitely must keep your ears peeled to appreciate this . One such scene involves Benjamin Heng , who has appeared in Kelvin Tong movies , and whose character here , if I were to romanticize it further , could have seemed like a ( logical though more fantastical since it's in the spiritual realm ) continuation of the one in Eating Air , as they share similar mannerisms , or could actually seem more of a spoof of his earlier Ah-Beng gangster character . Heng has a supporting role here though . The other main characters are Shaun Chen as Ah Boon , an ex-national reserve badminton player , Alice Lim as Madam Wong , an elderly lady , Ling Lee as Wan Yi , a lady who choked to death , and the Hip Hop duo of err Hip ( Xavier Teo ) and Hop ( Ben Yeung ) , whom I swear are more irritating as time goes by , until they break into song and dance in those music videos . They are all ghostly pals living in an unused HDB apartment unit , and whine for the most parts about how difficult life is for a ghost in Singapore . Not to forget , a bit part for Sunny the cameraman , another ghostly pal who's filming the chronicles of these friends . No prizes for acting skills over here , as Shaun Chen does look a little wooden , Xavier and Ben like I mentioned , and chewing up too much screen with their over the top performances , and Ling Lee , well I'm not sure why , but certain angles did make her look rather unappealing . Maybe they are playing to their one-dimensional characters , but the character which stole the show , hands down , is the gambler-contractor . Now he IS the star of MiW with his perfect delivery of some of the best lines and situations in the movie . David Aw had a bit role in the movie as an instigator of change , and he got that role as a result of a MiW Talent Search Contest , which I thought didn't require much talent actually , given the screen time . The narrative played out chapter-like , each self contained as an answer to commonly asked ghostly questions , which is why it resembled skits , though it does have a romantic thread that slowly runs and gets developed in the 2nd half of the movie . In true local movie fashion , it used multiple languages again to highlight our multi-lingual society , though some might find fault with its politically incorrect racist jokes and stereotyping ( OK so I am now feeling guilty at laughing out loud at these ) . Some of the other jokes might seem a bit too localized for them to be effective to a more international audience , but I guess the sight gags ( at times quite juvenile ) will always be able to transcend language barriers . An irk I had though , there were noticeable typos in the English subtitles . Probably next time I can proofread for anyone out there ! With a title like that ( the original Chinese title of " Ghost ah ! Ghost ah ! " ) , this film doesn't take itself seriously , and neither should you . Just kick back and relax , enjoy some of the pluses this movie has to offer , wince at the minuses , and remember , it's " mo lei tau " no-brainer entertainment , so don't fret too much over it .
A lot has been said about this short which was cited as starting Eric Khoo's foray into film-making . Winning numerous awards , this film's cast was made of the Barbie and Ken dolls , and various GI Joe models . At first you couldn't make out the premise of the story , save for GI Joe spotting Barbie , and goes on a quest to make her his girl , and kicking Ken's ass in the process . Naturally , the stop-motion technique was used to animate the dolls , and I thought the voice-overs for the characters were pretty hilarious , if not unconvincing , but nonetheless , fun ! But it actually tells a broader love story from the obvious Barbie-world one in plastic , that of their owners who discover each other while they were childhood friends , right up to the near breakdown in their relationship towards the end , rekindled by memories of how Barbie and GI Joe brought them together . If I may say so , it's an amateur effort , from tacky credits to dubbed character voices , but a very important film that has its distinct place in Eric Khoo's filmography . Probably something to take from here , is that music plays an important part in his movies , with this we got tunes from Beach Boys and New Order .
Johnny Depp didn't adopt that weird hairdo first as Willy Wonka in Charlie and The Chocolate Factory . He did that bob-hairdo as William Blake , an accountant in this movie . Directed by Jim Jarmusch , who did Coffee and Cigarettes , and Broken Flowers ( starring Bill Murray in a role written for him ) , this is a black-and-white western tale about one man's extraordinary journey starting from the town of Machine . The introduction is queer , with seemingly endless and repetitive shots of Blake on a train from Cleveland to Machine , interspersed by scenes of the train wheels chugging along . He arrives in a strange town and discovered that the job which was waiting for him , had been filled . Lost , he wanders about town and got a one night stand with a lady . Alas , his life goes downhill from that point on , when the lady's ex-boyfriend arrives and a shootout occurs . Pinned with the blame of a double murder , Blake escapes to the wild west , and got rescued by Nobody , a native Indian , who is equally surprised at how Blake survived having a bullet so close to his heart . And still lodged . Hence an uneasy friendship between the two men is forged as they hold off bounty hunters after Blake ( from a bounty of 200 to 2000 dollars ) , but Blake has to put up with Nobody's mumbo-jumbo and quoting of poetry . Indeed , the words of wisdom spewed is simply hilarious at times , as they just don't make sense . It's shot in black and white , and deliberately slow paced , so this might not appeal to everyone . However , the number of stars in this show will probably raise your interest level , like Crispin Glover , John Hurt , Robert Mitchum , Gabriel Byrne , Lance Henrikson , Michael Wincott , Iggy Pop , Billy Bob Thorton , Alfred Molina and Steve Buscemi . But what's beautiful about the film is the awesome soundtrack from the rocksy / folksy guitars riffs of Neil Young . Which without , the movie would just not work . It's pretty violent in some of the shootouts , but nothing is made too outrageous . Keep your ears peeled at the dialogues and conversations too . So if you're a fan of Depp , why not give this movie a watch ?
There are many Romeo and Juliet type stories out there , and this happens to be one of them , set in Japanese medieval times , with fantastical martial arts moves that will probably wow action fans with their pace and brutality . It reminds me of the time when I was watching Hong Kong's Stormriders which somewhat raised the bar for such movies , and in terms of action set pieces , Shinobi doesn't disappoint . The story however , given its romantic element , somehow misses the mark . Yes , we know that it's written in the stars that the star crossed lovers are doomed to begin with when they fall for each other , having their only love sprung from their only hate , and it's actually quite a critical plot point in terms of character motivation when they become the appointed heads of their respective clans , but I guess romantic tangles get tossed aside when more room for action is required to satisfy genre fans . Shinobi is set during the time of feuding clans in the Tokugawa era . The Iga and the Kouga clans reside in hidden villages , and the Lord of Lords have just decreed that the clans can go on an all out war against each other . This naturally spells trouble for both Oboru ( Yukie Nakama ) and Kouga Gennosuke ( Jo Odagiri ) , who have recently professed their love for each other in secret . The decree dictates that each clan selects 5 of their best warriors to duke it out , and no prizes if you guess that both Oboru and Kouga Gennosuke are amongst the warriors selected . There's more political intrigue up the movie's sleeves , but these plots and schemes are secondary to the action that unfolds . Each of the 5 warriors have unique skills , and when they're exhibited , it's edge of your seat stuff excitement . However , the major flaw is that most of them are one skill wonders , meaning they're masters of that skill , and you see little more . It's akin to X-Men's mutants , and some powers though will ring familiar , like the blatant claws from fists , and healing prowess . But the best bits of powers though belong to our leads , because it's only natural for the most powerful to be leading their respective clans , but again , they suffer from limited fighting scenes . Most are quite violent and enhanced with some really nice special effects , but for those who are squeamish , you probably would wince at the stabbing , decapitations , etc . What started off quite promisingly , gets dragged into cliché-land . Shinobi though boasts some stunning landscape visuals , that will make you wonder if they really exist , or are spruced up with a computer . Strictly for those who enjoy Romeo and Juliet interpreted in various retellings and adaptations , and fantastical kungfu junkies .
The original Open Water had a couple stranded in the high seas when they went deep sea diving , and somehow missed the boat , literally , thereby being stranded in the middle of nowhere . The formula is now repeated in Open Water 2 : Adrift ( just called Adrift here probably to disassociate itself from being a " sequel of sorts " movie ) , with the number of couples increased threefold . But I can't judge which is better , having not watched the original . Adrift though seemed decent enough , with human nature for self-preservation portrayed so starkly on screen , it's scary . And having to bump up the number of those in trouble , allows for different views and types of people ( read : caricatures at times ) to be showcased . Each cast member have certain strengths , and some just have total negativity built into them , for contrast purposes . The setup is simple and we waste no time in being introduced to our characters , almost all of whom are high school friends , and gathered together to celebrate one of their 30th birthday . They go on a weekend cruise on a luxurious yacht , and it's party , party , party , enjoying the finer things in life . Until they decide to go swimming in the sea , did they realize that hey , did someone lower the ladder on board ? Otherwise , how are they going to get back to the deck ? It's down to the adage of looking before you leap , and that danger lurks when you're enjoying yourself so much , that common sense , precautions and safety get thrown in the wind . And when the severity of the problem surfaces , what do you do ? Are you the leader , the thinker , the whiner or the quitter ? When everything is fine and dandy , everyone knows how to enjoy to the max . But when there's an issue at hand , do you begin to point your finger at everyone else , or help to think of a solution ? And when all seems lost , do you give up , or try , try again ? The characters partake in exhibiting some of these traits at different points , and with time running out , and dehydration , paranoia and hysteria slowing creeping in , you'd wonder how long they'll last . It's human nature to instinctively try and survive , and watching the characters on screen do just that in spite of impossible odds , just makes your heart pound faster as you think - what would you do if you're caught in the same situation ? Would you bitch slap the complainer ? Would you follow instructions to a T ? Would you give ideas and shut up when it doesn't work ? And when all seems lost , what would you do ? Supposedly based on true events , this story might have its plot holes at certain times when you think , hey they should have done this or that , but I'd suggest to hold onto your train of thoughts , until a key revelation is made , to which you may nod in agreement why it happened the way it did , and that shake in disbelief when you think that when it comes to life and death , material things should be sacrificed first , and facing the music is just part of the inevitable consequence .
Folks from my generation will always associate Bill Murray with Mr-stay-calm-know-it-all Peter Venkman from Ghostbusters , along with fellow comedians and collaborators Dan Ackroyd and Harold Ramis . Of late , he has been playing nonchalant characters , and probably would be better remembered for his role in Lost in Translation opposite Scarlett Johansson . Maybe it's his style , that he projects he's sleepwalking through his roles , And this written-for-him role in Broken Flowers as Don Johnson , oops , I mean Don Johnston ( with a T , there's a running joke about the Miami Vice fella ) , a Don Juan type character , seems to have cemented that opinion . Don changes girlfriends like he changes his underwear . Not that he wants to , but his character makes him a difficult person to be with . We're led to believe that he has made enough from his computer business , and is in semi-retirement mode , doing nothing but watch television at the comfort of his home . His latest squeeze , played by Julie Delpy , has left him ( gee what a cameo ) , and so did countless others before her . But the pace picks up slightly ( it moves terribly slow throughout the movie ) when he receives a pink envelope , and inside a typewritten note , telling him that he has a son from an affair twenty years ago , and that son is now on a road trip looking for his father . However , the writer doesn't sign off , there is no return address , and the postmark is faded . Putting it off as a prank , Don's best friend Winston ( Jeffrey Wright ) tries so hard to infuse interest and curiosity into Don ( he's always putting on the deadpan facial expression ) , before Don finally , and reluctantly , accepts the itinerary given to him . Which is to revisit his old flames from around that time , to determine if they have in possession a typewriter , which probably was used to type that anonymous letter . You might think that the premise is interesting , though nothing new , like Chris O'Donnell's The Bachelor , or John Cusack's High Fidelity , where the protagonist revisits his ex-lovers to discover various happenings and encounter various weird situations . Here , we have a load of talent playing Don's girlfriends from the past , like Sharon Stone , Frances Conroy , Jessica Lange , and even Tilda Swinton ( the White Witch from Narnia ) with dark hair . Winner of Cannes Film Festival 2005 , be warned that this film is an acquired taste , and may not appeal or be enjoyed by many . Firstly , the pacing is slow . There are plenty of moments where the plot doesn't propel forward , and shots just stay where they are . Almost every transition from scene to scene utilizes the fade-to-black technique , and each scene is surprisingly short . Perhaps these techniques fit the Don character like a glove , highlighting his short relationships with each girl , and his indifference to the outcome of each relation . We see that each girl has moved on with her life , some married , some having children , some already successful in their business , and all totally in contrast with Don's laid back character . It is during these scenes of character interaction that we get to experience some comedy , otherwise the other half of the time , we see the usual repetitive shots in airplanes or inside a Ford Taurus , as if to highlight the monotony of travelling alone . Though it's rated NC-16 for some nudity here , the only nudity you get is from a character called Lolita ( Alexis Dziena , who plays Sharon Stone's daughter ) , and that's only a butt-shot . The entire scene ( which I think is full frontal ) gets edited out , and along goes the dialogue with it , which somehow screws up the entire episode . There are nuances and implications towards the end of that particular visit which will make you go " Huh ? " . Pity . Given the crowd in today's screening , I don't think an M18 or R21 is gonna hurt box office takings ( school's reopening as well ) . Now , with that bad edit , I'm sure many will steer clear . The ending is open ended , and is totally up to your interpretation . My take would be that while one half of the mystery is solved ( or perceived to be solved ) , the other half of the mystery is still out there . And by leaving it as such , it paves way for discussion , which always enrich the experience of watching a movie .
The Japanese Film Festival this year had a number of biographies in its lineup because of its theme , and it's no surprise that Appassionata falls into this category , telling a summarized life story of Japan's female painter Uemura Shoen , who was the first woman to have earned the Order of Culture , Japan's highest award for cultural achievement . Most of the narrative had focused on her humble beginnings , and it went as far back as tracing her mother's roots , as it is this relationship between mother and child that also took the spotlight . Born Tsuya Shinamura ( Yuko Natori ) , her talent for painting was discovered at a young age , and was brought under the tutelage of renowned artist Shokei Takagi ( Kei Sato ) , who in a scene , was shown to be capable of painting 1000 drawings in a marathon session , using only black ink and a thick brush . And while Tsuya herself begin to win awards for her works , tongues get wagging that she's sleeping her way to the top of her game . Now this is something that did seem a little strange and I felt was left ambiguous at best , because a most it's only an allegation , which the story and the film took and ran with it . On one hand it showed that Tsuya had every opportunity to escape the indecent proposal , but she didn't , and in the ensuing " rape " scene , might seem to have enjoyed ( ? ! ) it knowing very well what it can do for her career . But I would prefer to have looked at another angle , that she had no choice , given the circumstances of the society of the time , where women were characteristically submissive and have absolutely no say whatsoever in society , most of the time looked upon for sexual favours . She's stuck in a damn-if-you-do-or-don't situation , unfortunately . And Shokei was a man you'd love to hate , right down to the core . Without a doubt the central " villain " , here's a man who had abused his position , status and power , to satisfy his lust . A liar and a man of questionable honour , these are the kinds of folks that any society just can't seem to get rid of . Each time Kei Sato appeared on screen , trust me , I swore and cursed at his character . But it's not just about these sexual dalliances . What was more powerful here were the themes of family , love and forgiveness . Society at the time dictates that family is of utmost importance , and chastity is held in high regard . Illegitimate children born out of wedlock is perhaps one of the greatest sins that a woman can commit , and here , the emotional tussle between Tsuya and her mother Sei ( Mariko Okada ) was the best amongst all the scenes in the movie . It's never easy for a single parent ( already a handicap in Japanese society , without a man as the head of the household ) to raise children on her own , and what more when additional , unnecessary challenges present themselves , one which bring shame to family and ancestors ? The themes of love , and forgiveness , especially in the finale , will probably move you , after all , blood is thicker than water . Jo No Mai refers to the dance of a young geisha , one of the more prominent works of Uemura Shoen , and in this movie , most of the award winning paintings were up on display for the audience to gain a slight introduction to her collection of paintings . What I thought was quite sad was that in order to earn a living and make money when turned away by most people , she had to resort to compromising her philosophy for the art by degrading her works into erotic pornography in order to make a quick buck . Desperate times call for desperate measures , but s till , it's quite sorrowful .
The Leap Years , aka Leap of Love , was a long process in the making . Having tracked this movie for a number of years now , it is going to make its debut this year premiering exactly on Feb 29 no less . While there were the usual production woes , I thought that this was one of those projects that remain in development hell , and given the overlong trailers being played in the cinemas - I didn't time it , but it was more than 3 minutes long - I thought it would be one of those that would sink immediately upon release , despite having international flavour with the casting of Joan Chen and Ananda Everingham . Well , the good news is the Singapore's first English language romance movie passes the litmus test . Based on the novella by Catherine Lim , The Leap Years tells 2 stories in parallel , but both centered on Li-Ann and her friends through a period of 16 years ( 4 leap years in total ) , consisting almost every boy - finds - girl - loves - loses - etc plot point you can think of . And for the most parts , it was almost like a self-fulfilling prophecy of a fortune teller's advice to Li - Ann on her love being one like the wind , which delivered yet another set of clichés like Windows Cafe , mini toy windmills , and moments where long hair gets swept away like Bollywood movies . Li-Ann actually had three actresses portraying her . The first is Beatrice Chia , who only provides the narration . The second , Wong Li-lin as Li-Ann in her 20s-30s , and Joan Chen playing the same character , now much older . Chen had only a bit role though , which probably didn't challenge her in the acting department , and the short story is about her trying to find some reconciliatory factors with her teenage daughter , and you realize that she probably missed the kind of close-knit mother-daughter relationship that she had when younger , and trying very hard to replicate . Wong Li-lin anchors the entire movie with her heartfelt portrayal of Li-Ann . Forget about her dismal big screen debut in the horrid German movie which had her almost sleepwalking through it like a zombie . This one showed what she can do , without succumbing to acting cute unnecessarily . Her Li-Ann has never dated and has been holding out for someone special , and chances upon Ananda's Jeremy at an al fresco cafe one day . So the usual games people play begins , with her putting some Irish 29th Feb tradition to the test , and he plays along , towards the goal of setting up a blind date . Naturally not everything is as rosy as it seems , since the games ended after a magical outing together , with their pledge of meeting at the same place at the same time , every leap year on her birthday . Cliché lines get thrown about , like the frequently used one about better to have loved and lost than to never had loved at all , but the key theme here is about patience . If you deem him or her special , it's well worth the wait , isn't it ? Only fools rush in , as they say . So do expect lines being spouted explicitly which might make you cringe a little , or implicitly suggests something that you'd probably already know of , from the wise old sayings of those who have been there and done that . It's almost like a typical romantic chick flick with the whispers of sweet nothings , promises made , and the quintessential scenes of shopping and lots of clothes . The soundtrack is chock full of lovely ballads by Corrine May , and you'd probably would be enthralled by how familiar locations become quite the romantic backdrops in the movie . Familiar also applies to the supporting cast , with the likes of Nadya Hutagalong and Vernetta Lopez playing good friends , as does Qi Yu Wu as KS ( Kiasi ? Kiasu ? Kana Sai ? Anything but actually ) . I thought KS was a source of inspiration for those out there still carrying torches for others . It was an easy anchor point for me to dive right into the movie , with the classical example of loving someone who obviously doesn't love you back , and there comes a point in time where you have to wake up and realize your futile efforts . The reality of it is harsh and cruel at that point in time , but to be able to find strength and pick yourself up , that's quite an achievement in itself . The Leap Years borrows its strength from Catherine Lim's story , and goes to show that no doubt the clichés are abound , this is something of a Singapore movie to be proud of - with a mix of homegrown and international talent , and a story that's purely on love and romance , and not hybrids like romantic-comedies or romantic-tragedies . Love is in the air , and for gimmick's sake , I would recommend this to be watched on the 29th of Feb , and see if you buy into that Irish folklore . I would play along though . . . but now to have someone make that proposal . . ha !
I suppose many of us would have loved the romanticism associated with ninjas , with their famed skills of invisibility , swordsmanship , cunning and a whole host of weaponry and gadgets that add to their element of surprise . If you'd think you know a lot of their modus operandi , then perhaps The Ninjas , aka Shinobi No Mono , would contribute to that wealth of knowledge , and at the same time dispel some of the myths and stories that add to the stature of these masked assassins . If you'd wonder what a ninja does when out of his mask , then the film would have painted a rather mundane picture of the practicing ninjas , who hone their skills in enclaves , and frankly look no more like your usual Samurais , except sans status , and honing their skills ala rebels in hiding at their fortified base , and being skilled assassins for hire to Samurais who need someone to do their dirty work for them ( yes , even back then you can outsource your dirty laundry ) , as they themselves are bounded by the honor code of bushido . The movie doesn't waste time in building up a proper background , but throws you thick into the action . With characters loosely adapted from history , you have Oda Nobunaga , a ruthless warlord on rampaging victories across Japan in an effort to unify the country . Needless to say such aggression doesn't sit well with the able bodied , and 2 clans of ninjas are pitted against each other to see who can carry out a successful mission to stop the warlord . The story centers upon Goemon ( Raizo Ichikawa ) , an up and coming , though ambitious and impatient ninja , who is recognized and granted a promotion ( to the back office , away from the battlefield , as an accountant ! ) but in a moment of lustful folly , becomes the pawn of his master Sandayu ( Yunosuke Ito ) , pledging his life to his master's bidding . So begins Goemon's mission , which includes a ruining of his reputation , and committing acts which defy even the ninja's code of conduct ( yes there is one ! ) . In fact , we learn and observe many rules and regulations of ninja-dom , what with the need to disfigure oneself prior to death , and how torture must be endured and death always an option . All these get interpreted through Goemon's ultimate shame in living with his guilt , up until he meets a prostitute called Maki ( Shiho Fujimura ) , who gives him new cause to live , setting the stage for the truth of his double-headed master to be revealed . Shinobi No Mono was credited as the first film to popularize the ninja series of films , and had relatively low key special effects , decided to root itself in more realistic elements , rather than have things like tunnelling through sand dunes , and blink and you miss puffing of smoke . Secret passages , booby traps , poison and darts still remain staple , but don't expect any fancy swordplay as targets get dispatched rather quickly . If you're looking for a climatic ending , then you'll likely be sorely disappointed , as everything goes into a big shebang , lacking in any mano-a-mano opportunities . That said , this film is still rather enjoyable for its shedding of light on these mysterious group who operate in the shadows , and it's not always they have to dress up in black for their operations . It'll look rather dated , but somewhat a refreshing change from current films in its presentation sans the easy way out using tons of computer aided imagery .
You've seen them on television , and you've read about them in the news . Europe is particularly aware of folks who travel for football games amongst neighboring countries , only to have them create trouble or duke it out with the locals or one another , if the results don't go their way . While 2005 had a look at professional Premiership football with the movie Goal ! , it's time the cameras took a look too at the supporters of the game . Not just any plain old armchair supporters , but really passionate ones , who live , breathe and eat football , and bond together to form Firms ( i . e . gangs ) . Similar to mafias , triads , what-have-yous , Firms thrive on reputation . The bigger the stunt , or the fight , the bigger the reputation gets spread . And it's usually ( as explained in the movie , though of course , in better light for West Ham United ) the better teams having weaker Firms . I'd like that acknowledgment that Arsenal is the better footballing team , but having a terribly weak Firm , while Spurs are poor in both haha ! We also learn what irks the Firms most , besides rival Firms . Elijah Wood plays Matt Buckner , a Harvard journalism dropout for a misdemeanor he did not commit . He flies to London to meet up with his sister , and gets introduced to his brother-in-law's brother ( duh ) Pete Dunham . Pete's the head honcho of the Green Street Elite ( GSE ) , the Firm of West Ham United , and I'd like the beginning of their budding relationship where Pete educates Matt on aspects of football ( not soccer , mind you ) . The pot-shots at UK-US relations are hilarious , as we see Matt get introduced to the other core members of GSE . Of course him being a Yank doesn't endear him to GSE , but they're willing to overlook the point and give the rookie a chance to prove himself since he's brought in by Pete . We only have one football match to watch ( ala Goal ! ) , as the rest of the movie focuses on Matt's transformation from wide-eyed newbie , to mean fighting machine . Elijah Wood didn't have much of a difficult job to do , as all he did was to continuously wear that scowl on his face for the second half of the movie . And it actually degenerates into some sort of UK-football version of Fight Club , where members of rival Firms whack the living daylights out of one another to prove their point . Perhaps co-star Charlie Hunnam did a better job as Pete , ringing home his performance as a leader , and a surrogate big brother . The plot , to me , was engaging material , though it came with some predictable subplots like betrayals . It tries to make the point that violence begets violence , but doesn't offer any suggestions otherwise , because fanaticism in football is real and continuing issue that might seem to mar the sport . Some might deem this movie as romanticizing hooliganism , but it tried to balance those attempts by having a major character ( pardon the pun ) rationalize and play the devil's advocate . I'm not sure why we had to rename this movie locally to " Football Hooligans " . I know Green Street Hooligans might make some go Huh ? But this is the internet age , where information is at the tip of your fingers , and all you have to do , is just to google it , or go visit IMDb . com ( not as if I'm promoting it , but yeah , common sense ) . It's one thing having movies renamed worldwide ( like Danny the Dog aka Unleashed ) , and another having a fiasco like " The Spy Who Shioked Me " . It's an interesting movie , with grand themes about not letting your buddies down , and for standing firm in what you believe in . Though the premise is controversial ( brutal gang fights and all ) , it did seem like you're watching an updated , Caucasian remake of movies like A Better Tomorrow and Prison On Fire . Just remember to keep whatever inert tempers in check after leaving the theater . CLAP CLAP CLAP UNITED ! !
At first glance , my impression of Fast Food Nation is that it'll take a more documentary approach in highlighting issues about the fast food industry . It did look like it had room for satire with a provocative style , but should you be expecting something along the lines of Super Size Me , then this is the wrong movie for you . For starters , it's got an appeal like Thank You For Smoking , but its narrative choice of attaching characters to mouthpiece different issues , seemed to make the movie feel very scattered in its presentation of ideas . While this approach had its merits , giving different ideas appropriate focus and dedicated screen time , it didn't make a very compelling , thorough argument as a whole . Something along the lines of having too many cooks spoiling the broth , and it really kept the best for the last , building an anticipation which got glossed over too quickly . Fast Food Nation contains an excellent ensemble cast assembled , and characters ranged from illegal immigrants crossing over the US border from Mexico , to cattle ranchers , food processing plant workers , fast food outlet workers , and all the way up to the corporate boardroom of a fictional fast food chain . The entire supply chain of the fast food industry gets addressed , and every perceived skeleton from the closet gets its fair share of air time . You have doctored reports , tales from the production floor , sexual favours , poor work conditions and lack of benefits , and tons of lies . Richard Linklater movies have dialogue which rock , and there is no lack of those in Fast Food Nation . In particular , pay attention during the scene with Bruce Willis ( yes ) and Greg Kinnear . It meanders around , trying to reason , before coming down like a sledgehammer . That conversation itself is a worth the price of an admission ticket , seriously . The book ( I managed to scan through it ) probably packed a lot more theories and figures which should make it a compelling read , but the movie , whose screenplay is also co-written by the author Eric Schlosser , in having to adopt a different approach to present those ideas , somehow diluted some of them . But the movie should make you want to pick up the book for more . And yes , I'm swearing off burgers and fast food for a while .
Back in the early 90s , I recall widespread concern about incurable diseases such as the Ebola virus , and Hollywood taking the premise and churning out movies such as Outbreak and the such . In Hong Kong cinema , director Herman Yau cemented his cult status for films with excessive graphic depiction of sex and violence with this movie - Ebola Syndrome . As compared to the other cult hit The Untold Story , you can spot various similarities in terms of presentation style , and certain plot elements and development . Again the lead role , Kai San , is played by Anthony Wong , this time with long frizzy hair , and begins the movie with both sex ( with his boss ' wife ) and violence ( yet another gruesome massacre played out in full on screen , coupled with sexual violence ) . Naturally he becomes a fugitive and escapes to outside Hong Kong - this time to South Africa , and becomes an employee at a local Chinese restaurant . The similarities do not end there . You just cannot wait for the next dismemberment and the making of the new " char siew bao " , now termed African Buns for local flavour . Expect more hard unflinching violence , and this time too with the camera unmoved from the decapitation of animals like chickens and frogs - heart still pumping , and the slicing out of innards , or the chopping off of legs . Sure puts you off your next bowl of frog leg porridge . And serving as another reminder , is not to offend your cook , as he has the power to include unwanted ingredients , including bodily fluids ! Rapid fire profane dialogue is a standard , and sometimes comical as the characters rattle off combinations of vulgarities with ease . But just in case you wonder if Ebola Syndrome is The Untold Story rehashed in a different setting , rest assure that only the good gory bits from Untold get squeezed into the first half of Ebola . Unfortunately the second half seemed to want to move away tangentially from its predecessor , and kept its focus on the contact with , and spreading of the disease . Stemming from Kai San's inability to keep his pants on , he takes advantage of a comatose African tribe woman , who unknowing to him , is a victim of the Ebola virus . With an incredible stroke of luck , he survives the infection and becomes a virus carrier , spreading the disease in South Africa no thanks to his African Buns , and amongst prostitutes when he returns to Hong Kong . The rest of the movie becomes a comedy somewhat with the police attempts to contain the virus as well as to apprehend Kai San . Nothing too fancy in its second half treatment . One more thing , look out carefully at the cameos and extras !
I had earlier written about comic books being rich material for filmmakers to raid and adopt them into a cinematic version , and with the success of the Death Note franchise , it's more than apparent that such movies will have its built in audience , and in this case , to skyrocket the movie to box office success . Depending on how the story is adapted , some will take liberties to gear the material for non - fans , to introduce it to a new audience . Death Note for instance , does this quite perfectly , drawing those unfamiliar with its mythos , and at the same time entertaining the fanboys . Mushishi on the other hand , assumed that one goes in with a bit of background knowledge , as it doesn't dwell too long , if at all , on the character backstory . 20th Century Boys however managed to take the middle ground , though I felt its presentation was somewhat left wanting . We're introduced to Kenji ( Toshiaki Karasawa ) , a supermarket manager who's about to be thrown into the adventure of his life . In a school reunion , he gets acquainted with his old pals , most of whom he already cannot recognize , before they launch into a discussion of a strange series of happenings which involve the emergence of their secret logo created during their childhood . As they catch up with one another , we also learn that collectively amongst the group , they vaguely recollect their 9 members , and hence sowed some suspicion as to the identity of who the new cult leader is , one who always hide behind a mask and calls himself Kira , oops , wrong movie - " Friend " . Throw into the plot yet another device in the form of a book called the Book of Prophecies , which Kenji is chief author , in somewhat of a create your own adventure with his pals , as they dream of the world coming to an end at the turn of the millennium , what with strange plagues , terrorist attacks , and a giant robot taking the place of the stay puff marshmallow man . They realize that world disasters are unfolded as per the sequence in their childhood book , and thus , with their sense of responsibility , work to try and put an end to the madness . For the first half of the movie , the story really plods on , as it took great pains to try and introduce to us the array of characters important to the series , including an infant heralded as the Chosen One . While most of the characters remain rather one-dimensional with nothing much revealed about their background despite the frequent flashbacks ( some which do get repetitive ) , Kenji is the focus of this installment , as we see an emergence of a resistance fighter from within a mild and meek , and often clueless supermarket manager . He doesn't really strike you as charismatic or well skilled to lead a group of do-gooders , but the second half would address all those concerns . In wanting to remain unconventional , the story moves forward and back so frequently , that it'll give you a headache . It seemed to be wanting to shovel down character backgrounds incessantly , as every opportunity found to go into flashback mode , will be utilized , so much so that it becomes mentally tiring after a while to keep track of current time . Time plays an important part in the story as it hinges everything on D-Day of 31 December 2000 , where a foretold apocalypse is expected to happen . And here's where it really shines , even when the arrival of D-Day involved plenty of droning pep-talking . Looking at the locations , sets , and big action sequences throughout the film , it's indeed a relatively big budget production with no qualms about throwing money to achieve some form of visual perfection . The finale is nothing short of breathtaking , and with well filled tension , though if you're not expecting this to be the first episode of an franchise , you'll find yourself swearing at its cliffhanger ending . It's not a complete story per se even though it managed to remain self-contained , as it retains just about as much mystery as it did from the onset , with nothing much revealed or addressed . For those looking into something more , I thought it had drawn some interesting parallels about the dangers of cults , and how enticing the promises made by preacher could be , with the followers blinding adhering to every word like it's the gospel . There are enough false prophets in the world , but those who can command a huge following , could grow and if their aspirations do find their way to the political arena , then just as how a manga-turned-movie would have its ready audience , then these political parties would already come with their congregation as ready supporters and voters . For the eager beavers , it's not until January that you can watch the next part , so do remember to stay until right after the end credits roll for the trailer to Part 2 .
Welcome to the Isla Fisher show , where despite her diminutive size she holds court throughout and I thought she's finally getting the recognition she deserves in being able to marquee a film herself . One cannot forget how she burst onto the scene in The Wedding Crashers as the psychotic stalker after Vince Vaughn , and from there some other bit parts like those in The wedding Daze , and one of my favourites from last year , Definitely , Maybe . She has this indescribable aura , that goofy grin , and that incredible perfect timing for physical comedy , without looking stupid . One can easily dismiss Confessions of a Shopaholic as just another chick flick , and its premise is nothing not already attempted by the East ( in the film The Shopaholics starring Cecilia Cheung before her fall from grace ) , even though this film is based on a best selling novels by Sophie Kinsella . It's an interesting illness that Rebecca Bloomwood ( Fisher ) suffers from , where she lives a Jackyl and Hyde lifestyle , having fashion labels as close friends whom she addresses intimately by first names , and owns plenty of clothes , shoes , and enough accessories that can fill her entire room . Her Hyde hears mannequins at shop windows call out to her , and interaction with animated objects is just part of her everyday life . Hyde too comes with a magic ( credit ) card that grants instant happiness delivered as soon as a magnetic swipe at the cashier's . But her Dr Jackyl is what makes the film a draw actually , because in times like this of economic hardship , it just hits home the fact that quick credit is the path to the shambles that many would readily share their experience . Joining a financial magazine as a stepping stone toward her real objective in writing for a fashion mag in the same umbrella of publishers , Rebecca soon finds herself making the best use of her opportunity in combining her zilch knowledge in finance with the pizazz and flair she has for fashion , and writes under the moniker of The Girl In The Green Scarf , dispensing some real life financial advice that even a layman ( or woman ) would understand and make sense of . Which of course is complete irony for Rebecca , as she doesn't practice what she preaches . As we know from the onset she's someone who can't balance her financial , and is already deep in debt no thanks to her impulses to buy . The ditzy klutz teaching everyone how to live a financially responsible life , and slowly realizing her influence and clout amongst her readers , winning new fans from the woman on the streets to the suits in boardrooms . But what's a movie without an adversary ? So we have a stereotypical bean counter in Derek Smeath ( Robert Stanton ) , complete with slicked back hair , ugly glasses and a dogged attitude of a debt collector . This provides avenue for a number of laughs , besides those in the self-help therapy group , or cat fights amongst those looking for cheap bargains . Yes , there are the inevitable clichés , unfortunately . Besides Fisher's charismatic turn , she's surrounded by a supporting cast whom you can broadly categorize under the great lookers , and those with gravitas . Luke Brandon ( Hugh Dancy ) as Rebecca's object for affection ( other than fashion labels ) and Alicia ( Leslie Bibb ) as a long legged rival belong to the former , not very interesting other than being eye candy , while the powerhouses of Kristin Scott Thomas and John Goodman bring some extra oomph in their roles as a French magazine editor ( really hamming it up ) and Rebecca's dad respectively , in addition to others like Joan Cusack and John Lithgow . The soundtrack provided extra lift too , with some of the latest pop acts contributing bubble gum tracks that will leave you tapping your feet to . Confessions of a Shopaholic treads a fine balance between fluffy entertainment and a film with a strong message of what really matters in a materialistic world like ours . Friends and family come first , in addition to an everyday careful examination of needs versus wants . Sure there's no need to watch the film , but you know you just want to . Enjoy this rom-com , and girls will find the numerous outfits here a thrill to drool over . At least those in my screening did !
American football team Boston Rebels ' star quarterback Joe Kingman ( The Rock ) has only two loves in his life - Football and Elvis Presley . Like all successful sports superstars at the top of their game , he's living the good life , with his swanky penthouse apartment fitted with the latest luxuries , a sportster that screams " Mo Jo ( e ) " , and endless parties with beautiful women . But alas one fine day he finds little Peyton Kelly ( Madison Pettis ) at his doorstep , claiming to be his daughter , and thus putting the brakes in his fast life . It's convenient to start weaving woeful family drama and comedy about the complete opposites being struck by Fate to live under the same roof . As the trailers would have suggested , everything comes off quite predictably , and at times you feel that such scenes where the young girl tosses Kingman's life upside down , to be a little too contrived , and mostly having fall flat at its attempts to be funny . When funny doesn't work , it switches gears to cute . However , The Game Plan possesses a certain charm , helped in loads without a doubt by the charisma of Dwayne The Rock Johnson . WWE entertainers perform their craft perfectly in the wrestling ring , but extremely few have made the transition to the big screen almost seamlessly . Dwayne Johnson happens to be one of the lucky few , with his megawatt smile and very personable demeanour , bringing him across as the big buddy you would like to hang out with . And while we know he can do action - The Scorpion King , Rundown , Walking Tall and Doom , he has shown a range of his ability through dramas like Gridiron Gang , and comedy , with his extremely hilarious turn in Be Cool . In The Game Plan , he rolls all those into one without breaking a sweat , and this movie is almost single-handedly saved from the doldrums by resting itself on his broad muscular shoulders . Gridiron Gang had American Football elements in it , though The Rock now crosses from being the coach to the star player . He's the action sports hero with trademark moves ( every respectable star would have one of those ) , the arrogant himbo who let success go into his head , and through the movie , we see a transformation to sensitive dad . What you don't see The Rock do , is best kept under wraps as probably THE BEST SCENE in this movie , which you have to watch to bear witness . Talk about extreme flexibility ! Some credit of course has to go to his co-stars in making the movie more palatable to a wider audience outside the fan base , though most of them , like Kyra Sedgwick as the bimbo , and Roselyn Sanchez as the hot latino instructor , are more caricatures without much personality injected , as expected . Madison Pettis shines in her role as the precocious kid , but sometimes she pouts too much and comes across more irritating than cute , though still managing to hold her own opposite Johnson . There are some heartwarming scenes between her and The Rock , and you'll probably be trying to hold back that teardrop . This is still a star vehicle for Dwayne Johnson , and I hope that he will not ditch his action roles for drama or comedy , given a distinct lack of action movie stars that I humbly think he can fill . We all know how Arnie fared when he dabbled with comedy before going back to his Terminator roots , or Vin Diesel for that matter when he traded stunts for the milk bottle in The Pacifier . Filled with plenty of Elvis songs ( director Andy Fickman is reportedly a fan ) that you can hear Johnson serenade with , there are enjoyable moments in The Game Plan , and its predictable Zacherie sweet messages on family , determination and the likes , will no doubt make this movie achieve a decent box office success here . As a fan , I can't wait for his debut in Get Smart , and crossing my fingers he'll be casted in the much rumored production of Shazam ! as The Big Red Cheese !
Movies based on successful television series are natural progressions to make a quick buck , mainly because of the more instant box office dollars it gets translated to . But what I apprehend the most , is when the approach is to not worry whether non-television series followers would be able to get it , so it decides not to afford the time to explain matters , expecting the bulk of the audience to be coming with background knowledge from the series . When you are one of the series ' followers , you'll make camp on the side to forgo previous cinematic time on explanation so that the pace does not get slowed , but if you are not , then you'll probably cry foul , not that you don't get to enjoy the movie though , but are lusting after a more complete experience . For example , the X-Files movie requires pre-requisite knowledge , as did the Japanese movie Mushishi . But there are some which still managed to only require the most basic level of understanding , and to use a Japanese reference , I enjoyed the Bayside Shakedown movies tremendously . Did I enjoy Hero ? Sure , but there were enough moments in the movie where you can't help but want to pull your hair in frustration , especially when it comes to bit appearances by minor characters , whom you'll most certainly deem important enough to warrant significant subplot time in the narrative . Hero is similar to structure with Bayside Shakedown , in that on the surface , it contains one major plot , with the rest of the supporting subplots inevitably linked to the one big one , thereby giving reason for the ensemble cast to exist . Takuya Kimura , whom we last saw as a samurai in Yoki Yamada's Love and Honor , returns to his 2001 television role as Public Prosecutor Kohei Kruyu , a devoted go-getter who is unorthodox in his ways ( aren't they all ? ) . Assisting him is his trustworthy legal clerk Amamiya Maiko ( Takako Matsu ) , and together they take on a rather routine open-and-shut case involving manslaughter , especially with a written confession provided . But there's more than meets the eye to the supposedly simple case , and soon enough , they find their legal battle spiral to involve scandals of government officials , and have to go up against a top legal eagle who used to be on the payroll of the Public Prosecutor office . Bayside Shakedown provided some criticisms to the police system , highlighting the struggles and battles between the bureaucrats in the department , and those on the beat handling day to day , routine and sometimes mundane police work . I thought Hero could have upped the ante if it debated on the judicial system , providing some insight on how things work rather than just a basic introduction . It lapsed into moralistic viewpoints should this be a perfect world with perfect systems , and very often reminded the audience that Justice is Blind with the frequent shots of a statue of Justice holding up the scales . But not everything's serious and full of legal jargon and mumbo-jumbo . Credit has to be given in weaving a more than compelling investigative and legal drama , with romantic tension between Amamiya and Kohei , as well as plenty of comedy . Those television sell-a-vision ads are so funny they are a highlight in the movie ( I'm not sure if these are regular features in the television series ? ) , and it managed to work into its narrative an explanation of its absence for 6 years since the television series ended , and the characters naturally being aged . Familiar to me in this movie are the actors Hiroshi Abe and Korean actor Lee Byung-hun , who has so minor a role ( combined screen time of less than 5 minutes ) , I'm not sure why the trailer had to hype about it , rather than to keep it a guessing game ( is he ? or isn't he ? ) . However , that is not to say that Hero is a bad film . It still offers decent entertainment , especially for those who are fans of the many stars it has in its ensemble , and for those who like this genre of legal investigative movies . Recommended .
The second movie watched today is also released by Paramount Vintage and Miramax , and shares with There Will Be Blood , eight Academy Award nominations , in a fight for most of the major honours . The brothers Coen's new film have been gathering wave after wave of honours , but somehow it didn't really quite work for me , despite the premise being something I would go for , and most likely to have enjoyed . Don't get me wrong though , there are again brilliant moments in the movie that I enjoyed , but on the whole , it was the unsatisfying anti-climatic finale that did it in for me , with too convenient a coincidence arising from a random act , and a frustrating interpret-it-if-you - please treatment that those who are more actively cerebral will get a field day deciphering and debating all the underlying meaning that make up the movie . Much is said about Javier Bardem's Anton Chugurh , and I'm agreeable with the nods to his understated portrayal as a modern day , flesh and bones Terminator , who's armed with a gas powered hammer gun used to send cattle to heaven , and a high powered rifle with silencer attached . His target is 2 million dollars in a suitcase , coming from a deal with Mexican druglords turn awry , which Josh Brolin's Llewelyn Moss happened to steal away when he chanced upon a zero sum game in the middle of an open plain . So it's somewhat cat and mouse chase , with Terminator Chugurh after Moss to seek out those stacks of 100 dollar greenbacks , and sending those unfortunate good natured folks to heaven / hell should they come crossing his path . But I have to admit that the gun battling duels and confrontation between Chugurh and Llewelyn are tension filled enough to leave you at the edge of your seat . If There Will Be Blood talks about money , No Country for Old Men talks about violence , or the random senselessness of it all . Through Chigurh's extremely focused quest , we become bewildered and numbed when he dispatches his victim without batting an eyelid , with little opportune of mercy being shown . As Tommy Lee Jones ' Sheriff Bell , in a supporting role as yet another jaded cop who is world weary , notes in his daily reading of the news , wacky incidents often get reported because of the help of curious onlookers , but those which often involve a crime , somehow never get the all important second look . This is not your usual narrative story with expected conventions . You come to expect something in the way the movie is built up by the Coens , but more often than not , it stops short , deliberately of course . There are some wonderful moments on its own , with scenes that are witty , and filled with a wicked sense of black humour . But ultimately , it's quite open ended for vast interpretation , and leaving you with questions that don't get answered . The ending is one of frustration for me , but come Oscar time , there isn't a doubt why this movie has been the darling of so many critical circles , and is probably expected to bag an Oscar award , or two .
Zameen doesn't restraint itself in its exploration of transnational terrorism , and doesn't mince its words in the inclusion of Pakistan in state sponsored terrorism by radical army elements , in their support of the mujahedeens battling in Pakistan Owned Kashmir . Being a fictional piece of work , the movie works on two fronts , that by the army in its fight to capture a wanted terrorist Baba Zaheer ( Mukesh Tiwari ) , and on the home front , where 4 operatives enter India to do their dastardly deed . Ajay Devgan stars as Colonel Ranvir Singh Ranawat , a soldier of vast experience in counter - terrorism operations , and his latest capture is of Baba of the Al Tahir terrorist group . The movie begins with a ra-ra patriotic song , before launching into full scale war . But the plot thickens when Baba's men plot to rescue Baba , and in the process bring disgrace to India . Not if supercop ACP Jai ( Abhishek Bachchan ) can help it , in his no-nonsense style of high octane action . Adding to the mix is Bipasha Basu's Nandini , wife of Jai , serving as an air stewardess , and as the complimentary love token who provides the cause for some songs , you'll more or less figure out what the terrorist plot will involve . The action might look a little cartoony and staged , but it still brings about some element of fun for action fans . Having the two male leads from different uniformed groups also serve to highlight the difference in tactics employed , and eyebrows will surely be raised if you're an advocate of human rights . Torturing during interrogation is nothing new , and to see the way they do it , you'll be pretty surprised , though my personal opinion is that sometimes these tactics would have to work - no point fighting with one hand tied behind your back , and these guys are hiding behind civilians and going after innocent soft targets anyway . And besides pointing fingers at Pakistan on state sponsored terrorism , the movie also points its fingers and pokes fun at the inept Indian politicians who have a total lack of integrity , and are the worst kind of humans around - selfish , full of hot airs and empty promises , and dumb . Also , it points out on the terrorists ' hijacking of religion to further their cause in the name of " jihad " , and such scenes are usually dramatic for effect , and at times infused with an action scene , like the fist battle between Ranvir and Baba , representing a country and the subversive elements it faces . All in all , it plays for entertainment , while pounding its fist in the air with patriotism swelling . And hey , Abhishek Bachchan did attempt to sing a few lines from that Krabhi Krabhi song I last heard in Yasmin Ahmad's Gubra . Code 9 DVD by Rainbow Films comes in anamorphic widescreen , but the visual transfer is mediocre , seemed to have been done from an old VHS-quality like source . The audio though is clear , presented in Dolby Digital 5 . 1 . There are only English subtitles available , and scene selection comes in 19 chapters . There are no other extras except for a section where you can zoom into each of the 4 songs in the movie - Title Song , Tere Sang , O Mitwa and Pyar Tera Dilli Ki .
If you've enjoyed movies like The Machinist , then you'll probably enjoy a movie like Stay . It's one of those well-designed mystery suspense thrillers that leave you guessing for the most parts until its revelation , where things begin to fall nicely into place after bewildering your mind as the movie progressed and strange , unexplainable things start to happen . Ewan McGregor plays psychiatrist Dr . Sam Foster , who takes over a case from fellow psychiatrist friend Beth . He inherited a patient named Henry Letham ( Ryan Gosling ) who's on the road to self destruction and to end his life by committing suicide to ape his favourite artist , and telling Sam when he's going to do it . Exactly what his motivation is , becomes Sam's obsession and a race against time to prevent it from happening . What strikes you in its presentation from the onset is the ultra-slick editing used for transitional scenes . It's extremely fluid and blends together disparate scenes so perfectly . But despite looking good , the film got bogged down by its narrative in wanting to dwell unnecessarily on the romantic aspect between Sam and his girlfriend Lila , played by Naomi Watts , who seemed a bit too pedestrian in her role as a pained-supportive flower vase type character . Upping the ante on the creepiness , the soundtrack is an eclectic mix of dark sounding tunes , and again I do agree with the use of Massive Attack's Angel to highlight the general mood of strangely calming state of confusion . Director Marc Forster ( Monster's Ball , Finding Neverland ) and writer David Benioff ( who wrote the screenplay for 25th Hour ) managed to throw some red herrings and caught me offguard a couple of times as I was made comfortably smug at what I thought were plenty of deja vu moments , but not quite . I was waiting for the end-all-explain-all finale , but it didn't treat its audience as silly folks and didn't resort to spelling out everything in verbatim . Every strange thing that you spotted had a reason behind it , and they all come together in a satisfying resolution . Even the title has a meaning when you reached this point .
Winning the Special Jury Prize in the 2005 Sundance Film Festival , Brick is a detective movie that is in a unique league of its own . It's terribly unconventional , yet comes with a familiar sense of having seen it somewhere before . Set in a high school , the premise is anything but , with a murder mystery done noir style but in modern settings with teenagers , throwing multiple curveballs in terms of narrative style that writer-director Rian Johnson adopted . The first aspect of difference that hits you is that the language is totally out of this world . It takes a while to get used to it , as there's a peculiar slang that everyone uses , and it's not the usual hip words that get spewed now and then . It's done so all the time , before you finally realize that this is something of a surreal setting - the characters inhabit a world of their own that may seem like our own , but totally not so . But once you get the hang of it , you discover some consolatory joy in trying to figure out what sense do they all make , and sometimes this is revealed as part of the process our teen detective , Brendan Frye ( Joseph Gordon-Levitt ) goes through . Investigating the death of his ex-girlfriend Emily Kostich ( Emilie de Ravin ) , it all started when she started to SOS him for help , before casting him away all over again . When he discovers his body , he takes it upon himself to find out the truth about the seedy world of high school crime , involving characters like Tugger ( Noah Fleiss ) , femme fatale Laura ( Nora Zehetner ) and Kara ( Meagan Good ) , The Pin ( Lukas Haas ) and Dode ( Noah Segan ) , who turns out to be his ex's current squeeze . In true noir style , we follow Brendan every step along the way as he interacts with all the characters , trying to make sense of things , while dealing with various red herrings , manipulation , violence when the time calls for it , and the dropping of little clues before a very tense and climatic ending . We slowly discover the Whos , Whats , Whys of the Whodunnit , and although limited screen time is given for Brendan's interaction with Emily , you can't help but connect to personal situations where someone who is close to your heart start to sound you out , and you try to reestablish contact , only to be brushed aside harshly . And what is a detective without an able assistance working behind the scenes to feed you information ? The Brain ( Matt O'Leary , gotta love all those quirky character names by now eh ? ) serves as Brendan's , and their chemistry as partners not by choice , turns out to be quite entertaining . It's very difficult to imagine Brick was shot on a shoestring budget , given the high quality in production values , the unique storyline , and nice acting . It's a little movie that became a winner , so I'm recommending it , and for that ethereal haunting song that can easily become a earworm .
It takes a lot to make me wince , given the numerous gore movies that hit our shores like Hostel , Severance and the likes , and surprisingly , The Texas Chainsaw Massacre : The Beginning , surpassed the rest in actually making my hair stand on ends . Perhaps it's because I wasn't immersed into the mythos of the chainsaw wielding psychopath and his family of cannibals . Supposedly based on one of the most notorious criminal families in Texan history , these folks operate like the characters from Tsui Hark's New Dragon Gate Inn , exploiting the innocent who happen to cross their paths , being in the wrong place at the wrong time . Already this cliché has been used to death ( pardon the pun ) in movies of the same genre , but this was one of the first ( The original was released in 1974 ) , , with a number of sequels ( one even starring Viggo Mortensen ) , and remakes ( one starring Jessical Biel recently , produced by Michael Bay ) . So what is it that makes Thomas Leatherface Hewitt a hit ? It's the weapon baby . The chainsaw is music to the ears , and it is raw power . In the right hands , it's a lumberjack's weapon of choice in sawing down some trees . In the hands of a psycho , plunging it into someone brings about a sickening squishy sound of metal grinding against flesh and bone . And that , is the sick pleasure one gets when watching the movie . There is nothing too brainy about the storyline , given that it's a prequel trying to explain how things came about , and because it's something that chronologically had happened before , there's no prize in guessing who survives , or not , which makes the finale a bit of a bore . I think I am , and the audience too , are sick in wanting to watch our eye candy cast , whom we don't really give a damn about , become target practice for one of the cult killers of cinema . There are supporting characters who join in the fray , but ultimately , it's still focused on one of the first two couples who have their opportunity to make or break with our killers on the loose . It's a mixture of capability - some utterly useless and cowardly , while others , like Chrissie ( Jordana Brewster , she's hawt ! ) had more to do than just looking good , or scared , or shitting in their pants . To watch this uncut , uncensored in R21 glory , and anticipating those moments when Leatherface discovers the joy and pleasure of using the chainsaw , makes this movie the largest guilt trip I have undertaken this week . And to think I watched this before my week long hiatus too : PWelcome to the slaughterhouse .
John Cusack is one of the character actors I admire . And in Grace is Gone , it centers upon his ability to bring you into his character's world . He really transformed himself into the role of Stanley Philipps with his thick glasses , walking with an instep , and that little hunch and a paunch , and delivers probably one of his finer touches in disappearing into a character that's so everyday average joe . He's a salaryman earning his keep while watching over his two girls while Mrs Grace Philipps ( Dana Lynne Gilhooley ) is a career soldier who gets her tour of duty in Iraq . The crux of the entire story laid on the premise of Stanley trying to find the appropriate moment to tell his children about the unfortunate demise of their mother , while at the same time fighting hard to accept the bitter truth that the woman he loves is gone . More so of course when it is revealed later some things that can no longer be reversed in time , which makes it all the more sad , and regrettable . But we also learn more about Stanley through the eyes of his children , when they throw the occasional tantrum , or have issues to deal with . Shelan O'Keefe as Heidi the older daughter , is a remarkable actress , lending some gravitas to her role when it called for it , and holds her own opposite Cusack very well . Gracie Bednarczyk as younger daughter Dawn I guess was just being herself , injecting much needed effervescence to counter the heavy drama that circulates throughout the movie . Besides some expected and really moving scenes in the movie , some from plot devices , while others from the characters themselves , writer-director James C . Strouse also managed to sneak in a comment or two about War and Truth , which is what we make it up to be , most of the time . Alessandro Nivola also turned in a rather short but nice performance behind that heavily bearded appearance as the brother of Stanley and the children's uncle . If I need another plus point to recommend Grace is Gone , then it will be the score by Clint Eastwood ( yes , what a surprise when the end credits rolled ) , punctuating the story neatly when it called for it . All in all , a story without any major plot twists ( since the title already said it all ) , simple yet effective , and hinged very much on excellent acting to bring the characters to life .
I think one of the easiest ways to make a movie , would be to make one about mad people in a mental institution . Anything and everything can happen , you don't have to explain every minute detail , and the bottomline is , you can interpret it in whatever way you want . I'm a Cyborg , But That's OK runs along similar lines , having its two lead characters patients of a psychiatric ward , but therein lies some structure of a story about love , reaching out , and in making sense of life ( not to mention the movie as well ) . Directed by Park Chan-wook who gave us his famous Vengeance trilogy ( Oldboy , Sympathy for Mr Vengeance and Sympathy for Lady Vengeance ) , it's a very big leap from that trilogy , into something more fantastical , light hearted , bright , and may I say , at times nonsensical as well . But there were some lapses into teasing audiences familiar with his more violent trilogy , incorporating signature scenes which were a blast as I thought they were inserted at appropriate moments when you just want to lash out at everything else happening in the story . The introductory scene reminded me of Wisit Sasanatieng's Citizen Dog ( in fact , the general look and feel of the presentation resembled it , minus the voice over narration ) , where we see Young-goon ( an extremely appropriate subtitled name , played by Im Soo-jung ) degenerate into madness and gets herself warded into an asylum . She starts to think of herself as a cyborg , and develops special affection with florescent lamps and vending machines , while refusing to eat , as it will mess with her internal machinery . And we meet Il-soon ( Rain ) , who develops feelings for her , and embarks on a quest to convince and get her to eat , while sharing with her tender moments as they make sense of their worlds within the confines of an institution . The big draw to the movie for local audiences will no doubt be Rain . In his debut feature film , fans will no doubt be flocking to the cinemas to catch their latest idol in action , with the only snag that those below 16 cannot gain admission ( rated NC-16 ) . Female fans will be thrilled that he sings a little in the movie , and yes , bares that famous chest of his . We're talking about the man who has held a concert here with the highest ticket prices ( the most expensive being S$888 ) , though the preview I was in , was surprisingly , less than 20 persons in attendance . For starters , I do not know of his appeal , nor do I listen to his music , but I thought he performed reasonably as Il Soon , a thieving man who believes he can absorb the abilities of others , and does so to comedic effect . Actually , what turned out appealing to me , was centered onto the background madcap people , the supporting cast playing all sorts of crazy characters . Some with dialogue , others just preoccupied in their own little worlds , doing their own little repetitive actions , most of which just draws out chuckles . It's a love story within plenty of fantastical sequences . Just don't try to make sense of things that don't seem to make sense , and you'll be able to breeze it . And on that note , I'm a Cyborg , but That's OK may not be everyone's cup of tea , in the traditional romantic comedy sense .
And I felt the filmmakers nailed it squarely on the head with the casting of Ken'ichi Matsuyama , more famously known these days as the teen detective L from the Death Note series . In that film he had disappeared behind a stoic and serious demeanour behind a lithe frame , being quite fleet-footed while snacking on sweet food . Here , Ken'ichi again disappears and in more challenging terms , being on opposite sides of the spectrum from the meek to the flamboyant , and if you're not impressed by his L , his turns here would impress as being a consummate character actor capable of fleshing out characters very convincingly . If it's a chameleon actor you're looking for , look no further than Matsuyama . As Negishi , his mushroom cut hairstyle sported fits the character to a tee . A mild mannered sissy nerd , he shuffles his feet from his hometown village to the bright city of Tokyo in the hope of fulfilling his dream of being a trendy pop singer . You know , the one who belts out bubblegum pop tunes about first love and sweet kisses . He lives by the mantra of " No Music No Dream " , and inspires his fellow peers to do the same and seize the day . Just so to tell you he's still a straight character despite his effeminate ways , he's attracted to Aikawa ( Rosa Kato , who resembles a little like Aoi Miyazaki , who's starring in yet another similar music - based movie in Shonen Merikensack which I am looking forward to ) . Who wouldn't ? But an unexpected opportunity to join a band , he soon finds himself manipulated by his female boss ( Yasuko Matsuyuki ) into becoming the frontman for the heavy metal band Detroit Metal City ( DMC ) as Johannes Krauser , the long haired , pale skinned singer from the depths of hell who sings raged filled songs and preaches satanism , hate , anger , murder and rape . He garners a country-wide following filled with rabid groupies , and is more wildly successful as part of the engineered metal band , than trying to strike out on his own as a frivolous pop singer that's a dime a dozen . It's an excellent contrast of characters , but more so , an examination of self and the personas we adopt in different situations . It might even be a classic case of Schizophrenia for Negishi , because as Krauser , he's really good at what he does , and almost comes second nature as that sissy man who had found an avenue to unleash his pent up frustration and hit back at the whole world , and get adored for that as well . Cursing and swearing comes second nature , and he can get really confused at times if his interests got mixed ? romancing his lady love who abhors metal music , and satisfying his legion of fans with a public appearance . Unlike the Incredible Hulk within whom Bruce Banner disappears , it's interesting here because Negishi has full conscious control over Krauser , but allows himself to cut loose and live up to that masked persona even if it means having to embarrass the woman he loves . It's about striking a balance between living your dream , and being practical about it . As Krauser , he inspires others into living theirs , even though he doesn't exactly get to do the same . But only because he does what he does best , even though he doesn't exactly subscribe to it . He commands his unwavering fans for whom he inspires , though in some negative ways , but what better than to express one's rage through music and at the concert venues only rather than to hit back in society - we don't see any of the metal fans causing trouble , and the amount of clout one has in influencing his followers to live for the better . It's this realization and awakening that Negishi understands his calling in life , that he cannot live a life that's for selfish personal interest ( in throwing away Krauser just so he can pursue his love ) over that of the benefit for the masses and those who adore him . It's like a superhero story of sorts as well , where the hero disappears into his sanctuary by having an alter-ego within which he can operate normally without the pressures of expectations . We become somebody else very easily when we have ourselves hidden behind a costume incognito , and can carry out feats which we normally wouldn't do for fear of identity , repercussions and of course shame if something goes wrong . The white face makeup is Negishi's secret formula in transformation from geek to devil , without fear of his family discovering his secret ( he tells them he works at a floral shop ) and disappointed his parents that he's a preacher for hate , in direct contradiction to the gentlemanly ways he's brought up in . But of course like any other movie , this one is not perfect . There were a number of scenes that were played out purely for laughs , but sometimes fell flat on its face for its repetitive nature . Such as having his boss from hell come trash Negishi's pastel coloured apartment just so that she could awaken the devil in him permanently , and provide for some misunderstanding between Negishi and Aikawa . Or that inexplicable scene of running with his legion of fans for miles before reaching a concert venue . One could actually tell Ken'ichi Matsuyama was panting under that thick makeup and heavy costume . To no surprise , DMC attracted more female fans than the male ones in the screening I attended , despite having metal music blaring that degrades the female of the species , so that can only attest to the magnetism that Ken'ichi has over his fans . It isn't exactly about metal music , nor is it about the comedy here , but it's about self and the masks we all wear . For that , this comes definitely recommended in the dilemmas that we lead our lives under from time to time .
You can't deny the mystic appeal that Kung Fu films have on the masses . Not only has Hollywood managed to finally get the essence so succinctly and successfully infused it into the animated film Kung Fu Panda , and taking on one of China's icon as its own , India too has shown that it's no pushover now in combining its Bollywood " masala " formula with the martial arts genre , and does so too by snagging the iconic Gordon Liu as lead villain . It's been some time since Gordon Liu fought on screen , and one cannot forget the memorable 36th Chamber movies , amongst others in his filmography . Like Christopher Lee and Terence Stamp , I'm hoping that this sparks a comeback of sorts for the guy , because he still got what it takes to put young men to shame given his still buffed physique . As head villain Hojo , he's the typical gangster chief who's exploiting a group of villagers in plundering treasures of the land for sale to foreigners , earning good profits as well as dabbling in diamond smuggling , thanks to sidekick Meow Meow , played by Deepika Padukone . To those who oppose him , they're fatally dealt with the spinning bowler hat ! Deepika , like in her debut film Om Shanti Om , plays two roles here . Besides the villainous Meow Meow , the other role as Sakhi is a tele-media model who goes back to China in search of her roots , of paying respects to her family members presumed dead . Deepika carries her roles with aplomb , though between Sakhi and Meow Meow , I thought she would have more fun as the latter since she's given the chance to experiment with some wire-fu , and looks good in dishing out some martial arts moves , not to mention having a funkier wardrobe too . Small town cook to big time hero , that's Akshay Kumar's Sidhu , who's mistaken to be Liu Sheng , a fictional China folk hero and formidable warrior reincarnate . Given hope under false pretense by street-side fortune teller Chopstick ( Ranvir Shorey ) , he bids his guardian Dada ( Mithun Chakraborty ) farewell , before heading East to an incredible reception by the villagers who deem him the solution to their problems . Naturally he's in for some rude shock , disappointment and personal tragedy , before like all Kung Fu heroes , come bouncing back after some intense training . It has shades of Stephen Chow's Kung Fu Hustle especially with the cartoony aspects , as well as elements that were a throwback to the genre in the 70s and 80s , with a montage segment featuring his training under a sifu ( Roger Yuan ) , as well as finding out one's destiny and true self . Akshay's no stranger to action , and his martial arts background also helped in making that credible comeback for , what else , revenge . Given the standard two-half format for a Bollywood film , he spots a bit of a paunch when his Sidhu's a little idiotic , before physically crafting his body into an Iron Man . Chandni Chowk to China has everything - romance , melodrama , kung fu , high tech and fantasy gadgets , even a potato that looks like a god . It's pretty entertaining as a fusion of sorts , though not as funny as I thought it would be ( that training montage is still the funniest of the lot ) . And thank goodness that some attention was paid to diction in the Chinese language ( you know how some films tend to screw it up ) when spouted by non - native speakers . Song and dance segments weren't really memorable , except for the theme song for Sidhu ( so far , every Akshay Kumar film I've seen him in , has a song for his character ) . But for fans of Gordon Liu , this is one film you'd definitely not want to miss . And I'll be keeping an eye out for that sequel too !
Feast is your typical monster movie , and in watching this , you'll appreciate the richness of The Host , which itself also belongs to the genre , but smashes all stereotype of how a monster movie should be . But that doesn't mean Feast is not fun - it is , even though it's the usual formula , because it doesn't try to be anything more sophisticated than that . The story and action starts immediately , and I mean immediately , at least after a no-frills super summarized introduction to all the players involved with the use of character titles . What will set the tone here , is that the introduction is highly comical , and gets the job done in a no-frills manner , so much so that most of the characters don't have names , but rather are named after caricatures , like Hero for obviously the Hero , and Honey Pot for a busty blonde chick ( a staple in slasher-horror-thrillers ) . It's reminiscent of movies like Dog Soldiers ( the beasts ) , From Dusk Till Dawn ( the stand off and the fight back ) and Tremors , having a band of men and women finding themselves stranded in a bar in the middle of nowhere , fending off strange creatures who have a thirst for live human meat . And trust us humans to be bickering and infighting for self preservation , survival of the fittest first , with guns ablazing as guarantee . Expect plenty of gore and blood splattering across the screen , and credit must be given , that most of the time the attacks happen when you least expect them to . So if you're trying to guess who survives , the more challenging game will be to guess who ' s next . One gripe I have though , is that the monsters can't be seen in their full glory at any one point in time throughout the movie . The lighting conditions ( it all happened in a single night you see ) don't offer much visibility , and having speed as the creature's attribute also disallows them to be seen much . You will catch glimpses of it though , when they're humping ( yes they have sex ! ) or during the quick finale , but I suppose you're better off with some picture stills out there on the net , if you want to see just how horrible they look . What also peeved me , is for all the advancement in special effects , this movie opted for the low budgeted stop motion creature movement for some of the long shots - which of course looked too cheap . The movie doesn't bother to try and explain how or why the monsters come about , and frankly speaking , who cares ? If you're up for some mindless gory movies with room for you to perform a body count , then Feast might be your banquet of choice . Only playing at GV Vivocity and Plaza . And yes , stay tuned after the initial end credits roll ( less than 10 seconds ) for an additional scene .
This movie is so insanely gay ! And I mean it in both sense of the word . No wonder this comedy broke the German box office with its madcap , low-brow , at times , crass humour . But it's all in good fun . If you're looking for a plot , be reminded that a spoof-fest only has an outline of what resembles a story . The story's not award winning material to begin with , and it was never the intention of doing so . In the future , Earth has colonized Mars , and some aliens aren't happy with it , so war is declared on the Earthlings . Somehow , Earth's last hope lies in the hands of Dreamship Surprise and its crew of merry men , led by the gayish Captain Kork , and equally feminine-like officers Mr Spuck and Schrotty . Needless to say , the crew of Dreamship Surprise is a complete spoof of Star Trek's Starship Enterprise crew , right down to the uniform , the multi-racial crew , and the technology available on board . Serious Trekkies might not take this too kindly though , to see their beloved franchise taken to " new " heights . To save Earth from the aliens , the team has to travel back in time to prevent the discovery of alien lifeforms in Area 51 . But it's made more difficult when Kork and crew are more interested in their rehearsals for an upcoming Miss Waikiki competition ( don't ask ) . Which is crazy I tell you . If you think that the Chicken Little ad now showing in theatres is cute , you haven't seen nothing yet ! Spoofing obvious movies like Star Wars - pod-racing , battleships hovering in orbit , the Jedi Council , Coruscant , Queen Amidala , Han Solo , Emperor Palpatine , Darth Vader , Stormtroopers , the list goes on , and Star Trek - the main leads , there are also numerous references to movies like Austin Powers ( the phallic-shaped starship ) , Back to the Future ( time travel ) , Minority Report and even A Knight's Tale . Spoofing and combining key characters from Star Wars and Star Trek have been attempted before in Hollywood comedies , but definitely not in the manner that Dreamship Enterprise had . Stay tuned during the credits , where some blooper scenes are shown , and if you stay until the end of the credits , you'll be rewarded with yet another short hilarious scene . Definitely recommended for an evening after a hard day's work .
I am five years late . Just as I was so prepared to watch a Ben Stiller caper , with the posters all up at local theaters , the movie disappeared from the radar , and was banned in Singapore . Why ? Because the plot was about a fashion model being brainwashed ala The Manchurian Candidate to assassinate the Malaysian Prime Minister . Why ? Because Malaysia was being used as a sweatshop that hires child labor to manufacture cheap garments created by the western fashion houses , and they are not happy that the PM has outlawed working children . Hence the insane sounding plot right in the beginning . However , someone forgot to tell Ben that the Malaysian footage didn't look like Malaysia , but more like Tiananmen Square . Where got wave banners like that ? Got space meh ? But since we're friendly neighbors of Malaysia , when they banned it , we banned it too , to show solidarity . Anyway , for refusing to watch illegal downloaded copies , I was finally rewarded when GV decided to screen it here ( no more ban ? why now ? ) for a limited period , even though I suspect since it's a Village Roadshow production , why let it collect dust in the archives ? Ben Stiller co-created and plays Derek Zoolander , male model of the year 3 times in a row , with that killer Blue Steel look - an anal retentive look which actually seduces and is popular with the crowd . As most would already know , this comedy parodies almost everything about the fashion industry , like how himbotic male models can be , and amplified that dumbness more than 100 % . Zoolander loses his crown to up and coming male model Hansel ( played by Owen Wilson with long flowing locks , surfer dude style ) , and decides to retire . But since the chief villain and fashion guru Mugatu ( Will Ferrell ) requires a dim-witted model to be his assassin ( they have buff muscular bodies , and listen to instructions ) , his assistant Katinka ( Milla Jovovich , yummy ) brings Zoolander to a secret day spa to be brainwashed , and ready to be a killing machine during the opening of the Derelicte line of clothes . Real life Mrs Stiller Christine Taylor plays Matilda , a nosy journalist who tails Zoolander to try and get to Mugatu , and gets entangled in the assassination plot . But don't worry , the storyline isn't as complex as I've described . It's filled with plenty of insane subplots and scenes , like Zoolander's retirement decision to join his dad and brother ( Jon Voight , and an uncredited Vince Vaughn , who doesn't speak a word ) , an orgy of sorts with dwarfs , and even a walk-off competition between Zoolander and Hansel , with closure that comes straight out of Stephen Chow's campy movies . The real scream actually comes from the dozens of cameo appearances of the who's-who in the fashion and entertainment industry . Just as a flavor , there's Karl Lagerfield , Donald Trump , Tom Ford , Natalie Portman ( who declares her love for Zoolander ) , Winona Ryder ( who tries to seduce Zoolander ) , Gwen Stefani , Heidi Klum , Fabio , Fred Durst , Paris Hilton ( ! ) , Victoria Beckham , and even Billy Zane . You can refer to IMDb to get the entire list of credited and uncredited appearances . But what's the icing on the cake is David Duchovny's role as an X-File-ish character straight from his Fox Mulder days . Simply brought back the memories , in a funny way , including the many 80s and 90s pop music injected into the movie . So for those who have held out to finally experience Zoolander's new Magnum look , this is your chance . The movie might be dated , but it sure doesn't feel that way . Great fun .
I can't remember the details behind the reason why Wang Yu left the franchise , but Chang Cheh replaced him with David Chiang in the titular role , and of course it's a totally new character , having his own motivations and background , as compared to Yu's Fang Gang . Written by Ni Kuang ( author of HK's popular Wesley science fiction series ) , the new one - armed swordsman is now Lei Li ( Chiang ) , an arrogant young swordsman whose specialty is his " yuan-yang " double swords . A hotheaded , up and coming hero , a diabolical plot was hatched by Lung I Ching , a veteran swordsman in the martial arts world , to keep these young upstarts at bay . With his three-joint-poles , which always seem to defy gravity , he schemes and manages to duel with Lei Li , defeating him and caused Li's arm to be chopped off . Herein lies the difference between this One Armed Swordsman , and the original Fang Gang . Fang Gang had lost his arm because someone else hacked it off in a fit of rage . Here , Lei Li actually gambled with his arm - the loser of the duel would have to remove it , and retire from " society " . While Fang Gang had to learn his martial arts all over again , Lei Li was already skilled with his left hand , because he was originally ambidextrous . Also , Fang Gang's weapon of choice is his father's iconic broken sword , Lei Li doesn't seem to have any preference , and could fight with any . While there is a token romance with the daughter of a village blacksmith , the introduction of a special sword didn't seem to auger well , and it didn't last - it lacked something special , be it emotions or prowess , and seemed too generic . Anyway , I can't help but to chuckle at Ti Lung's character Feng Chun-Chieh , also a young upcoming swordsman who uses two swords . Chun-Chieh and Lei Li formed a sense of brotherhood when the former protected the latter from bullies , only because the latter doesn't wish to use his martial arts skills anymore . They become fast friends , but from the way their scenes were shot - the numerous hugs , back-slapping , arm holding , eyes longing , you might be expecting one of them to say that if only he knew how to quit the other . That aside , you'd come to expect the usual ketchup blood laden violence which have become the hallmarks of Chang Cheh's swordfighting movies . Here , it doesn't get any less bloody , and scenes can be quite graphic with the numerous decapitations of limbs , and one really interesting decapitation of half a human body , across the waist . There are plenty of set action pieces , like that iconic fight on the bridge with many footsoldiers simultaneously . Scenes like these are what Tarantino adopted in his homage Kill Bill double feature , where the hero goes on an unstoppable roaring rampage . Though I must admit the introductory fights don't contribute much to the plot - just there for the sake of showing off what Lei Li can achieve . All in all , it's great fun , just to watch what our parents were watching as they grew up , and comparing these films to the standards of today . While cheesy , the good old classics stand out for their groundbreaking effort in those days , to bring us what has evolved till now . Code 3 DVD contains minimal extras , just one trailer , a photo gallery , the original poster , one general paragraph passing off as production notes , a biography and selected filmography of the cast and crew .
The Longest Yard is one of many remake movies that Hollywood has churned out in recent years . Others did well , like Charlie's Angels , while some fumbled , like Bewitched . This Adam Sandler movie , helm-ed by director Peter Segal ( who also worked on Sandler's Fifty First Dates ) , managed to keep afresh the already familiar material . It was a perky ( heh ) start to the movie , with No Doubt's ( and of course Gwen Stefani's vocals ) starting the movie , keeping in mind that MTV Films also had a hand in this , it isn't surprising that the audience will be treated to various pop , rock and hip hop music . Sandler plays Paul Crewe , a forgotten , down and out quarterback infamous for throwing in the towel and rigging a game . He's sick of life with his control freak fiancée ( did Courteney Cox undergo a boob job ? ) , and got arrested for dangerous drink driving when she reported he stole her Bentley . Well , we have to thrown our protagonist into prison to get the game going , right ? Unfortunately for Crewe , the prison guards are a bunch of sadists , and fortunately ( depending on how you look at it ) the warden is a football fanatic , who propositions Crewe to set up a team amongst the prisoners for his guards to have a practice tune up match against . Most of the movie then dwelled on recruitment and training , as with all sports movies , the recruits are all misfits , which is supposed to provide some comedic moments . Scenes in which Crewe handpicks prisoners according to their traits ( aggression , speed etc ) were formulaic , but extremely fun . An addition to the fold is actor Chris Rock as Caretaker , the man with links on the inside and outside ; the resident smuggler . As with all remake movies , there should be the complimentary actor from the earlier film , and here we have two , the more recognizable one being Burt Reynolds as the coach , who played the protagonist in the original . It's kind of ironic that in prison films , the line between " good and evil " are somewhat blurred , with good characters having improper morals , and the bad characters turning out to be likable underdogs . For all its funny set pieces , the humour seemed somewhat subdued , not overly slapstick , or worse , feeling forced . You know what's coming , but the delivery was enough to at least make you smile . What crowned the filmed was the football game at the end . Shot wonderfully with the right moments to break into slow-motion or high speed action , it managed to convey the contact sport accurately , and with excitement thrown into the mix . You will really be rooting for the Mean Machines , as do the transgender inmate cheerleaders and Rob Schneider . But the main theme was on obtaining , losing , and maintaining Respect , and the exploration of camaraderie amongst the boys in the hood . Standing out , in a somewhat cringeworthy manner at times , was when Crewe persuades a bunch of basketball playing inmates to join his team , as do some parts in the end game . This movie should appeal to the fans of sports films , one filled with plenty of physical contact , moments of humour , and a predictable finale ( which of course is known to those who watched the original ) .
I think it's obvious to note by now that Team Apatow is on a roll in recent years with their brand of comedy , which is probably a much needed injection , personally , to the genre after Mike Myers left us hanging when he delivered his Goldmember . Out and out comedies of late have been touching on the usual material like teenage sexcapades and loads of deliberate spoofs of pop culture and movie genres , which Apatow and team also dabbles in , but somehow it hinged on the simple things that mattered , such as the timing of punchlines . In most parts , Drillbit Taylor seemed like Superbad all over again , right down to the characters that inhabit the movie . You have the usual nerds in trouble , and more so , with a Laurel and Hardy style in pairing someone chubby with a motor-mouth , and the skinny , silent type . Coming from well-to-do families , good friends Ryan ( Troy Gentile ) and Wade ( Nate Hartley ) are into their first day of high school , where given their nerdy behaviour , are instant fodder for the resident school bullies . Despite the refreshing unknowns having the meatier and more interesting roles , Owen Wilson stars as the titular character , a homeless and aimless drifter who showers at public baths and makes money from asking for donations on the streets . In fact , Owen Wilson is just being , Owen Wilson , with all the smart wisecracks spewed when imparting self-defense knowledge to his employers , the children , in a bid to not give them the fish , but to teach them to fish , i . e . defend themselves from bullies . Naturally he's no black ops person , and there's little wonder how his methods turn out to be backfiring most of the time . Which is in fact a pity . There are some genuinely funny moments , but these stem from scenes where Wilson was not a part of , because his story got entrenched into some romance with impossibility looming over the horizon , But the funnier scenes are also mostly a throwback to similar material already experienced in Superbad , minus the sexually implicit / explicit scenes of course , with the banter between Ryan and Wade , and the little snarky comments that Ryan makes , which you probably have to pay attention to as they come quite fast and furious . Other than that , Drillbit Taylor is pretty formulaic in how the story develops and concludes , which is an exercise in the value and treasuring of friendship , camaraderie , and having some backbone to stand up to those who have an inkling of stepping all over you . Oh , and Owen Wilson's nose really was quite prominently crooked in the movie , I can't help but to gawk at it !
I've chanced upon this DVD at the Esplanade Library , and thought that it would be essential viewing before the Hollywood remake descends upon us in September . While the remake's trailer seemed scary enough with its freaky ghouls , I was apprehensive how spooked I will get when watching the original from writer director Kiyoshi Kurosawa . And surprise , I found it to be palatable . and it confirms one thing though about the limited J - Horror movies that I've seen . There is minimal in-your-face shock-and-awe tactics . In Kairo , the mood and atmosphere is extremely measured with its superb controlled use of light and shadow . Expect things to go bump in the dark , but not too often though . I believe what makes J-Horror movies a spookfest , is its ability to weave freaky stories from seemingly everyday events and objects . The Ring has its VCR tape and television set , while here , it's the Internet , a website which asks if you would like to meet a ghost , and a computer's ability to dial up on its own . From the start you're presented with a mysterious suicide , before the movie progresses with people in the city disappearing for no apparent reason , and vague happenings with shadows and black stains at spots where people die . The ideas presented here , on loneliness and that human connection , seem interesting enough to ponder upon , as it questions if the use of technological tools like the computer brings people together , or further isolates us from one another . It also tried to ask a hypothetical what-if question , of what would happen if the other region which ghosts belong to , would be finitely occupied by the spirits , and their numbers start to spill over to our realm . Most of the time , nothing really happens in the movie , which might seem a bore to those weaned on jump scares , quick cuts and actual ghouls and goblins making an appearance to scare the wits out of the leads . I liked the shot where the car roams around an empty streets of Japan , kinda reminds me of Danny Boyle's 28 Days Later , or even cheesy fests such as Resident Evil . While I thought it was not scary , my friend warned me about the after effects , which I've yet to experience , not until the sun sets at least . And heck , I'm using the internet right now to write this too . Hope the screen doesn't go freaky on me . . . Code 1 DVD comes with the theatrical trailer , which seems scary enough on its own , and a 41 minute long making-of documentary .
I've been intrigued by Thai Voodoo for the longest time , not that I would want to be on the receiving end of it , but it makes you wonder the amount of clout and ( real ? ) ability of these medicine men who put hexes and curses on your behalf , for a small fee . And it always seem that what they do to you , from simple artifacts like a voodoo doll , can inflict so much pain onto your real self with just a simple needle poked on a right position on the straw doll . Art of the Devil 2 is not a sequel , in that it has no relation to the first ( which I am now intrigued to watch as it stars Chai-Lai Angel Supaksorn Chaimongkol ) , although they deal with the same supernatural forces in Thai lore . It tells a story of a physically attractive model teacher , Ms Panor ( Napakpapha Nakprasitte ) , and her group of students , one of whom she is a stepmother to . However , as with all misunderstandings , it stems off with what the eyes see and the ears here , and the mind believing . With black magic in the works , things are never what it seems , as the group of students revisit their teacher a few years after a tragic and shameful incident happened in school . Why , you'll never understand , but we need something to have them all put together to get something going . This movie has plenty of gory moments which offers some good scares , given the disgusting things that happen to the victims of the hex . If torture scenes in Syrianna and Hard Candy made you squirm in your seat , then your stomach is up for more churning , given the previous two films did it more psychologically and with off-camera scenes , whereas here you're not spared the visual details , leaving none to the imagination , even if certain shots might look cheap and unrealistic . The gore grips you right from the start , giving you a hint that if you can't stand what you've just seen in the first few minutes , you won't be better off for the rest of the movie . In an environment where almost everyone is not as innocent as they seem , keeping secrets close to their hearts , and the usage of black magic to achieve their individual desires and objectives commonplace , it perhaps served as a reminder not to dabble in the black arts , either as a practitioner or an end user , as there are always warnings of ill fate that befall upon them . Unlike the Sixth Sense with its slick execution , script and delivery , Art of the Devil 2 had a rather satisfactory ending , but with the final stroke of the pen in creating the finale , it presented itself with a major loophole that seemed to have glossed over what transpired earlier , which is a big no-no in trying to force audiences to accept the " new truth " . However , if your intention is to get some scares , then this movie still delivers , if you'd be forgiving to the ending .
While we're about a month away from the season of good tidings and the new year , what we have lined up for the next 4 weeks or so are 4 cinematic releases that deal with zombies , the supernatural and the undead . We have been teased with Aliens Vs Predators again in a town where the humans stand in their way and become sacrificial pawns . We have Will Smith in I Am Legend being the last man on Earth fending off strange creatures in the night . We have a group of shoppers stuck in a supermarket when Stephen King unleashes The Mist on them . And I actually enjoyed the latter 2 trailers for having adopted some bars off Clint Mansell's soundtrack for The Fountain ( will we see more , since Requiem's was used ever so often ) . And the competition amongst them starts with 30 Days of Night , adapted from a graphic novel , which tells of the small town on Barrow in the northernmost part of Alaska having to go through 30 days without sunlight in winter , and those who can't stand the cold and the thought of living without sunlight , have opted to leave . It's pretty much business as usual , until a bunch of vampires decide to crash in and feast . And this is the beginning of one of my gripes about the film , as hokey as how the Superman comics team dreamt up of Doomsday - it just appears , with zero thought about justification and the whys and the hows . Um , so we're to believe that this group of super bloodsuckers led by Danny Huston's Marlow have been idling for centuries somewhere on Earth where the sun doesn't shine , before deciding that they have to respond to that rumble in the stomach . So once you can believe that , and the thought of it dismissed by a one-liner , it's a pretty gory vampire flick on most accounts . They're infused with 28 Days / Weeks styled speed and utter craving for plasma , and as a team , their moves are very keenly calculated . Thinking it's hip to invent languages , we learn Vampire-speak too , though most of the time their fangs get in the way of their pronunciation , so they sound like they're choking on thick clotted blood . Watching the way they dispatch their sorry victims , even though the camera cuts away just at the point of teeth plunging into jugular veins like how rabid dogs attack , you still feel a frightening chill when the view comes back to jolting bodies having their liquids sucked dry , and those scenes are disturbing , even after you leave the theatre . Those fingernails cum talons too provide our vampires with a facial weapon , and how you wish they use it to silence themselves each time they lapse into their orgasmic shrieks . Director David Slade of Hard Candy fame knows how to create tension and horror without showing you much , and that happens to be a plus point with its extremely patient build up , and the heightening of suspense . You have to tip your hat at him for crafting a very quiet movie at crucial scenes , so much so that the audience lend their " Ssshhhhs " not to tell fellow audience to keep quiet , but aimed at the characters themselves to remain like little mice lest they get detected . 30 Days of Night is a very grey movie in mood , tone and the weather , with occasional white landscapes littered with splatters of crimson , and with Slade just loving to provide us overhead views of the town run aground by rampaging monsters . The humans here though behave like typical vampire movie fodder . The bigger the ensemble , the more victims it can provide , not counting anonymous folks seen being victims from afar . Josh Hartnett's Sheriff Eben plays hero as he leads his bewildered town kinsman to survive through this 30 days of mayhem before the sun shines again , while trying to work out his estranged relationship with wife Stella ( a very pouty Melissa George from Turistas , and I still say she's a dead ringer for Estella Warren ! ) . As usual , you have a team of misfits feeding off each other's strength in a quest for survival , and a theme such as Sacrifice is never too far away from movies like these . But what I felt was a let down to its build up , was the unsatisfying ending , which left a bitter aftertaste with its abruptness and inability to resolve anything substantial . It also didn't allow for any sympathy for the victims as you would sometimes find yourself rooting for another kill just to satisfy your blood lust , also because little time is given for you to get to know those characters . As the humans learn that guns do zilch to their targets , there goes all hope , and try as they could to get creative in turning the tables , it boiled down to keeping it simple . Oh , and if you enjoyed the supermarket scene , I'd bet it served as a precursor to The Mist . 30 Days of Night could have been a lot more , but unfortunately left some bits to be desired . If you truly want to enjoy this new age vampire movie , then I suggest leaving any inquisitiveness at the door , as the movie offers no answers nor clues to answer your whys . Perhaps a reading of the graphic novel might help .
Heads you live . Tails you die . Her name is Domino Harvey . She is a bounty hunter . This unconventional film is based very loosely on the true unconventional life of the daughter of actor Laurence Harvey . Losing her father at an early age , Domino grew up with her mother and lived the good life as a rich girl , becoming a Ford model at one point . But she has always been the aloof social outcast , and tend to loathe the high life ( Beverly Hills brat-packers ) she has been brought up in . She doesn't mince her words , and packs a wallop of a punch too . Chancing upon a Bounty Hunter job , she signs up with one of the best in the business , Ed Mosbey ( Mickey Rourke ) and his partner Choco ( Edgar Ramirez ) . It's a totally different life from one in which she grew up in , but as she explained to Ed , she's in it for the fun and thrills . She's skilled with various weapons like automatic weapons , knives and the Nun-chaks , and fast transforms into an asset to her team , with " bra and panties on " . Soon , the trio become famous in the bounty hunting arena ( who wouldn't with 2 hunks and a gorgeous babe ) , as we follow them through their various exploits . They even have their own reality TV show Bounty Squad , which plays an integral part of the story . The film starts off very intensely and jumps right into the action , before the audience is brought back to the beginning , and chronicles her life from the start . At times , this movie is deliberately filmed in 70-ish television series style , especially the classic opening credits with theme song , character titles , and plenty of images with scenes from the movie . Some in the audience , however , will not appreciate the characteristic MTV styled quick cuts used by director Tony Scott , and I do see him making more films using this style , with his previous films Man on Fire and Spy Game . The soundtrack for this film is vulgarly kinky too . That aside , there might be many not comfortable with the narrative style used , with constant flashbacks , and even " reversing " what had been shown on screen , making it a tad confusing at times . For those who somehow not manage to stay attentive to the plot , you may get lost halfway through , as it involves many characters with various personal motivations , which culminates in an explosive ending . Satisfying at the end , but only if you're patient with the build up , just like one of Tony Scott's earlier movies ( which I shall not mention , as it is similar in narrative structure ) . A number of actors make their appearance in this movie , like Christopher Walken as a reality show producer , Mena Suvari as his mousy secretary , Lucy Liu as an FBI interrogator , even singer Macy Gray and veteran Jacqueline Bisset as Domino's mother . Take note however , that major comedic moments are provided in Jerry Springer's Show , and the early 90s TV series Beverly Hills 90210 contributing 2 actors Ian Ziering and Brian Austin Green to be has-been parodies of themselves . Keira Knightley swears a lot in this film . A whole lot , different from when she first burst into the scene with Bend It Like Beckham . What's amazing is her ability to handle a tough-as-nails character , and the expressing of her emotions in totally different scenes , some sentimental , some sarcastic , some totally kicking rear . It's an eye opener too to watch her handle various deadly weapons with ease . She could well be on her way to marquee a film , though I felt in this one , she had the assistance of Mickey Rourke , and a good supporting cast , to carry this film through . This film is dedicated in memory of the real Domino Harvey , who passed away earlier this year before the movie is released . The real her is seen at the end credits , where they feature the cast , and she makes an appearance as the last character , simply titled " Domino " . Such is the fictional story of an extraordinary life of an unconventional lady .
During the mini-seminar session , Amir mentioned that Malaysian Gods had been passed without cuts back home , but also not permitted to be publicly screened . It's no surprise to this as he admitted , given the buzz the authorities had unwittingly created because of their banning of his previous film The Last Communist . Hence the situation this film is now in . But as usual , from watching this across the Causeway , one wonders if political / politics-related films which might see the respective authorities on either side frown upon , would find an audience at the other side given a piqued interest , as well as hey , it's not talking about us here so we're cool about it ? Strategy-wise , Malaysian Gods had adopted the same approach as Amir's earlier movies like The Last Communist and Village People Radio Show , which consists of visiting the actual sites where the movement had occurred , and interviewing people in talking heads fashion in a more natural setting . There's a slight departure here though , where interviews are not with figures directly involved in the events presented , perhaps not wanting to ruffle any current feathers since it might inevitably be sensitive with the major players on all sides still being around . What we have instead is a documentary told in chapters commemorating the 10 years since the Reformasi movement began in 1998 starting with the protests led by Anwar Ibrahim after his sacking from his Deputy Prime Minister post . For non history buffs , the documentary provides some insights that began from the past , and had its eye firmly focused on the 8 % of the Malaysian population who are ethnic Indians with Tamil as the common language between them . Told in chapters , the film plays out like reading a history book , with inter-titles cluing you in on specific historical events , before bringing you back to its present day location , and conducting interviews with some everyday folks . The narrative moved from place to place where significant events had happened , and interviewing what could probably be the most colourful character the filmmakers could find in the vicinity , such as the kacang ( nuts ) seller , contractors , salesmen , cinema operators , and your man on the street who just happens to be out on a date . In terms of venue , we get to see prominent landmarks like the National Palace , the KLCC park , the Chinese Assembly Hall , KL's oldest Tamil cinema , and it goes right down to the simple barber shop right around the corner . While it might seem quite random in picking off people from the streets and talking to them , there's a method in that when asked some pointed questions about the location's significance , or whether the interviewee had been involved in those events in one way or another , there are a few interesting nuggets of the human psyche which unfolds . I guess in today's economic climate , everyone's more concerned with their personal rice bowl issues , and can only remember things that hit closer to home rather than mass protests or demonstrations which seem like a disruption to economical pursuits . Either that , or they are personally guarded from freely discussing those issues since a video camera is pointed in their direction . However , you can see that while everyone has their own issues to air , those of the older generation tend to be more reserved and afraid of repercussions , compared to the younger generation who are not afraid to discuss them quite directly and speak their minds on things they feel are going against them , such as the education system . I suppose when push comes to shove , they are more than willing to express themselves than to continue keeping quiet , and this in itself perhaps gave way to a representation of what we've been seeing in the political climate up north , with some drastic changes to the landscape already made . The film is never dry , and is rife with wry humour throughout in true Amir fashion . Against the backdrop of a downfall of a leader and the rise of his party and movement , one can find some rib-tickling moments either from the interview subjects themselves , or from the subtitles which you have to pay some attention to , as illustrations pop up like easter eggs , and you have to look quite closely for things like skewed logos . Or a shot of a car I found quite amusing as the driver clearly violated traffic flow direction , and found himself turning into the Traffic Police HQ . If you've enjoyed Amir's previous works like The Last Communist , and Village People Radio Show , then grab any opportunity you can get to watch his latest film , before he embarks on an announced film-making hiatus .
I got to watch this trailer inadvertently when it was part of a montage sequence honouring Chen Kaige with the Akira Kurosawa Award during last year's Tokyo International Film Festival , and I was actually thrilled to have caught glimpses of it . I thought the boo-boys were out too early in lamenting Chen's choice of Leon Lai in the titular role , thinking that he would ruin what would be a decent biopic about one of China's greatest opera singer . To me , those fears were quite unfounded , as I felt Leon Lai actually did reasonably well when under the thick operatic makeup to transform himself for his stage persona , from Mei Wanhua to Mei Lanfang , where portrays only female characters . But of course if put side by side with Chinese actor Yu Shaoqun , Lai paled considerably as Yu was obviously the better of the two , portraying the younger Mei who found his true calling when opportunity came knocking on his door , and deciding to seize it , yet being mindful all the time of where his roots were . And the best parts were of course the first act , where Mei decides to up the ante and challenge his master , the then largest opera star Shi Sanyan ( Wang Xueqi ) to a show-down of sorts if you will . Under his master's wing , he finds himself somewhat stifled in not being able to explore his roles much further , given the master's fear that his thunder will be stolen . At the encouragement of maverick magistrate and future sworn brother / business manager Qiu Rubai ( Sun Honglei ) , he finds some new found confidence to test waters while still keeping true to the core of his character , thus earning new praise , and given one's talent with nothing much to lose , one will go for broke - win and you win all , lose and you have really no reputation at stake , in contrary to his master . It's about control , or the lack thereof . From early on we learn that actors in the days of the crumbling of the Chinese monarchy that they do not have any respect , and have to play to the whims of those with power , money and fame . Even then the child actors have to pander to lords with a penchant for young boys . Mei does not buckle his self-worth , and is pretty clear that while he portrays ladies in more feminine terms than real ladies , that it does not make him easy fodder . And we follow through his life how he does not get to live the life he wants to lead , but rather according to both the rules and regulations of the stage , as well as the same off it in society . Be it instructions from his managers , his wife Zhifang ( Chen Hong ) or the Japanese occupiers , each seemingly want to exert an influence over his career and personal life , not so much for personal gain , but to propagate that legend and persona so carefully crafted over the years . Naturally Mei finds an avenue to fight back , and does so through an affair of the heart . While he portrays females on stage , he meets his equal in Meng Xiaodong ( Zhang Ziyi ) , who is his mirror opposite , the best in the business in playing male characters . Together they blaze a trail of glory , and naturally leads to tongues wagging . While Zhang Ziyi may share top billing , in actual fact she's nothing more than a supporting role , coming in only in the middle portion to highlight Mei's need for escape from his rigid world . Much is said about the supporting actors doing a far better job than the leads , and that is true , in a nice way . My respect for the Chinese actors have grown from watching a number of indie and mainstream films , and I can't credit the likes of Sun Honglei , Chen Hong , Wang Xueqi and especially Yu Shaoqun in being nothing less than superb each time they come on screen to chew up the scenery . It's not really fair to say the leads acted poorly , because the supporting cast had raised the bar in delivery , which adds to the enjoyment of the film . I can never forget the really poor movie in The Promise which Chen Kaige made a couple of years back . The story was so bad it allowed the special effects to run wild in trying to salvage the show . There aren't a lot of Chinese bio-pics ( or at least those I have watched ) in recent years that were non-martial arts related ( think Ip Man , Wong Fei-Hung , Fong Sai-Yuk , Huo Yuanjia etc ) , and somehow I'm glad Chen Kaige found his mojo back to helm this , and in far elegant terms that I'm now better convinced to check out more of his filmography . He was able to shift gears quite effortlessly between distinct acts of the narrative , which straddled a timeline from after the Qing Dynasty to after the surrender of the Japanese . However , there might seem to be a quantum leap in addressing issues towards the last 30 minutes , but for everything else , it was paced quite evenly to keep you interest from waning . Forever Enthralled has all the ingredients of a credible epic , from beautiful set designs and art direction , to a wonderful soundtrack and elegant costumes , Chen Kaige does not scrimp in making this film look and feel just like it would back in those days of sheer opulence . While opera may be an artform that is dwindling here , don't let the Peking Opera focus here put you off , as you just might find some reason to want to watch the real thing if you have the opportunity to . Definitely recommended .
Perth is Harry Lee's retirement plan . As an ex-army commando regular turned security supervisor of a shipyard , he leads a nonchalant life , where he regularly exclaims to others that he's a simple man with little materialistic desires , and harbours a goal to settle in Perth , Australia , where life down under is said to be good . When retrenched , he seeks employment as a taxi driver , but ever looking for that break in life to earn more cash to achieve his objective . However , things turn out more complicated for Harry . When sober , we see the empty facade Harry exudes to others , but we learn of the true state of his life when in drunkenness , pouring out his woes to his friends - he's separated from his cheating , gambling wife , and his son refuses to acknowledge him . His is a lonely sad life , and this movie takes a look at the life of the forgotten pioneers of Singapore's materialistic success . We follow his path to the seedier side of the Lion City , into the world of pimps and prostitutes , where he has a lucrative job to ferry the girls to their customers , no questions asked . A depression-proof job , says his friend Angry Boy Lee . Somehow , coffeeshops feature prominently in Singapore movies of late , and Perth is no different , where characters sit around and rant about the authorities , give subtle jibes on the army , and the eventuality of army regulars after their retirement from the uniformed services . They go on about how a better life in Singapore equates first to having a good education , how materialism has crept into society's moral fiber , and the greener pastures available abroad for the lowly skilled . The jibes on the ang-moh's are not subtle though , them being cursed at and assaulted . We know Harry is a violent man from his inner thoughts , but early in the film , it's like his bark is deadlier than his bite . The occasional rant aside , Harry is a man who values faithfulness and loyalty . He fails to see that though his family might not exhibit these values ( probably due to his inner violent nature which led to domestic violence ) , his friends like Angry Boy and Selvam , actually do . The subplot on love and his budding relationship with a Vietnamese call girl at times drags the movie , but it is necessary to lead the movie to its extremely violent finale . The language used throughout is colourful , and I could not think of a local Hokkien expletive not spewed in this film . Perth looks like a one man show from its trailer and poster , with Lim Kay Tong putting in a wonderful performance in shouldering the movie , but gladly , a cast of familiar ( and perhaps stereotypical ) supporting characters help add some depth and sometimes , dark humour . You'll see familiar faces from local TV productions too , like Channel 8's Liu Qiu Lian as Harry's wife . From the laughter amongst the audience , Angry Boy Lee and Selvam are easily favourite characters of some . It's a dark and gritty film , some might consider a local adaptation of Martin Scorsese's Taxi Driver . But perhaps expectations will be set too high if benchmarked against that classic . This is story of Harry Lee , not Travis Bickle , so put the comparisons aside , and enjoy the ride .
The Hidden Blade The Hidden Blade refers to a dreaded samurai sword skill , which you will see only towards the end of the film . Folks , who like me initially thought that this is one of the usual samurai slugfest , may be disappointed that it's not . But like mentioned in the movie , killing is only a last resort , and even samurais themselves are fearful of death in duels . But hey , don't jump the gun ( pun not intended ) just yet . This film has a story to tell , and a poignant one at that . Simply put , it tells of a story about a small town samurai whose village is caught in the transition period of Japan's modernization and introduction of western arms ( guns and cannons ) and fighting tactics . While struggling to understand the rapid changes taking place in the nation , he has to deal with relationships of the heart with his family's maid , whom he adores but afraid to own up to , and the dilemma of being ordered into a duel with one of this long time friends , whom has gone off the right track . This film explores many themes , one of which is the samurai code of honour , where committing suicide via disembowelment ( hara-kiri ) is widely accepted as a practice of maintaining that honour . We also see the bastardization of this honour , of corruption , which brings to mind George Orwell's Animal Farm , where some animals are created more equal than others . The protagonist samurai Munezo often put his head on the line while maintaining that code , even when all else around ( including his superiors ) put pressure on him into making compromises . How many of us will rigidly uphold our values and principles when faced with adversity ? Or will we bow to that pressure and be apologetic for it ? We are also shown the caste system in feudal Japan , which proved to be a stumbling block between the relationship of Munezo and his family maid Kie . The village clan frowned upon and gossips about Munezo's rescue of Kie from her abusive marriage . While the motive may seem justifiable , we all know Munezo's real reason - that he loves her and cannot bear to see her being abused , and ultimately losing her life . Both know that with the caste system , they can never be together . Or can they ? The caste system doesn't only apply to relationships of the heart . Even within samurais , this system applies . Munezo is a small samurai in a small village , and is given little respect by samurais belonging to larger clans and cities . Think of it like the army , where foot soldiers have to " Yes Sir " every officer's instructions - even when it means given the order to kill an old friend who has gone fugitive . Munezo again struggles with this , but knows that as long as he's a samurai , orders are to be obeyed . Change and modernization is central to the story . And in this film , there are numerous hilarious moments as the samurais in training as a modern army come to grips with strange rituals like foot drills , the handling of modern weaponry , and even the way they run . It's something like Tom Cruise's Last Samurai , only that the training's more comical here , and subtly highlights the dangers losing of one's cultural values when the world moves rapidly in change . And finally , for those really waiting for a slugfest , there are 2 fight scenes in the entire movie . One is when Munezo seeks his old master for new guidance , and is being taught a new skill / trick . The other is when Munezo meets his longtime friend for a final showdown . Do not expect " wuxia " styled swordfights . Think Star Wars : A New Hope , the duel between Darth Vader and Obi-wan Kenobi . The duel happens with measured strokes and strategy , rather than fast paced action everyone's used to these days . But again , the emphasis here is not on violence . It's a simple tale with powerful themes , and you will applaud when The Hidden Blade is finally used , justly .
The glamorous world of fashion gets put under the spotlight with Madhur Bhandarakar's Fashion , a story which tells of the rise and fall of a fictional Indian supermodel Meghna Mathur , played by ex Miss World Priyanka Chopra , who holds court with her performance as the phoenix finding her own standing in an industry known for ruthlessness and fickleness that comes with changing its representative face with the seasons . As Meghna , Chopra brings to life the wide-eyed small town girl who dreams of making it big on the catwalks of Mumbai , and thereafter the world , and we journey with her through this long and arduous road to modelling . Given that a typical Bollywood movie comes in two parts after an intermission , each part serves its intent well , acting as a separation of attitudes adopted , of the transformation of Meghna from aspiring model , to one at her peak , bad attitude notwithstanding . You'd come to expect a story that's almost mirroring that of The Devil Wears Prada , where good natured girl gets caught up with all the bright lights and glamour , that she loses her humanity quite consciously , looking at herself change from angel to demon , yet powerless in the grip of fame and money to find the moral courage to do anything about it . It tells of pitfalls , not only in this particular industry , but in general the kind of negative person we are susceptible to turn into , should we lose touch with reality , and let success get into our heads . Priyanka Chopra is quite perfect in the role and believable both as the girl next door , and a supermodel as well , given her beautiful looks and height to carry the role of a clothes horse . She brings to the screen some steely resolve in that it's not enough to be just a part of the industry , but to be # 1 through any methods and means . During production of course there was talk about her going on a crash diet for her role , and I guess such rumours get spun because the industry favours pencil thin ( read : unhealthy looking ) models who grace the catwalks . However , Chopra brings about a healthy glow to her role as Meghna , though I thought toward the end she looked a little more svelte in her figure than to begin with . It's good to see that at least she's not quite obsessed into being yet another waif looking character , as there might be some pressure given the production did feature real models , some even from Elite , gracing the screen as background eye candy . And this film was really quite encompassing with its portrayal of the industry , what with all the power players from agents to agencies , from designers ( including fashion labels like Jimmy Choo ) to magazines ( Vogue India ) , from genuine friends to those looking to feel up skirts . I particularly liked how the film introduced us to all the key players and characters in one fell swoop , and what more through a fashion show , listening in to who's who and rivalries that exist , before observing just how hypocritical everyone can be toward one another . Granted there were some lapses into character stereotypes like the gay designer and the married modelling agency boss ( played by Arbaaz Khan ) who has no qualms about sleeping with his top model , and with some moments in the plot being quite predictable , especially with relationships both personal and professional , Fashion still comes through unscathed as it's delivered in a slick package , sashaying to the cool seductive moves of catwalk modelling , of showing off its best side to the audience . Since this is a film from Bollywood , you can expect many sleazy bits to be toned down and self-censored , with one scene involving a wardrobe malfunction actually being mosaic-ed off . And besides Priyanka Chopra , Mugdha Godse also held her own as Meghna's best friend Janet , who shows her the ropes and also bearing witness to her meteoric rise and fall . But I thought Kangna Ranaut's show-stopper role as top supermodel Shonali was something to sit up and take notice , with her pitch-perfect arrogance on the catwalk being quite a sight to behold , and her character being a parallel to that of Meghna , as a pre-cursor and warning of what one's life would be if you'd throw it to the wind , given her indulgence in drugs , drink , smoke and a choice of the wrong partner . I haven't seen a lot of movies about the fashion industry , but I suppose this one form India serves as a catalyst to begin , even if it's a work of fiction . Eye candy galore and a simple storyline to follow , it's houte couture on display , everything good and nasty about it . As close to front row seats to a fashion show I can get .
The reason why I bought this was simple . Since I was on a DVD buying spree , and had picked up Johnnie To's The Mission ( see review here ) , I thought I might as well pick up yet another of his movies which I have not watched , and so PTU presented itself because of the price , and the uber cool slip case cover . PTU , or Police Tactical Unit , is quite unlike To's movies like the Election series , or The Mission . Here , we look at cops . Ordinary cops , who like everyone else , just want to go home safe and sound after their tour of duty . The movie started off with the sounds of the bustling streets of Hong Kong , before we find ourselves inside a police truck , with everyone in sombre mood during their trip to their patrol grounds of Tsim Sha Tsui , and listening quite ominously to an announcement over the radio regarding the death of a cop . And so begins am eventful night , which is the time period where PTU takes place in . We follow quite a number of characters - Lam Suet as Lo from the Anti-Crime Division , whose firearm was lost during a scuffle with thugs , and forms the crux of the story in which the lives of everyone else in the movie revolves around , Maggie Siu as Kat , sergeant of her team of PTU cops , and Simon Yam as Mike , her counterpart leading the other team . It's a great character study piece of the three main characters , initially one who knows he's in lots of trouble for the loss , and desperately trying to recover it , in order to save face , and keep his reputation intact for an upcoming promotion , Kat's sense of doing what's right , following procedure , and Mike , who's willing to risk it all to help another of his own " for kay " ( slang for cop ) . Under To's direction , PTU is a brilliant visual piece . Creative use of light and shadow illuminates PTU , making it a visual spectacle , so much that you'll still enjoy the movie even if you turn off the volume . I particularly enjoyed the rather quiet moments which were plenty throughout the movie , rather than the usual wham-bang kind of action with guns ablazing . In fact , a shot is never even fired , until the end-all finale , combining all the separate threads of the story into one heck of a finale . What could probably raise eyebrows , are the unorthodox methods employed by the upholders of the law . You can't help but ponder over the methods , and how the lieutenants either turn a blind eye to , or are in full agreement with the provocative procedures meted out by their captain . Surely a talking point , if fire should be met with fire when dealing with scum . There are many subtle touches in this compact tale of less than 90 minutes , with the ubiquitous mobile phone being so important as a plot element , and that strong sense of irony in the narrative . And again in To's cops and robbers / triad movies ( though I may be wrong ) , it seemed that the cool soundtrack which is peppered throughout the film , seemed to stem from a single primary theme music , this time with some electric guitar riffs . PTU doesn't get bogged down by wasting time explaining the many whys and how comes , and prefers to zap you right into the moment . It's the sense of contemplative urgency that makes it compelling to watch , and every turn brings something unexpected . The ending is particular interesting too , especially for those who have written statements in uniformed groups - you surely know what they're doing !
There are many competitive sports movies out there , and most of them run common story lines either being pro-underdogs , or running along racial ( dis ) harmony themes , believing in yourself , mentor-mentee relationships , you get the drift . Akeelah and the Bee is no different , but like all feel good movies , chances are you'll like this one and would be touched by it too , because it leaves you all warm and fuzzy inside , never mind a repeat of the commonly used themes . It's formula , but with its predictability , brings you just the right amount of ra-ra moments where you root for what's right , and depends a lot on the charisma of the leads to take it to the finishing line . The U . S National Spelling Bee competition is a cerebral one . Unless your favourite book is the dictionary and you spew Latin and Greek like a first language , you'll be in awe by the vocabulary that these children have to know , in order to regurgitate the right one in front of a national audience . It's the ultimate English Language challenge , and only the best of the best , through a gruelling selection process , get to make the mark to compete . Akeelah Anderson ( Keke Palmer ) comes from your suburb school , and has a penchant for skipping class , hence her less than fantastic grades . Her gift and talent is what else , spelling , and it's quite typical of the school to want to milk that talent to bring glory to themselves . While initially resisting that thought , it doesn't take too long before Dr Larabee ( Laurence Fishburne ) , himself an ex-competitor in the game , identifies her talent , and takes her under his wing to train her for the Nationals . I kinda smiled that Fishburne fanboy smile - it seems that Fishburne's characters can't seem to get enough of mentoring Andersons : - ) Anyway his Dr Larabee plays off a bit like his Matrix's Morpheus , with that stern exterior , and that soft interior . He plays surrogate father to Akeelah , and through their relationship , help build the girl's confidence through essays written by literary giants . It's great chemistry which starts off in a rather chilly manner , but you'd know before long that these two will break the ice and come up between themselves , special techniques to train , and through that , build communication . The movie does fall into the occasional lapse into stereotypes , like the Asian's uber - competitive streak and that strict father you love to hate , the divide between the haves and the have-nots with the rich white kids , and the black ghetto boys . However , these are glossed over too quickly , as we head onto themes like the galvanizing of a community , and the spirit of competition even though it led to an all too predictable ending . Important reminders like relations between family and friends are stressed , and in a way , it made this first Starbucks Coffee ( yes , that coffee company ) production appeal to a wide spectrum . The message in the movie is clear , and it reminded me of an old soldier who once told our platoon , and I paraphrase , that one should not let others look down upon you , but more importantly , you should not look down on yourself . Clearly , that's the message here . Go the distance without fear .
This is the first of a series of Marvel comic heroes coming onto the silver screen this year , before Bryan Singer's X2 and Lee Ang's The Incredible Hulk ( another Jennifer . . . Connelly , . . . . WHOA ! ) To compare it to last year's Spider-man will not be fair , because Daredevil is essentially a dark character , and i'm glad they stuck to it . There are complains that the movie is at times incoherent , but hey , it's based on a comic book ! Sit back , relax and enjoy the show as if it's the first time u picked up a Daredevil comic and enjoying it for what it's worth . Ben Affleck once mentioned that he won't don any tights unless it's a Daredevil movie , and guess what , he's right ! He looks the part as the Man Without Fear , the strong jawline and all , and as blind lawyer Matt Murdock . Guess he made Daredevil his own . Jennifer Gardner's Elektra looks as beautiful as she is lethal , but too bad , we're given little screen time where she is Elektra with her twin Sais . But nonetheless her initial meeting with Matt is really , really cool ! Kingpin , in case you didn't know , is not the white character he is in the comic books , but heck , doesn't bother me a bit . And someone tell Bullseye to stock up on his ammo before he even attempts to take out Daredevil : P All in all , the action is sometimes too fast and dark ( hey , it's a dark movie : P ) , but the SFX for the devil's unique capability is really well done . The introductory background to the Daredevil lore and build up is excellent , though the ending i felt was a little too rushed . Fan boys will lap up all the cameos and name-mentioning of people like Kirby , Quesada , et al . All in all , I suppose Marvel got it right this time with the movies . Awaiting X2 and Incredible Hulk to see if Marvel can do a hattrick with its movies this year . Have Faith .
If amongst the montage of song and dance in 881 were I to pick a favourite , it will be " 12 Lotus " , though it was sung to a relatively upbeat tune . Here , 12 Lotus the song became the backbone in which the story unfolded upon , having its chapters make interludes in between scenes , though not always in consistent terms . Telling the story of Ah Hua the Pitiful Lotus ( played by both Mindee Ong and Liu Ling Ling for the different eras in a twenty year gap ) , it's a tragedy of sizable proportions about the hard life and times of a Getai singer , whose men in her life were all temporal , just like that in Jasmine Women , leaving her to fend for herself with her favorite comfort food in cream crackers , and a Goddess of Mercy statue as a security blanket . Incidentally , lead actor Qi Yu Wu was himself named Guan Yin in 881 , and his security blanket was a live chicken he carried around . There were a couple of plus points in this movie that benefited from its larger budget . Production values were clearly ramped up , and while 881 managed to get away with its knowingly non-existent crowds in its busy Getai scenes , here we have plenty of extras to jam the sessions . Costumes were less glitzy this time around , but nonetheless more gaudy . Songs too seemed to have extra oomph in them , and one performance had the screening hall's bass throbbing and pulsating non-stop . But you don't really get a host of songs featured here , which would really have been like a repeat of 881 , although this time there were newer faces from the Getai scene who were given supporting roles , and a cinematic platform to showcase what they can do to a new audience . Undoubtedly , Liu Ling Ling's fan base and profile grew with her debut cinematic outing in Royston Tan's earlier movie , but while essentially playing a larger than life version of herself in 881 , here she gets to challenge herself in a more dramatic role . In fact , I would say that this movie opened a lot of doors for the cast involved , and had everyone get out of their comfort zones . For starters , Liu's enigmatic presence throughout 881 lifted many portions of that movie , and I thought 12 Lotus was missing her charismatic screen presence for the 1st half , so fans have to patiently wait for her appearance to continue the story of Ah Hua . And even then , it's to continue the drudgery of a fallen idol , which can get heavy on the emotions , in total opposites to her Getai persona , as well as her previous roles . But that's not to say that Mindee Ong was a pushover in the earlier scenes . Given its split structure with a tragic pivot , I thought it was rather wry that there was a scene which the trailer included that involved a splashing of paint onto her during a performance , which of course brought back memories of an actual sabotage attack on her during the promotional tour of 881 last year . But Mindee again proved to have that spark and spunk to pull off Ah Hua's role , one who is willing to sacrifice a lot for the men in her life , but unfortunately , I think one mountain can't have two tigers , so she got to anchor the role in the first half , before Liu Ling Ling's taking over in the second . While Liu had two roles to play in 881 , and Qi Yu Wu didn't even get a speaking line then , it looks like payback time when Royston had Qi take on two relatively different roles here , and coupled it with song , dance , action and enough scenes to emote and show his acting chops - everything that he had missed out on . Qi can already be considered a veteran actor in the feature films already , having a number of starring roles under his belt with that in The Leap Years , 881 and The Home Song Stories , with no signs of stopping as he will soon add Painted Skin to his filmography . In jest , i had even thought 12 Lotus could have been a proper Money No Enough 2 , given almost every character here seemed to have money problems , or because of money being the perennial root of all evil , being a pretext of a lot of trouble to come . There's even a hilarious song and dance sequence which includes some very light jabbing at the policies of the authorities , but don't have me mistaken , this film is not a comedy , and even its laughable moments have a tinge of background melancholy and sadness to it , given the predicament of its characters . Supporting and guest roles would probably be crowd favourites . Huang Yiliang whom we have seen take on a cinematic role in Jack Neo's I Not Stupid 2 , lends a hand here as the compulsive gambling dad of Ah Hua , dispensing advice that was befallen on deaf years . Fans of 881 will also be glad to know that Yeo Yann Yann does return for an extremely small role here , just to complete the casting loop , while songstress Stefanie Sun gets a nice movie debut , and even David Gan seemed game to go back to basics . Hao Hao gets to play the grown up Astroboy , trusted friend of Ah Hua , but it did seem that majority of his dialogue seemed to have been dubbed over in Mandarin to avoid the risk of having the movie not clear the censors for its predominantly Hokkien dialect dialogue . Royston Tan's 12 Lotus is probably his more mature film to date , being able to balance both sensitive drama with formula and material to engage the general local movie-going audience . Sure , 881 was more fun on the whole , but 12 Lotus had a lot more pathos going for it , and that's exactly where this movie shines , learning from 881 and not indulging and allowing the melodramatic moments to go overboard .
There are many , many films out there about various uniformed folk . The police and fire department probably get represented a fair bit in movies , ranging from heroic stories , to tragedies , and some even featuring them in bad light . In my opinion , first movies should always be sort of a tribute story to the boys and girls in uniform , before adding some flavour in subsequent films with more sophisticated stories that can even venture into putting some characters in negative light . Think Backdraft , where you have the good and the bad apples from the fire department . Though on the other hand , first movies can also be hampered by this approach to the storyline , for its emphasis on the introduction of the profession's job scope , in keeping things stuck to a formula , and by having characters no less than heroic . The Guardian , taking on the formulaic approach as a first film featuring the US Coast Guard in recent times , definitely comes with a tinge of familiarity in storyline . The Japanese has already had their tribute to their equivalent of the uniformed group in the Umizaru series ( its second movie being shown here as well ) , and if you combine that with Hollywood's Top Gun ( itself a heroic tribute movie of sorts to the US Navy Pilots ) , you have this movie . In fact , the beginning and end structure is almost similar , with Kodiak , Alaska bookending the movie like what the Indian Ocean did for Top Gun , and both scenes being actual on-the-job action sequences . Having most of its scenes in a training school , and recognizable Top-Gun-ish moments , may make some wince of deja vu , but as I already mentioned , it's formula . This movie's focus is on the US Coast Guard , in particular , a select group of highly trained men and women who are the Rescue Swimmers , the folks who actually take the dive from the choppers into the ocean , to approach ships in distress to coordinate the rescue missions . It's a daily risk to their lives , but their mission , their calling , is in putting the lives of others ahead of theirs . Naturally , being the best amongst the best , does make one appear to be cocky . Ben Randall ( Kevin Costner ) is a highly decorated and dedicated rescue swimmer , having set records and being the stuff of legends with his rescue exploits . However , records are nothing , and the job is not to break records but is actually towards the noble cause of saving lives . This , is what rookie Jake Fischer ( Ashton Kutcher ) has to learn , if he is to survive the course , now being taught by Randall . Naturally , the saying of one mountain's inability to house two tigers ring true , as both men , for personal reasons , rub each other the wrong way . The stern instructor versus the proud rookie , with the former having to see a lot of qualities in the latter , with the potential to exceed his expectations , if nurtured the right way . Randall's unorthodox training methods also raises eyebrows , but to his detractors , his methods are to bridge classroom theories and safe practical sessions , with the real thing . Having to learn from the best in the business always is difficult , and underscores the differences in personalities between Randall and Fischer , one already the best , the other wanting to be , and beat the best . However , both men soon find out that they have a lot more in common , in their seeking of redemption . The movie's well paced , with action , romance , noisy training sessions and quiet moments achieving a rare balance of screen time . Again sticking to formula , having relationships that don't really work out , are hallmarks of partners who cannot endure their partner's long absence given the innate preference to answer the never-ending call of duty . Sela Ward and Melissa Sagemiller play the romantic interests Helen Randall and Emily Thomas , adding some female presence to a movie full of testosterone set in water . The soundtrack is also top notch , with Bryan Adams , yet again contributing a song - Never Let Go , to a Costner movie . I've been a Kevin Costner fan since young , having first watched him in the cowboy movie Silverado . I sat through 3 of his three hour long movies in the theatres - his multi-award winning Dances With Wolves , Oliver Stone's JFK , and Lawrence Kasdan's Wyatt Earp . I've enjoyed his action movies like Robin Hood : Prince of Thieves , and even the classic The Untouchables . This movie will mark his attempt to return as a leading man , given softer appearances in Rumor Has It and The Upside of Anger . Ashton Kutcher might be better known for his mad antics in the television series Punk'd , but here , he ditches madcap humour for some serious drama as a Ray-Ban Cruise clone , the record breaking rookie from high school . My first Kutcher movie happened to be The Butterfly Effect , and I thought he brought some of the edginess from that role over here . Despite being a formula movie , I'd recommend it for being one of those rare heroic movies that come out from Hollywood , paying tribute to the uniformed group it's based on . Stay tuned during the end credits for some breathtakingly beautiful scenic helicopter fly-by scenes and historical photographs of the advent of the US Coast Guard , played along to songs from the soundtrack . " Run Me In The Dirt " is fast becoming one of my favourite tunes . " So Others May Live "
Flowers ! If it's one thing you'll take away from this movie , it's gonna be the flowers . They feature so prominently and are used as plot devices , you'll become an expert in identifying with daisies and black tulips by the time the movie ends . Set in Amsterdam , Daisy tells the frustrating love triangle story between 1 girl and the 2 men in her life . One a professional hit-man eking out a living , the other an Interpol agent . Featuring a Pan-Asian cast ( Korean , Hong Kong ) and crew ( director Andrew Lau from Hong Kong , writer from Korea , and a Thai post production team ) , I could imagine the headaches in coordination . Park Yi ( Jung Woo-sung ) is a hit-man who found a soft spot for painter Hye-young ( played by the pretty Jeon Ji-hyun ) . It's love at first sight in the meadows of daisies , where her clumsiness caught his attention . However , being shy and ever mindful of the dangers of his professional career , he can only admire her from afar , do little ( or perhaps big ) things for her in an anonymous fashion , but the one that takes the cake is sending her potted daisies everyday without fail at 4 : 15pm . He becomes her guardian angel from afar , shielding her and keeping her safe from harm . Hye-young is in love with this mysterious stranger . She is constantly waiting for him to appear , but I really wonder how difficult could that be given the almost punctual daisy delivery . Nonetheless , she's terribly moved , and touched by this sole act . However , as the stars would have it , interpol detective Jeong Woo ( Lee Sung-jae ) chances upon Hye-young at a town square during one of his undercover missions , and he too is captivated by her . In a similar fashion , because of his profession , he is doubtful if he should make the first move . Which is where the audience would find it frustrating . The lady obviously would fall for the wrong guy ( then again , it's the " good " guy ) , Park Yi being infuriated by Jeong Woo's pursuit , but yet still refuses to step out and identify himself , and Jeong Woo being the opportunist in grabbing the free anonymous identity unwittingly . It's almost as if you wanna give everyone a slap to wake them all up . That aside , it is precisely this tension that keeps you intrigued . And it is wickedly fun to watch the two male leads finding it tough to fall in love without jeopardizing their careers , or their loved one . But fret not action fans , there are enough cat-and-mouse revelations and unsaid camaraderie in the mould of Infernal Affairs , as well as ample gunfights , although I felt the ending could have been scripted tighter . What rocks is the clever editing . Telling the story in a non-linear timeline ( no worries , it ain't that bad , you'll still be able to follow the narrative ) from the points of view of all the leads , keeping you in suspense , and culminating in a three way split screen showcasing all their emotions in a single converging event , which I thought was extremely well-done . It's a beautiful film in terms of landscapes of lush meadows and busy city squares , with plenty of classical music to sooth the soul . As with romance movies , all the leads are eye candy - the girls will have a field day with the two handsome male leads , while the guys have to make do with a somewhat pudgy-faced ( argh ! OK lah , at certain angles ) Jeon Ji-hyun . If you're into a romance movie with an equal balance in the action / tension department , then Daisy would be your choice . If you prefer a more conventional weepy , then the other Korean movie making its debut here at the same time , You are My Sunshine , would be your alternative . And yes , I totally dig the ending scene , which I thought only the Koreans do it best ? Kinda reminded me of the JSA one .
I had borrowed this DVD countless of times , but somehow it didn't manage to make it to the player , until tonight that is . Starring Robert De Niro and Edward Burns , 15 Minutes take on an extreme look at reality media , where rival stations would chance upon to scoop one another at short notice , for ratings , fame and what have yous , even at the expense of morality . There's an upcoming movie called Untraceable which deals on the voyeuristic nature of modern audiences , but since this is a 2001 movie , exploitative media haven't got from bad to worse , yet , or so I believe . De Niro stars as a top celebrity cop Detective Eddie Flemming , who knows how to milk the media to the force's advantage . Being in the limelight also helps in investigations and cracking cases , because everyone wants an autograph , or to shake hands with someone famous . So it definitely helps in opening doors and breaking down hostilities . And his unofficial partner in this caper is Fire Marshal Jordy Warsaw , played by Edward Burns , whose character is an intriguing one , in that his profession is under the fire department , but has powers belonging to cops as his role is mainly an investigative piece into how fires are started , and if arson is suspected . Together , they form a somewhat mentor-rookie relationship , as Eddie teaches Jordy the 101 on homicide , as they sieve through clues of an incident where a couple is found dead in an apartment , but signs point to murder rather than accidental death by fire . And for the first half of the movie , this partnership actually starts to take their roots into tried and test buddy cop ( well , technically not quite ) movies , where differences are played to strengths , culminating in an exciting ( I realize I seldom use this word nowadays ) chase down the streets of New York , ala Heat , but minus the major firepower . But the movie takes a drastic turn in the second half , as gone are the action or potential action set up , and in comes the dwelling upon issues on everyone's 15 minutes of fame , as mentioned by Andy Warhol . Sometimes you do wonder , through reports , news , basically the media , how criminals can find it so easy to become a celebrity , making those obscene amount of cash through the writing of books or the selling of movie rights . And basically , it boils down to how we as consumers , fuel this kind of supply with demand from our curiosity . And it sure isn't alien too , where the crookedness of lawyers also assist in heaps on the perversion of law , for a cut of the profits , with their tools of the trade such as defense on the plea of insanity , and the double jeopardy clause . But why stop at lawyers when we can also target studio executives and talk show producers , whose exploitative shows feed on the sensational to sell their programme and to generate high ratings . Kelsey Grammar of Frasier fame , plays one such host , whom you'll just love to hate . Look out too for Charlize Theron in a cameo scene , with a brunette bob hairdo . Interesting concepts explored and examined , with relatively interesting villains as well ( one of them an aspiring filmmaker ! ) make 15 Minutes a little more than an ordinary cop thriller . There's a key scene which I can't describe without spoiling it , but suffice to say it does bring out every ounce on tension there is to it , and such moments though were marred slightly by the ending which had a somewhat unnecessary cheesy moment . Still , this will go into my list of recommended movies , especially one that dwells on media issues .
Napola refers to elite military National-Political Schools , set up to train promising young German talents into potential future leaders for the Third Reich - Man makes History , but Napola makes the Man . Set at the peak of Hitler's Nazi regime in 1942 , this film explores the very different lives of two youths enrolled in such a school , and exposes some of the difficult training programme that these youths are put through . Friedrich Weimer graduated as a Hitler youth , and spends time juggling work with boxing . Impressing a talent scout with his boxing skills , he gets recruited into one of the Napola schools , to be trained as an athlete to bring the school glory . Coming from a poor home , he sees this as a chance to bring wealth for this family , although they disagree with his joining the Napola . Albrecht Stein is the son of the governor . What he lacked in the brawn department , he makes up with his gift for the written word , which often goes unappreciated , even with his parents . Two youths from different backgrounds bond together as good friends , as they undergo the tough regimental training the school has to offer . At times , it's like Dead Poet's Society in a WWII German military setting , where they challenge and subtly question the establishment and their methods . Even though the school is made up of a recruited pool of the privileged few , basic evils of man persists , like corruption and jealous rivalry . The different subplots and set action pieces unravel our protagonists ' characters , and we see them develop in depth . From a wide-eyed promising talent , we journey with Friedrich as he slowly comes to terms with evaluating if one should sell out one's beliefs for fame and wealth , blinding the disappointment faced in the system . Albrecht , while meek looking , held on to his ideals , especially after a sad episode in the fields , and when being forced into a corner to renounce this ideal , found untold courage to actually do what he did , at the expense of everything else - friendship , family . Which brings us to question , how many of us , if knowing what's right , will do the right thing , or take the easy way out and turn our backs towards the truth ? We are also exposed to the highly fanatical training methods of the Nazis , of showing no pity , and signs of cowardice are treasonous . Those who've undergone some form of army training will appreciate the nature of military training - from the physical exercises , punishments , and stand-by-bunks , to the bonding of bunk mates and " suffering " under the hands of sadistic superiors . It is no surprise that Napola won various awards for film , acting and direction , It's rich cinematography and haunting soundtrack brings to life Nazi Germany of 1942 , and highlighting the horrors of the training of an elitist school of soldiers and future governors , with its expected training tragedies . This is a movie with powerful themes , with an introspective look at the development of man under difficult fanatical regimes revealed in a moving drama .
It's been a long and almost 3 year wait for the coming of Stephen Chow's new movie CJ7 , on the heels of his international success with Shaolin Soccer and Kung Fu Hustle , both of which were adapted / parodied / copied in the other two competitive movies this holiday season in Kung Fu Dunk and Ah Long Pte Ltd . If imitation is the best form of flattery , that goes to show who's the boss and who calls the shots in the innovation and creativity departments , that there's only one force to be reckoned with in drafting comedy that appeals to the world . You might think that I'm singing praises of Chow and his works , but yes , that's the skyrocket high expectations that he had built for himself over the years with his rapid fire mo-lei-tau ( nonsensical ) comedic movies entertaining the masses pre and post 1997 Hong Kong , and now he can afford to take his time in releasing his movies once they pass through his perfectionist quality control . Sitting through CJ7 , I had initially thought that it was amongst his weaker works , but then came the final act , which while it was emotionally manipulative , I cannot deny that I both laughed and cried at the same time , which is extremely rare , and only pulled off by Chow's knack of structuring his scenes . Chow has shown his pedigree in becoming a good storyteller . If he is not already being considered one , then CJ7 is a sign of better things to come , as slowly , it can be seen that he's giving up his presence on screen , and turning his attention to behind the camera instead . Even with movies like Shaolin Soccer and Kung Fu Hustle , while he was the lead actor , he still made room for his supporting casts to shine through . This time though , he had totally taken the backseat and gave the spotlight to the child actress Xu Jiao who plays Dicky , the son ( yes you read that right ) of Chow's construction worker character Ti . Being poor , Ti works extremely hard to send his son to a premier school to receive a good education , in the hopes that he will be able to break out of the poverty circle in time to come . But in being in an elite school , Dicky becomes automatic fodder for rich school bullies , who look down on him because of his social status . Much of the movie dwells on this schoolyard politicking , and with Ti trying hard to impart good principles to his son that it becomes somewhat repetitive . In trying to pacify his son who yearns for the latest toy in town , a high-tech robotic dog called CJ1 , Ti goes back to his favourite haunt , the junkyard , and picks up a green ball outfitted with an antenna , as a replacement toy . Without his knowing of course , this ball turns out to be an alien lifeform , and Dicky soon uncovers that it has magical abilities . Christened CJ7 , much of the laughs come from CJ7 and Dicky , in the form of spoofs ranging from Mission : Impossible 2 to Asian fare like Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon , and also takes a spin from Chow's previous 2 movies . But don't expect the jokes to be of the mo-lei-tau type , as there aren't that many jokes to begin with . Gone are the days of laugh-a-minute type comedy from Stephen Chow . While toilet humour is still quite staple , Chow seemed to have embraced special effects even more this time , starting with a totally animated CJ7 , which has " cute " plastered all over it , making it a delight amongst the young and the female audience . I tell you , if it's not already available , someone should make the plush toy right now and milk it for all it's worth . Most of the jokes and fun sequences were spruced up by special effects , but there were a moment or two which I felt was quite unnecessary . In most ways , CJ7 isn't really your typical outright comedy . By the end of it , I thought its dramatic moments were tugging at the heartstrings , as I mentioned earlier , and indeed this somehow represents a shift by Chow to a somewhat different territory , building up his movie with comedy being peripheral or secondary to the main plot . There are moments of fun balanced by moments which are touching , episodes of the ridiculous balanced by episodes which made you reflect . And any more which features great songs , get my vote of approval too , with Boney M's Sonny getting plenty of airplay , and I Love Chopin coming on at just the very appropriate moment . However , what is still suspect though , is Chow's ability to weave more flesh into what are essentially flower vase roles in the female characters who play opposite him as love interests . With Shaolin Soccer , Vicky Zhao was unfortunately quite pedestrian , and with Kung Fu Hustle , the scope given to Huang Shengyi was worse . Kitty Zhang continues the trend as good looking teacher Mrs Yuen , who takes pity on Dicky , but nothing more . Having seen all the Lunar New Year movie premieres for this week , I can safely say CJ7 came out tops , because it had a lot more moments in the movie that makes it family friendly entertainment , and yet imparting and giving out reminders of good values that will almost certainly rub off on the young , and the young at heart . Not at his best , but Chow delivers yet another crowd pleaser , for sure . Recommended !
It's easy to dismiss at first glance that Freedom Writers as yet another run off the mill troubled teenage class with an inspirational teacher story where the latter whips the class into shape for graduation with some unorthodox teaching methods . In fact it is , except that it's based on accounts of real persons , and that it's full of heart . Hilary Swank plays the reel life Erin Gruwell , a newbie teacher who goes into class 203 totally wide eyed and full of zest , only to find that her students , the product of the education system's " radical " integration policy , are filled with street smart punks that the other veteran educators wouldn't give a damn about . With most of them involved in street gangs , drive by shootings , violence and such , she's determined to stay on and make a difference to their lives , and in essence , to give them an education . And it's not just education by going through the motions and mechanics of the curriculum , but real life skills and awareness in issues pertaining to their troubled lives - things like racial tolerance , harmony , and even lessons learnt from the largest gangster group in the history of mankind - the Nazis and the horrors of the Holocaust . In fact , it's the re-telling of these stories , featuring real survivors , and including the readings of select chapters in the Diary of Anne Frank , that distinguishes Freedom Writers from its genre peers , as we experience in tandem with the class , the take aways from the museum and field trips . In essence , not only are there struggles for respect within the class , there's also Erin's battle with the bureaucratic system , and the fight back against prejudice she faces from her envious , clearly more experienced , colleagues , who to them , teaching is just a job . I suppose after many years in the same role , people do get jaded once in a while . But to experience someone coming in to make real changes , and to do what is right rather than just to do a job , makes one sit up and evaluate one's own career . I thought Hilary Swank did a commendable job acting her role as the teacher who's willing to involve personal sacrifice to reach out and gain respect from her class , in order to fulfill her objective of getting their attention , and giving them a good education . And the real Erin Gruwell and her Freedom Writers , do deserve some respect in trying to change people's lives for the better . Freedom Writers clocks in just slightly over 2 hours , but it's a delight to sit through as we follow the class and teacher through 2 years of school . Its message is simple , that we often misunderstand people who are different , either through looks , skin colour , family name and background etc , and that often leads to conflicts of various sorts . The road to peace , is naturally to reach out with sincerity , and truly understand the other party . In order words , make love , not war . The pen here , is truly mightier than the sword .
Directed and co-written by Amos Gitai , Free Zone is the first Israeli movie to be shot in Jordan , and was nominated for the Palme d'Or at the 2005 Cannes Film Festival . Without a doubt my interest in watching the film is for the performance of the luminous Natalie Portman at her birthplace , and one which spotted a bit of controversy and ruckus with their filming near the Wailing Wall . But what is essentially my first Israeli film , I was awed by its simplicity yet powerful underlying message within . The film is bookended by the cumulative song Chad Gadya which grows on you with each passing minute , but yet watching Natalie Portman's Rebecca crying uncontrollably for more than 5 minutes , somehow just breaks your heart , and you start to wonder why so . We find out later that the American had broken off with her boyfriend Julio ( Aki Avni ) and is now sitting in a cab she boarded , without a destination to go to in a city not of her own , and begets the driver , Hanna Ben Moshe ( Hana Laszlo , in an excellent performance which was to win her the Best Actress Award at the 2005 Cannes Film Festival ) to take her anywhere . Hanna grudgingly agrees despite having a personal errant to run in Jordan , and brings her along for a ride . Like a road trip , the cinematography presents the film in 2 distinct ways , one as if you're an invisible passenger on the same journey with the ladies , ever present in the passenger seat , with point of views centered from within and around the vehicle they're in . The other view , as Rebecca puts it , is that it's " amazing to see things you read in the books " . We explore the scenery from Tel Aviv to Amman , in this road trip , and always for those ( like me ) who have yet to visit both countries , allows for a documentary styled eye-opener like a travelogue for sight and sound . Uniquely , instead of being satisfied with just showing endless roads and paths , we get compressed time with a double exposure and superimposition of the back - stories of both Rebecca and Hanna , and learn of the objective of the latter in this journey to seek someone to recover bad debts to the tune of US$30 , 000 . Being set in the Middle East also brings to mind the volatility of the security environment and peace agreements in place between the Israelis and Arabs . Issues such as those at the border depicted in the film reflects that clear and present tension that security personnel grapple with everyday , as did the radio announcements made over the impending and credible intelligence of threats . When crossed over to Jordan and meeting up with Leila ( Hiam Abbass ) , we sense a deep mistrust between the characters , even though it stemmed from the root of all evil - money . That aside , the movie did take ample time off to provide a candid observation of common folk on both sides of the border , highlighting their plight to earn a living , and the tenacity and will of villagers who rebuild their lives ordeal after ordeal . Theirs is never to give up . But I thought the payload came from the very assured direction of Gitai , with a succinct depiction of the uneasy tripartite relationship between the Arabs , Israelis and the Americans , as represented by the respective characters in their dealings with one another . Sure they bond over cigarettes , music and a common goal in their road trip back to Israel , but under this short term peaceful existence you still cannot shake off that aged old deep rooted mistrust , as it manifested itself toward the end and really got blown way out of proportion , dragging it out . I felt it mirrored the challenges for long term peace , and that comes probably only as a result of a profound , sincere and genuine understanding of cultures cutting both ways , as Leila casually remarked starting with the learning of the Arabic and Hebrew languages . And the most interesting note would be that of Rebecca's insistence to tag along Hanna and get herself embroiled in the feud between both sides , only to find herself running away when the going gets hot , either from a lack of patience , or having absolutely no clue and surrendering from trying to seek a workable peace process for all . Deceptively simple , with a powerful underlying message . And the wonderful performances by the ensemble team of actresses , made this all the more worthwhile to sit through .
When you're in your twenties , you feel invincible . Fresh out of school , and with a world of opportunities ahead of you , the general feeling is that nothing can go wrong . At least that's how I felt . And so far , nothing drastic has knocked me off my feet , or grounded my perceived progress to a halt . That is , until you hit the big three-oh , and start wondering about a whole host of issues , like what you're going to do with your life , are you going to settle down with that someone special if he / she exists , and essentially , what the heck happened in the last 10 years which seem to just whizz by , as if the decade just passed by without any significant milestones . And the male characters in The Last Kiss , are about the same age as I am , and in this story , they take a long hard look and evaluate heir circumstances , albeit all from a relationship point of view . Adapted from a Spanish movie L'ultimo Bacio with a screenplay by Paul Haggis ( who also wrote the screenplays for Casino Royale and Flags of Our Fathers now out in theatres ) , The Last Kiss stars Zach Braff as Michael , our guy who's stuck at the crossroads of his life . Everything's fine and dandy , great job , hybrid car , and living in with his pregnant girlfriend Jenna ( Jacinda Barrett ) . However , that contemplation of life , of what's next , and his disbelief about marriage , has forced him to seriously think about the future . He's unsure , and in his vulnerable state , gets very tempted by a younger , beautiful girl , Kim ( Rachel Bilson ) when she throws herself at him . Yes , Rachel Bilson from TV's OC has followed in the footsteps of fellow OC hot babe Mischa Barton , playing yet another sweet nubile temptation in their big screen debut ( Barton did her tour in The Oh in Ohio ) . As the seductress , her character totally loses herself in the company of Michael , and feminists in the audience would roll their eyes and find it hard pressed to find a valid reason to fall for that cad Michael , who is definitely tempted and should have stuck to his guns . Although the spotlight is definitely centered on this story arc , there are a few others which focus on Michael's friends , all hitting their 30s , and each facing dilemmas in their own right . Chris ( Casey Affleck ) is not getting along with his wife , who's high strung from taking care of their kid , Izzy ( Michael Weston ) cannot get over his ex girlfriend , and is actually an obsessive wuss , upset at her ability to move on so easily , and Eric Christian Olsen as Kenny the hipster player who's totally non-committal . Interactions between the guys are limited though , and each potential short story arc brings forth potential unexplored in full . But perhaps we have to leave it to the older folk to shed some light in this movie . Blythe Danner and Tom Wilkinson somehow light up the screen with their chemistry , as two elderly married couple who are at odds with each other , because of the lack of some tender loving affection showered upon the other . Harold Ramis makes a surprise appearance , and he's almost ballooned to twice the size since his lean Ghostbusters days . I'd actually thought I could easily identify with the broad issues faced by the host of characters here , but given it's focus just on relationships , it was a little below expectations . Nonetheless , it's one movie whose themes do set you thinking , especially about the touchy issue on fidelity ( hence , who's the recipient of your very last kiss ? ) , and even then it doesn't end by making any bold statements , but it chose to sit on the fence .
With Extinction , the Resident Evil franchise perhaps have made its mark as the most enduring computer game turned movie to date . Most of such movies usually make for cheesy lazy weekend entertainment , little in depth but filled with plenty of set action pieces , which for the most parts are nothing groundbreaking . But what this franchise has to credit for its longevity , is Milla Jovovich . OK , so she has made mostly mediocre movies of late ( I sense some fanboys will get me for this , but let me put it straight , I'm a fan of hers too ) , especially with the lacklustre Ultraviolet , and the really showy . 45 . If not best remembered for her role as Leeloo in Luc Besson's The Fifth Element ( still credited in my books as the ONLY film I watched with having zero prior knowledge on anything about it ) , then it'll be for her role as Alice , the zombie butt kicking superbeing whose blood holds the key to a reversal of the effects of the T-virus engineered by the evil Umbrella Corporation . The premise here is similar to that of 28 Days / Weeks Later , where the virus is now out of control , and mutates humans into flesh chomping zombies , spreading mayhem worldwide . Human survivors are few and far between , and where we left off from Apocalypse , Alice is now travelling the world alone , seeking refuge and peace , while evading Umbrella's gunsights . It presumably takes place a significant amount of time after the predecessor , given that Jill Valentine ( Sienna Guillory ) doesn't return for this , keeping the doors open for either an unlikely spin off , or a revisit into the gap in timeline should Guillory sign on the dotted line . But I guess as Juvovich fans , we don't really care , do we ? So long as we get to see our heroine in action , we're satisfied , whether she's causing misery to her opponents from her twin handguns , double Kukri knives or just her incredibly toned limbs , we're rooting for her all the way , dressed in garb personally designed by Juvovich herself , which provides for both form and functionality . The trend of casting pretty women to pair with her continues , with the first movie having Michelle Rodriguez , the second with Guillory , and now , Heroes ' Ali Larter and Spencer Locke join the fray . However , they are relegated to more pedestrian roles as compared to previous partners , so don't be expecting much from them , especially for fans of Larter . The story can be no more simpler than Alice serving as a messiah for a small convoy of survivors headed by Larter's Claire , delivering them a message to journey to the promised land in Alaska . But of course the road to Peace and No Infection is plagued by challenges which culminates in a big battle in Las Vegas , where the trailers have teased with the entire city being semi-buried in sand . And like a video game , all levels will lead to their respective Big Boss to do battle with , and Extinction doesn't evade that formula too . Watching Alice grow in power , provides a lot of kick in some of the cool things she can do , enhanced with special effects of course . Don't expect the franchise to slam the door of opportunity shut on itself . By the look of things , we might even see a fourth movie coming up in perhaps two or three years time ( the interval between the movies thus far ) . Expect plenty of blood and gore as our heroes cut through ugly zombies like hot knife through butter , and none other does it more balletic and graceful than Milla Juvovich . You go , girl !
The plight of innocent victims of human trafficking for sex has moved filmmakers enough to make movies addressing the issue . The last two in recent memory that I've watch are Your Name is Justine , and Lilya-4ever , both which put the spotlight specifically on the characters created , highlighting the abuse they receive and exposing some of the tricks that the conmen exploit in order to target and thereafter control their prey . Given that the viewpoint of the entire unfortunate ordeal from the perspective of the victims have been portrayed , and is easy and turning the same wheel if done again , Trade takes on a more macroscopic look , while still maintaining a finger in a more personalized tale , in order to ramp up the human drama and emotions . While the other two movies mentioned take place primarily in Europe , Trade highlights a more international network involved in the supply chain , where increasing amounts of money get exchanged for women and children to feed the demand by perverts and paedophiles . While having its premise for the demand set in USA , it goes to show that the unfortunate victims come from all over the world , and suggests the use of Mexico as the proxy to get into the USA illegally , no doubt with the help of corrupted authorities . From then on , it's an established hush-hush protocol of transfers and transactions that take place in the most unseeming of places , and naturally technology comes to play in anonymous bidding on the internet . Primarily , this story is a race against time , following a young Mexican boy , Jorge ( Cesar Raoms ) , in his chase to rescue his sister Adriana ( Paulina Gaitan ) as she gets abducted randomly off the streets - being a young child , she is set to obtain record prices should she be auctioned off to be deflowered . While Adriana gets to enter USA through already established methods by the syndicate , Jorge has to rely on his street smarts , and unwittingly gets hooked up with US cop Ray Sheridan , played by Kevin Kline , who assists in Jorge's quest under moral circumstances rather than deporting Jorge straightaway for being a stray . Like a buddy cop movie , Trade also looks at the unlikely partnership between street delinquent and tough nose cop with the heart of gold , as they try and penetrate the system , while leaving room for some clash of cultures and slightly comedic instances . The unfortunate circumstance of the victims are again getting a shiner in order to be subdued , and of course the weapon of choice , rape . And the movie results in you silently cursing the worst for those involved in the trade , and never sympathizing an iota with them when they receive their dues . Technical wise , someone should tell the filmmakers that password fields are always asterisk , never in clear text , even the dumbest website programmer won't make that mistake . One of my other peeves here was the decision not to mount the camera on a tripod . While it's not the extreme kind of shaky cam like Cloverfield's , it did bring on some queasiness given the very minor movements , all of the time . I don't see the need for this , and wondered if it's because it might look cool and edgy with the fast cuts and all that the tripod was junked , wrongly . Based on a New York Times Magazine article published on 25 Jan 2004 written by Peter Landesman , Trade offers to strike a balance between painting a picture of sympathy for the victims and disgust for the perpetrators . Unlike the other movies which has come before , Trade managed to spin a somewhat refreshing look at the worldwide sex slavery problem .
The movie's tagline says " Let's talk about sex " . And it really does - talk . This is the other bioepic that opens this week in Singapore's shores ( besides The Aviator ) , and it presents to you the life of Dr Kinsey , sex researcher , well , not by chance . Starting off as a zoologist with intense and devoted research on gull wasps , he discovers a necessity to research on sex , sparked by his own ineptness towards making love for the very first time with his virgin wife . As with all research , you need a sample population size to theorize . Collecting gull wasps is must simpler than getting people to reveal their innermost secrets and fantasies , as he painfully discovers . So there lies the opening of the movie , which showcases the methods of questioning he uses to get people to open up and talk about their sex lives . This is perhaps one of the highlights of the movie . And as with all research , you might need to dabble into the queer and the untrodden path . Here , we see him engaging in homosexual love , and in the name of science , unenthusiastically allowing his wife to sleep with his pet student ( hey , he must be impartial and objective to his research ) , and fellow staff members to have sex with others ' wives , and get it on film to be analysed ! Impartiality and objectivity in research also takes centrestage - we're humans after all , with sets of morals that differ from person to person . How much " deviant " practices can one sit through when delving into other's intimate secrets ? In one particular interview , the interviewee boasts to having committed incest , bestiality , etc ! This film charts the rise ( a topic that's " new " , never talked about so openly , hence gaining Dr Kinsey fame ) , to the fall ( societal backlash from challenging normal sexual conventions , mostly from popular nonacceptance and denying the truth about what's happening around society ) of Kinsey's research , and through it , shows that when society's morals and conduct comes under the spotlight , not everyone can accept scientific findings with an open mind - ignorance may be bliss . This movie is stripped of erotica , so anyone who thinks they might have a field day with sex on cellulite ought to think twice . Watch it from a scientific point of view , and you'll enjoy the show tremendously .
The immense popularity of wildlife documentaries once reserved for National Geographic or the Discovery Channels have made their way to the big screen , in no doubt having their path cleared by the success of March of the Penguins . Of late , the foxes got the spotlight in a more fictional take with The Fox and the Child , and now , the Japanese jumps on the same bandwagon by making an animal documentary but on the Chinese's iconic panda bear , with the Chinese being co-producers of course to avoid similar protests of lamentation over Hollywood's Kung Fu Panda , and having it shot in China's Great Panda research facility in Sichuan would be a collaboration of sorts . What makes a successful documentary of such nature ( pardon the pun ) ? I guess the prime ingredient here will definitely have to be the young ones . You must always have cute babies , and how adorable they are will proportionately affect how audiences will take to the film . The baby penguins made March of the Penguins , and so did the baby Fox . Here , we get baby pandas while they're still slightly pinkish , and the rolly-polly one year olds who roll around the nature reserve , in chase of the camera . Panda Diary follows the more conventional model like March rather than to have a total fictional narrative spun on it like Fox . And as the title already suggests , the narrative here follows a month by month account from August to August where we have two threads before they converge together . The first focuses on two pandas who had lived their known life in a Japanese theme park , before being repatriated back to China for further assimilation with their own kind , as well as to support efforts in having the pandas breed through environments set up for it . The other thread of course is the day to day operations within the research facility , where we see how they are coaxed into mating - the researchers being very much like voyeurs in a way , their dietary habits and immense liking for bamboo shoots , and how efforts are made into trying to preserve their wildlife habitat as far as possible . The pandas are solitary by nature , and they need to be given plenty of space , which of course is only a luxury these days . There were a couple of scenes where they had to be caged ( for transportation purposes ) and you can tell the bears are very much uncomfortable and distressed by it . As an educational tool , you can get to learn a lot more about the Pandas in 100 minutes , such as how they contribute to their own dwindling numbers where they mate only once a year ( miss the boat and it's another 365 days of waiting ) and usually give birth to twins , where they would only nurture one of them and leave the other for naught . Naturally in the research facility some manipulation is done to ensure both babies get raised with equal attention and resource , and there are a lot more nuggets of information like these that will simply amaze you . Why wait for Panda diplomacy in order to get up close and personal with these likable cuddly creatures ? The film offers an opportunity not to be missed , so if you like to know more about the fact behind the fictional Kung Fu Panda ( no , they don't do Kung Fu though they have tremendous strength ) , then this documentary would be right up your alley to understand more about this endangered species .
F . ' s World Premiere at the Goethe Institut opened the Free Programme , and the SIFF itself . As Philip Cheah puts it , there's a significance to this 60 minute documentary opening the festival , as the film's subject Toh Hai Leong has for many years , saw himself as the local flipside to Rainer Werner Fassbinder , whose movies will be screened for free at this year's SIFF at the Goethe Institut . And no doubt , gathered around for this event , were many recognizable folks involved in the local film industry , from Eric Khoo to Ben Slater . I first came to know of Toh Hai Leong through his mockumentary Zombie Dogs , which I saw almost two years ago during the Screen Singapore Festival , and I thought , this is a very peculiar director . In person , I've seen him a couple of times at various screenings , but never mustered the courage to speak with him . I thought he was a little eccentric , but one who never minces his words , and you'll know he's in the house for that unmistakable baritone voice booming from across a screening hall , sharing insights be it to film , or current affairs . Over time I've learnt that he was once a film critic , and was the secretary of the Singapore Film Society ( SFS ) . And this documentary essentially provided a broad outline to Toh's life , and focused on the recent stage where he fought with Type 2 diabetes . Director Chew Tze Chuan had introduced the documentary as not the final cut he had in mind , but close , and there is nothing too sophisticated about the technical aspects used for this documentary , in what's basically a homage , and tribute to a man who's a walking encyclopedia , and whose career had seen him become a librarian , film buff , film critic , director , flea market operator , and even a food center cleaner ! Through interviews with Ben Slater , Yuni Hadi , Kenneth Tan , Wee Li Lin , Wong Lung Hsiang and more , we come to learn different facets of Toh , and how he had in his unique ways , influenced and left deep impressions , from simple and little gestures , to passionate action and dedication he has for his craft , and especially during his days as the secretary of SFS , and all the while staying humble to his achievements . In what I thought was lacking , were more in-depth exploration into what made Toh tick , though there was a very casual fleeting moment where he discusses his love life . But what Chew managed to capture vividly was one man's harrowing descent into losing the will to fight the disease he's inflicted with , and I unabashedly say I was indeed shocked to see how Toh was reduced to skin and bones ( almost like a POW ) , and how he had to bear with the symptoms of the disease , including uncontrollable bladder movements . I'm glad to say that Toh is on the road to recovery , and has put on weight ( and hair too ! ) when he appeared before the audience to share a few words . The flow of the documentary is easy to follow , with the usual talking heads introducing Toh at various stages of his life . And for those who have not seen his directorial effort Zombie Dogs , you'll get to see snippets of the movie in F . too . And I thought Toh , despite his illness , had not lost an iota of his acerbic wit , bringing memories of his verbal barrage ability when he rattles on subjects that touch close to his heart . Played to a packed theaterette ( there were people standing along the sides , and sitting on the floor ) , do watch this documentary if you're curious to know about an enigma in the local film scene . You'll probably come away with a better understanding , and take away for a fact that life is fragile , and to make the best out of it .
Blame it on its many teeth , giving it a perception that it can cut through flesh and bone . And no thanks to movies like Jaws , which has set that perception in stone that sharks are extremely dangerous creatures that have one mission , and that's to eradicate human swimmers from the sea . How do you try and convince what is generally " accepted truths " by the masses ? You go at it small , with persistence , that fire in the belly to fuel your crusade in re-educating the masses , and the best example being yourself taking the plunge to try and set things right , one step at a time . That's what Rob Stewart did , in trying to change the incorrect mindsets we have of sharks , by demonstrating to us how they are actually more afraid of us , and making a documentary film out of it to spread the good message . Don't let the poster fool you into thinking it's a fictional , narrative film . It's a documentary , and like most documentaries , it has an agenda to cover . Here , Stewart's agenda is simple , to talk about shark conservation , and the importance of the ocean ecosystem . Yes , it's a myriad of topics that can spiral out of control , but strangely enough , the key points are all presented in a compelling manner , against very beautiful underwater images of marine life , the very life he is seeking , on the bigger picture , to try and save . Naturally , one doesn't talk about saving the sharks without touching on the demand side of things , and that is the perceived value of a delicacy called the Shark's Fin Soup , which is a staple in any self-respecting Chinese restaurant . While the usual illegal poaching through long lining and footage of skinning are aimed to shock an audience into the cruelty of the way the sharks are destroyed , the biggest impact made here are the frivolous statements given by the chairman of a prominent brand of canned shark's fin soup . You will definitely chuckle at his arguments , or the lack thereof in the intelligence department , as he's made to look quite animated , and not in good light , deliberately of course . Some might feel that the movie did seem a little like an ego-trip for Rob Stewart , with himself being featured quite prominently in many scenes , but I thought it's a given because it is a trip along a journey he's bringing us , and that's why we see some of the inherent risks involved in the many conservationists efforts as they go out to try and stop , with limited budget and resources , the perennial problem of trying to stem out the supply side of things . Naturally , it's never easy with the illegal trade , as shady corporations , characters and corrupt governments are almost always involved , because that's how the activity can thrive , and it boils down to obscene amount of profits to be made by all parties . Through documentaries that touch on current hot topics involving the environment , it's hard to tell how effective they can be . I guess a good measure if how convinced you are to the cause , and from the documentary , try to reinforce the message yourself to your peers . Simple actions done by a few , can go a long way , and I guess the simplest of ways is to start from yourself . An Inconvenient Truth has made me more diligent in electricity utilization , and now Sharkwater has convinced me to layoff the shark's fin soup , whether they come in cans , or presented in wedding dinners . I have a choice , and I choose not to consume it . You might laugh at the futility of my actions , or want to take my share , but go ahead please , as I'm exercising my choice , a choice which you have too . Watch Sharkwater . You might be convinced by the arguments for the cause too . If not , it's still an educational trip in learning more about sharks and the ocean ecosystem , with a stark warning not to tamper with the natural order of Mother Nature . Highly recommended , naturally .
The first time director Ridley Scott and actor Russell Crowe paired together , they made the award winning Gladiator , and perhaps surprised folks that a mainstream action movie could snag the best picture Oscar . Here , they come together again for a pretty feel good movie , but I don't expect that this would win any major honours . Not that it's a bad film , but it's quite vanilla plain , that you could guess every other step of how the narrative and plot will unfold . Based on a book by Peter Mayle , A Good Year has plenty of life references to wine and vineyards , made as a comparison and reminder on how to live life . It's quite unlike Sideways , which was more of a road trip movie and had its plot revolve around wine . A Good Year has its revolve around an arse hole of a character , Maximillian Skinner ( Russell Crowe ) , the successful bond trader everyone loves to hate , given his ruthless knack on the trading bourses , and making loads of obscene money . So he learns that he had inherited a château in France , the same one he had spent his childhood ( little Max played by Freddie Highmore ) summer holidays in with his Uncle Henry ( Albert Finney ) , but instead the first thing that crosses his mind is , how much is it worth should he sell it ? It's a look at how you want to live life , making loads of money versus living it out with plenty of heart , and love . Love for the people who once made a difference to your life , and love and appreciation of life itself . Time to stop and smell the roses , versus the corporate rat race filled with backstabbing and office politics . And naturally when finding out about oneself , a look back at one's roots will always be a good way to start . There are a number of sub plots weaved into the movie , like the sudden appearance of a possible illegitimate cousin , Christie ( Abbie Cornish ) , who could complicate matters of inheritance , of the opposition of resident vineyard caretaker Francis ( Didier Bourdon ) , and of course , romance in the form of a feisty French woman Fanny ( Marion Cotillard ) , amongst others . There's also a bit about the different wine standards thrown in , which serves only to confuse , rudimentarily . There's a ring of familiarity to these characters , and at a glance , you would probably be able to guess the parts they play to develop the story , as do the little nagging business bits in the movie , but by making all these threads come together , and certain plot devices as well , only served to deliver up to expectations in an all's well that ends well . Some random thoughts - I loved the song by Alizee used in the movie , and quite surprised that it actually made it other than just be featured in the trailer . The movie also turned out to be quite the technological showcase , at least in the beginning , accompanying Max's progressive change . You have GPS , and almost an ad feel to Max's use of his PDA phone for calls , photo taking , the whole works . And if you think Crowe's outfits looked snazzy , yes , he's outfitted by Armani . The very first time I took notice of Russell Crowe , was when he played the villain in Virtuosity . Back then I thought that the guy had something going for him . And I've been convinced , having watched his last 6 movies , that he's a pretty fine actor , though his buffed and gruff demeanour had the tabloids highlighting his every shenanigan . Albert Finney and Freddie Highmore make a good pairing as well , given their limited screen time as the Uncle and his young nephew spending summer together . And don't get me started on the eye candy , who , well , remain eye candy for the most parts . A Good Year runs on an even keel , and feels light by the time it ends . Let's hope the next collaboration between Scott and Crowe in American Gangster , with the addition of Denzel Washington ( who played opposite Crowe in Virtuosity ) , will be something more explosive . " Winning's not everything , it's the only thing ! " - Maximillian Skinner
I've never been under general anesthesia before , not that I want to , but I guess without first hand experience , one can only imagine what it would be like to be somewhat unconscious while your body's at the mercy of surgeons who are responsible in cutting you up and putting you back properly . I guess we've all heard of our fair share of horror stories with miscellaneous surgical tools being left inside our bodies , and one thing's for sure , I'll be pretty much scared shitless if I have to go anesthesia for a major body repair too . I usually have a general distrust of the doctors , especially those who have to peer , poke and prod within you , because one wrong move or diagnosis , and you're in for some pretty troubled lifestyle for a long time . If Awake reminds us of anything , that'll be to choose your doctors wisely . Even though they are your friends , should they have dubious abilities and worse , bad credentials , references and have lawsuits to settle arising from malpractice , take it as a sign to run away , fast . It's nothing personal , just professional , since it's your life at stake , not theirs . So don't be stubborn , and engage the best possible surgeon you can afford . And perhaps mothers know best too . Lena Olin stars as Lilith Beresford , the mother of billionaire scion Clay Beresford ( Hayden Christensen ) . Being the overly protective and domineering single parent in his life , Clay finds it hard to connect with her , much lest trying to break the news that her employee Samantha ( Jessica Alba ) is the woman that he's been dating and going to marry . But of course , he's faced with a disease that requires a heart transplant , having the stars play games with him too for being of the rare O - blood type . When a donor becomes available and he's strapped to the operating table by Dr Jack Harper ( Terrence Howard ) , here's where the titular condition kicks in , describing how a certain percentage of patients actually stay conscious throughout the whole process of surgery . I would really hate it to be in his shoes when your chest get opened up from scalpel to drill , or worse , having the skull opened to get to the brain . This movie earned its rating for blood curling in-your-face surgical sequence , but other than that , it runs in a pretty breezy fashion , clocking under 90 minutes to weave a tight medical thriller . I must say I came in with low expectations , and came out quite surprised at the twists put into the story , which is not really contrived and forced to make the whole thing work . The clues are there all the while for an attentive audience to pick up along the way , and when you do , you'll probably still smile when it gets delivered and confirms your suspicions . Awake is very bleak on its take on love however , what with in sickness and in health , for better or worse . It tells you to look carefully , beneath beautiful facades to try and peer into a person's character , which frankly can be hidden quite easiy until it is too late . Christensen didn't have much to do since the crucial scenes all involve his voice over narration in an out of conscious body experience , emphasizing his shock , disappointment and discovery of what's actually transpiring in conversation with the doctors . And it's definitely not something anyone wants to hear at all , and the sequence of being overcome by anesthesia , is worth the ticket price .
To me , this is not a movie about finding out what the issue at hand is , or trying to crack the mystery behind the phenomenon , or even about figuring out what the twist , if any , would be . It's a story about communication , how we , in today's context , are so reliant on mass media delivering every bit of incident deemed newsworthy , and providing that amped up " insights " to send us to paranoia . If you notice of late , we have been bombarded with crisis after crisis , or could it really be instead , the flavour of the moment that the mass media drums up ? Avian Flu ? Food Crisis ? Fuel Crisis ? Business Continuity ? Terrorism ? The list goes on , with news editors determining what to drum up , and where to send everyone crying out that the sky is falling . The Happening does just that , as we see newsflash after newsflash providing speculation after speculation that everyone listens , and accedes to . But it's not just the mass media alone , but the story also puts the spotlight on how reliant we are on our mobile devices , so much so that they actually have already become second nature to us . If we want to talk to someone , we pick up the phone , or we text the person . Gone is the value of face to face communications , as we talk to one another through an electronic device and medium . And we all know what happens to these wireless gadgets come a crisis , when base stations get knocked out , and we feel incapacitated , and so alone . And the rare occasion when our little island experiences unexpected power brownouts and we lose connectivity , we go into fits and strangely enough , feel at a loss at what to do next ? We are creatures who must talk to one another , otherwise I guess we'll go insane , and not everyone's cut out to be a hermit living alone , making that informed decision choosing to be cut off from the outside world and be self-sufficient . Perhaps that's why isolation has been designed as punishment , and one probably might go a little bit cranky , losing social skills . Just like how the prominent old lady in The Happening become overly suspicious of every wee thing that doesn't go her way . Shyamalan gave us probably the weakest protagonist in his tales to date . We are familiar with Mark Wahlberg in his many alpha-male action roles , like those in The Italian Job remake , or his sharpshooter Sniper . Here , his Elliot is a school science teacher who's the most clueless amongst all clueless characters in Shyamalan's fictional worlds . He absolutely , like the audience , has no idea what's going on , has no plan , and doesn't hesitate to tell everyone just that , exhibiting some classic deer-caught-in-the-headlights look with wide eyes and flared nostrils . Even Keanu Reeves pale in comparison to what Wahlberg managed to do here . Zooey Deschanel's Alma too plays Elliot's just as clueless wife , only that she's harbouring a secret that you can decipher the minute it gets suggested on screen . Throughout the movie , husband and wife has to sort of issues as the clock ticks down to doomsday , and just like The Incredible Hulk , this little love story slowly grew in importance . And to pre-empt those who would dislike the movie , you're likely to find fault with the distinct lack of scares - OK , there's really one jump-from-your-seat moment , and various other scenes with an unflinching camera in the many faces of death - and the exclamation of " you mean that's it ? " The build up is masterfully done , though the ending might be a little bit abrupt and I suspect there might be some cutting of corners which might find their way to the DVD . Forget the fact that The Happening had to undergo some massive rewrites by Shyamalan for it to be accepted by the studios . Forget that this movie contains elements of suggestion that it's eco-warfare and Mother Nature is fighting back with results as significant as that we've already seen and experienced , with unbearable temperatures and disasters of large magnitudes . Like movies such as The Mist , while it's about the great unknown , it also serves as a warning that one day , just one day , we might be faced with questions we have no answers to , and to compound the problem , we're no longer collaborating and communicating effectively to work toward a solution . And that is a scary thought indeed .
If I may be able to conjure up conspiracy theories of my own , then I will attempt to hypothesis how National Treasure came about to debut on the big screen , based on opportunities which presented itself at the right time . First , the popularity of Dan Brown's controversial The Da Vinci Code , which was made into a movie of its own , but took a tad too long in doing so . Topping the bestseller charts around the world , it made Hollywood execs sit up and realize that wild goose chases and solving riddles and clues do make an interesting , workable formula . Coupled by the fact that the Indiana Jones trilogy ( at the time ) probably will not have another sequel see the light of day , then the onus is on crafting a tale based on controversies , with Indy Jones tendencies , and chances are a new winner will be born . Hence , National Treasure in the year end of 2004 , which made a decent dent in the box office , starring Nicolas Cage as an Indy like clone Benjamin Gates , embroiled in a mystery of the Templar's treasure , with sidekick Riley Poole ( Justin Bartha ) as the tech wizard necessary to assist him , while at the same time romancing Abigail Chase ( Diane Kruger ) , who joins his band of treasure seekers against her wishes . The Indy references don't just stop here , they extend to having a Henry Jones resemblance in Jon Voight as dad Patrick Gates . If you were to deck Cage in a fedora , whip and gun , the references will be just too blatant . But let's not get ahead of ourselves . The important question is , is the sequel Book of Secrets as good as , or can be accredited with the rare accolade of being better than the original ? Well , in all honesty it's still an entertaining ride , as this time we go around the world ( OK , so perhaps just Paris and London ) , versus the original story being US-centric . However , like the first installment , the material , clues and riddles are still quite US history heavy , so if you're well versed with certain characters ( brought to life early in the movie ) or events ( thanks to paying attention during history lessons ) , then yes , Book of Secrets will give you an additional boost in being able to identify with it . Otherwise , don't fret , as the casual movie goer with popcorn in hand will definitely not feel lost . The narrative and plot still feel a little staged and rigged for convenience ( and run time of course ) , as one event will inevitably lead to the next and to the inevitable ending ( like how CSI solves crime within 45 minutes sans ads ) , but they're still a lot of fun watching how the characters go through the motion in believing that they're onto something really big . While the first had a lot of puzzles to solve , which kept some of us guessing and playing along as well , this time round the number of riddles have been reduced significantly , and signs of Mission : Impossible creeping in as our band of treasure hunters seek to perform the impossible , pertaining to levels of security guarding their mark . In an excuse to make the sequel , we have Ben Gates and GATESENIOR reuniting to clear the good name of their ancestor , who's recently accused of being a co-conspirator , or even mastermind , behind the assassination of US President Abramham Lincoln . And of course , help comes in the form of Abigail , who's now estranged from Gates , trusty tech sidekick with the complementary witty lines Riley ( and his red Ferarri ) , and now joined by Ben's mom Emily Appleton , played by Helen Mirren , who's in the movie to contrast her relationship with Patrick to that between Ben and Abigail . However , we're not really interested in whimsical attempts to add depth to characters , are we ? Sure they have their issues with one another , and with Ed Harris ' Mitch Wilkinson being the token and very bland bad guy wanting to make his mark on history , the focus more often than not is to shift to the next big stunt / chase sequence . Like the first movie , one of the highlights touted in the trailer involves the art of balancing , which unfortunately , was already done in the first movie . Don't you just hate repeated stunts ? And toward the end , I can't help but to compare it to Jackie Chan's The Myth , which in itself was somewhat of a treasure - hunter movie , involving the elixir of life ( We're still stuck with gold here though ) . And add to that Harvey Keitel's FBI agent Sadusky , the office of the most powerful man in the world , and teases from the Book of Secrets , we've got ourselves a handful being squeezed within 2 hours . Not to forget Nicolas Cage's absolutely horrendous haircut , the final verdict is that it's a fairly decent year end blockbuster which primed itself for yet another sequel , courtesy of page 47 of the titular book , if the box office numbers prove favourable .
Biopics work for me because I'm innately curious about that aspect of a person's life which makes it compelling enough for others to want to make a film out of it . This film by Gus Van Sant tells the story of California's first openly gay elected official Harrvey Milk over the span of the last 8 and definitely more fruitful years of his life where he discovers his calling ironically after confessing to a lover that he had so far not done anything constructive with his , and then with their subsequent move to San Franscisco . Milk is one of the films this year up for a number of accolades , more notably for Sean Penn's nuanced performance as Harvey Milk . I thought he had , with the help of make up , totally disappeared into the role , and gave it his all as the soft spoken , and idealistic political rookie who had to take on the big boys , as well as deep rooted bigotry and prejudice . And not only that , he has to contend with keeping his partner Scott Smith ( James Franco ) emotionally satisfied , since it's no longer a private world of their own , but one which faced the tussle of precious time as he finds it his calling to take up political office . I felt that while Franco has to date played plenty of pretty boy action roles , here he ramps up his dramatic performance opposite veteran Sean Penn , and managed to hold his own too . Not only that , the ensemble cast here had been top notch , and that's not only just kudos to the make up team in having them resemble their real life counterparts to a T . Josh Brolin as Dan White always had this unpredictable edge to him , and his involvement in the inevitable finale was nothing short of chilling to witness . Emile Hirsch as Cleve Jones plays one of Harvey's key assistants , and his role here was quite endearing , despite being only in a supporting capacity . Watching this film , you can't help but to appreciate just how long the USA took to change its perception and acceptance of the GLBT community . It takes relentless , continuous effort to effect change from within the political system through a very charismatic personality supported by his own grassroots . As the saying goes , change is the only constant and is inevitable , and one of the strategies undertaken here was to come out of the closet , so that friends and family could demolish the stigma of demonizing those who are queer and come to accept them , since after all , they could be immediate friends and family . This I thought was a smart move since it almost does away with negative perception and destructive assumptions , though it calls for a very stout heart for anyone to reveal who they truly are . Gus Van Sant had wonderfully mixed the filmed narrative with real archival footages to add that sense of realism to this biopic . He doesn't paint that pitch perfect portrait of Harvey Milk , and provided a sense of balance in that it does take whatever method that works to try and drum up support for their movement . Which I thought had echoed that plenty of successful ideologies thrive , not because what persists is that charismatic representative , but that of the doctrine that people subscribe to . And collectively and persistently , change can be effected . There's nothing too fancy about the way Harvey Milk's life got presented here , but it delivered where it mattered in having a solid narrative to illustrate the life of a man who's in pursuit to eradicate negative mindsets and the deeply harboured prejudice of man . The homosexual subject matter may be central here to the cause , but put aside , the same struggles and challenges to overcome are universal conditions that everyone will go through at one point or another . A highly recommended movie .
Many have lauded The Mission as a classic , and I don't deny that . However , as the unofficially loose precursor to Johnnie To's recent movie Exiled , The Mission did seem quite dated , but you can be dead sure that many of Exiled's plot points , characterization and stylistic influences , get established as far back to this 1999 movie . A triad leader , Brother Lung ( Eddy Ko ) , survives an assassination attack , and to protect oneself , you'll get together an A-Team of your merry men as bodyguards , entrusting your life to the skill of their gunmanship . His brother Frank ( Simon Yam ) gathers this team , consisting of your day to day average working professionals - Curtis ( Anthony Wong ) , Roy ( Francis Ng , somehow credited as Francis Wong ) , Shin ( Jackie Lui ) , Mike ( Roy Cheung ) , and James ( played by the ever reliable Lam Suet , sans pencil thin moustache ) . While they are barbers , gangsters , valets and technical experts , they are as deadly with a loaded gun , and coordinate extremely well as a team , only that they don't know it yet . Naturally there are existing cliques amongst the five , and their rawness in working together resulted in a partial failure of their very fist mission - the assassins escape , we journey together in their mission to protect , and see first hand how they command respect of each other , and how they befriend one another . In other words , the practice of the triads code of brotherhood and camaraderie , in trusting each other too with their lives , as they seek an end to their mission , to return to their normal lives . The Mission is a visual treat to action fans , though as I mentioned , the action itself might look dated . What's key here , and extremely well done , is the buildup . The anticipation of the prey , the feeling of the unknown , the entire setup for the kill . Shootouts occur in a narrow alleyway , and in an abandoned warehouse amongst others , but my favourite would be the one in the mall . It might be strange that as a protection detail , they chose to leave in the open , and when the crowd is absent . Perhaps it's easier to spot suspicious persons ? One thing's for sure , to enjoy the suspense , forget about the why and the what if questions ( Where are the security guards ? Where are the police ) , but just soak in the moment . I can't get enough of those ultra cool poseur shots , and the ones at the shopping mall were probably the best in the movie . The somewhat trippy , somehow happy theme track made it seem a little awkward accompanying the plenty suspenseful build up , but strangely it all worked , even when it's used for light hearted moments . Written by long time collaborator Yau Nai-hoi ( who this year had made his directorial debut with Eye in the Sky ) , the tale is not a gun battle a minute story , but a look at the code of brotherhood amongst the men - do they follow orders to a T because their boss orders it , or do they have it inside them to do what their heart tells them ? If you've watched Exiled , this conflict amongst the team already had its roots here , and watching The Mission in hindsight , you could never had guessed that this theme could alone could spin off into its own separate storyline in Exiled . My advice would be to watch The Mission and Exiled as a double bill - fans out there would probably not get enough ! I'm sure I will pop both the DVDs into my player soon for back to back viewings ! If you , like me , have watched Exiled first , then this movie surely is not to be missed . The Code 3 DVD by Mei Ah Entertainment isn't really fantastic , but I suppose for the price I paid , you don't come to expect a chock load of extras . You get a choice of either the Cantonese language track or the Mandarin track , in either Dolby Digital or Dolby Surround 5 . 1 . However at times , the audio does seem erratic and at certain points in dialogue , the audio level will fluctuate inconsistently . Subtitles come in traditional or simplified Chinese , and English . I watched the DVD with the English subtitles on , and though it's fairly good , there were minor spelling typos spotted every now and then . A letterbox version , the visual transfer isn't pristine as well , as it can get quite noisy and sometimes turn out to be rather blocky . As mentioned , it's a bare bones version , consisting of a Data Bank with a very scantily written synopsis which can also be found on the back cover of the DVD sleeve , and the Cast and Crew credits , which can be obtained from the actual end credits from the movie . The Data Bank comes in both English and Mandarin texts . Besides the stylish theatrical trailer ( 1min 25sec ) with no dialogue , but just the pulsating soundtrack from the movie , a chapter selection is included ( 9 chapters in total ) , and a " Best Buy " section featuring the trailer for Ringo Lam's movie " Victim " starring Lau Ching Wan and Tony Leung Ka Fai .
Taking place just a year after they left Narnia ( which in Narnia time is about 1300 years since they've left ) , the Pevensie siblings - Peter ( William Moseley ) , Susan ( Anna Popplewell ) , Edmund ( Skandar Keynes ) and Lucy ( Georgie Henley ) get summoned back to Narnia and realize that things have drastically change since the last time they remembered it . The animals seemed edgier and have more angst , and their new guide for Narnia , the dwarf Trumpkin ( Peter Dinklage ) replaces the James McAvoy's fawn , filling in some quick history lessons for our quartet who return to Narnia in an age almost similar to the first time they set foot there . Summoning them is Prince Caspian ( Ben Barnes ) , who's a ruler-in-waiting having to flee from his land because of an assassination plot , and teams up with summoned Kings and Queens to retake his homeland as well as to bring peace toward all . Noble thoughts indeed , but not without its problems of course . A land cannot have too many kings ( as we learn from Lord of the Rings ) , and while Edward knows of his place in the hierarchy of things , Peter the Magnificent surely felt Prince Caspian a threat , and both do not hit off really well , especially when their strategies of war appear to be in conflict . Nonetheless through their trials in the story , they will learn and realize lessons in humility , especially when they know they are subject to similar temptations of short cuts to absolute power and victory they crave . While this is more of a Peter story than an Edward one ( Who had his fair share in the previous installment ) , William MOseley's performance as Peter do allow you to both hate and cheer for him as the story develops , while Skandar Keynes taking a backseat meant that he gets all the coolest moves as an action fighter . Ben Barnes came across as a speaker with a Spanish accent , quite arrogant in the first place , at least until his benefactors arrive , whom he got acquainted with only through folk tales he learnt from his teacher . Although the titular character , it does seem that Caspian himself plays a supporting role to the quartet , given that we're more interested in their return and the change that they'll bring . However , if the Narnia movies were to proceed with another , then expect Barnes to play a larger role then . Anna Popplewell's Susan continues her role as the female archer , and doesn't really add much to the mythos , except perhaps for the fleeting romance and affection she develops for the good looking Caspian , while Georgie Henley's Lucy is a little bit grown up now , but still retaining that bit of innocence in her as the sole believer and seeker of Azlan , bearing all of Narnia's hopes on her lithe shoulders . The special effects also took a great leap forward , improving upon the lacklustre hack job done in the earlier movie , and the talking animals , for once , I thought they didn't irritate ( yes , talking animals get on my nerves , after so many movies exploiting this cheap trick to infuse into their plots ) . Shrek lovers will undoubtedly fall in love with a new character in the movie styled as a mouseketeer , erm , musketeer , and if I were a shrewd toy businessman , I'd stock up on this particular plush toy ( seems like rats these days get lots of love ! ) . To top it all off , there are some nicely put cameos which links back to the first movie , and having their share in some intense sequences , no less . There are a lot of good things about Prince Caspian , and I'm happy to report that it builds on the original which served as a foundation on which better things are built upon , and thankfully , this sequel focused on its strengths instead of getting bogged by its weaknesses , and provided all round entertainment with what I would deem as a guilty pleasure . Highly recommended , especially to detractors of the first movie , this one is set to put the franchise on an even keel !
Director Danny Boyle is known for his stylish films in Trainspotting and 28 Days Later . While the latter talks about the evil of drugs , Millions talks about the root of all evil - Money . Lots of it . To be exact , close to 300 British pounds . This film is about taking and using money that is not yours , the morality behind that issue , and the exploration if sudden wealth can change a person's attitude . It also looks at spending large amounts of money ( and the difficulty thereof ) in a short span of time , as this film is set against a backdrop of the British Pound no longer being legal tender after 7 days , given the British's decision to use the Eurodollar . Damian Cunningham is a young boy who's missing his mother , who just passed away , and whom we don't get to see until the end of the film ( in a very touching scene ) . He has been living in his own imaginary world since , reading about and dreaming about talking to Saints , asking them if they had met or known about his mom in heaven . Many times , we look at this world through the eyes of this innocent boy , especially when the huge sack of money literally fell onto him , and he thinks that it is a gift from God as compensation for taking his mom . And that's when the story picks up . His brother Anthony suggested they keep quiet about the finding - reason being the government will tax most of it away , and while Anthony decides to ham it up , using the money to buy friends and cronies , Damian developed a want to help the poor - from people in the street , to Mormons ( the punching bag for some major gags in the film , and the hypocrisy of it all ) , to Africans in need of food , water and shelter , and absolute strangers , which is of course , dangerous when the " real owner " of the bag of money come knocking at the door . Given the dilemma of spending , how do you want to do it ? Invest in real estate ? Foreign Exchange ? ( The savvy Anthony came up with those suggestions , and seeing it on screen is hilarious ) . Save it in a bank ? And given your want to help others , how do you do so without endangering yourself , which Damian However , when you realise that the money is not Godsent , but robbed while en route to the incinerator ( one of the many interesting scenes in this film is the heist ) , what do you do next ? Do you continue spending it ? Or give it up ? Do you spend the money as a form of compensation for your house getting ransacked by burglars looking for the loot ? Damian Cunningham is played by Alexander Etel , and you can't help think he's the British's answer to McCauley Culkin at his age . He brings forth pure innocence as Damian , and is absolutely hilarious in his dealings with his imaginary Saints ( complete with halos ) . And the saints go marching on - the highlight of which is St Peter . Listen carefully to the dialogue , as he makes subtle digs into parables and the truth behind a certain miracle - I cracked up at that one . This film isn't complete without the complementary baddie and the uptight community policeman , and also gives the term social engineering a whole new perspective ( even practised by the young ! ) . With Danny Boyle's stylistic editing and beautiful shots of transitions and imaginary situations to complement the social commentary , this could probably be in contention as one of the best films of 2005 .
Superbad is Supergood ! Many have been lauding high accolades on this teen comedy to be the best thing since American Pie , and guess what , it's true ! Before you roll your eyes at yet another teenage and / or sex comedy , with desperate nerds hatching diabolical plans to get laid , Superbad comes across as a breath of fresh air really , given that it has a cast of unknowns , thus free of any expectations to deliver , which thankfully it does . What it doesn't have in raunchy sex scenes , it more than makes up for with its trash talking , especially from loud mouthed Seth ( Jonah Hill ) , who has possibly the best lines in the movie , though coming close to a scene stealer is Christopher Mintz-Plasse's Foggell aka McLovin with his uber-nerdish demeanour . Together with Evan ( Michael Cera ) , the trio play best friends who , being nerds , have only one another to hang out with , until they get themselves invited to a party only through providing the false hope that they can deliver the booze . And the trio branches off into two story arcs before converging for the finale , when Seth and Evan left Fogell to fend for himself when the latter goes for the jugular at a booze shop . It's difficult to judge which of the two arcs was funnier , though I'd go for Fogell / McLovin's as it had the inclusion of two zany beat cops played by Bill Hader and Seth Rogen ( from Knocked Up ) , and it has some of the most insane scenes with the antics that these two cops can conjure . Seth and Evan's storyline however centered more on the dramatic aspects of two friends facing the prospect of separation after graduation , and leaned extremely close to homo-eroticism at certain points . But I digress , it did have a definite hilarious scene in a party they gatecrash , which involves , what else , bodily fluids in the most unexpected of manners . But it's not as vulgar as you think it is , save for gratuitous pictures of the penis in all shapes , sizes , forms , with a limit only the imagination can put a finger ( heh ) to . It's akin to oral sex - that is , the extremely rapid fire use of the F-word - with attempts at actual horizontal action constantly doused with cold water . The gems are in the dialogue and in both Jonah Hill's and Christopher Mintz-Plasse's fleshing of their characters . To top it off , it actually had quite a coherent story , and an ending which you can read either way , and it'll still work . Fused with plenty of physical humour , crass dialogue and plenty of rude pictures ( stay while the credits roll ) , Superbad will definitely bring out the guffaws , one way or another . Oh , and watch out for that super-retro opening credits too !
I admire filmmakers who manage to explore powerful relationships and character development in a tight two hours , and Spanglish falls into this category perfectly . As the name goes , " Spanglish " is a combination of two words - Spanish and English , and is one of the major themes covered in this film , which is the clash of cultures , and the fear of dilution of cultural values . Paz Vega plays Mexican ( illegal ) immigrant housekeeper Flor , to an All American family , Mr and Mrs Clasky , played by Adam Sandler and Tea Leoni . They have 2 children Bernice and Georgie , and live with Tea's mother in a rich suburb . All seems well at first , but cracks start to appear as the story develops , as Paz discovers during the course of her work . The father is self deprecating as he is easy going , the mother is neurotic most times and imposes her wishes on the children ( especially the chubby daughter , whom she thinks must lose weight ) , the daughter upset with her mum for that expectation of her , a son who sings his grandmother's jazz oldies , and an alcoholic grandmother . A large part of the narrative takes place during the summer home , with major character development and relationships take over as the center-stage in this film . It is natural that the interactions between the characters develop from what it was in the beginning , to what it is at the end . Some turn for the better , while others just couldn't be . The importance of family and family values are explored . I will attempt to dissect the major relationships : John and Deborah Clasky : As husband and wife , it seems that their relationship isn't that good to begin with . With his easy going nature , John tends to give in to Deborah on a lot of things . Deborah expects her husband to not be the " good guy " to the kids , but to be in agreement with her on issues she deems as important and in her opinion , correct for the kids . Their relationship gets put to the test when one of the commits adultery , while the other is unwittingly being tempted into his own . John and Flor : As employer employee , they develop mutual respect for one another when they realize that they share similar values . To communicate with John , she takes up self-study English lessons , and their friendship progressed to mutual liking . They share the same parental anxiety and have frequent honest conversation expressing their thoughts . However , they develop feelings for each other , and find difficulty on where to draw the line between their ever increasing desire to be close . When the line is crossed , do you call it quits because it's the correct thing to do ? The last 30 minutes of the film is tinged with sweetness from this blossoming romance which couldn't develop further by virtue of principles . You are left wondering , what if ? Deborah and Cristina , Flor's daughter : When Deborah entices and unwittingly seduces Cristina into the all American lifestyle , so much so as even lying to her mum . Deborah is taken to Cristina because she is what her daughter could probably never be - smart , thin and beautiful . Cristina , on the other hand , enjoys Deboarh's company and attention because , hey , it's the American Dream , no ? Flor and Cristina : The movie is narrated by Cristina , from the time when she was little and her father walks out of the home , the hardships that mother and daughter endured through their journey to the USA , and her understanding of her mother's hardship with work to bring her up singlehandedly . Flor is understandably protective of her daughter's wellbeing , and especially in teacher her correct values and her heritage . She becomes jealous when Deborah , in her eyes , start to become more important to her daughter , and sometimes envious of the material wealth that Deborah showers on Cristina that Flor can never ever provide for . Flor fears that her child will be " hijacked " by Deborah . Deborah and her daughter Bernice : Her daughter at times resents the attention that her mum is giving Cristina , as she knows that she could never be thin as expected by mum . She has fears comparisons . Bernice and Flor : Flor starts off as work being strictly work , and no intervention into the family affairs . But she felt compelled to help when Bernice feels upset when Deborah subconsciously puts her down , most of the time subtle digs at her weight . Flor becomes Bernice's confidante in that sense , and John points out to her the hypocritical ways in which she disallows Deborah to treat her own daughter Cristina in similar ways . That scene between John , Flor and Cristina is comedic at times , but powerful nonetheless . Other relationships too long for this review to cover , and also they are quite minor , but at the end of the show , most relationships stay intact because blood runs thicker than water . The main casts excelled in their performance , but I like to single out Adam Sandler . He has demonstrated that he is capable and comfortable doing drama , instead of the madcap comedic characters we associate him with . I hope he does films of different genres to highlight his capability as a serious actor . Also catching my attention in a cameo is Sideways ' Thomas Haden Church . This is a touching drama with an ending that some might deem as heart-wrenching , but I highly recommend this film .
For the record , I hate snakes , and have this phobia of snakes . I can even freeze in my tracks at a bloody picture . And it goes without saying that the Snake House is never a place I'll visit in any zoo . What's my fear about ? I don't know , just that I attach this sense of evilness and danger to these slimy ( yes I know they're not ) slithery creatures that should be condemned to the depths of hell . Anyway I digress . What compelled me to watch this picture , besides the fact that I'm a sucker for punishment , is Samuel L Jackson . He's THE man ! With Sam , you'll always know he'll lift that scene or two , oozing street charisma and attitude like none other . This is a cheesy movie done in a cheesy way but with A list production values , tons of special effects , animal trainers , and yes , plenty of snakes of all shapes and sizes . From pythons to the cobras to the rattlers , I tell you these creatures will chill you at your seats . Thank goodness this ain't on no IMAX or 3D effect , otherwise I suspect many will be reeling their heads backwards , and backwards some more . The plot's none too cerebral to begin with , so don't bother but accept , go on board , and enjoy the fright , I mean flight . It isn't going all out to scare you , though watching characterless caricatures suffer and die under the most sickening conditions involving all conceivable snake-accessible orifices and sexual appendages , provides some sort of sick pleasure . The usual clichés of thrillers / horrors are milked here as well , like the well used one that those who have sex are usually the first to go . And there are plenty of victims from where that came from , given the movie's set on a red eye flight in a Boeing jet , offering a variety of passengers like the rap star and his posse , kids travelling alone for the first time , dumb blondes , the Asian Kung Fu master , and even the cabin crew , who are put in a better light as compared to another set-on-a-plane movie Flightplan . If there should be a gripe , then it's the length of the action sequences , most of which are just too short , or unexplained , especially those involving Jackson . I mean , the audience should see how he goes around killing those SOBs , but as mentioned , we don't get to see much . I suspect some scenes will probably end up in an extended DVD version , deleted scenes , or perhaps make their way into video games , fighting his way through with makeshift weapons . That aside , and if you're OK with the censored bit in this NC-16 movie where a couple joins the mile high club ( too bad it's forcibly shortened ) , Snakes on a Plane is a movie to catch on the big screen for the fun factor , and no , you'll definitely not get to watch this on any inflight entertainment system anytime soon . The Cobra Starship music video for the movie plays through the end credits . Not too bad a song , think it's becoming a ear worm for me .
There are few sequels that can equal or even surpass its original , and for an animated feature , perhaps Toy Story 2 is the first of its kind that didn't end up going direct to video . I'm unsure why I hadn't caught this in the theatres , given that I've thoroughly enjoyed the first Toy Story . I've taken 7 years to finally watch this gem , and of course , to include myself into the legions of Pixar fans out there who have watched every single animated feature they produced . Toy Story 2 remains the only sequel that Pixar put out , though I'm rooting for The Incredibles to make another appearance on the silver screen . Bringing back its stellar voice cast like Tom Hanks and Tim Allen , and favourite characters that have endeared themselves to us , I'm thrilled that there is so much more story that can be told of our favourite toys in Andy's room . What worked , at least for me , is that the story and characters appealed to the child inside . I own quite a number of toys as a kid , and yes , I outgrew them , although most of them are still stored in boxes somewhere around the house . Perhaps some of them are small collector's item in their own right , and as a child I did wonder if the toys do come alive to wreck havoc around the room before they retire in time and clean up before I wake up . Of course toys do not come to life ( or do they ? ) but here in this sequel , the exploration of the friendship theme takes on a different dimension when Woody finds himself with other toys from the same collection as he is - a cowgirl Jessie , his trusty steed Bullseye , and a prospecting character known as Stinky Pete . The dilemma he faces is whether to cast aside his constant fear of Andy abandoning him for good , and opt for life with his new found family in some museum somewhere , where he'll be appreciated for many moons to come , or to return with Buzz and his friends for the life he has grown so accustomed to . The adaptation to change , loyalty , abandonment , friendship - a lot of themes for a children's movie , but that again is the appeal of Toy Story , that it can be viewed at different levels , for a child who can enjoy the animation and the story at one level , and for adults to reminisce and enjoy it on another . By deftly handling the different themes , and appealing to different segments of audiences with the same movie , Pixar exhibited exactly why they're top dogs in this field . As always , the music and animation are excellent , and given that I'm watching this now and found it enjoyable , I think they have a film that can stand the test of time . I hear of rumours of a third Toy Story movie , and if that were true , I'd say bring it on !
Surinder Sahni is your typical routine joe who works for Punjab Power , meek and gentle , and a nerd to most . His love life is practically zilch , but on a visit to his old school teacher's home , he gets captivated by the beauty and vivaciousness of his teacher's daughter Taani ( Anushka Sharma ) , who has heard about him because of the frequent comparisons her father makes . But that day turns out to be a tragedy instead , with her fiancé and in-laws meeting with a fatal accident , and her father coincidentally suffering a stroke . A decision was made then , for her to be betrothed and married to Surinder , someone whom her father trusts , but this shotgun , arranged marriage turns out to be a loveless one for Surinder . There's this albatross hung around his neck , because his arrival heralded the darkest period in Taani's life , and thus was told upfront that while she can be a good wife to him , but she will never love him . Naturally this breaks Surinder's heart because there's nothing in this world he wouldn't do in order to bring her happiness that was originally hers , if he had in the first place not been associated with pain when he entered her life . While he has some little itsy-bitsy happiness stemmed from Taani's taking care of him , he still feels shattered knowing that whatever sincerity , care and concern he'll be showering on her , will have zero effect in trying to win her over . Opportunity presents itself of course , when Taani , bored with being a housewife , signs up for a dance class with Surinder's sponsorship . With the help of his good friend Bobby ( Vinay Pathak ) , he transforms himself to the suave romantic hero with an alter ego Raj , crafted according to the male leading men in films that his wife appreciates , and decides to take ownership on his love life by wooing Taani from scratch with this new , outgoing persona . But alas as we all know , such a plan becomes a recipe for disaster , because while Taani would not change her heart for Surinder , he has now taken the extreme into becoming someone totally different , and thus struggles with the pain of living a lie , especially when his plan becomes successful and leaves him pondering over whether to live a lie forever , just to be with her . Rab Ne Bana Di Jodi thus becomes embroiled with plenty of situational comedy involving different identities , but at its core is still a very strong romance story dealing with the notion of unconditional love without expecting anything in return , which Taani fails to fathom why anyone would go to such lengths in order to bring happiness to her life . Written and directed by Aditya Chopra , this story is strictly for the romantics at heart , otherwise you'll naturally balk at the thought that nobody could recognize Shah Rukh Khan whether or not he's the ordinary man Surinder , or the styled up Raj , especially when his wife Taani is the one who is blind-sided . But of course you can live with it if you buy into the whole Clark Kent - Superman secret identity where a pair of spectacles does wonders . The literal translation of the title means " a couple made by god " and as you know the man up there has a sense of humour sometimes , preferring to allow the couple to go through a number of painful periods in order to strengthen their resolve for each other . However , the story still steered very clear from the darker themes such as adultery , although Surinder and Raj are essentially the same person , Taani's falling for the latter does come after a long period of courtship , and curiously , she doesn't reveal her marital status till late . So while that theme might rear its ugly head once in a while when you pause from the incessant bonding between Raj and Taani , it doesn't get broached beyond that . Being a Bollywood movie would also mean plenty of song and dance , and being set against the backdrop of a dance competition , it brings about opportunities for the characters to hit the dance floor their moves . Shah Rukh Khan gets to showcase both extremes in character , one being the nerd with two left foot , while the other being at the opposite with plenty of smooth moves to show off . If anyone's in doubt of his acting ability , I guess this one movie will show what he's capable of . In fact , between his portrayal of Raj and Surinder , I prefer the latter more , because he had fused some wonderful nuances into his Surinder , that makes him an instantly likable character , while at appropriate moments , his portrayal shows you that tender side of him as well as the internal emotional struggles he has to go through as he woos his wife . Newcomer Anushka Sharma holds her own against the veteran as the young wife Taani , who's at constant odds with her marital obligations , and on the other knowingly falling in love with someone whom she becomes dangerously attracted to . Of course what she fails to realize is that they're the same person after all , and her best performance comes from the finale where you can see how she reacts to her make believe world come crashing down under the weight of realization . I guess loving someone unconditionally is that constant challenge , if it's at all possible extending otherwise from that of a mother toward her child . This film is an ode to that kind of loving emotion , and to a certain extent it puts the other person on a higher pedestal than oneself . I would prefer to overlook the flaws in the movie if any , and highly recommend his one to all the die-hard romantics out there , given the excellent performances , story as well as the beautiful songs that puts romance back into the air . An average joe can have an extraordinary romance , and Rab Ne Bana Di Jodi captures that wonderfully .
Roald Dahl wrote countless of books , many of which I grew up reading in secondary school . There are many of his works adapted for the screen as well ( The Witches , Matilda ) , but none so far given the Tim Burton treatment . The opening credits / scene has Burton's fingerprints all over - the imaginative sequence , the Gothic soundtrack ( done by long time Burton collaborator Danny Elfman ) , mammoth weird looking architecture and snow filled landscapes . In the beginning , we are brought to the small world of Charlie Bucket , whose family find difficulty in making ends meet . As Wonka announces the 5 Golden Tickets ( for a special visit to his factory ) hidden in his chocolate bars , we are introduced to the backgrounds of the other children's family and stereotypical character , like the German glutton , the English brat , the American go-getter , and the Television ( Wonka accused of mumbling ) boy . And no doubt , the audience will definitely root for the time when Charlie actually gets his ticket and join the rest . Willy Wonka is the number one Chocolateer , but he certainly has issues relating to people , and I guess nobody can blame him after having his " Secret Recipe " hijacked by corporate espionage . We are told of Wonka's background in a series of flashbacks throughout the plot , and one of my favourites is when he journeyed and stumbled upon the Oopma Loompas . As the narrative gets predictable , it actually turned it into its advantage , as the audience expects to see some innovative room in its spectacular imaginative splendour , the set pieces in which the children get themselves into , and the performance of the little Oompa Loompa people , whose hilarious spontaneous song and dance routine will definitely leave you laughing out loud . Towards the end , after the side-splitting zaniness of the factory excursion , the theme of Family is highlighted , and nicely wraps up the movie , both for Wonka and Charlie . Johnny Depp is class , but really though , I thought his Willy Wonka actually adapted Michael Jackson's look and nuances . He managed to highlight Wonka's freakiness and child like nature to a T , and Depp has shown he has done no wrong with diverse roles in Tim Burton's visionary movies . Also remarkable is his recommendation of Freddie Highmore into the role of Charlie . If you'd remember , they worked together before in Finding Neverland , and their on screen chemistry was brought into this film as well . Many touching moments featuring Highmore will tug at your heartstrings , and I suppose besides Dakota Fanning , he's one of my favourite child actors of today . I can't rave enough of the sets created for this film , with its wonderful use of colours . And besides scoring the film's soundtrack , Danny Elfman also provided the unique sounding voice of the Oompa Loompas , and purist of the book will be glad that the lyrics for most of their performances were from Dahl himself . Although adapted from a children's book , this is one movie I'd recommend to adults as well . I guess Roald Dahl would have been proud of this effort ! Bring out the Wonka bars !
( With this movie , I've completed my essential viewing of all the Best Picture Nominees for the 77th Annual Academy Awards , and this review is one the most personal I've written ) Wine lovers unite ! There isn't , in my recent memory , a show that celebrates wine , vineyards and grapes , like this one does . Scattered throughout as part of the narrative are so many wine terms , vintage bottles , and wine tasting , that the amateur me can find hard to grasp . Fear not though , as this show can still grow on you . We follow the road trip of 2 best buddies Miles and Jack , for a week , down to the Californian vineyards , before Jack's marriage when he gets back . Kinda like an extended bachelor's party , Miles ' idea of fun - that being long sessions of male bonding over wine tasting sessions , rounds of golf , and more drinks over night time chill out hours . However , Jack has a different idea of fun - that of having final flings and sowing his wild oats before committing himself to marriage . So while we see clash of ideas and mindsets , their strong friendship enables them to compromise and help each other during the various scenarios they encounter in their road trip . Essentially , this movie is also about relationships - that between the 2 buddies , that between Jack and his " fling " Stephanie , who of course he didn't tell that he's getting married once the week is over , and that between Miles and Maya . Which led me to identify with the 2 main male leads . Jack , the once famous soap opera actor , lives his life by his instinct . He goes with his gut and impulse , and enjoys a good time . My friends can probably identify this part of me , the go-getter , the thrill-seeker . However , this can sometimes lead you to sticky situations , and you'll require your best buddies to bail you out of the rut . Many hilarious moments arise from Jack's desperation in getting laid , in getting Miles laid as well , and his deception towards both his wife-to-be , and Stephanie . Unless he's decapitated , he'll never learn his lesson , and would still want to go for the final " kill " - the final scene of trouble that he gets into , is one of the best in the movie . Closer friends will probably see me in Miles , the struggling writer , who still harbours feelings for his ex ( wife that is ) . He goes into a frenzy when Jack tells him his ex-wife has already re-married . He is chronically depressed , that he screwed up his own marriage . To make things worse , Jack has invited Miles ' ex-wife and new husband to his wedding ceremony , which led to Jack wanting to back out of attending , well , almost , to avoid meeting the couple . Jack's advice to Miles is to move on , and he will help him do so . However , Miles just refuses to accept the fact , and allows depression to slowly creep into all other aspects of his life , severely affecting his confidence and attitude . Until of course , he meets Maya , and starts to seriously think about starting afresh . Despite the slow introduction of about 10 minutes , the show picks up pace once Miles and Jack hit the road . The down-to-earthness characters and dialogue will draw you into the movie , though some in the audience might think that the ending has left them hanging . A word of caution - in my opinion , it's deliberately done so , for YOU to decide what kinda ending YOU would prefer , and that will depend on whether you're a Jack , or a Miles kinda person . Don't let this underdog movie ( amongst the other heavyweight Oscar nominees ) slip by , go catch it in a theatre near you !
The poster of this animated movie looks a little suggestive , but nope , it's actually a wholesome time travel movie which explores a little on the vestment of such powers to a klutzy individual , as well as relationships , and the perennial question of what would anyone do if you have the ability to go back into time , and make changes presumably for the better . The Girl Who Leapt Through Time tells a wonderful story centered on 3 friends , the tomboyish and clumsy Makoto Konono ( voiced by Riisa Naka ) , and two hunks Chiaki Mamiya ( Takuya Ishida ) and Kousuke Tsuda ( Mitsutaka Itakura ) . Theirs is a friendship formed after school at the baseball court where they spend quality time talking about typical teenage stuff . Things start to change however , when Makoto by accident gets the power to time travel , and in her own ditzy way , uses her new found abilities for " good " - directly for herself , or in some Emma like moments , to influence the outcome of relationships for her friends and play matchmaker . And that's just scratching the tip of the iceberg . While it's animation style is kept simple and fairly straightforward , it doesn't compromise on the complexity of its storyline . Not that it serves to confuse , rather you'll be amazed by the amount of pathos the story contains , with its various subplots especially when the time travelling stuff kicks in . It has adult sensibilities in the treatment of the plot , and knows exactly when to hit the right emotional chords when warranted . Although based on a book , the story here serves as a quasi-sequel of sorts which takes place some 20 years later , what I can say is that the love stories intertwined has its major one being able to touch like that in Be With You . I loved that movie , and watching how this bore some similarities , you can't help but feel the same emotions coming across in the same way , nevermind that the characters here are animated , as you can feel the pain , the love , and their despair . And that is something that I should say is difficult for the genre - they're not real persons on screen - but yet being able to evoke emotions and for one to react and empathize , definitely makes it powerful , and a cut above others . Something that our local animated films had failed to do in giving us cold characters and bastardized stories from folklore . But it's not always all the time serious in tone or mood . The movie has light hearted moments , sometimes bordering on the slapstick , no thanks to the bumbling Makoto character . In a sequence , it was reminiscent of Chinese Odyssey starring Stephen Chow , where each time travel moment gets played ad nausem with different comedic effect . Undoing blunders as we see is not exactly Makoto's forte , and while she may be using her powers in a carefree way , with great powers come great responsibilities ( sorry , can't resist that one ! ) As usual , anyone can find fault with the time travel paradox which rears its ugly head in any time travel movie , but I would suggest that you park those thoughts aside , and enjoy the story that the Girl Who Leapt Through Time is telling . There are slight attempts at addressing it with its creation of totally new and different realities with each jump , but even then a major paradoxical flaw still exists . At its lowest denominator , the film reminds to seize the day like it's your last , do what's right , and don't be shy in telling someone how you feel about them . The Best Animated Film of the recent Awards of the Japanese Academy , this film gets my vote of support too with its superbly emotional and touching tale , and with its similarities to that aspect of the film which I like to Be With You , it will be no surprise if this movie finds its way to my Top Ten of the year . Highly recommended !
This almost 3 hour bio-epic of Howard Hughes , the second collaborative film between Martin Scorsese and Leonardo DiCaprio ( the first being Gangs of New York ) , may seem as mammoth as the sproose goose , but with excellent casting , acting , sets and pacing , you'd be clammering for it to continue as it barely scratches the surface of Hughes eventful life , as director , aviator and visionary . Squeezed into the film are so many themes and subplots , it makes you eager to want to learn more about this fascinating icon , in addition to the Early Hollywood to post-WWII era covered . Hollywood - this is at its earliest , with classic screen legends brought to life again . The first 15 minutes of the film lets you into the production of Hughes ' Hell's Angels , and other classics of his like Scarface and The Outlaw were covered , with the latter's friction with the censorship board on mammaries bringing huge doses of humour . Also , look out for Jude Law's Errol Flynn ! Romance - between Katharine Hepburn , played so perfectly by Cate Blanchett , and Kate Beckinsale's Ava Gardner , who teases and asks Hughes of nothing more than buying her dinner . Minor love relations are briefly mentioned , or given the " Tabloid Treatment " . The Aviator - Hughes designs , builds and then test flies his own planes . We get to see him being the fastest man on earth , circling the globe , critically crashing his Air Force's spy plane prototype , and piloting his crowning glory , C-130's granddaddy Hercules . Corporate Business - Business is war , between Hughes ' WTA and Alec Baldwin's PanAm . Watch how they scheme against each other for the battle of the skies ! Corruption - Politics and money don't mix . . . or do they ? We get a sneak peek into the corruption and bribery of the early days . Oops , or should I say , generous donations ? Excessive Compulsive Disorder - Hughes suffers from ECD , and is obsessive with cleanliness . He uses his own bar soap in public loos , doesn't stand anything raw , or the tiniest speck of dirt on anyone else's shirt . We see the disorder zapping his of his sanity , and he declines into living in filth ( the irony of it ) and stark naked in his projection room , suffering from the disorder at its worst , before Ava plucks him out of his rut . I have to admit I ain't much of a Martin Scorsese fan , till now . I haven't watched Goodfellas , and my recent memory of Scorsese is Gangs of NY , and the lending of his voice for the blowfish in Shark's Tale . Here , he masterfully mixes and weaves the themes together into one long compelling narrative . I have always been a fan of Leo DiCaprio's acting abilities , from What's Eating Gilbert Gabe , to spouting Shakespeare in Bahz Luhman's R+J . This is yet another occasion where he plays someone real and does one heck of a job . This show has something for everybody , is Oscar worthy , so don't miss it . Now I gotta hit the stores to get one of his biographies . . .
A romantic comedy about food should evoke some hunger pangs , as well as some mouthwatering oohs and aahs for the sheer visuals of food that you'll probably swear you can smell and taste , if done right . However , the first reactions from Le Grand Chef is " eeeeeeeeeeeee " followed by plenty of reeling from the graphic nature of fresh sashimi preparation . The opening scene is the preparation of fresh golden blowfish , where you'll see the fish still gasping in its last stages of life , snuffed through a deft decapitation of its head , followed by the fins , before skinning it in one fall swoop , disembowelment and the slicing of its meat so thinly that it's translucent . Based on a popular comic book series , Le Grand Chef perched on the # 1 spot in Korea for three weeks , touching very familiar territory in the likes of films shown a few months back such as No Reservations and Ratatouille . We're soon introduced to two rival chefs , Sung-chan ( Kim Kang-woo ) and Bong-joo ( Lim Won-hie ) , where they are to present to a judging panel to wrestle control over a famed restaurant . Needless to say , Sung-chan fails miserably through obvious foul play , and quits the scene . Becoming a well known produce farmer with fans made from middle aged housewives , Sung - chan is soon persuaded to return to the scene by VJ Jin-su ( Lee Ha-na ) through a cooking competition , where the prize is a rusty blade belonging to the Royal Chef , an artifact with so much rich history , it just had to tie into the lives of Sung-chan and Bong-joo and their ancestors . So it's game on everybody ! With good food photographed so beautifully , there's nothing not to like about the movie , despite its very familiar storyline , The plot may be recycled from various cookery / food movies , even like Stephen Chow's God of Cookery , but here , it goes to show that the delivery plays a huge part . While it is very obvious to rattle on and on about the competition proceedings , director Jeon Yun-su mixes things up and borrows loads from Japanese movies where food is concerned ( Udon , anyone ? ) and added ingredients from melodrama to bloat the plot . Fortunately , they don't dilute the movie , but provided a good variety of subplots on the side , ranging from supporting side characters such as a famed charcoal maker , to comedy involving the quest to cook the perfect Ramen . Running through the narrative is plenty of flashbacks into the ancestry of the rival chefs , which had a simple mystery on the sins of their ancestors , adding some form of depth into the hatred these men have toward each other . For once , I thought the flashbacks were as effective as they were entertaining . While the subplots serve to entertain , the cookery competition serves up a feast for the eyes , albeit it took a backseat in the second half of the story after a flurry of first half activity , so much so that split screens in comic book style had to be employed to squeeze as much as possible on screen at the same time . And the presentation was kept fresh with different styles employed so that it's not the same after each round of competition , keeping in line with the necessity of having things fresh , akin to food . Le Grand Chef is a delightful film to sit through , and probably fired the first salvo for 2008 as a contender to be amongst the top of my list this year . It's not just or always about food , but the philosophy , ingredients and plenty of heart , nevermind the cliché that come along with it , especially with the some similarities to Pixar's last offering , from plot to characters . One thing's for sure , food critics aren't really a likable bunch from the way they are portrayed in movies , ha !
This is a story about change . Hula Girls , based on true events , takes place in a small Japanese coal mining town in the late 60s , where its town folks find that with the shifting reliance on oil from coal , the survival of their town is at stake when a major company decides to retrench and cut its headcount . In attempts to makeover their economy ( ain't that familiar ) , the sleepy town has decided to come up with a " Hawaii Center " , a resort like facility where the warm atmosphere of Hawaii will be recreated in their cold / coal environment . It's a drastic change from blue collar to the service industry , and with the young girls being roped in to be dance performers , the traditionalists are up in arms , against the entire project . Skimpy outfits and gyrating moves don't make it easy , and neither does an outsider being roped in to teach the girls a new skill , turn out popular too . Hula Girls , winner of many awards in the 2006 Japanese equivalent of the Oscars , and also the Japanese submission to the 2007 Oscar's Best Foreign Language film , actually seemed a little too familiar in its narrative style , bringing to mind movies such as Waterboys , Swing Girls , Linda Linda Linda , and the more obvious reference and similarity , will be that of My Mother is a Belly Dancer , well , for most of the first half anyway . But perhaps with this familiarity , it took less time for the audience to identify with it , and it set on its focus to endear the key characters to the audience . As mentioned , it's about change , set against the backdrop of changing industries , attitudes , and skills . It's a heartwarming story no less , about the strength of sisterhood , where unity sees them battling challenges ahead , much against all odds , especially when adversity comes from within . It's not all serious as it sounds , as there are ample comedy infused , especially with its outcast characters such as the nerdy mom and the plus sized tomboy , and their initial attempts at performance during road trips advertising their new attraction . Like movies in the similar genre , it doesn't take long to identify the leader of the pack , in Kimiko ( Yu Aoi ) , as she becomes the protégé of the teacher Mrs Hirayama ( Yasuko Matsuyuki ) , given the thankless task of whipping the girls into shape . Yu Aoi is no doubt the star of the movie , with her good looks and time dedicated for her to show what it takes . And expect a number of sniffles as the filmmakers weaved in classical dramatic moments primarily aimed at activating those tear ducts . At its heart , it's a movie on the triumph of the human spirit against adversity , and of friendship . It's not without its flaws , like when certain transitions seemed to suffer from lack of time devoted to provide more depth , but when the formula comes to the end , with its rousing , highly anticipated finale showed in its entirety and in full regalia , you'll no doubt be giving full of applause for its showmanship . Definitely going into my books as a contender for the best movies of the year . Highly recommended , despite its slow start .
When I was born my mom said I looked like an old man . Like everyone else , I turned out to be pretty normal , unlike The Curious Case of Benjamin Button where he's physically developing in the opposite , suffering from common aged ailments like cataracts , hearing , and arthritis first , but mentally developing in proper chronology . One can imagine the challenges of everyone thinking you'll die soon enough , before a miracle actually happens and you're like having drunk some elixir of life , probably a little too much too . Some would compare David Fincher's movie to Robert Zemeckis ' Forrest Gump . Both have charismatic characters living out a dream of a life despite the challenges that life had unfairly laid out for them , one being mentally slow , the other being physically not quite right . Like Gump , Button ( Brad Pitt in various astounding make up and effects ) lives an extremely fulfilling life , having their tale peppered with significant ground breaking events , some of which they get involved in , others just serving as bookends in a narrative that span lifetimes . These become wonderful stories to tell , like Tim Burton's Big Fish , and actually , quite inspiring too to live a life seizing any opportunities that come your way . Similarly , Ben Button has a strong mother character to take care of him , and here's where Taraji P . Henson's Queenie gets her supporting Oscar nod . Working in the home for the aged , Ben's father Thomas ( Jason Flemyng ) abandons the odd looking infant at the footsteps of the home , only for Queenie to show extreme compassion , and to bring up the infant like her own , full of love , blind to the fact that he is physically very different from everyone else . And Love is something Ben isn't falling short of , having to meet and love the very captivating Daisy ( Cate Blanchett ) , where their initial encounter being very much frowned upon , like a dirty old man trying to take advantage of a sweet young thing . It is this love that anchors the bulk of the second act , which makes it touching yet sad as you know of the collision course where this love is heading toward . I recall a scene in another movie , and you may have heard variations of this tale , where a woman asks her husband whom he preferred to meet their Maker first . The man says for his wife to kick the bucket before he does , only so because he wouldn't want her to suffer from a broken heart before her time , and to let him be punished that way instead . It is this nagging feeling that the characters experience , and both Blanchett and Pitt's performances allow the audience to empathize . David Fincher is best known for his darker movies like Panic Room , Fight Glub , Se7en , and Zodiac , and I thought The Curious Case of Benjamin Button continues this trend , in that it's draped in melancholy through and through . There's always a sad tinge to the events in Ben's life , because growing up with older people around you would mean that you experience death a lot more than growing up with peers . But that's not to say it's always doom and gloom . There are certain lighthearted moments thrown in to break the heaviness , and those lightning stories will certainly be fondly remembered way after the end credits roll . Fincher too displays some deft storytelling techniques here in keeping the narrative from turning stale , and one extremely well executed scene involved plenty of What-Ifs that lays out what Fate would have decided for anyone . To some , Benjamin Button may seem boring , but they are totally missing the point . The 166 minutes here were paced fabulously , never wasting any time , and yet providing enough breathing space to pause and appreciate the story , the characters , the art direction , and to soak in the wonderful cinematography . And not forgetting an ensemble supporting cast to prop and pad the central relationship between Ben and Daisy , from parents to friends , to everyone else that pops in and out offering life's lessons through fated encounters . The people that one meets define your life in a certain sense I believe . Through Fate we know each other , and little episodes spice your life up in ways that you cannot imagine , until you look back and wonder just how much had gone by , and how much one had experienced . The latest Facebook meme on 25 Random Things had made me recall some wonderful moments shared with people who have entered my life at various points , and to those who think their lives are not rich , I encourage them to dig deep , and find certain joy in recalling those moments . Here , we journey with Jula Ormond's Caroline as she reads through a diary and co-narrates the story of Benjamin Button , in little episodes that grab your attention throughout . The Curious Case of Benjamin Button is a delightfully fine film , with an engaging story about life in itself , and deserves every single one of its 13 nominations in this year's Academy Awards . It's up against some stiff competition , but I'm fairly confident it will hold its own and not return empty handed . Definitely highly recommended , and easily an early contender as best film of the year thus far .
Featured in last year's edition of Animation Nation , I finally got a chance to watch this masterpiece by filmmaker Nina Paley when she released it on the Internet under the Creative Commons License . And it is without a doubt that this piece of animation is well worth every minute of your time , especially when the visuals just arrests your attention from the get go , and has some wonderful music and songs by 1920s jazz singer Annette Hanshaw , who provides the titular Sita with her singing voice . Based on the epic Indian tale of Ramayana , focusing on the love triangle between Rama ( voiced by Debargo Sanyal ) , his virtuous wife Sita ( Nina Paley herself ) , and the adversary in the form of Ravana ( Sanjiv Jhaveri ) who lusts after Sita and kidnaps her , I have gotten a glimpse of this storyline when it got featured in films such as Swades and the more recent Delhi-6 . Essentially the extracts in those film featured how Ravana kidnaps Sita for her beauty , and wanted to make her his wife , only for her to hold out enough for Rama to find them , and to kill Ravana in an ensuing war . The story here expands that tale a lot more , starting with how Rama got banished from his kingdom by his father the King , and together with Sita , roams a forest until her kidnap , their reunion , and how Rama decided to banish her given his incessant suspicion that she may not have been pure , and got violated . It's a sad love story in a way , and this film provided just enough to pique your interest in wanting to read up more . It's quite amazing how Paley herself directed this piece of magic , and adopted various animation styles to tell a story , and a musical , and has a separate tale set in the modern day to parallel that of the epic tale . I am speechless by how wonderful the opening credits got designed , fused perfectly with the song playing in the background . Her choice of the Annette Hanshaw tunes were a wonderful touch that fit the story to a T , and this can only be attributed to some astonishing creativity and innovation that Paley had demonstrated , and I can't help but to want more . The shadow puppet narrators ( Aseem Chhabra , Bhavana Nagulapally and Manish Acharya ) stole the show each time they're on , as they sound just like your good pals who can't wait to give you the lowdown on what they know about this tragic love triangle . They're hilarious and never at any point felt deliberately so , with that very natural feel about the way they want to tell a story . I would have loved to experience this in a big screen theatre setting , but I guess that would not come anytime soon . So the next best alternative was to download the highest resolution version available to watch this astounding piece as well as to admire the striking attention to details that Paley so lovingly and respectfully put into the characters . You would do yourself a favour and watch how Sita Sings the Blues , as it's a definite must-watch in my books !
