For the first half hour of this movie the viewer may get the idea that the script Michelle Gallagher and Alan B . McElroy is just awful ( with good perception ! ) , but as the film's story evolves the idea that this may just be a National Lampoon parody of action flicks - and if that is the case , it is truly a funny bit of entertainment - for a while . Then it becomes obvious that the minimal storyline ( ex-Marine's wife is abducted by diamond thieves and Marine elects to leave his one day ' security job ' and take the initiative to capture his wife and strike down the bad guys in the swamps of North Carolina ) is really just a matrix for staging as many pyrotechnics explosions as possible . It does get tedious . The ' star ' of this noisy , ' Unrated - for - destructive - violence ' film is one John Cena , another wrestler from WWE ( World Wrestling Entertainment ) being promoted by the director John Bonito to follow the path of The Rock : the difference is The Rock has done some classy acting and a range of roles that call for much more than flexing whereas Cena seems completely like a fish out of water who has yet to take a class in acting basics . John Cena does have a splendid physique and perhaps that should have been more on camera . Instead his ' John Triton ' character , despite his tremendous physical advantages , gets beaten up by some pretty small and older guys , making us wonder why he has all that bulk and no fighting ability . The cast is good to adequate and once you realize this film is a parody , they seem even better delivering the corny lines they are given . Among the crew are Robert Patrick as Rome ( the chief bad guy ) , Kelly Carlson as John's wife , Anthony Ray Parker as the hilarious ' token black ' bad guy ( he truly has comedic talent ) , hunkies Manu Bennett and Frank Carlopio for eye candy , Abigail Bianca , Jerome Ehlers , Damon Gibson , and Drew Powell as the crew in flight . They are a likable bunch of criminals but oh can they blow things up ! For the action film addicts only . Grady Harp
If there is some justice to misjudging investments in movies , then the fact that this film went directly to DVD despite the presence of a crew that includes some impressive names is notable . Writer Stephen Gaghan ( ' Traffic ' , ' Rules of Engagement ' , ' Syriana ' , etc ) has composed a contrived script about rich , bored , Hip Hop imitating , unmotivated teenagers trying to spice up their insignificant lives by treading into the East LA ' danger zone ' , an experience from which they learn nothing about cross cultural ethnic groups and just return to Pacific Palisades whining about ' damaged goods ' . It is an insulting story , one that stereotypes Hispanics as drug-peddling , raping thugs in a totally black and white manner , not taking into consideration the viewpoint of a cultural group's positive attributes and philosophies . No longer a viable gimmick , the film begins with the tired cliché of a kid making a documentary about his friends , asking what they like and don't like , their goals , their outlooks . The fact that none of the interviewees has a clue about life , preferring to follow the current Hip Hop language ( very poorly written ) and focusing on sex , drugs , and escapes from their wealthy environments . Among these are three girls , the main character being Allison ( Anne Hathaway , miscast in every way ) , who follow their superficial boyfriends on a joyride for drugs into East LA . There they meet Hector ( Freddy Rodríguez , trying his best to create a character without the benefit of a decent script ) who sells them drugs and whom Allison eyes . Allison is so shallow she doesn't have a clue about her motivations , just wanting something ' dangerous ' to happen . She coaxes her equally clueless girlfriends into going into East LA to seduce Hector and ends up in a ridiculous barter for joining Hector's gang ( no mention is made at all about the Chicanas who would never allow these three geeks to enter their territory unchallenged ) . The results of a barter results in an experience with which the girls cannot cope so they run back to the protection of the dysfunctional parents they loathe to cover the mess of their caper . Attempts to resolve this dumb story fail pathetically . With so many fine Indie films that go begging for attention , it is a shame money is wasted on this sort of meaningless mess of a film . The ' unrated ' designation is probably meant for the occasional nudity and gratuitous sex and language , but here ' Unrated ' might just mean that the film is so without merit that it is non-classifiable . Avoid this one and don't think that a fine writer such as Gaghan guarantees a successful story . Grady Harp
For devotees of Gabriel García Márquez this unprofessional adaptation of his sweepingly romantic novel ' El amor en los tiempos del cólera ' will sadly disappoint . Ronald Harwood's screenplay is a patchwork quilt that attempts to tell the story of longing for love in the manner of a novella / travelogue and despite the presence of some very fine actors in the key roles , director Mike Newell forgets to grasp the atmosphere that makes the original novel ethereal . Young Florentino Ariza ( Unax Ugalde ) is a poor dreamer working as a telegraph operator and sees and falls in love with young Fermina Daza ( Giovanna Mezzogiorno ) , daughter of a wealthy mule trader Lorenzo Daza ( John Leguizamo ) who upon hearing of the infatuation whisks Fermina away as Florentino pledges undying love and fidelity to Fermina . Florentino's mother Tránsito ( Fernanda Montenegro ) , his uncle Leo ( Hector Elizondo ) , and his friend Lotario Thugut ( Liev Schreiber ) comfort him and try to encourage his mating with another woman , but as Florentino matures ( now Javier Bardem ) even the long list of sexual encounters cannot turn his mind away from Fermina . Fermina marries Dr . Juvenal Urbino ( Benjamin Bratt ) , travels widely , has his child and ultimately discovers her husband's infidelity . Florentino inherits his Uncle's shipping wealth , becoming one of the wealthy class that would have made him an eligible suitor for Fermina when he originally met her . But time changes everything except Florentino's commitment to Fermina and after the death of Dr . Urbino , he has the chance to realize his long awaited dream of being with the now 70 + year old lover . The story spans fifty years in an unnamed city in Columbia ( here Cartagena ) and across the beauty of both South America and Europe . All of the basic elements are in place : the important missing piece is the magic of Gabriel García Márquez's prose . The huge cast is wasted on a script that is less than pedestrian : Javier Bardem tries to make Florentino a credible sympathetic character but is stuck in the mud of his lines ; the brilliant Fernanda Montenegro attempts to paste together the pared down role of Florentino's mother ; an unremarkable Giovanna Mezzogiorno fails to make Fermina worthy of Florentino's devotion ; John Leguizamo is grossly and embarrassingly miscast ; fine actors such as Unax Ugalde , Liev Schrieber , Catalina Sandino Moreno , Ana Claudia Talancón , Hector Elizondo and others are little more than cardboard caricatures of the original creations . One wonders how Newell and Harwood could have strayed so far from the mark of the potential that this beautiful novel promised as a cinematic transition . But what resulted from their collaboration is an overlong , boring , and sloppy version of the original story . Sad to see fine actors wasted in this film . Grady Harp
American DREAMZ is a pitiful mess of a movie , a film that seems as though it wants to be a satire on the Bush administration , on talk show hosts , and on our current state of mindless entertainment that seems to keep high ratings and low IQs neck and neck . The story , what little there is , involves a bored talent show host ( Hugh Grant , who looks very down in the tooth ) desperate to get out of his mindless role , and hungry for people who are over the edge to come on his popular show and make fools of themselves . He manages to accomplish this from some rather innocent folks as well as the President of the United States ( GWB imitator Dennis Quaid , Laura Bush imitator Marcia Gay Harden , and Cheney imitator Willem Dafoe ) . Along the way we meet some fragments of characters portrayed by some fine actors who bought into this venture belonging to Paul Weitz for some unknown reason : Mandy Moore , Jennifer Coolidge , a promising Sam Golzari , Chris Klein , Seth Meyers , and Shohreh Aghdashloo . Satire can be one of the finest forms of art , but it requires a very intelligent script . That missing element is what drives this very unfunny carcass into the dumpster ! Grady Harp
' Saudade - Sehnsucht ' ( THE LONGING ) is a film by writer / director Jürgen Brüning who seems to have taken a vacation from Germany to Brazil with some friends and decided to make a movie as a means of entertainment . This film is less about characters and story development than it is about Brazilian beaches , snorkeling , fish butchering , second-rate pop music , and food . Ostensibly we find three friends who've had a rock band in Germany on vacation in Brazil : Cyrus ( Tarik Qazi ) is interested in finding his Brazilian mother ; Tim ( Daniel Bätscher ) remains determined to explore a new music sound ; Erik ( eye candy hunk Hendrik Scheider ) wants to find love . The three finance their excursion by making daily film clips of body contact to use on the internet dating business . Their housekeepers Maria ( Maria Lucia da Silva Ludwig ) and Angela ( Marilza da Cruz Pinto Gregião ) feed their interests as well as their appetites . Most of their time is spent in clubs and at the beaches , pursuing little but opportunism . Erik has a tryst on the sand with a Brazilian man one night that ends in a death that sours his desire . When another attractive Brazilian lad Miguel ( Aldri Anunciação ) catches Erik's eye the two begin a struggle for a relationship , but Erik's previous encounter colors his ability to find happiness . The actors are all attractive and given the fact that they have little to do but look alluring manage to make the film tolerable . But in the end the movie feels too self indulgent to satisfy any audience member . It is a piece of fluff disguised as a soap opera . Grady Harp
THE BREAK UP is one of those tiresome ' comedies ' that Hollywood grinds out on the basis of star power . In this case the star power begins with a story written by Vince Vaughn ( along with Jeremy Garelick and Jay Lavender ) , suffused with the same Vince Vaughn that is the ' character ' for all his films , and the DVD ends with an extended loquacious justification for the film given by - who else ? - Vince Vaughn . It is as tedious and boring as the actor himself , though legions of fans of potty mouth slapstick over-the-top loud-mouthed ' humor ' will doubtless disagree . Peyton Reed was brought in to control the overacting of the Vaughn character and actually is able to allow the other actors in this tired story a chance to shine . The story itself ? Vaughn and the superb and beautiful Jennifer Anniston meet clumsily at a Chicago Cubs baseball game where Vaughn introduces the overbearing obnoxious beast that he is in the first few minutes of the ' courtship ' . The courtship and marriage of these two people is contained in snapshots during the credits , sparing us form that extended episode . When the film actually begins we are already in the midst of a relationship on the skids : Vaughn ( a bus tour guide for Chicago with his two brothers Cole Hauser and Vincent D'Onofrio ) and Anniston ( an art gallery person working for the kinky and fabulous Judy Davis ) live in an elegant condominium which becomes the landing pad for a breakup of their tenuous marriage . It is a case of who can out gross who , all the while supported by mutual and individual friends . Anniston wants to feel appreciated ; Vaughn is insensitive and irresponsibly immature . How it works out is the only good thing about he film : it doesn't ! There are some fine little cameos for folks like Joey Lauren Adams , Jon Favreau , the above mentioned Judy Davis , Jason Bateman , Justin Long , Ann-Margret etc and they do what they can to add a bit of lustre to this venture , but it is the tedium of watching fighting between two people for 105 minutes that drags the picture down . The reason for 3 stars ? Jennifer Anniston who continues to prove she can overcome almost any bad script and make it watchable . Grady Harp
Tom Zuber has great credentials in Law but seems to prefer to dabble in the territory of cinema . Having not seen his debut film LANSDOWN ( 2001 ) it is difficult to judge from LITTLE ATHENS ( 2005 ) if he is improving with age , but looking at LITTLE ATHENS on its own merits it seems a bit sparse in idea and in production . Athens , Arizona is the bleak setting of this day in the lives of some fairly bored ( and boring ) youngsters , ne're-do-wells attempting to infuse sparkle into an otherwise glitterless place . Zuber creates four story lines , spottily interweaves them , and finally connects the dots in the last reel . The main problem is that comedy is funny because we care about the facilitators and here there really aren't any folks in which to invest . The cast tries hard and succeeds in giving us a taste of life in the flatlands of nothingville . D . J . Qualls ( a character type who is very good , as in ' Hustle and Flow ' ) , Michael Pena , John Patrick Amedori , Shawn Hatosi , Tory Kittles , Eric Szmanda , Jorge Garcia , Erica Leerhsen , and Michelle Horn are particularly fine and do their best with the material they are given . Tom Zuber has a style , a sense of non-scripted spontaneity incorporating the gross with the sadsack , and given time he may make a fine little film . This one just misses . Grady Harp
Frank E . Flowers is a newcomer to the cinema scene and his early outing HAVEN shows both the flaws and strengths of early work . Seemingly under the influence of the current successful trend of movies with multiple stories that are shot in cross sequence to show enigmatic interrelationships ( BABEL , TRAFFIC , CRASH , THE HOURS , etc ) , Flowers attempts to tie together big crime drama with intimate love story and the result , at this stage of film-making , is disjointed and aching for a good film editor . There are moments - but they require patience on the part of the viewer to stay with the film to the strange ending . The big crime idea is placed in the hands of Bill Paxton who with his daughter ( Agnes Bruckner of DREAMLAND ) takes his ' off shore money ' from Miami to Grand Cayman island under the tutelage of smarmy lawyer Stephen Dillane . An island character ( Victor Rasuk - a very promising young find from RAISING VICTOR VARGAS , LORDS OF DOGTOWN ) begins to put the play on Bruckner , a factor that involves him as an islander in the big crime syndicate from the US . Bump . Next story involves Orlando Bloom as a listless wanderer in love with an island beauty ( Zoe Saldana ) whose family objects to the liaison . The brother ( Anthony Mackie - who continues to find depth in roles in films like BROTHER TO BROTHER , HALF NELSON , THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE etc ) rages after Bloom , scarring him for life . The interplay within each story is well enough focused but the apparent compare-and-contrast motive of weaving these two disparate yet core-similar stories together is a problem for Flowers . The cast is a mixed bag , with some superb actors along side some wannabes . And oddly the top actors ( such as Bobby Cannavale ) are placed in less important roles than some of the lesser experienced ones . The film is pretty to look at , has its moments , and shows promise , but it is not one to place on the ' must see ' list . Grady Harp
POSTER BOY is a film with a lot of potential : the story premise is solid ( though a bit tired ) , the cast of both young and experienced actors is quite fine , and there are some worthwhile statements about our political system , about tolerance and acceptance and family , and about being true to yourself . Despite all of these aspects that should have made a fine little film the whole thing bogs down with some of the worst editing and camera work on record . That , and the writers ' ( Lecia Rosenthal and Ryan Shiraki ) need to place platitudes into normal conversation is most distracting . Zak Tucker as director just didn't seem to have control of this piece . The story itself is rather simple . Through the gimmick of a confession to a reporter we meet handsome young Henry Kray ( the talented Matt Newton ) , gay since early teens but electing to keep his private life a secret , who is the son of Senator Jack Kray ( Michael Lerner ) and his lovely but docile wife Eunice ( the fine Karen Allen ) . It seems that six months prior to the time we are invited into the conversation Henry met Anthony ( hunky Jack Noseworthy ) whose roommate is HIV positive Izzie ( Valerie Geffner ) . Henry and Anthony have a one-night stand the day before Jack Kray is to give a speech for re-election at Henry's college . The Senator accidentally hits Izzie with his car and Eunice insists Izzie stay with them in their suite where the two women bond . Meanwhile Henry's night with Anthony makes him late for the speech , but a talk to Henry from Jack before the speech telling him what to say ( Jack is the best father , loves family values , etc ) sticks in Henry's throat and soon after he obeys his father's wishes for the speech introduction , Henry turns to his table partner Anthony and the two kiss openly as the Senator is addressing the crowd - all caught by the media of course . How this moment of honesty alters the lives of everyone around is the crux of the ending . Not a bad tale , but the camera work is so patchy and disconcertingly disconnected that it defies the viewer to keep the storyline straight . But if the viewer can keep up visually , the performances by the cast are well worth attention . There is some very fine talent on the screen of this B movie ! Grady Harp
While no one would fault a writer / director from wanting to depict just how low life can descend , making a film script that is three-quarters repeated expletives and tiresome current slang terms ( ' dude ' , ' dog ' etc in place of names ) wears thin after the first half hour of HARSH TIMES . One wonders if David Ayer wanted to create the feeling in the theater ( or living room ! ) just with the tenor of the film . The story is so minimal that it needn't be summarized other than to say it is the downward spiral of an ex-army man ( Christian Bale ) and a wishy-washy burned out failure ( Freddy Rodriguez ) as they ignore the needs of the women who care about them ( a strong Eva Longoria ) and choose instead to drink , smoke pot , and act like bad children . The cast is a strong one - in search of a script that means something - but even Christian Bale and Freddy Rodriguez can't rescue this deflating balloon . It is just a sad film all the way around . Grady Harp
In 1985 sculptor Chris Van Allsburg published his first children's book , THE POLAR EXPRESS , which became an instant classic , especially appropriate for family reading during the holidays . The beauty of the book was not only a simple story about a lad's discovery of the real meaning of Christmas , but also the power of Allburg's glorious art - which was awarded with the Caldecott Medal in 1986 . Some of that book is retained and some of that is lost in this grossly overproduced , extravagantly expensive , film transition of the book . For reasons only known to director Robert Zemeckis , who also adapted the story for his film , and to his long time friend Tom Hanks , the decision was made to make not just an animated feature and not a computer enhanced film using actors , but a strange amalgamation of the two . We are seeing puppet-like characters morphed to resemble real people - and that must have caused the animators headaches but earned big money ! But despite the bigger than life extravaganza version of basically an intimate story , the theme comes through and the message is sweet . Whether the ' fillers ' heavily frosted on this version are additive is up to the taste of the viewer . But it is a tour de force for Hanks who plays almost everyone in the film , and it is evident that the film's heart is in the right place . Grady Harp
Paul Kampf is new to the game of writing and directing and has obviously been influenced by some filmmakers who tamper with the story and use flashbacks and flash forwards to enhance the richness of the theme line . In the case of BROTHERS THREE : AN American Gothic these borrowed techniques serve to confuse rather than enhance the appreciation of the film : the viewer is left with a feeling that too much is being taken for granted as far as additive information and too little attention is paid to character development and direction . The result is a bumpy ride of a movie that is in need of some postproduction surgery to make it appeal . In a desolate forest cabin we meet New York lawyer Peter ( Patrick Wilson ) who has been summoned to this childhood ' home ' by his brothers - the older Rick ( Neal McDonough ) and the younger , mentally challenged Norman ( Scott Michael Campbell ) . Rick is sullen and angry , Norman is pitifully confused and abused , and Peter tries to make sense of the reunion . The boys ' father ( John Heard ) is dead , leaving a will dividing his meager belongs among the three brothers . Through a series of confusing time changes in the guise of artistic flashbacks we discover that their mother is dead and that funeral attendance did not include the entire family , that Norman was the product of a drunken liaison with Loren ( Melora Walters ) who died at the hands of the father , and about other evidences of extreme family dysfunction . We also slowly discover the dark truths of the death of the alcoholic father , an incident that was brutal , but when the truth is revealed it unites the three brothers . All of this is played out in the filthy cabin where most of the time is spent in imbibing beer and in fights both real and playful . At times we are not sure whether we are in the present or the remembered past , and instead of adding to the drama , this somewhat amateurish manipulation leaves the audience confused . The acting level of Wilson , McDonough , Campbell and Heard has some fine moments and some extended moments that seem like tired adlibing . Tighter control from the writer / director would have helped - especially in the editing room . Grady Harp
Philip K . Dick has been the resource of stories for some very exciting films ( Minority Report , Total Recall , Blade Runner ) , but in NEXT , his short story ' The Golden Man ' as adapted by Gary Goldman and directed by Lee Tamahori , the concept of precognition as a human feature in altering the future falls into a video game format that becomes more action film and less human interest tale . Cris Johnson AKA Frank Cadillac ( Nicholas Cage ) is a sloe eyed Las Vegas grungy magician who has found a way to hide the fact that he has the gift to see two minutes into his future , a gift that rewards him at the gambling tables but draws attention from the FBI after a thwarted attempt on Cris ' part to stop a robbery is captured on video tape . The FBI , especially Agent Callie Ferris ( Julianne Moore ) , knows that a nuclear device has entered the USA by terrorists headed by ' Mr . Smith ' ( Thomas Kretschmann ) , and that if the device cannot be traced , a nuclear bomb threatens the lives of millions of citizens . Agent Callie observes Cris ' talent and engages him to aid in the discovery of the site of the device . But Chris ' powers lead him to a beautiful young woman Liz ( Jessica Biel ) with whom his powers to see into the future can be extended for more than the requisite 2 minutes . After a series of ' attempts ' at introduction , Cris and Liz bond , allowing Cris ' expanded powers to be of more help to the persistent Agent Callie . From that point on the film dissolves into yet another combustible crashing action flick with endless CG special effects , all but erasing the character development . And the ending is as one might expect - not very Philip K . Dick in style . Cage and Biel do well , Moore seems bored with her character , and Kretschman yet again embodies the evil of terrorism and beyond . There are some rather extraneous scenes on an Indian reservation that add little except the beauty of the Grand Canyon to the story , and there are some truly funny scenes of themes and variations on the chances we take in approaching a potential love source . But in the end all gets rather lost in the explosions ad infinitum that mark the film as a routine action flick . Grady Harp
VACANCY may not be the best thriller of the year , though it does provide three good performances from Kate Beckinsale , Frank Whaley and a surprise serious role for fine comedian Luke Wilson , but it stands apart from many by the fact that it unveils a piece of the underbelly of crime by addressing the creation of snuff films ( films made by strange minds that show the death of the actors , and whether or not we like to believe it , there is an audience for that ! ) . The fact that the film ( as shown in the very good featurette additions ) was filmed entirely on a studio set adds to the admiration that grows after the fright diminishes . And writer Mark L . Smith and director Nimród Antal deserve credit for their project . The plot is simple : on a night road married couple Amy ( Kate Beckinsale ) and David Fox ( Luke Wilson ) are lost and the tension of the night only ads to the fact that this couple is in the throes of a broken marriage , one that fractured at the accidental death of their only son . Frustrated and angry with each other and their plight , they end up stranded in the middle of nowhere and check in to a morbid motel managed by the oily and repulsive Mason ( Frank Whaley ) . From the moment they enter their room they realize something is wrong : the videos on the television are snuff films filmed in the room in which they are staying . From there the action of the film speeds up and is a non-stop ingenious attempt to escape the killers that besiege their room . The trauma of the night makes Amy and David reconsider their history and the film ends with a grande guignol bang . Beckinsale and Wilson make a credible couple and the writer and director have opted to make the film more about the relationship of the estranged couple than just about horror . It works . This is not a great film , but it is an entertaining one - as well as frighteningly informative . . . ! Grady Harp
Oliver Stone has always been a director of grit , one who was unafraid to take on controversial subjects and create powerful films that opened the audience's eyes to the mire below the surface . In WORLD TRADE CENTER he seems to have taken the opposite stance : take an historic tragedy that affected the entire world and reduce it sown to the entrapment of two Port Authority Police Officers in the rubble of the midline of the two towers destruction in hopes that the event might become more intimate . He manages to just the opposite - he makes a huge horrific tragedy seem like a family crisis and despite casting some fine actors in the roles of actual people , the film falls short of communicating the bigger picture . The film starts well enough with two of the policemen rising early in the Am to go to routine duty , then the unrecognizable ' bump ' sound occurs and quite to everyone's disbelief the events of that terrible day unfold in a manner that does indeed convey the complete surprise of a nation of people unfamiliar with terror happening on home ground . The Port Authority Police enter the impending collapse of the towers to save victims only to become quickly trapped in the rubble , reducing their ranks to two men who hold on for survival that finally comes . Nicholas Cage is the sergeant John McLoughlin who is trapped with Will Jimeno ( Michael Peña ) while John's wife Donna ( Maria Bello ) and Will's pregnant wife Allison ( Maggie Gyllenhaal ) cope with the news of the day and the discovery that their husbands are trapped in the rubble . The long movie is a back and forth interplay between the trapped men and the terror of the families . Where Stone drops his credibility is in focusing on a retired Marine Staff Sergeant Dave Karnes ( Michael Shannon ) who upon hearing of the disaster gets a marine haircut and travels to the spot looking for survivors at night , eventually discovering John and Will and getting help for them to be rescued . That is all well and good , but the film adds the tag line ' We'll avenge the terrorists who did this ' that seems like a credo for the irresponsible governmental attack on Iraq . It just takes away the film's energy and makes it a political PR piece . And that is too bad : the other film UNITED 93 is a far superior work in depicting the personal aspect of a national tragedy . Grady Harp
STRAY CATS ( PUSANG GALA ) is a an odd but in the end endearing mixture of cinematic styles , soap opera drama , tender little comedy , and hefty measures of relationship philosophy : perhaps this is the Filipino brand of magical realism . Based on a play by Jun Lana and adapted for the screen by Rody Vera and writer / director Ellen Ongkeko-Marfil , the movie boasts a fine little cast and it is the cast's commitment to the project that sets the film sailing . Boyet ( Ricky Davao ) , a mother-like gay man who takes in stray cats ( including the human form ) , lives in an apartment complex : his next door neighbor is Martha ( Irma Adlawan ) , a successful business woman whose evenings are usually spent alone pining for her often absentee boyfriend of five years , Steve ( Reggie Curley ) . Martha and Boyet are close friends , to the point that Boyet's writing career is focused on the love tangles of Martha as well as his own absentee lover situation with the manipulative Dom ( Lauren Novero ) . Boyet has a live-in ' son ' , JoJo ( Alcris Galura ) , a lad whose street life as an abandoned boy has stuck the heart of the mothering Boyet . The story bounces between Boyet's and Martha's fantasies about their boyfriends ' commitment problems , and while each of the two character's love lives are well defined ( both straight and gay and in between ! ) , the method of the story telling makes dissecting fact from fantasy a bit of a challenge . The ending of the film contains a twist that will surprise audiences who expect a light fluffy comedy . The film takes place in the Philippines and is in a mixture of Tagalog and English . While the story has some holes and problems , the cast is energetic and committed and the result is a fairly entertaining , if somewhat rough , little diversion . Grady Harp
THE LAST VICTORY may appear on the DVD cover to be a story film , but in truth it is a documentary - in other words the story within the film is true and untampered . That fact makes the film even more entertaining , especially to those who love Italy and the traditions about which the casual visitor knows too little . In Siena there is an annual horserace called the ' Palio ' in the city's center piazza ( Piazza del Campo ) . The event dates back to medieval times and represents the theme of solidarity of the seventeen various neighborhoods ( contrada ) of Siena , each of which has a symbol and a coat of arms with accompanying flags and regalia . THE LAST VICTORY follows one of these contrada - Civetta - as its closely bonded families prepare for the Palio . They wear the colors , they set up long tables of food , and they raise money to compete in the race . A few days before the Palio each contrada wins a horse through what seems like a lottery and that horse is praised by the populace , a jockey is chosen and the race begins . The tender part of this ritual is supported by the fact that director John Appel has selected members of Civetta - Egidio Mecacci , Paolo Rossi , Alma Savini , Roberto Papei , Camilla Marzucchi and others - and follows their moods and exceitement and preparation for the big event . The 92 year old Egidio is perhaps the most charismatic as he relates the sad history that that the Civetta has not won the race since 1979 and all hopes ' ride ' on the beautiful horse that is assigned to them . The preparations are intense : the piazza is ringed with dirt over the stones to create a running track , the horse is groomed , and the members of the neighborhood gather and sing and eat in hopes they will win the Palio . The ending of the race is best left for the viewer to see , but in the course of just over a minute the race is complete and the impact the results have on the Civetta are telling . Appel and his crew have captured the essence of an important Sienese tradition and this little quiet film shares insights into the Italian sense of camaradiere and familia that is all too rarely seen today . The film is touching and worth viewing - for education and for entertainment well presented as a documentary . Grady Harp
Coming across a movie on the shelf that boasts a cast of fine actors but has a title that seems to have appeared out of nowhere takes a bit of faith to rent / buy it . Such is the case for THE SIMIAN LINE , a film by TV director Linda Yellen ( who also co-wrote story with Michael Leeds and brought in Gisela Bernice to pen the screenplay ) that is just enough off center to keep a movie edgy but very entertaining . Katherine ( Lynn Redgrave ) is a real estate person in New Jersey and is part of a May / December affair with stained glass artist Rick ( Harry Connick Jr . ) . She leases the house adjoining hers to a Manhattan couple Paul ( Jamey Sheridan ) and Sandra ( Cindy Crawford ) who are waiting for a financial break . Other tenants include Marta ( Monica Keena ) and Billy ( hunky Dylan Bruno ) both of whom are waiting for their break into Rock band status . At a welcoming party Rick invites Arnita ( Tyne Daly ) , a frumpy but kind fortune teller / spiritual communicator who upon entering Katherine and Rick's home sees two ghosts Edward ( William Hurt ) and Mae ( Samantha Mathis ) who are ' hanging around invisible to all , but with ongoing comments about love lost and the past . Arnita predicts that by New Year's Eve one of the couples will be separated , and with a bad taste in everyone's mouth the party folks oust her , but not until Arnita leaves her business cards . The remainder of the story deals with each couple's anxiety about being the one that will break up : Katherine fears the younger Rick is falling for Sandra , Paul fears Sandra is losing interest in his failing business problems , and Marta is called to claim her little boy Jimmy ( Jeremy Zelig ) whose father is a man she met during a previous breakup with Billy . And they all seek advice from Arnita . How these dilemmas resolve and which of the couples parts company is the puzzle of the story and it is resolved well - if a bit saccharine . The cast is uniformly excellent ( Eric Stoltz has a small but key part ) and Linda Yellen knows how to gain the best from her talented cast . Yes , it is a bit of a feel good movie - but what is wrong with dessert now and then ? Worth attention . Grady Harp
Even before hitting the screens , the PR machine was wild with rumors about re-writes , cuts , revisions , and doom so that when ELIZABETHTOWN finally entered the theaters it was a short gasp before it was gone . Didn't see it in the theaters , but watching this little film on DVD makes this viewer wonder just why the movie was so poorly received . Yes , it is lengthy ( over two hours ) for a story that is fairly slight , and yes , it is a bit self indulgent even for writer director Cameron Crowe , and it is true the script is odd and patchy and contains big dollops of mushy philosophy . But given all that , if you take your time and relax your expectations , this is a nice little film with many good things going for it . Drew ( Orlando Bloom ) is a bright and successful designer who has spent the last eight years of his life designing the Spasmodic show for a big Oregon firm led by Alec Baldwin . But the shoe is a bust , costs the company nearly a billion dollars , and costs Drew his job . Simultaneously his girlfriend dumps him and Drew finds himself on a machine design for suicide - when the phone rings and his sister informs him his father just died while he was in his hometown of Elizabethtoen , Kentucky . As the eldest Drew must go make the arrangements . Drew books a flight on an empty airline with only the stewardess as companion - the kooky but funny and very sweet Claire ( Kirsten Dunst ) who begins a long conversation about names , Drew's life , her life , etc . When Drew lands in Louisville he thinks he is saying goodbye ( " I'm good at remembering goodbye looks " ) to Claire , but in reality Claire follows Drew through his time in Elizabethtown and eventually assists him in rethinking and rediscovering the true meaning of success and happiness in a road trip that follows the funeral . The townsfolk of Elizabethtown are a warm and oddball crew who awaken in Drew an appreciation for his father , memories dormant and set aside for the sake of his own misbegotten success . The town loved his father and it is only after Drew convinces his sister ( Judy Greer ) and mother ( Susan Sarandon ) to come to Elizabethtown for the memorial service to end all memorial services that Drew can begin his own Claire-designed road trip with father's ashes that the whole story takes on some meaning . With some judicious pruning of a script constipated by verbiage or lazy phrases and with a bit of editing and fleshing out of some of the characters , this little non-pretentious story might have just become that - unpretentious . But Cameron Crowe is Cameron Crowe for all that , and accepting his style is necessary to sit back and have a nice little evening with these nice folks . Grady Harp
Kar Wai Wong is as much a visual artist as a film director and his forté has always been making beautiful , multileveled images on a screen that is trying to see clearly the outlines of character development . Such is the case in his first English language film MY BLUEBERRY NIGHTS , a creation he wrote ( with Lawrence Block ) as well as directed . While the ' story ' boasts a cast of fine actors , the emphasis seems less on character delineation than on creating a cinematic stream of consciousness . A New York Russian bakery / café is operated by immigrant Jeremy ( Jude Law ) and into this milieu comes the newly jilted Elizabeth ( Norah Jones - who also provides much of he sound track singing for the film ) . She leaves her boyfriend's keys with Jeremy as a sign of resignation but continues to nightly check to see if her ex-boyfriend has shown up to claim them . This is the premise for the formation of a bond between Jeremy and Elizabeth , but without solidifying that bond , Elizabeth runs off to greener pastures . She settles in Tennessee where she finds work as both a waitress and a bar maid and meets the down and out alcoholic policeman Arlo ( David Strathairn ) who pines away for his tacky , gallivanting wife Sue Lynne ( Rachel Weisz ) . Leaving that story piece unresolved , Elizabeth then moves to Las Vegas where she becomes friends with a young , loser gambler Leslie ( Natalie Portman ) who manages to waste Elizabeth's savings for a car on yet another misjudged gambling night . Through this cavalcade of losers Elizabeth continues to write postcards to Jeremy and the ending is blatantly predictable . There are some moments of memorable dialog : ' Sometimes , even if you have the keys those doors still can't be opened . Can they ? ' ' Even if the door is open , the person you're looking for may not be there ' . But for the most part this is a visual feast for those who love Kar Wai Wong's genre . The plot is thin as is the dialogue and the actors work to make the most of the outlines of conversation that they embellish with their own spontaneous words . If it feels improvised to the viewer then the viewer has entered the realm of Kar Wai Wong . This is a film for art film lovers - it is very beautiful to watch ! Grady Harp
Not being a golfer or a fan of biographies of sportsmen , this viewer found a surprising amount of satisfaction in this recreation of the life of Bobby Jones , whose fame in the game of golf is legendary . So the question arises : " How can a film about golf maintain such a viewer's attention and appreciation ? " The answer lies in the physical production of this beautiful little film . Capturing the essence of the world in the 1920s and 1930s not only in costuming and manners and atmosphere but in sociologic and philosophic vantages , Director Rowdy Herrington has ably explored the life and times of the reluctant hero in a way that exhumes a period in history when everyone needed something to believe in . Actors Jim Caviezel , Malcolm McDowell , Jeremy Northam , and Claire Forlani not only look their parts : their demeanor before the camera absorbs the state of mind of America lapsing from the riotous 20s to the massive depression of the 30s . Bobby Jones physical problems , both self induced and genetic , are explored with just enough veracity to make him more of a well-rounded character than a cardboard saint ( we don't learn the name of his neurological disorder - syringomyelia - until the final credits ) . His struggle against seemingly insurmountable odds to move through every golfing challenge of his day and succeed beyond the realm of possibility is well captured in Caviezel's delicately nuanced performance . Not a great movie , but certainly worth more attention than it received in the theaters . You don't need to be a golfer to appreciate the beauty of this little moment of nostalgia . Grady Harp
BANDIDAS may not set new standards for film-making , whether those standards are for westerns , comedies , action flicks , or slapstick , but it is just as awful lot of fun to watch ! The script by Luc Besson and Robert Mark Kamen is pretty shallow and at times borders on maudlin , but it is also peppered with some little one-liners that allow the stars to show off their comedic talents . Directors Joachim Roenning and Espen Sandberg are neophytes and wisely allow the star qualities of Salma Hayek and Penélope Cruz to reign and have a good time both as opposites ( Hayak comes from money and education and Cruz comes from the farm ) and as partners is bank robbing - done of course in the Robin Hood manner . The bad guy is the reliable Dwight Yoakim and the fall guy is the always lively Steve Zahn . The quasi-good guy who trains the divas to be robbers is portrayed by Sam Shepard . And that is about all the viewer needs to know to realize the movie is in good hands . No , the story isn't particularly ' find themselves - dividing their concentration between settling evil vendettas and vying for best kisser role with Steve Zahn . This is a comedy , folks , and a good lighthearted outing for two of our best actresses . Worth an evening's viewing ! Grady Harp
Director Sherry Horman and writer Benedikt Gollhardt have not introduced any new ideas in ' Männer wie wir ' ( ' Guys and Balls ' ) - team sports dependent on camaraderie , outsiders getting the last laugh , coming out stories with sports as a background , homophobia to the max , and stereotypical depictions of gay men - but they have created a movie that has enough charm to get past all of the above . It is that kind of movie that makes you groan ' Oh no , not again ' , but then ends up making you feel warm and sentimental despite yourself ! Ecki ( a very charismatic and hunky Maximilian Brückner ) has grown up in a rural town , the son of a baker , and a committed soccer fan since childhood . Now as a young man he is sought after by his girlfriend Cordula ( Melody Sitta ) but is unable to respond to her advances . As the popular goalie on his soccer team he is hailed until quite by accident he is discovered in warm embrace with a teammate : the teammate and the team trash him for being gay , his father ( Dietmar Bär ) throws him out of the house , and poor Ecki departs for Dortmund to live with his sister , swearing to his team that he will return with a gay soccer team to defeat the homophobic jerks . Ecki and his sister Susanne ( Lisa Potthoff ) pair off to find gay team players and find them they do , in the strangest places ( this is where the film sags due to the stereotypes the director elected to cast ) . Ecki creates a solid team , falls in love with his sister's co-worker nurse Sven ( David Rott ) and despite some minor setbacks , the team boards the bus to return to Ecki's hometown to face off the enemy home team . Yes , it ends as you would imagine , but along the way the writer and director manage to make a few healthy comments about being true to yourself and your convictions . Despite everything predictable about the film , the actors - Brückner , Roth , Potthoff , Bär , Carlo Ljubek , Saskia Vester et al - bring a homespun credibility to the story . This is one of those films that requires forgiving its shortcomings to just enjoy the ride .
Jack Hazan's quasi-documentary A BIGGER SPLASH is an unfocused examination about the creative life of David Hockney and supposedly about the effect of his past relationship with his pupil Peter Schlesinger ( an artist , sculptor , and photographer who Hockney not only enjoyed as a lover but as a disciple ) . The précis appears to be that Hockney , in the throes of disappointment about the dissolution of his affair with Peter , decides to move to California where he has already been established as a painter of California people and places . In London we meet his friends - Celia Birtwell , the elegantly stylishly beautiful model Hockney used repeatedly , dress designer Ossie Clark , confidant Mo McDermott , and patron Henry Geldzahler - each of whom Hockney painted and drew . We watch as Hockney visits the galleries and admires works of his friends , how he paints in his studio , how he relates to his gallerists ( like Paul Kasmin ) , and how he perceives men and other artists . Peter Schlesinger figures prominently in the film with many episodes of Peter's swimming in the pools of the people Hockney would eventually immortalize . He is a fine presence and carries his silent role well - almost appearing as a ghost muse that keeps Hockney focused on his now infamous swimming pool paintings . The magic of this film , for those to whom Hockney is a well known and important painter , is the visual recreation of the paintings that have made him so famous : we are allowed to see Celia and her husband with white cat in context with the canvas , the view of Peter staring into the pool at an under water swimmer , the woman and her animal heads who appears in another of Hockney's famous paintings at poolside , etc . This kind of cinematic background is valuable now and will prove invaluable to the archives of David Hockney . For those people this is a must-see film , despite its meandering technique and choppy editing . For others , it may seem too self-indulgent .
First time screenwriter David Patterson adapted his own play ' Finger Painting in a Murphy Bed ' for the film LOVE , LUDLOW making the onus of the success of the film rest heavily on his shoulders . Fortunately the producers found first-time director Adrienne J . Weiss who has capably transformed a delicate triangle into a solid little comedy . If polish is lacking in the final product it can easily be forgiven by the fact that this is a new venture . A three character story , each of the three people we get to know is borderline functional in their approach to life and the world at large . Myra ( Alicia Goranson ) is a hard working office temp but is socially crippled by the fact that she is the caretaker for her bipolar brother Ludlow ( Brendan Sexton III ) who is confined to their tiny apartment and demands every ounce of Myra's attention . At work , love starved but socially anxious Myra meets Reggie ( David Eigenberg ) , a gentle naive soul who has never been in any type of relationship . The two socially inept people find ' something that is missing ' in their lives , but when Myra faces the fact that she is confined to quarters due to the obligation compulsive Ludlow's care and when Reggie meets Ludlow and realizes Myra is unable to move out of her life space due to Ludlow's childlike tantrums and demands , the strange trio's compatibility is challenged and the method in which the three cope with the big decisions in their lives is the resolution of the movie . The dialogue is sharp but more in keeping with a stage drama than a film : there is a lack of flow , which is not the fault of the editors or the cinematographer or the director . The script is stage bound . But given that fact , this is a modern comedy , funny at times , aching at times , but always reflecting the innate humor in even the saddest of human lives . The trio of leads gives fine performances as do the supporting cast members . In a year where sibling dysfunction is one of the topics du jour , LOVE , LUDLOW holds up well in the competition . Grady Harp
BIGGER THAN THE SKY has the feel of an Indie that was made out of a lot of love and commitment from all concerned . That's a good thing , but at the beginning of this little film the viewer questions whether or not the actors can make the story fly - and if you actually want to take the trip with them . But stick it out because a sound film well made rewards the hesitation . It is a ' little man finds his way ' tale that makes good sense and provides good entertainment . Peter Rooker ( Marcus Thomas ) is in a depressed slump after his girlfriend has dumped him . He is a ' cellophane man ' computer artist , living the solitary life , noticed by no one , longing for a feeling of belonging . The place is Portland , Oregon . Peter notes the posting of auditions for a Portland Community Theater production of ' Cyrano de Bergerac ' and slowly decides to attempt a moment of belonging by auditioning for the play : if he could just land a small part at least he'd belong . At the auditions he meets the warmly friendly theatrical group : Michael ( John Corbett ) who is a fine actor with no sense of future , Grace ( Amy Smart ) a pretty young sprite and competent trouper , director Edwina ( Clare Higgins ) who is a true theater person preferring to unmask the real Cyrano rather than hide him behind the infamous nose , sassy costumer Mrs . Keene ( Patty Duke ) , and theater founder and adviser Kippy ( Alan Corduner ) who has retired from the theater due to his progressive cancer . To everyone's surprise , especially Peter's , Peter lands the title role of Cyrano while Michael becomes Christian and Grace becomes Roxanne . Edwina's faith in the audition honesty of Peter has bolstered her own commitment to her dreams and she works with the cast to mold this very inexperienced ( read lousy ) actor into the tough role of Cyrano . Peter finds joy in the camaraderie of the actors , and for the first time in his life he becomes a social person . As the play is rehearsed Peter and Michael and Grace become a misguided trio - Peter does not understand the promiscuous life of the actors - and when Peter loses his job because of his increased involvement in the theater , he is informed that Edwina is forced to replace him with a seasoned actor Ken Zorbell ( Sean Astin ) at the 13th hour . As good comedies go there are unexpected turns of events at every level of the remaining time until the opening night and the ending results in the personal growth of each of the actors and company . There are some well-drawn performances from John Corbett , Amy Smart , Clare Higgins , Patty Duke ( in two roles ) , Alan Corduner , and ultimately Marcus Taylor ( he is so convincingly an untrained actor at the beginning of the film that the audience will think he is wholly without talent ! ) . Director Al Corley keeps the community theater magic alive and Rodney Patrick Vaccaro's script is sparkled by incidental quotes from Rostand's play . And to sum up the final product of the film in Cyrano's word , it has ' panache ' . Not a great film , but a warm little story that examines the lonely lives of people who need the stage of a community theater to find themselves . Grady Harp
Walter Salles has proved himself a formidable director with his successes in ' Central Station ' , Behind the Sun ' , and The Motorcycle Diaries ' : he is an artist unafraid to approach unfamiliar terrain in his growth as a director , yet always proving that the most important element in making a good film is to explore the characters more than just the atmosphere . Those who find faults with DARK WATER seem to be concentrating on critiques of special effects and manufactured terror machines . Where Salles succeeds in this adaptation of the original Japanese film by Kôji Suzuki ( novel ) and Hideo Nakata ( director ) is his concentration on developing interesting and strange people , characters with whom we can identify and thus whose encounters with the ' unknown ' feel more intensely internal . The story has been related ad infinitum : Dahlia ( Jennifer Connelly ) and her daughter Cecelia ( Ariel Gade ) move from Manhattan away from her recently estranged husband Kyle ( Dougray Scott ) to a creaky apartment building on Roosevelt Island to the benefit of real estate agent Mr . Murray ( John C . Reilly ) and under the suspicious eye of building super Veeck ( Pete Postlethwaite ) . The building and the constant rain are ominous from the start but soon strange events happen that suggest either mental decline of both Dahlia and Ceci or the presence of ghosts . The title of the film describes not only the bleak atmospheric element that drives the story but also the netherworld that admixes surrealistic phenomena with psychosis . Characters enter the story naturally and comfortably : Jeff Platzer ( Tim Roth ) offers his legal defense of Dahlia in a manner that belies his mode of existence ; Ceci's Teacher ( Camryn Manheim ) brings reality testing to the fuzzy world of imaginary friends ; Alison Sealy-Smith as a supervisor where Dahlia seeks work is one of Dahlia's few kind encounters . Though the pacing seems slow it does march like the descent of a mind into the unknown and Salles manages that well . The film's cinematography by Affonso Beato maintains the grunge effect that intensifies the terror and Angelo Badalamenti has provided a musical score that bears just the right amount of supportive suspense . But as with other Salles movies the work is supported by truly fine acting and once again Jennifer Connelly proves she can convey much with very little . Give this film a chance , without comparisons to other films of the genre , and see what Walter Salles can do with a story . Grady Harp
DÉJÀ VU is a riveting film about time travel in tandem with crime investigation that works on every level . Tony Scott is back in his element as the top director of intrigue / thrillers . Working with a challenging script by Bill Marsilii and Terry Rossio that asks the viewer to accept the possibility of time travel , Scott is able to make the story work clearly despite the interplay of mixing the viewing of the past form the vantage of the present with placing a character into that past to alter it . The setting is New Orleans , still suffering from the devastation of Katrina , where a ferryboat explodes killing hundreds of people . ATF ( Alcohol , Tobacco , Firearms ) agent Doug Carlin ( Denzel Washington ) is brought into the investigation of the ' accident ' when he discovers elements that suggest the explosion was the act of a terrorist . Agent Pryzwarra ( a very fat Val Kilmer ) and his team of secretive experts ( Adam Goldberg , Elden Henson , Erika Alexander and Bruce Greenwood ) introduce Doug to a highly sophisticated machine that coordinates cameras and heat detectors from satellites and security cameras that is able to mix images and reveal the past - a tricky means of examining a crime scene ex post facto to capture the perpetrators . Spurred on with Doug's discovery of a beautiful female body ( Paula Patton ) washed up from the water before the explosion , Doug examines all the evidence , observing the replay of the days leading up to the explosion , and finally asks to be placed in a time machine to return to the scene in hopes of altering the inevitable and unmasking the terrorist ( Jim Caviezel ) . How this occurs forms the climax of the film , and while many viewers may have trouble swallowing the time travel aspect , the action is so tight and the technique of creating the incident so convincing that few viewers will fail to be wholly involved . The cast is excellent , beginning with Denzel Washington as a terrific lead to the work of Jim Caviezel and all the more minor roles in between . The musical score by Harry Gregson-Williams and the cinematography by DP Paul Cameron heighten the tension of this exciting suspense movie . Grady Harp
JACKNIFE is a fine adaptation of Stephen Metcalfe's play ' Strange Snow ' ( the screenplay was also written by Metcalfe ) , sensitively directed by David Hugh Jones , that explores the too frequently forgotten effect of battle on veterans damaged permanently by the heinous cruelties of war . It is especially poignant to return to this 1989 film now as we watch the soldiers returning from the war in Iraq and the raw treatment they are receiving in our Veterans ' Hospitals . Three friends went off to the Vietnam War together and only two returned alive : the problem is that while both men suffered in battle the one David ' Highschool ' Flannigan ( Ed Harris ) is so severely damaged by posttraumatic stress syndrome that he ' exists ' in a drunken vacuum with his very plain schoolteacher sister Martha ( Kathy Baker ) . As David deteriorates his buddy Joseph ' Jacknife ' Megessey ( Robert De Niro ) returns to the town in an attempt to help his friend . In the course of events Jacknife at first offers succor to Martha and eventually the two date - at a Prom Martha must attend - and at that prom drunken David completely falls apart , destroying relics in the school and terrifying the townspeople and students . Jacknife makes Dave relive the moment in Vietnam when they lost their buddy and in doing so brings David to the point where he can begin his climb toward recovery . And the long-suffering Martha finds her needs tended by Jacknife , too . All three actors give astonishingly fine performances : Ed Harris offers one of his most fully realized roles while De Niro and Baker maintain the high standards set by their careers . More people should help resurrect this all but forgotten film as it is a brittle reminder of the damages our wars bring to the men who fight them and to the families who receive them after battle's end . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
ON GUARD delivers . Better than almost all other French swordplay films , this film version of the Paul Féval novel ' Le Bossu ' has been aptly adapted for the screen by de Broca , Jean Cosmos , and Jérôme Tonnerre and under Phillipe de Broca's keen eye for detail and entertainment it effervesces on the screen . The story is solid but predictable : a young swordsman Lagardère ( a brilliant Daniel Auteuil ) falls into the service of the Duke of Nevers ( Vincent Perez in a dashing role ) to recover the Duke's daughter Aurore ( Marie Gillain ) . But the evil Gonzague ( Fabrice Luchini ) kills the Duke and the remainder of the non-stop romance involves the revenge and eventual love story of Lagardère and Aurore . de Broca's style is lushly authentic for the period yet he manages to always infuse his story with light touches of comedy , lush lighting and spectacular photography . The cast is uniformly excellent . This is one of those ' escapist movies ' that is bound to entertain and please even the most critical audience ! In French with English subtitles . Recommended . Grady Harp
Now and then along comes a film that deals with subject matter that is not well known and when that subject matter involves paranormal information , it seems to throw up a wall that is threatening to many viewers . " Walls " like that are usually the first response to encountering new ideas and if viewers can simply watch this well made film without prejudices , then perhaps the study of after death experiences will gain attention that in turn will encourage further investigation . WHITE NOISE as written by Niall Johnson and directed by Geoffrey Sax explores the concept of EVP or Electronic Voice Phenomenon , a ' science ' of recognizable words that are picked up by various electronic machines ( telephones , televisions , radios , etc ) , words that are names of the deceased , phrases that send messages to the living ( according to the scientists that work with this field the majority of the phrases are warnings of malevolent occurrences ) , sounds that are reproducible and are even accompanied by visual images of the departed . The DVD of this movie contains reports from those exploring this field and examples of EVP from resources outside the production of this film , providing some backup that should you watch them are informative . John Rivers ( Michael Keaton ) is a successful architect happily married to successful novelist Anna ( Chandra West ) living in the elegant suburbs of Vancouver with his young son from a previous marriage . Anna has just discovered that she is pregnant and the couple is ecstatic . Anna drives off to an event concerning her latest novel but never returns . Her car is found by the water but she is not in the car . John wants to believe she is still alive until the police inform him the body has been found , Devastated , John begins to hear strange sounds , discovers he is being ' stalked ' , but when he confronts the ' stalker ' he finds a kind Raymond Price ( Ian McNeice ) who tells John about EVP and that he has been receiving messages from Anna . John scoffs and yet as his anguish over Anna's death threatens to paralyze him he eventually contacts Price . In Price's ' home lab ' he meets Sarah ( Deborah Kara Unger ) who has just successfully spoken with and seen her departed husband . Slowly John becomes convinced that EVP is viable and begins receiving information from Anna about events in and around Vancouver that predict malevolence . John engages the police and pursues the messages he hears from Anna , finding predictions from beyond to be true . Price admonishes John that while some of the voices from the other side are loving , others are evil and can destroy . And after the bizarre death of Price , John and Sarah join in pursuing clues that eventually lead to the surprising conclusion of the story . Yes , there are gaping holes in the script , there are character motivations left unexplained , and there is the unfortunate introduction of animation ' ghosts ' toward the finale that cheapen the impact . But the mood is terrifying and jolting and keeps you on the edge of your seat - if you just give in to the idea that EVP is a possibility . Michael Keaton gives a superb performance in this practically one-man show and his portrayal of John gives the tone of authenticity much needed in stories such as this . If you are a skeptic and not one who gives credence to concepts of afterlife or communication with the deceased or in general anything that can't be covered by a media group from CNN , then this film will probably not register . But for those with open minds this is a fine suspense story and serves to open windows into thought experiences others are exploring . Grady Harp
WALKER PAYNE , as written by director Matt Williams and Alex Paraskevas , is a bleak study of life in the late 1950s middle America . It is a story of dreams crushed by the tough realities of bad luck and bad decisions . For some viewers this story may be depressing , but for others the story as a cinematic recreation of a period of time in America is full of fine details and boasts a cast of excellent actors who manage to involve us in the fleeting hopes and the permanent scars that are magnified during difficult times and circumstances . Walker Payne ( Jason Patric ) , a lovable man with a prison record , works in an Illinois coal mine , spends his free time womanizing , yet is strongly attached to his two young daughters who now live with his estranged wife ( Drea de Matteo ) - a woman angry with her plight in life , having sacrificed her dreams of being a nurse to move to the little mining town , surviving as a waitress without child support from the financially delinquent Walker . His closest companion is his Pit Bull dog Brute who accompanies him everywhere . Walker longs to have his girls live with him , but the injured wife puts a price on that wish : she will give him possession of the girls for a fee of $5000 . , a figure she has calculated will pay for her leaving the little town she hates and pay for tuition and boarding in nursing school . Walker is at a loss for funds , especially when the mine shuts down and he is unemployed . Seeking help from his banker friend does not result in a loan but does acquaint him with a new woman in town - Audrey ( KaDee Strickland ) - a proper girl with her own reasons for ' escaping ' to the solitudes of the little mining town where she has a responsible position in the bank . Walker's close friend ( Bruce Dern ) collects stray animals and cares for them and is the source of Walker's gaining Brute as a pet , but when the desperate Walker seeks employment there , no funds are available for his help . Walker's roving romantic eye focuses on Audrey who plays hard to get until she sees how desperate Walker is to get the money to gain custody of his daughters , a fact which positively alters her perception of Walker . About this time Walker meets Syrus ( Sam Shepard ) , a man who gambles and makes under cover deals : one of his ' games ' is to find dogs who can fight for money and as he gets loser to Walker's desperation , he convinces him to train Brute to ' be the dog he was bred to be - a fighter ' . Walker hesitates until he realizes this is his only chance to make the money to gain his little girls . Brute is trained , wins a fight , and Syrus then challenges Walker to enter a championship fight that will provide all the money Walker needs . Very reluctantly Walker steps into what is a scheme that results in tragedies in which he seems to lose it all - his dog , his freedom , his new love , and his girls . The audience is left to wade through the depression of the last portion of the film and create individual versions of how the story could possibly end . There are some unresolved issues dealing with the motivations of some of the characters , but the film is very strong in allowing the viewer to understand the extremes to which people will go in times of crisis . Many portions of the film are difficult to watch ( the dog fights are graphic ) , but somehow the actors are able to create strong enough impressions that our attention is focused more on the desperate and fragile dreams of each of the characters . The musical score by Mason Daring enhances the visceral cinematography by James L . Carter . This is a dark film with moments of human frailty that provide small beams of hopeful light . Grady Harp
MILWAUKEE , MINNESOTA has everything you'd hope to find in an Indie film - good offbeat story , strong cast mixing established actors with new talent that brings out the best in both , a director who lets the story unfold naturally , enough messages to cast away any doubts that the world is lacking in spirit and caring , and an impressive list of contributors that demonstrates that there are many people who appreciate and love fine film . Writer Richard Murphy and Director Allan Mindel have shaped a tale about a mentally challenged young man and his inner strengths that allow him to make his mark on the world through sheer courage : they have succeeded in creating a memorable , touching , warmly human film . Albert Burroughs ( Troy Garity ) is a twenty-something sweet lad , mentally challenged but able to maintain a job as a copy clerk for old man McNally ( Bruce Dern ) while he is closely overprotected by his mother Edna ( Debra Monk ) . Troy's one pastime is ice fishing and because he is sensitive to the language of the fishes he has become the champion ice fisher of Wisconsin , earning prizes that amount to considerable savings ! Worried that the outside world ( outside of Milwaukee ! ) might be abusive to her son , Edna has prevented his entering contests in such places as neighboring Minnesota , places where Albert could truly become a star . Quite suddenly Edna is killed in by a hit and run driver and Albert is left to his own devices for survival . News of his inheritance and contest winnings seeps into the world and characters begin to appear to take advantage of ' the retard ' : the smarmy Jerry ( Randy Quaid ) tries to convince Albert he is his real father ; Tuey ( Allison Folland ) and her cancerphobic younger brother Stan ( Hank Harris ) are cheap con artists who try to steal his money ; a transvestite ( Holly Woodlawn ) and her bodyguard Gary ( Josh Brolin ) wiggle into the stew created by Tuey and Stan and further go after Albert's money ; and McNally posts his own agenda for ' care ' of Albert and his ' fortune ' . How each of these attempts to take advantage of Albert play out forms the line of the story , with an ending that finds Albert leading his life as an ice fisherman who is a champion in more ways than one . Though obviously shot on a low budget this film succeeds on the important levels of communication and goes beyond the ordinary with some stunning photography by Bernd Heinl and a wonderful musical score by Michael Convertino and Robert Muzingo . Troy Garity ( son of Jane Fonda and Tom Hayden ) holds his own in a role that could fall into parody and demonstrates that he is growing into a fine actor . And it helps to have the likes of Bruce Dern and Randy Quaid in the mix ! This is the kind of film that is refreshing to see made . Would that Hollywood would invest in stories of this caliber ! Recommended . Grady Harp
Just the name of this film constitutes a long sigh - ' How many times are they going to make this hokey story into yet another film ? ' And yet the current team of director Andrew Douglas , screenwriter Scott Kosar ( based on Jay Anson's novel ) and a cast of fresh faces to the genre carry off this much told tale with vigor and a good dollop of tension . For starters the film opens with the re-enactment of the ' actual crime ' . Apparently in 1974 Ronald DeFeo ( here Brendan Donaldson ) murdered his parents and siblings in a terrific old house in Amityville , NY . One year later the Lutz family discovers their dream house and buys it outright , opening their next 28 days to visions of ghosts , terror , demons , hallucinations and pathological changes among themselves until they finally flee the haunted house . From the start we know that contractor George Lutz - Ryan Reynolds - ( the new husband of Kathy ) - Melissa George - has problems establishing himself as the ' stepfather ' to reluctant children Billy ( Jesse James ) , Michael ( Jimmy Bennett ) and Chelsea ( Chloë Grace Moretz ) . Once the family is ensconced in the house Chelsea begins to play with the ghost of Jodie DeFeo ( Isabel Conner ) and George's personality changes as a result of the house's curse . It all comes down to terror in the requisite thunder , lightning and rain of all horror films until the family hits crisis state and leaves the house behind . The ghost effects are well done and the cinematography by Peter Lyons Collister and the musical score by Steve Jablonsky create a dark , ominous atmosphere . But the real reason to watch this little thriller is the work of Ryan Reynolds as George , released from his usual silly potty mouth roles in teenie films to show that he indeed can act , and keep his own brand of edgy humor intact - and that is no slight feat . Fortunately he is given the opportunity to display his extraordinarily hunky physique throughout the film , reason enough to see the movie ! Melissa George is likewise excellent as the tortured mother and is a perfect foil for Reynolds . Not a great film , but certainly one that exceeds expectations set by previous forays into this overused story . Grady Harp
A number of years ago young director Guy Ritchie changed mobster movies with his infectious LOCK , STOCK AND TWO SMOKING BARRELS and that twisted underbelly of London's crime population is back in full force with ROCKNROLLA . Ritchie's style - mixing rapid action , flashback explanations , loopy violence , wildly imaginative characters , and a near non-understandable collection of various accents from the British Isles coupled with an integral musical score - makes this tale of deceit , desperation , intrigue , vice in all forms , low on the food chain criminals at service in the line of polished professionals - a fast paced highly entertaining movie . The script ( yes , by Ritchie , too ) combines narration with live conversation , a trait that can be distracting , but that in Ritchie's hands adds a layer of commentary and needed background that helps the viewer keep the many bits and pieces of plots screwed together . The Old School crime lord is played by Tom Wilkinson in a role far different from his previous roles . His nemesis is the New School crime lord Russian Uri ( Karel Roden ) with odd demands and a ' lucky painting ' we never see . Gerard Butler pals with Idris Elba and the gay character Morne Botes in a back and forth series of thwarted attempts to gain status in the smarmy crime world headed by Wilkinson . The name character of Rocknrolla ( pop star Johnny Quid ) is well played by Toby Kebbell , Thandie Newton offers the touch of glamour as a twisted accountant , and Jeremy Piven , Chris Bridges ( Ludacris ) , Jimi Mistry and narrator / star Archie ( Mark Strong ) pull it all together . This film definitely has an audience for those who appreciate the skills of Ritchie as writer / director . For others , it may be a bit hard to follow the technique of dishing out this tangled tale . Grady Harp
PERSONAL EFFECTS is a solid little film written by director David Hollander and the fine novelist Rick Moody . The premise is a study of how the traumatic deaths of people affect those left behind . The story is well told , allows the audience to explore the group therapy approach offered to families of violently killed people - the various means of responding to loss , the differing reactions from those who cannot let go of the hate they have for losing a loved one , and introduces an interesting concept of having one of the characters who narrates the film be a deaf mute young man ! Gloria ( Kathy Bates ) is the mother of twins - the girl was been brutalized and murdered and the boy Andrew ( Ashton Kuchter ) has left his career as a wrestler to return to the scene of the crime to mourn his sister and to demand the perpetrator be convicted and imprisoned : his career has been put on hold and he ekes out a living dressed as a chicken for a fast food chicken restaurant . During the ongoing twin's trial , Andrew meets Linda ( Michelle Pfeiffer ) whose alcoholic husband has been killed and she is left to support her teenage deaf mute son Clay ( Spencer Hudson ) . Through series of grieving meetings and periods of isolation on the part of each of the characters , each finds ways to support the other and a love affair develops between the older Linda and the younger Andrew as he agrees to accompany her to her various weddings for which she serves a planner . How these characters comes to grips with resolution of their losses is well tied together by film's end . This is not a great movie , but the performances by the leads are quite fine . This is a movie with a message , one that delves into territory with which many are not familiar , and for that reason alone it is well worth watching . Grady Harp
Unlike many of the inevitable sequels that follow popular expensive movies , THE LEGEND OF ZORRO is happily a lot of fun to watch . Though overlong in excess of two hours , and though the story line is pushed beyond tolerable limits , it is easy to forgive the many weaknesses of the film and just enjoy the verbal and physical jousting between Antonio Banderas and Catherine Zeta-Jones . The story this time ' round concerns the broken promise Alejandro de la Vega ( Banderas ) made to his wife Elena ( Zeta-Jones ) at their marriage ten years ago : Alejandro would give up his dangerous life as the masked Zorro . But the upcoming opportunity of statehood for California is at stake and so , of course , the five bells ring and Zorro is on his faithful steed Tornado to right the wrongs . Elena informs him that if he goes on another mission , he may as well not come home , despite the fact that they now have a son Joaquin ( Adrian Alonso ) . But Zorro rides and gradually we discover the covert underpinnings of the cause to which Zorro is called . There is a newcomer in town , one Frenchman Armand ( Rufus Sewell ) who is mysteriously tied to the worst of all possible deeds with the aid of the smarmy Jacob McGivens ( Nick Chinlund ) . . . . Elena , no slouch of a wimpy wife , joins in the action in a wily way , and ultimately with the help of good priests Brother Ignacio ( Alberto Reyes ) and especially Frey Felipe ( Julio Oscar Mechoso ) good triumphs over evil ( surprise ! ) . There are some well staged duels and fighting episodes and some tender moments about family , especially father / son repartee , but the ingredient that makes these Zorro films work is the fact that Banderas and Zeta-Jones look like their have such a good time . There are many hilarious lines in the most unexpected places . No , this is not a great movie , and despite the fact that yet another sequel is probably planned , enough is enough . But it is entertaining in its lighthearted way . Grady Harp , February 06
John Gatins knows his way around uplifting ' family movies ' and brings them to a new level with DREAMER . Though the story's pattern is a well used and familiar one , Gatins has created a strong story and graced it with a fine cast , and though we know from the outset what the ending will be , it is the getting there that is the pleasure of this very watchable film . Ben Crane ( Kurt Russell ) lives on a once famous Kentucky horse farm , a farm where he and his father Pop Crane ( Kris Kristofferson ) once bred racehorses . Now the farm is horseless and Ben simply works as a trainer . His disappointment in his life situation is reflected in his relative neglect of his wife Lily ( Elizabeth Shue ) , who works as a waitress to make ends meet , and of his daughter Cale ( Dakota Fanning ) . His life is further encumbered when he advises his boss Palmer ( David Morse ) that the horse he has trained is not ready for a race and Palmer forces Ben to race the horse only to have the horse Sonador break a leg . Ben is devastated , Palmer fires Ben and offers Ben severance pay of $6000 . plus ownership of Sanador , saving the injured horse from being put down . This seemingly bottoming out of Ben's career results in his winning his family back : Cale and Ben's faithful workers Balon ( Luis Guzman ) and ex-jockey badly injured in his past Manolin ( Freddy Rodriguez ) all work to restore Sanador's health . Together they nurse Sonya AKA Sanador back to being able to run and reunite the fractured family all in the cause of creating a new life through faith and renewed familial bonding . Sanador is entered in a low level race and while she doesn't win , she demonstrates her viability as a racehorse . Evil Palmer attempts to buy back the healed Sanador , but Ben has ' sold ' the horse to Cale who decides to refuse the buy and proceeds to race Sanador in the Breeder's Cup race - of course winning . What could have been a sugary weeper of a story is brought to a fine level of reality by the fine cast . Fred Murphy is the superb cinematographer , John Debney continues his sterling reputation of composing fine musical scores , and Gatins pulls it all together . DREAMER may be a family movie , but it is one with enough finesse to please just about every viewer . Grady Harp
' Hildes Reise ' ( ' Hilde's Journey ' ) is a surprisingly tender film despite the cover art suggesting a harsh and angry young man movie . Director Christof Vorster directs this screenplay he wrote with Gabriele Strohm and gives us a story that deals with difficult issues of AIDS , parental homophobia , relationship challenges met and squandered , and the power of shared love for a departed friend that can overcome almost any barrier . Steff ( Oliver Stokowski ) works in an antique shop repairing furniture and longs for a shop of his own . His credit scores are low , he is unable to secure a business loan , and his outlook is bleak . Word reaches him that his ex-lover Martin , the son of a wealthy German family ( the mother played by Heidi Maria Gloesser ) who continue to deny his sexual preference , has died : the family calls the cause of death cancer , but the true cause is AIDS . Steff attends the funeral and Rex ( Michael Finger ) a young friend of Martin ( who is also affectionately known as ' Hilde ' ) shows up distraught , raging at the family for denying that their son died of AIDS . The will is read and Martin / Hilde left his entire estate to Steff : at last here is a source of money to advance Steff's career . Martin / Hilde also has requested that he be cremated and his ashes thrown to the sea . The mother refuses this wish , attempting to deny her son's past and ensconce him in the family mausoleum . Steff addresses the family and tells them he will accept only a fraction of the money he has inherited , sacrificing the urn of ashes to carry out Martin / Hilde's wishes . Rex kidnaps the urn and together with Steff the two set out on a journey , initially for different reasons , but ultimately for the respect of Martin / Hilde whom they both loved ( Rex also has AIDS , met Martin in the hospital and spent his last year with him as a caregiver ) . The way in which the potentially conflicting pairing of Steff and Rex is resolved is both touching and a satisfying ending . The cast is uniformly excellent , the photography of the German and French countryside by Hans Meier is lush and moody , and the music score by Karsten Riedel is minimal but just right for the moods of the film . Yes , this could be categorized as a gay film , but its messages are so universal and the quality of the film-making so fine that it deserves a very wide audience . In German with English subtitles . Grady Harp
The Kasdan Family has made a significant mark on the better films of Hollywood and Jon Kasdan ( writer / director of IN THE LAND OF WOMEN ) holds those values of fine cinema intact . Having appeared as an actor in some films of his father Lawrence Kasdan ( Grand Canyon , The Big Chill , Body Heat , Mumford , Dreamcatcher , The Bodyguard , etc ) , he has not only inherited his father's credo of making meaningful statements about life as we are currently living it , he has absorbed the fluid character development of those films and added his own sensitive touch with graceful dialog . He is a talent to watch . Soft porn writer Carter Webb ( Adam Brody in a very fine performance ) lives in Los Angeles near his depressed mother ( JoBeth Williams ) and has just been dumped by his actress girlfriend Sofia Buñuel ( Elena Anaya ) . When his mother learns of her mother's failing state , the distraught Carter offers to travel to suburban Michigan to stay with his grandma Phyllis ( Olympia Dukakis ) . Once in picturesque Michigan Carter deals with his lovable but eccentric grandma and meets the across the street neighbors - mother Sarah ( Meg Ryan in fine form ) , daughters Lucy ( Kristin Stewart ) and the younger Paige ( Makenzie Vega ) , and errant husband Nelson ( Clark Gregg ) . In this setting of a ' woman world ' Carter is key to aiding the various maladies of each of the women while addressing his own disappointing failed relationship . The manner in which he intervenes by simply being present and tender and caring makes a positive impact on not only those around him but also on his own life and talent as a meaningful writer . In what could have been a soupy chick flick Jon Kasdan has instead provided a script that has a healthy dose of homespun philosophy and has guided his multi-talented cast to offer some of their finest moments on film . This is an entertaining movie , but it is also a balm for viewers who have experienced life-threatening illness , broken homes , coping with the elderly , and ultimately coping with death . It simply works . Grady Harp
DEATH SENTENCE is a tough movie to watch , not because it is a poorly made film , but because of the degree of violence that , once started , is mayhem on a roller coaster ride . Though based on a novel by Brian Garfield , the script by Ian Jeffers is a patchwork quilt - the holes show whenever the police arrive on the scene . James Wan , of the ' Saw ' movies fame , directs with a keen eye for breathless action sequences and almost intolerable suspense timing that makes the film fly through the 111 minutes of the Unrated version . During the opening credits we are introduced to the perfect family via home movies and domestic scenes : Nick Hume ( Kevin Bacon ) is the devoted father , Helen ( Kelly Preston ) his bright and loving wife , Brendan ( Stuart Lafferty ) is the golden boy son with all the soccer laurels , and Lucas ( Jordan Garrett ) the younger ' also ran ' son . The glitch in this family's happiness happens one night when , out of gas while driving home from a soccer game , Nick stops at a gas station and while Brendan is in the convenience store a gang comes in and murders the store owner and Brendan : the reason for the killing is not robbery but an initiation rite into a gang accomplished by young Joe Darley ( Matt O'Leary ) and the demand of his older brother Billy ( Garrett Hedlund , in a very out of character role from his usual ' Troy ' , ' Friday Night Lights ' , ' Eragon ' , ' Georgia Rule ' persona ) . Nick witnesses the killing and when the lawyers and police work with him in the aftermath to ' arrange a deal ' instead of a murder trial , Nick decides to take matters in hi s own hands . The Darley brothers are part of a ruthless gang sponsored by their own father Bones Darley ( John Goodman , in a very dark and well-realized role ) . Nick stalks Joe Darley and murders him , and once the deed ( that happens to begin a gang war against Nick ) is done the terror begins . The gang is out to kill not only Nick but Nick's family also . How this pursued and pursuers game works out furnishes the remainder of the film . It is the old eye for an eye story that ends in tragedy for everyone concerned . When the film is dealing with the ' family ' and the ' gang ' the dialog sparkles , but when the police , headed by Detective Wallis ( Aisha Tyler ) , become involved the aid from the police becomes as ludicrous as the dialog placed in their mouths . Kevin Bacon gives a bravura performance as the gentle father driven to murderous madness and Garrett Hedlund matches him as the ruthless and terrifying gang leader Billy . There are enough sidebars about father / son relationships on both sides of the plot line to make the movie have a message . But in the end it is the wildly frantic camera action and directorial decisions by Wan that make this a horrifying and arresting film . Not for the queasy viewer . Grady Harp
Anytime a story is about time travel the audience must accept the fact that suspension of belief is mandatory . Based on a Korean film ' Siworae ' by Eun-Jeong Kim and Ji-na Yeo and adapted for the latest version by David Auburn , Alejandro Agresti has his work cut out for him . The story is Swiss cheese full of holes as anyone would expect from a tale about two people who fall in love from the disparate vantages of 2004 and 2006 and as long as the viewer accepts the inherent incongruities of such a story the overall effect is really quite lovely , if a bit too uninvolving . Dr . Kate Forster ( Sandra Bullock ) has a history of living in a glass lake house outside Chicago but when we meet her she lives in a luxury apartment while she is on staff at a small hospital . Alex Wyler ( Keanu Reeves ) currently lives in the lake house ( we discover that his father played by Christopher Plummer is an architect who built the house years ago ) and begins to find mail in his mailbox from the previous tenant Kate . The story weaves back and forth between 2004 and 2006 and keeping score is rather tricky at times , but eventually of course the two time-lapsed people meet , the riddles are unexplained , they fall in love over the distance of time , etc . There is not a lot of message here except that real love can occur despite almost any obstacle . Reeves and Bullock are fine , but the rest of the characters are sketchy and only tangentially relevant to the story . A family discourse among Reeves , Plummer , and Ebon Moss-Bachrach ( Henry , the other brother ) never gels . The supporting cast includes interesting actors such as Shohreh Aghdashloo but they have little to do . In fact the scenery and the house seem to be the main characters and that really is OK because both are beautiful , thanks to Alar Kivilo's cinematography , and Rachel Portman's musical score is very fine . It is not a deep film and it could benefit from a really good re-write of the script , but for an evening's diversion it is pretty to look at and tender in content . Just forget about the holes and you'll be fine . Grady Harp
Much of what happens during war is not apparent to the general public : events that place American military personnel in a less than gratuitous light historically have been downplayed by the media , current events in Iraq excepted . Such was the case in World War II when Washington more or less ignored the imprisonment of hundreds of GIs after the Japanese attacked and took over the Philippines . This is their story as excerpted from the novels ' Ghost Soldiers ' and ' The Great Raid on Cabanatuan ' . The action of the movie takes place over five days in January 1945 during which time a battalion of Army Rangers finally lead a successful raid on the POW camp in Cabanatuan to free the remaining American prisoners after their survival of the Bataan Death March and three years of beastly , brutal incarceration . The leaders of the raid are portrayed by Benjamin Bratt and James Franco and the survivors in the camp to be freed are held together by the characters portrayed by Joseph Fiennes , Marton Csokas and Logan Marshall-Green . Flashbacks to the period of time before the Death March are inserted to introduce those freedom fighters lead by Margaret Utinsky ( Connie Nielsen ) whose smuggling of medicine into the camp helped save the lives of her lover ( Joseph Fiennes ) and the others . This story is history so the ending is not a secret . The Rangers exhibit great bravery and succeed in the impossible mission of freeing the prisoners , with the important help of the Philippine military led by Captain Pajota ( Cesar Montano ) , in a truly synchronous mission . The film is very understated for the most part : real life black and white photographs of the events in the film are inserted to add credibility and they are gut wrenching . The devastation of battle is not ignored , but the attention is focused on the very human plights of the victims and their freedom soldiers . The film is shot in the muted tones of sepia with enough color to make the effect appear as an old 1940s movie . It works . Though the script is not great , the message is and the actors committed to this retelling of an important event do a fine job . John Dahl directs with a sense of pathos and while there are no raging overblown heroes , he allows the simple men involved in this story to stand taller than most heroes of the ' big war movies ' . The film met with disinterest and criticism when released . Perhaps now that people can view it in the privacy of their homes the quiet message within will make a more poignant impact . These ordinary people have dignity in the face of being ignored by their own government . And there is a lesson there we should not forget . Recommended . Grady Harp
Director / writer Andrew Niccol makes films with layers of meaning , the kind that find us laughing at inappropriate moments because contemporary life is like that : what on the surface seems like an entertaining story has very dark roots . His previous strange films include ' The Terminal ' , ' The Truman Show ' , ' S1m0ne ' and ' Gattaca ' and now LORD OF WAR takes its place in that arena of black comedy . Niccol really releases his last spear when at the end of the film there is a statement ' Based on Actual Facts ' and at that point the film takes on an altogether new significance . Yuri Orlov ( Nicholas Cage ) and his brother Vitaly ( Jared Leto ) immigrate to the US to Little Odessa with their parents ( Shake Tukhmanyan and Jean-Pierre Nshanian ) who have posed as Jews to escape the Ukraine in 1980 - before Glasnost . Yuri is bright and sees gunrunning as a lucrative business and after his first tiny success in the gang infested Little Odessa , he convinces his dreamy-eyed brother to be his partner . The business grows exponentially as Yuri discovers his best customers are countries at war : in time he is wealthy , has married his dream sweetheart Ava ( Bridget Moynahan ) and settles in as one of the more successful gunrunners in the world . He buys weapons from stockpiled American ordnances after the US has ' finished ' a war and sells them to Eastern European , African and South American revolutionaries . He is tracked / stalked by Jack Valentine ( Ethan Hawke ) who in his role as a government agent is determined to stop Yuri's dispersal of deadly weapons that result in needless deaths when disseminated to countries in the throes of political change . Though Yuri is first for business , he does care deeply about his wife and child , and about Vitaly whose entry into the world of wealth is soon squandered on a cocaine addiction requiring frequent detox . Yuri is not a mean spirited man : he sees his business as just that , salesmanship of items for which there is a huge demand and he does not see himself as the perpetrator of violence . His life has moments of compassion , many moments of financial success , moments of pride in being the gifted gun-runner he has become , and moments of introspection . He hobnobs with dictators , revolutionaries , fellow gunrunners and the law . The resolution of the story is not an end but merely a tapering off . The film is narrated by Yuri and for the first part sounds almost comedic - until the visual depiction of the killings are on screen . Niccol appears to be showing us a factual business that is legal in the eyes of the government ( ' Washington encourages gunrunners to take care of aspects of world control they can't be seen as condoning ' ) and it is his gift to drive his message home about how human lives are wasted for the sake of business and weapons proliferation . The film is painful to absorb on this level . Nicholas Cage gives a powerful performance as the opportunistic Yuri and the criminally under-used Jared Leto once again proves his fine-honed acting skills as the drugged addled innocent Vitaly . Likewise Bridget Moynahan is excellent as the wife who elects not to question her source of wealth . Key cameos are keenly provided by Ian Holms and Eaamonn Walker . The film is rapid-fire paced , the cinematography is excellent , and the impact of the film is powerful . It is unusual for a director to take on topics this controversial and end up with a film this entertaining . Recommended . Grady Harp
The fact that everyone ( well , almost ) will do anything for money - the mortgage must be paid - is only one of the subversive elements placed on the table of this bitingly satirical film . Based on the very edgy novel by Christopher Buckley , director Jason Reitman has adapted the story for the screen , populated his diatribe with a fine cast of actors , and directs the whole concept with deft precision . While many not familiar with the book's bite will be put off by the title , rest assured that no one escapes this exploration of the tobacco industry , the health industry , and the political industry unscathed . Aaron Eckhart is spot on as the tobacco lobbyist Nick Naylor , a man of style and spin who can talk his way through any confrontational encounter and come out the winner . He is supported by the tobacco kings Budd ' BR ' Rohrbacher ( J . K . Simmons ) and ' The Captain ' ( Robert Duvall ) , the movie mogul Jeff Megall ( Rob Lowe ) , by his buddies in crime Maria Bello and David Koechner with similar lobbyist roles in alcohol and firearms , and confronted by Senator Finistirre ( William H . Macy in another jewel of a role ) , ex-Marlboro Man Lorne Lutch ( Sam Elliott ) , and journalist Heather Holloway ( Katie Holmes ) . How he manages to make all of these folk satisfied with his message comprises the bulk of this flimflam man story , a tale that butchers the tobacco industry with the same vehemence as the anti-smoking brigade . The lines are fast and furious and Eckhart is superb in his role . Somehow the emphasis of the relationship and frothy philosophy sessions between Eckhart and his son ( Cameron Bright - as monochromatic a child actor as there is in the industry today ) make the movie fairly boring just when is should be picking up momentum , but that is Hollywood covering its tracks . Not a great movie , but a movie that is much better than you would expect ! Grady Harp
TOUCH OF FATE is not one of the big Indie movies successes , nor is it a theatrical release that garnered wide audiences . Instead it is a quiet film about fate bonding people who are blindly searching for connection . Writer / director Rebecca Cook knows how to weave an intricate story into a canvas that is , well , luminous - and she does this without the usual hoopla of big name stars or expensive locations settings . Coincidence or fate like a magnet draws the lives of three people into a bond created by a tragedy : a woman ( Teri Hatcher ) returns to her small North Carolina town in hopes of reclaiming a love ( Daniel Green ) , an entertainment lawyer ( Robert C . Treveiler ) returns home out of guilt to his dying mother having attempted to escape his past for years , and a clairvoyant boy ( Cody Newton ) struggles with the sudden and tragic death of his father and overbearing love of his single mother . These individually needy people find succor in circumstances that hold lesson of coping with need , and finding forgiveness with the power of love . Simple story , well written , and directed with control and care by Cook . Yet the genuine surprise of this film is the ensemble acting by a cast of fine actors . Teri Hatcher has a following for ' Desperate Housewives ' but here she proves that she is truly a fine actress whose face communicates as much inner turmoil and emotion as the entire script . She is worth watching and the film deserves more attention . Grady Harp
The concept for this little Indie film - the dying wish of a teenager opening spiritual doors - is far from original , but Barry Stringfellow's strong script as directed by Alex Steyermark ( whose only other directorial venture was ' Prey for Rock and Roll ' , though he has been on the crew of some very fine films like ' Pieces of April ' etc ) results in a far from ordinary drama . For those who have not seen Cynthia Nixon expand beyond her ' Sex and the City ' role , this performance will be enlightening ! Dylan ( Michael Angarano ) is a young teenager diagnosed with terminal cancer , a fact that he shares with his loony buddies ( Gideon Glick and Matt Bush ) who support him with silly but genuine companionship . Dylan's mother Carol ( Cynthia ) is still reeling from her husband's death ( Ethan Hawke ) and facing the loss of the one remaining part of her family is devastating but her strength of character keeps a positive support for Dylan . When Dylan is informed by his doctor ( Brian Stokes Mitchell ) that further radiation and chemotherapy are useless , Dylan places his desire for living on one last thing . . . he is on a TV show where dying wishes are granted , and rather than the asking for expected fishing trip with football hero Jason ( Johnny Messner ) , he opts for a weekend alone with supermodel Nikki Sinclair ( Sunny Mabrey ) . Nikki , we discover , has problems and demons of her own and her agent Arlene ( Gina Gershon ) , in trying to rescue her faltering career , advises the reluctant Nikki to visit Dylan in his home in Pennsylvania - for positive PR purposes . Once they meet Dylan is determined to have his one last thing , gains money and a room ( a gift form Jason ) in New York and travels with his sidekicks to the Big Apple to cash in on his prize . The Nikki he finds is the wasted girl down at heels and though she feels tenderness toward Dylan she tells him to just go home . Dylan's disease progresses to the point of final hospitalization when Nikki re-enters the sad room and changes things . The power that changes this predictable story lies in the extraordinarily sensitive performances of Michael Angarano , who plays Dylan with a twinkle in his eye and allows us to feel his burden with resorting to bathos , and the always-impressive Cynthia Nixon whose performance as Dylan's mother is the most understated and heart wrenching on film . She owns the screen whenever she is on . The supporting cast is strong ( though Gideon Glick and Matt Bush are allowed to become obnoxious and would have benefited from some stronger direction ) . In all , this is a striking , simple , compelling film that rises well above its premise to become an important statement about death and dying and the power of hope and love and family . Grady Harp
AUGUSTUS ( also known as IMPERIUM : AUGUSTUS ) is a film made for television , which could explain how its three and one half hour length would be spread over at least three nights . This movie was made with an obvious plentiful budget , sponsored by the Italian government and US filmmakers , and the result is a complex and nicely detailed biographical study of the first Emperor of Rome , Augustus Caesar , the man whose reign spanned the BC / AD time frame with all the attendant changes in world geography and history and religious orders . It was a time of Rome's greatness and a time of Rome's disintegration . Writer Eric Lerner and Director Roger Young wisely elected to tell this tale as a series of flashbacks as recalled by the aged , dying Augustus brilliantly portrayed by Peter O'Toole . His very presence gives the project credibility and dignity and helps the viewer forgive any of the many shortcomings that dot this epic . Augustus is attended by his wife Livia ( again , a wise choice in casting the always superb Charlotte Rampling to bring this odd woman to life ) . With some adroit camera superimpositions of the old Augustus ' face the story goes back in time to the death of Julius Caesar , the one who appointed the young Augustus ( Benjamin Sadler ) to be his successor . It is 42 BC and the young Augustus , together with his sidekicks Agrippa ( Ken Duken ) and Maecenas ( Russell Barr in a foppish turn ) , struggle through the Senate , the noblemen , and the poor people of Rome who all have been ignored during Julius Caesar's infamous wars to expand the Empire . The complicated lineage to the ' throne ' of Rome is manipulated by Julia ( Vittoria Belvedere ) , Marc Antony ( Massimo Ghini ) , Tiberius ( Michele Bevilacqua ) and Iullus ( Juan Diego Botto ) , the son of Marc Antony , among many others . Along the way we meet Cleopatra ( Anne Valle ) and Cicero ( Gottfried John ) and many of the other casually dropped names of Roman history . Though the names and the changes of who is ruling who at any one time can be confusing to even the most astute Roman historian , the writer and director do their best to make this story flow so that it all is of a piece . The acting is superb for the leads , adequate for the secondary roles , and the camera work manages to make the numerous battlefield sequences seem cogent . In the end is the beginning : the death of Augustus . A casual mention is made that during his reign there was born in the land of Judea a child whose name was Jesus . . . and suddenly the whole lengthy film gathers more meaning . This is a fine overview of Roman history and civilization and thanks to the fine work by Peter O'Toole and Charlotte Rampling the result is very satisfying . Grady Harp
David Cronenberg takes chances and his pushing the edge of cinematic art is what makes his films so interesting . JG Ballard's controversial novel CRASH seemed an unlikely prospect for a film , so dark were its explorations of the outer zones of excitation and their relationship to near-death events . But Cronenberg worked through making Ballard's visions visual and his screenplay based on Ballard's book is more about interior dialogue and visceral sexual encounters as they relate to trauma . James Ballard ( James Spader ) is a successful TV director who spends as much time as a lothario as he does making film . He is married to Catherine ( Deborah Kara Unger ) whose own sexuality leads her into stray paths . The two seem to connect physically but the fire is diminishing : they both concur that encounters with other partners enhance their sexual experiences . James is in a car accident and survives with a broken leg and scars , but the other car's male driver was killed and his surviving female companion Helen Remington ( Holly Hunter ) is hospitalized with James . While in the hospital both encounter a strange , scarred , limping male photographer Vaughn ( Elias Koteas ) who takes photos of the scars and trauma results of both James and Helen . Catherine visits James in the hospital and seems to find excitement in the scars and orthopedic paraphernalia binding her husband . Once James is released from the hospital he is strangely drawn to the car he wrecked and finds Helen in the same mindset . The two move into physical attraction as well as an emotional attraction to Vaughn . Vaughn is obsessed with auto accidents , having been in many , and he stages famous car accidents ( James Dean , Jayne Mansfield , etc ) for a captive audience - which includes James , Helen , and Catherine . Vaughn insidiously draws the three into his obsession , sharing his ' actors ' and fellow travelers - including Gabrielle ( Rosanna Arquette - with both legs in orthopedic mechanisms ) , Colin and Vera Seagrave ( Peter MacNeill and Cheryl Swarts ) and those who help him stage his ' accidents ' . Vaughn explains that he is exploring how to achieve that sensation of terror one feels during a car crash and equate it with orgasm . The odd group of folks all sexually interact with abandon : the crashed car becomes the bedchamber for bizarre sexual acting out . And how this all plays out in the end is the part of the film that simply must be seen to feel the experience . This is clearly NOT a movie for everyone . The CD contains both the NC and the R rated version : I watched the NC version and while it is graphic and focused on sex it is oddly uninvolving emotionally - we care little about the people we meet . Perhaps part of the story here is that with the progressively dehumanization of man in his symbiotic relationship with machines , relating to fellow humans on anything except the sensual gratification is something we are losing . That is the kind of powerful statement Cronenberg shows us with these passionate yet cold people . The cast is exceptional , especially Koteas whose warped character is wholly three-dimensional as opposed to the oddly uninvolved characters Spader , Unger , and Hunter portray . A dizzying experience ! Grady Harp
CAUTIVA ( ' Captive ' ) is a very effective film by young writer / director Gaston Biraben who has taken to task the impact of Argentina's ' Dirty War ' of the late 1970s and succeeds in making a very personal story out of the horror of the ' desaparecidos ' tragedy that stole from Argentina some of its brightest minds - and ' reassigned ' the children of these ' disappeared ones ' who were born in the prisons to political friends of the dictatorship . While the concept is gruesome as history and as content , Biraben manages to recreate that terrifying period of time in terms of the present . This retrospective study makes a huge impact . Cristina Quadri ( the deeply impressive Bárbara Lombardo ) lives with her parents in Buenos Aires , attending a Catholic girls ' school , seemingly a happy young teenager . One regular day she is called to the principal's office and told she must visit a judge , a frightening concept for a young girl who is forced to go without informing her parents . The judge informs her that she is not ' Cristina Quadri ' but instead ' Sofía Lombardi ' , the daughter of a couple who ' disappeared ' in 1978 as political prisoners . A recent blood test Cristina / Sofia thought was a follow-up for a post-op check was actually a test to match her blood with that of the newly discovered true parents ' family . Cristina , stunned by her lack of true identity , confronts her ' adopted parents ' and struggles with the officials who insist she be returned to her blood relatives . Cristina becomes close to another ' adopted ' girl and the two explore their roots , finding that they were born in prisons and then given to police officials to be placed in homes . The transition from adopted to blood family is the path the film explores : despite the comforts of present life the girls must know their origins to fully realize their identities . The cast is uniformly strong , the concept of the film works well as Biraben snaps us back and forth between the World Cup Soccer Game in Buenos Aires in 1978 that contrasts so gravely with the concurrent underground disappearance of the intellects of the country , and the performance by Lombardo holds the credibility of the story well . There is a fine music score by José Luis Castiñeira de Dios that combines a suite for cello and piano with elements from Mozart's Requiem very effectively . This film has been awarded many prizes since its appearance in 2003 : the prizes are justly deserved . Highly recommended viewing . Grady Harp
BREACH could have been a documentary as the facts are all in place and the 2001 capture of Robert Hanssen , the most formidable spy in this country's history , is one that is mind boggling enough without the need for dramatization . Yet the screenplay by Adam Mazur and William Rotko in turn based on a story by director Billy Ray with Mazur and Rotko transforms this infamous case into a fine melodrama . The result is a smart thriller , one that holds our attention despite the fact that the results of the case are public knowledge . Robert Hanssen ( in a brilliant performance by Chris Cooper ) works in national Intelligence and is a crusty , ominous character with some strange demons in his head . FBI Agent Kate Burroughs ( Laura Linney ) studies a young FBI clerk Eric O'Neill ( Ryan Phillippe ) and decides he is the one gritty and fearless enough to assign to the suspicious Hanssen , a man the FBI feels certain is a major suspect in the breach of security . Hanssen has been selling Intelligence reports to the Soviet Union but in so careful a manner that his status is almost impenetrable . Eric is married to an East German girl Julianna ( Caroline Dhavernas ) and while she is proud of Eric's advancement in the FBI she fears his preoccupation with his work . Hanssen and his wife Bonnie ( Kathleen Quinlan ) form a friendship with Eric and Julianna and that friendship , together with a shared near obsession with the Catholic Church , gains Hanssen's trust in Eric . The tension between the investigation by the FBI and Eric's role as a mole create some terrifying situations . But Eric overcomes all obstacles and proceeds to successfully match Hanssen's inscrutable mind and behavior and in the end takes great risks in all aspects of his life to fulfill his mission . The cast is excellent with special attention to the performances of Cooper , Phillippe , and Linney . The supporting roles are carefully cast with such fine actors as Gary Cole , Dennis Haysbert , and Bruce Davison . The production values add immeasurably to the aura of suspense . This is a fine movie not only for the qualities mentioned but also for bringing to light the lack of security from even the most trusted parts of our government . Disturbing food for thought and action . Grady Harp
John Singleton has a gift for depicting the gritty side of life and making it credible : there are reasons for heads-up defensive action in neighborhoods where perpetrators an victims live side by side in a world teetering on imbalance . FOUR BROTHERS is a finely tuned , taut little film that demonstrates the influence of a caring adult on kids with little future can impact lives . Evelyn Mercer ( a terrific Fionnula Flanagan ) is a single woman who adopted four orphans as children and raised them tightly bonded brothers : two are white ( ex-con Bobby - Mark Wahlberg - and gay musician Jack - Garrett Hedlund : two are African American - ( gentle Angel - Tyrese Gibson - and stay-at-home businessman Jeremiah - André Benjamin ) . The four brothers reunite when their mother is killed during a store holdup . Knowing that the Detroit police are a corrupt organization they take matters into their own hands , seeking out their mother's killers . Along the way they discover aspects of each other that draw them eventually even closer as brothers . The cast is excellent with fine cameo performances from Terrence Howard and Josh Charles as polar opposite policemen , from Flanagan ( who though murdered in the first frames of the film reappears to ' spiritually ' influence the brothers ) , Chiwetel Ejiofor as the bad guy , Tara P . Henson as Jeremiah's wife and Sofía Vergara as Angel's girlfriend . The story is solid if a bit predictable , but the messages are many about racism , brotherhood , family importance , and awareness of police corruption . Singleton directs with breakneck speed yet allows us time to get to know everyone in the story . This is a dandy action film with a heart . Grady Harp
' Caterina va in citta ' ( ' Caterina in the Big City ' ) is an Italian film that takes as its storyline the coming of age of a young teenager transported by her family from the quiet Tuscany seaside village of Montaldo Di Castro to the challenging realities of Big City Rome , but that is only the means to an end of exploring Italian politico-social life and its effects on the youth of today . It comes very close to drowning in its own excesses , but at the root of the film is a sensitive tale of a young girl's struggles with growing into an adulthood that puzzles , frightens and challenges her . Caterina ( Alice Teghil ) finds her greatest moments of happiness in her home town singing mezzo soprano in the choir : simple pleasures in a simple setting surrounded by country folk content to live life day to day . Her father Giancarlo ( Sergio Castellitto ) is a teacher who can't hold a job , partially because he is so outspoken and partially because he is a raving truly obnoxious person . Her mother Agata ( Margherita Buy ) is subservient , a woman with few coping mechanisms who allows her odious husband to run an abusive household . Giancarlo's aunt is ill in Rome and with the idea of finding a job where his talents are respected , Giancarlo uproots his little family and moves to the big city . There the social castes are evident and Caterina is judged a country hick until she is befriended by first a rebel who bonds with Caterina , introduces her to tattoos and liquor , and causes a schism between her important mother ( Giancarlo hoped to have is novel published by the woman ) , the daughter and his family . Caterina then is absorbed into the rich and spoiled rank and file of the wealthy , not fitting in until the girls do a make over . That situation is again disrupted by Giancarlo's blindly inappropriate behavior . The true Caterina is somehow lost , still dreaming of becoming a fine mezzo soprano , but tagging along with the crowd du jour . Ultimately Giancarlo's multiple and consistent failures drive him away from the family , he rides off to oblivion on his restored motorbike , and Agata and Caterina both bloom . The noise level of this film is such that it is difficult to watch : the young girls means of communication is a mixture of screaming , loud talking , and fighting and otherwise making us uncomfortable . Yet underneath all of the political and social expose and brandishing is a truly wonderful young Caterina whose life as a soap opera is watched tenderly by an Australian boy who plays the guitar and observes her family from a window across the way from Caterina's Rome home . The moments toward the end of the film when the playback comes justifies the fuss of getting there . This is not a film this viewer would sit through again , but reflecting on the story after all the commotion is over , hearing Mozart's ' Ave Verum Corpus ' and Verdi's ' Nabucco " etc as the inspiration behind Caterina's honest dreams , makes is a more memorable experience . In Italian with English subtitles . Grady Harp
It seems when it comes to romantic comedies the French have the corner on the market and technique . APRES VOUS is a bit of pastiche with a storyline that borders on absurd , but in the hands of director Pierre Salvadori it becomes not only an enjoyable farce , but also a tender little statement about compassion . Antoine ( Daniel Anteuil ) is the fastidious and ultra compassionate manager of a high-class restaurant who bends over backwards for his staff , his patrons , and anybody who crosses his path who appears needy . He ends up making his girlfriend Christine ( Marilyne Canto ) take second place to his humanitarian concerns and this puts a strain on his relationship . One evening in a rush to meet Christine he encounters Louis ( José Garcia ) who is in the process of hanging himself in the park , his desired finale to a life of frustration and loss of his girlfriend Blanche ( Sandrine Kiberlain ) . Naturally Antoine rescues him , feeds him , even brings him home , all the while putting his life on hold to help Louis heal his wounds . Louis is most concerned about the loss of Blanche and Antoine immediately commits his efforts to find her , woo her back for Louis ( including revealing Blanche's current boyfriend's infidelity ) - but in the process there develops a mutual attraction between Antoine and Blanche ! Antoine arranges for Louis to get a job at his restaurant despite Louis ' depression and lack of training . Just when everything seems to be turning out for the best , Christine leaves Antoine , and the circumstances surrounding Antoine's salvage of Louis ' life change and the ending is somewhat of a French twist ! The acting is fine , the pacing is fine , the only problem is with the characters themselves : we soon tire of Antoine's absurd selflessness and Louis ' nerdy helplessness and that hampers the identification with these characters . Other than that the film is a brisk , sweet little French farce that leaves you humming . Grady Harp
AMNESIA : THE JAMES BRIGHTON ENIGMA ( Amnésie : L'énigme James Brighton ) is an independent Canadian film based on fact , but with alterations of names and places to protect / enhance the real people . The title's two operative words are ' amnesia ' and ' enigma ' because watching this film places the viewer in the uncomfortable position of confusion as to fact and fiction - a state of main that must imitate the art of the story ! The story is a version of an incident that occurred in 1998 : a young nude lad was found in a deserted lot in Montréal , taken to a hospital where he was found to have total amnesia except for the fact that he knows he is gay and he believes his name is ' James Brighton ' . The story is enhanced by a strong script by Bertrand Lachance and Denis Langlois ( who also directs ) and by a cast that is able and convincing , especially the main character James Brighton / Matthew Honeycutt ( Dusan Dukic ) . The grit of the film lies not so much in the storyline ( that becomes fragmented at regular intervals due to the moments of memory return the main character experiences ) , but instead in the manner in which our amnesiac struggles to find his identity , a family , and a sense of belonging . Through the help of social workers , detectives , a gay hotline service , and the media the ' true ' identity is slowly unveiled , but not without some serious setbacks - often presented to us as flashback bits and pieces as to who our amnesiac may be . The transitions between the Montreal scenes and the subsequent scenes in Tennessee ( the apparent home of the amnesiac now known as Matthew Honeycutt ) are choppy with sidebars of Pentecostal church services adding to the confused mix . Yet in the end the pleasure of the film is up to the viewer's interpretation of all the ' facts ' that have been discovered : we are allowed to participate in the enigma . In Québecois , French , and English with variable subtitles . Grady Harp
Thomas Bezucha ( ' Big Eden ' ) is a writer / director willing to address social issues in a setting where the issues become secondary to his characters . Though he is not polished as yet ( Big Eden was a fine little film but hardly the credentials to be put in front of a cast a famous actors ! ) , his heart is in the right place and he does have a penchant for finding comedy in the strangest places and allowing the viewer to embrace any of many issues about which he is talking . THE FAMILY STONE is a double play on words : Stone happens to be the name of a very weird and maladapted family finding conflicts blooming at Christmas , but the ' stone ' also refers to the wedding ring of the mother's mother which is to be passed to the favorite son upon his engagement . Sybil ( Diane Keaton ) and Kelly ( Craig T . Nelson ) are the ' new generation ' parents of a family of assorted siblings : pothead Ben ( Luke Wilson ) , angry single Amy ( Rachel McAdams ) , hearing impaired and gay Thad ( Tyrone Giordano ) partnered with African American Patrick ( Brian White ) , married and pregnant Susannah ( Elizabeth Reaser ) , and the poster boy eldest son Everett ( Dermot Mulroney ) . The nidus of the story is Everett bringing uptight / bright / beautiful / critical Meredith Morton ( Sarah Jessica Parker ) home for the holiday to announce their engagement . No one likes opinionated Meredith and her uncomfortable ' welcome ' triggers maladaptive behavior from everyone . Feeling isolated Meredith invites her sister Julie ( Claire Danes ) to join her as comfort , an act which opens the family to Julie's warmth and drives Meredith to a night of drinking and letting her hair down with the very mellow Ben . How these incidents intertwine and result in changes in all of the family members is the crux of the story . Along the rocky way Bezucha addresses gay partner infant adoption , fear of relationships , the impact of impending death , following the heart in love instead of the expected route of a family expectations , etc . There are just a few too many subplots to make the film digest well and employing a bit of Keystone Cops slapstick in the kitchen on Christmas morning sort of pushes the overstuffed bird over the edge . Yet with a cast like this the characters , unlikely though they may be , are brought into reality : Parker , Danes , Keaton , Wilson , Nelson , McAdams etc keep things flying . If the final curtain ( the Christmas a year later showing the results of all the changes ) is a bit too sappy , blame it on the season . This is not a great movie but a movie with heart from a writer / director who is unafraid to call attention to our human foibles . Grady Harp
EIGHT BELOW is a satisfying film on every level : the story is excellent ( based on fact ) , the script is good , the direction by Frank Marshall is tight and fast paced for a two hour film , the scenery is spectacular and the cast is committed and well chosen . But the real stars of this film are the eight wondrous dogs who for much of the film carry the entire story of being on their own in the Antarctica winter for five plus months - and for the most part surviving through bonding and obvious devotion to each other . They are splendid - beautiful to watch in action and touching to observe in their interaction . But the dogs alone could not have made this happen without the other true stars of the picture - the dog trainers . They deserve mention , so here they are : Michael Alexander and Sally Jo Sousa are the main trainers and are well supported by Tammy Blackburn , Tracy Gardhouse , Thomas L . Gunderson , Rowan Harland , Trish Judd , Dea Valentin Kristensen , Grace McLeod , Scott Rowe , Andrew Simpson , Cherie Smith and Tim Williams . There ! The kudos go to them and their names are buried in the credits . The story is one of dedication and devotion of a group of sledders in the Antarctica who take researchers , such as Doctor McLaren ( Bruce Greenwood ) who is looking for a meteorite from Mercury , on their missions . The main dog lover and trainer is Jerry ( Paul Walker in one of his best performances ) and he is assisted by Katie ( Moon Bloodgood ) and Coop ( Jason Biggs ) . When Jerry is out with the eight dogs taking Doctor McLaren to fine his meteorite , a major storm arises and the dogs and the two men barely make it back to the station , McLaren suffering a broken leg and saved by the bravery of the dogs and Jerry . The crew must evacuate and Jerry insists the dogs be taken out with them , but he is promised that the pilot Katie will return for them , a deed which goes unkept because of the severe weather . The dogs are left to fend for themselves and Jerry is heartbroken , making every feasible attempt to rescue them . By films ends we have witnessed the miracle of survival of the dogs and a demonstration of the profound bonding between man and animal . This film may seem slight from the photo on the DVD , but it is one of those family oriented films that breaks barriers and delivers on a grand scale some very important emotional content . The cast is excellent ( the dogs of course being the main characters ) . The production values are superb except for a strangely mawkish score by Mark Isham . Well worth your time and attention .
Why there is so much polarity with the audiences of Rob Marshall's cinematic adaptation of Arthur Golden's exquisite novel MEMOIRS OF A GEISHA is puzzling . Even in the theater there were those who left halfway through - reason unknown . Despite disagreements on the casting techniques and on the emphasis changes between the book and the film , MEMOIRS remains one of the most visually arresting , genteel films of the year . That it comes across as somewhat of an epic soap opera is no one's fault but the writers . And what is so wrong with an old-fashioned soap opera of a story afterall ? The opening scene of the turbulent sea and heavy rain that accompany the silent selling of two poor sisters to a merchant planning to place the girls in houses in Osaka gives an indication of the importance of water in this story . The sisters are delivered to a house of geishas and only one is selected by the hard madam . Through years of suffering and anguish the chosen one becomes a geisha , finds comfort from her childhood of poverty , gains loving mentoring by a top geisha , becomes the most sought after geisha in Osaka , finds her love , endures WW II and eventually returns to her dreams . The interplay between the girl and the various members of the geisha training and bartering complex add flavor and conflict that keep the story flowing . The three principal actresses - Ziyi Zhang , Michelle Yeoh , and Gong Li carry the film well . The large cast includes favorite actors Ken Watanabe and Mako . The settings are splendid , the special effects such as the cherry blossoms , the autumnal reunion of Zhang and Watanabe , Zhang's spellbinding dance - all are brilliant . John Williams ' musical score blends the best of Japanese folk music with contemporary writing and is greatly abetted by the talent of Yo-Yo Ma and Itzak Perlman . Part of the brilliance of Golden's novel was the meticulous explanation of the myriad details of geisha training and demeanor and makeup and tradition , and while the film version touches on these , the bulk of them are passed over . For this viewer there is a problem with understanding the dialogue due to the enunciation by the actors and the covering of much of the dialogue with ambient music . But that is a minor complaint . In all , MEMOIRS OF A GEISHA is an enormously beautiful and affecting film , one that multiple viewings will no doubt enhance the viewers ' appreciation . Recommended . Grady Harp , February 06
THE ASTRONAUT FARMER is a sound little film with a warm message about living for your dreams . The best part about this film is its honesty in not pushing the limits to make a point . It does require the audience to release a bit of credibility , but stories that are fables are pretty rare in film these days and that is reason enough to enter this one . Twin brothers Michael and Mark Polish ( ' Northfork ' , ' Twin Falls Idaho ' , ' Jackpot ' ) wrote and directed this work and have a style that begs indulgence on the part of the viewer , but the style is unique and consistent and is proving to be a fascinating source of art house movie making . Charles Farmer ( Billy Bob Thornton ) is a retired military man who trained as an astronaut but retired to save his family farm in Texas . He dreams of a life as an astronaut and with the encouragement of his wife Audie ( Virginia Madsen ) , grandfather Hal ( Bruce Dern ) , son Shepard ( Max Thieriot ) and other children , Farmer has built a rocket and a space ship , going against all odds to be the first citizen astronaut . Though many of the little town's citizens question Farmer's credibility and though the bank threatens to foreclose on his over-borrowed farm , Farmer persists - his only major problem occurs when he orders 10 , 000 gallons of fuel , a factor that alerts the FBI . But Farmer manages to remain focused to achieve his dream and the ending of the movie reveals the payoff to his persistence . The cast is excellent with Thornton giving one of his more docile roles and succeeding in making Farmer win our hearts . Minor roles make use of the talents of Tim Blake Nelson , J . K . Simmons , Sal Lopez and Kiersten Warren among others . The pleasure of this fantasy film is the lack of need for computer-generated animation : the magic is in the warmth of the characters and their dreams . This is a fine little film for a large , sensitive audience . Grady Harp
As is obvious in the complex responses to both the book and the film by Errol Morris and Philip Gourevitch , STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURE places in our faces some facts we would rather shield than discuss . The story of the period of between September 2003 and February 2004 at the Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq is so well known not only from the news media but also from the Internet blogging sites that it need not be outlined in a review of this film . The facts documented by photographs taken by those who participated and observed the inhuman treatment of prisoners are indisputable : seeing them on the screen in full frame and in close-up shots is almost more than the compassionate eye can tolerate . But there it is and yes , we do need to witness the abuse and humiliation that describes the US prisoner treatment in Iraq , no matter who is to blame - enlisted personnel , MI , high ranking military officials , the White House . The fact that it occurred as such a gross abuse of human rights should awaken in all of us a more complete awareness that war makes humans do such things . It is ugly to watch , difficult to digest , and extremely trying on our set of beliefs that man's inhumanity to man has and does exist despite our need to believe otherwise . Given the atrocities documented by this film , the style of the film as a work of cinema deserves to be addressed also . The flow of the documentary with the interplay of interview pieces by those infamous young people upon whose shoulders the blame was placed in what appears to be a diversionary technique to avoid deeper probing of the true guilt , along with the images of the prison itself - stark lines of cellblocks and living conditions so foul they seem to actually smell on the screen - is well conceived and beautifully / creatively captured by cinematographers Robert Chappell and Robert Richardson and enhanced by a strangely appropriate musical scoring by Danny Elfman . The film may be about things ugly , but the technique used to tell the story is high quality art . Abu Ghraib , along with Guantanamo , will always be a scar on the conscience of America , even beyond the time that this ugly Iraq war is over . We should all look at this film with the hope that with seeing actual footage of a nightmare may help prevent recurrences in the future . Grady Harp
There are a few flaws in this otherwise successful film that is in fact as frightening as the trailer makes it out to be . Not being one for the constant barrage of thriller films ( the ' Saw ' Series , the endless vampire variations , ' I know what you did . . . ' , etc ) this viewer hesitantly watched what could have been yet another exercise in blood and gore . But surprise ! The story ( based on a true incident in 2005 as outlined by an off camera narrator discussing the number of violent deaths in America each year before the film opens ) is tight , credible , and deals more with the emotion of terror of the unknown than images of gore . Kudos to writer / director Bryan Bertino for finding the core of the macabre . And it is true ! James Hoyt ( Scott Speedman ) is driving his girlfriend Kristen MacKay ( Liv Tyler ) to the isolated summer home in the woods that James and his best friend Mike ( Glenn Howerton ) had earlier decorated with rose petals , candles and champagne in preparation for what was supposed to be a celebration of a marriage proposal . Sadness prevails in the car as Kristen has turned James ' proposal down . They quietly enter the decorated house , and almost immediately begin to hear sounds outside and a door knock by a young girl apparently looking for a person not living in this house . Kristen asks James to go out and get her cigarettes and the creepy action begins . Three strangers each in masks terrify Kristen with noises , secretly entering the house , and creating a tense atmosphere until James returns . At this point the story becomes an almost unbearable sequence of events : it is clear the strangers are out to murder James and Kristen . Bound and beaten by the three strangers Kristen asks ' Why us ? Why do you want to kill us ? ' and the simple answer from of the strangers is ' Because you're home ' . The ending of the film could have been better handled by someone telling us the results of the night - the follow up to this true story . But instead Bertino elects to keep the level of terror high . Peter Sova ( cinematographer ) finds the right amount of shadow and dark to keep us guessing and the musical score by tomandandy is pitch perfect . This is a fine little film , but be prepared to jump in a few spots . . . and keep the lights on ! Grady Harp
LAUTLOS ( Soundless ) is yet another film by Director / writer Mennan Yapo ( with writing assists form Lars-Olaf Beier ) that takes on a story of a hit man on his last job and makes it into a fine psychological thriller . The cinematography , lighting , music and pacing of this strangely dark film provide an excellent background for a superb cast of actors . Viktor ( Joachim Król ) is an aging hit man , a perfectionist whose reputation as a genius killer includes the fact that he works so well that he is soundless in his paid executions . We are privy to his mind's working as he focuses on his last hit , a man with a lady in his room Nina ( the very beautiful Nadja Uhl ) whose life he spares in the hit , an act of emotional response to the beautiful woman but an act that causes his employer to set a mark on him for his failure . Viktor saves Nina from suicide and the two become enchanted with each other . Viktor has found love at the end of his career as a murderer : Nina wants to get to know Viktor better before committing to his advances . Enter the police headed by the brilliant Lang ( Christian Berkel ) who is determined to capture Viktor by studying his patterns and mind tracings . Viktor and Nina are on the run but with a goal - that they will join at the sea and leave the life of crime . But before this can happen they must go through a literal wall of flames ( a touch of Wagner , here ) . How the cat and mouse chase comes into play and resolves is the satisfying end to this polished little thriller . Król , Uhl , and Berkel ( in addition to a fine supporting cast ) make this tense drama intimate and penetrating and Yapo's direction keeps the pace breathless . This is a fine little thriller in German with English subtitles . Grady Harp
A surprisingly good little thriller , 16 BLOCKS provides a tight , minimalist script , fine directing , excellent camera work , and standout performances by Bruce Willis , Mos Def , and David Morse . It is enough of a twist on the usual cop chase films to make it fresh , exciting , intelligent and touching . Jack Mosley ( Bruce Willis ) is an old drunk , a cop with NYPD who is given only minimal duties because everyone knows he has a problem ( and why then aren't they doing something about it . . . ? ) . He is assigned to escort a prisoner , petty criminal loquacious Eddie Bunker ( Mos Def ) from his cell to the courthouse 16 blocks away where he is to testify against some bad cops . Little does Mosley know it is a setup and very soon it is apparent that the bad cops headed by his old partner Frank ( David Morse ) are out to kill Eddie so that he can't testify against them . Jack and Eddie have a face-off in a bar where Jack has a conscience change and decides to go against his fellow bad cops and get Eddie to the courthouse . It is the getting there , involving hiding , running , commandeering a bus , etc that creates the bulk of the film . But as much as the action portion of the thriller is satisfying , the feature of this film is the extraordinary gradual development of change in the character of Jack and of Eddie as they both , as ' outsiders ' doomed to careers that seem dead ends , interrelate , bond and change . Both Willis and Def give superb performances and the film is well worth watching to just see these fine actors in parts that give them room to demonstrate their considerable skills . Richard Donner paces his film well and there is not a dead moment in the movie . The cinematography by Glen MacPherson and the musical score by Klaus Badelt as well as the fine supporting cast make this a polished work . There is an alternate ending ( originally shot to be the first choice ending ! ) that makes the film take a different slant , but the film as it stands is a fine one . Grady Harp
Some films may be predictable , with minimal storyline and action sequences and still be a hit . THE BOYS AND GIRL FROM COUNTY CLARE hits that description on target . This is an emerald of a jaunty little Irish tale that thoroughly entertains with a fine cast and superb Irish music and leaves the audience wholly satisfied - AND has a fine social comment ! The setting is County Clare where the International Irish Music festival is at hand . For years John-Joe McMahon ( Bernard Hill ) and his little band have won the ceili ( Irish dance music ) band competition . Members of his hometown orchestra include young Anne ( Andrea Corr ) and her unmarried grumpy piano-playing mother Maisie ( Charlotte Bradley ) . Word comes round that John-Joe's long estranged brother Jimmy ( Colm Meaney ) has a band from Liverpool , a band that includes Liverpudlian types including young and handsome flautist Teddy ( Shaun Evans ) and is aimed in the direction of the Festival to compete . In fine Irish tradition the two mutually angry brothers try to sabotage each other's appearance , but alas they both come face to face in the competition . With Jimmy's arrival we discover that Maisie's negative outlook comes from the fact that Jimmy is the one who wantonly got her pregnant and Anne is Jimmy's daughter . Maisie is forced to admit to Anne her betrayal of ancestry news and the mother / daughter relationship is strained to the breaking point . Anne and Teddy ( naturally ) fall for each other and the two of them decide to return to Liverpool after the festival ends with neither's band the winner . This development is threatening to Maisie and she finally confronts Jimmy with her pent up resentment and disappointment . How the young ones cope with their situation and emotions and resolve the problem of distance is the finale of this sweet story and is best left to the viewer to discover . The acting is homogeneously fine with the comedy and drama in fine balance . And oh the music ! Director John Irvin has created a little jewel of a film that warms the proverbial cockles of your heart . Grady Harp
AUGUST RUSH will not go down in history as a profound film : many will even go so far as to dismiss it as kitsch , maudlin , and a simpleton take off on ' Oliver Twist ' , and other pejoratives . For this viewer the little film is tender and frequently requires suspension of belief , but in the end the idea of the story does indeed bring a tear to the eye . Based on a story by Paul Castro and Nick Castle and transformed for the screen by Castle and James V . Hart , the premise is that of a fairytale , but an unusual fairytale built around the impact of music . On one magic night in New York City classical cellist Lyla Novacek ( Keri Russell ) and popular Irish guitarist / singer Louis Connelly ( Jonathan Rhys Meyers ) meet on a rooftop , languishing in their own disappointments with life and finding solace in each other's arms , and that night Lyla becomes pregnant , never to see Louis again , and struggling to keep her baby despite her father's demands to abort . Lyla delivers her baby boy , but the child is immediately taken away ( Lyla is told the child was stillborn ) . ' Evan Taylor ' AKA August Rush ( Freddie Highmore ) is placed in an orphanage , longing for parents he believes he can ' hear ' in the music of the spheres . Compelled to find his parents he escapes the orphanage after eleven years and is taken in by Faginesque Maxwell ' Wizard ' Wallace ( Robin Williams ) who teaches his street urchins the fine art of pick pocketing and playing music on the streets as buskers . Renamed August Rush , Evan has uncommon musical talents and rapidly becomes a big money maker for Wizard while at the same time being discovered as a potential pupil for Juilliard by Reverend James ( Mykelti Williamson ) and his girl singer Hope ( Jamia Simone Nash ) with assistance from kindly social worker Richard Jefferies ( Terrence Howard ) . August Rush composes a rhapsody that is to be played in Central Park , a chance to place his music before the world and attract his parents , both of whom have returned to music careers after eleven years absence and learn of the existence of August Rush , their ' unknown son ' . And yes , the ending is a happily ever after one . . . Kirsten Sheridan directs with a sure hand and a keen eye toward make believe . The cast is strong , especially Jonathan Rhys Meyers , and the musical score , a very mixed bag , provides a suitable background for the story . This is one of those movies that asks us to go along with a lot of improbable events , but the pleasure of the experience is worth the journey . Grady Harp
Colditz is a castle near Leipzig where during WW II the Nazis held Allied troops who were particularly at risk as escape artists . Many of the men had escaped POW camps prior to their incarceration in the huge castle , and the man in charge of the prison warns every new inmate that the castle is impenetrable : there is no possibility of escaping and those who attempt will be killed . The film begins in London 1939 as men are preparing to leave for the front . Among them is a slightly naive but warmly human lad , Jack Rose ( Tom Hardy ) who has fallen in love with Lizzie ( Sophia Myles ) , in a sweet , innocent union that represents the concept of ' the love we leave behind ' . Jack leaves for duty with fellow soldiers Nicholas McGrade ( Damian Lewis ) and Tom Willis ( Lawrence Fox ) and soon they are captured by the Nazis and placed in a POW camp . Of course , being cunning lads , they soon escape only to be captured again and sent to the ominous Colditz - all except Nick . There they bond with men from home such as artist Sawyer ( Guy Henry ) and from other countries including France and Canada - among them Rhett Barker ( Jason Priestly ) who is a manipulator able to buy goods from Nazi guards including drugs to which he is addicted . Nick is sent back to London where he meets Lizzie to tell her of Jack's safety . In time the two feel an attraction that proves to have fatal consequences because of Nick's obsession to have Lizzie to himself . Meanwhile the men in Colditz attempt multiple escapes only to be caught each time and put into solitary confinement . The drive to escape is aided by all of the inmates and yet their efforts are thwarted by colleagues turned informers for their own selfish needs . Artist Sawyer does escape and is assigned in London with the Intelligence outfit with Nick : he learns that supposedly Jack has been reported as killed in action ( a letter forged by Nick to gain access to Lizzie's emotions ) and the remainder of the story concerns the end of the war , the release of the prisoners from Colditz , and the fatal schism between the returning Jack and his rival Nick over the love of Lizzie . Director Stuart Orme manages to keep the pace of this over three hour long film , allowing the viewer to meet and understand and care about a very large cast of characters ( writers Richard Cottan and Peter Morgan have created deft personalities ) . Filmed in London and the Czech Republic the atmosphere is correctly captured and the large cast of characters includes many very fine cameos . If there is a single message to summarize a complex story , it is the old adage ' brothers in arms , rivals in love ' . This made for television miniseries is well acted and is another opportunity to see the background stories of World War II . Recommended viewing . Grady Harp
Writer / Director Ric Roman Waugh may not have a large number of completed films under his stuntman belt , but if FELON is any indication of the quality of work we can expect from him , it seems he has a solid future . There are many films about prison life and prison breaks that keep coming down the pike , but few of them have the quality of being character studies of how prison affects the minds and lives of both those incarcerated and those on the outside who must deal with the realities both concurrent and future of living in the shadow of ultimate effects of prison experiences . FELON is a strong character-based prison drama . Wade Porter ( Stephen Dorff ) is a young man on the rise : he is planning to marry the mother Laura ( Marisol Nichols ) of his child Michael ( Vincent Miller ) , his small business is finally becoming successful , and his family life is happy . One evening Wade's and Laura's sleep is interrupted by an intruder who steals Wade's wallet , then runs out of the house with Wade chasing him with a baseball bat . One hit with the bat the robber is dead . The police arrive and because of the logistics of the timing of the blow to the robber , Wade is arrested for murder . Unsuccessful attempts to explain the situation eventually lead to Wade's being sentenced to prison and he is sent to a prison run by a sadistic Lt . Jackson ( Harold Perrineau ) with demons of his own . A famous prisoner John Smith ( Val Kilmer ) is transferred to the prison and becomes cellmates with Wade . The racial violence between prisoners creates rules and gangs and Wade is caught up in the violence that occurs in the daily ' hour in the yard ' experiences , until John shares his knowledge of prison logistics and advises Wade in how to avoid critical issues . The prisoners are not only violent among themselves , but they are also the pawns of the brutally evil Lt . Jackson and his crew who appear to delight in the traumas the prisoners create . It is obvious that the good guy / bad guy line is blurred and in order to survive Wade follows John's wise council to an ending that eventually results in some correction of the evils of the prison situation . Survival is the key in the cases of many of the characters , including some of the ' good guards ' ( Nate Parker , Greg Serano ) , the steadfast Laura , her mother ( a small but well defined role for Annie Archer ) , and for former guard Gordon ( Sam Shepard ) a friend of John Smith . Dorff and Kilmer provide very strong characterizations as does Perrineau , but without the fairly large cast of ' fellow prisoners ' who set the scenes , their overall performances would be less impressive . It is here that Ric Roman Waugh demonstrates his talent for handling the mixture of physical brutality with the fragility of each individual's mind that makes the film work . It is a tough film to watch but it is solid craftsmanship . Grady Harp
WHEN NIETZSCHE WEPT gives us an insight into the beginnings of Psychology and particularly the Treatment of Talking as begun not by Sigmund Freud , but instead by the brilliant yet troubled mind of philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche and the Viennese physician Dr . Josef Breuer . Pinchas Perry adapted the novel by the same name by Irvin D . Yalom and also directs this period piece . The film works on many levels : the flavor of the period is well captured ( though Vienna in the film is Bulgarian locations ! ) , the ideas are fresh to some , and the pacing and use of moments of fine classical music tidbits add flavor . If only more attention had been paid to the theories discussed . . . 1872 is the time and two men are haunted by demons , and the ' demons ' happen to be failed love affairs with famous women . Dr . Josef Breuer ( Ben Cross ) is a famous physician but is obsessed with an hysterical young woman Bertha ( Michal Yannai ) . Another beautiful lady enters Breuer's world in the form of Lou Salome ( Katheryn Winnick ) who has had a brief affair with the philosopher Nietzsche ( Arman Assante ) and feels he needs Breuer's help with his ' Talk Therapy ' . The two men meet , share fears , and agree to a mutually beneficial relationship : Breuer will help Nietzsche with his migraines ( due to his obsession with Lou Salome ) and Nietzsche will share his philosophical approach to the world to help Breuer with is recurring nightmares . The resulting experience is an introduction to psychoanalysis as a treatment , a treatment that fascinates the young Freud ( Jamie Elman ) . The action is a bit heavy on the dream and surreal sequences instead of being a learned exploration of a very important period of history . The quality of acting is variable : Assante seems the only one to wholly grasp his role as Nietzsche . The film has many flaws but in the end it is an interesting introduction to the history of an important movement in medicine . It takes patience to watch but it is well worth the viewer's time . Grady Harp
RAILS & TIES , under the guidance of first time director Alison Eastwood , tackles an implausible subject of multiple tragedies resulting in repairing personal breaks and with the able assistance of a groups of excellent actors makes a finely tune , sensitive study of little lives struggling against major odds . It is well conceived , well written ( Micky Levy ) , well acted and sincerely moving . Tom Stark ( Kevin Bacon ) is a train engineer , married to his job as well as being married to his nurse wife Megan ( Marcia Gay Harden ) who is facing the ugly fact that her breast cancer is terminal . The cancer has spread beyond Megan's body into the tenuous space that keeps a marriage glued : Megan attempts to hide her desperate need for emotional support by continuing to work as a nurse and Tom takes on extra train runs to avoid the reality that face him at home . The other side of the story is equally sad : young Davey Danner ( Miles Heizer ) cares of his psychologically shattered mother ( Bonnie Root ) and unknowingly accompanies her on a jaunt to ' see the train ' - a ploy well planned by the suicidal mother to drive in front of an oncoming train to end her life along with Davey's . The conductor of the train is of course Tom Stark , and when Tom first sees the car on the tracks , he keeps to company policy that recommends gradual slowing rather than the danger of an abrupt stop : the result is the death of Davey's mother but Davey escapes the crash while trying to pull his mother from the car . The tragedies mount : Davey is left homeless , being placed in a foster home run by the cruel ' mom ' ( Margo Martindale ) only to escape to find the ' killer ' of his mother ; Tom is put on leave for the incident ; Megan gets the final word that she has very little time left and is ready to leave the distant Tom . It is this inadvertent entrance of Davey into the lives of Tom and Megan that results in a healing of three souls who are desperate for the connection of love . While some my find the story implausible and saccharine , others will appreciate the manner in which Eastwood holds rein on the story , playing it for quiet honesty instead of explosive situations . Both Bacon and Harden deliver the quality of sophisticated performances that have marked their careers , and the remainder of the cast gives strong support - especially Eugene Byrd , Marin Hinkle , Bonnie Root , Margo Martindale , and of course Miles Heizer . This is a tough story to tell but the film holds an indelible mark on the viewer . Grady Harp
Director João Pedro Rodrigues and writer Paulo Rebelo ( ' O Fantasma ' ) collaborate again on this fascinating ( if a bit frustrating ) Portuguese film ODETE ( ' Two Drifters ' ) . Together they have their own brand of surrealism and exploration of fantasies that seems to be developing into a smart new look for cinema . The very controversial ' O Fantasma ' was dark and brooding , tearing open psyches like feral dogs along the slums of Portugal , whereas ' Two Drifters ' is a work in the daylight that moves the concentration from men only to men and women - but the extremes of behavior are still in sharp focus . The film opens with a very tender moment between handsome student Pedro ( João Carreira ) and his working boyfriend Rui ( Nuno Gil ) : it is their anniversary but their individual obligations prevent them from spending more than a hasty goodbye , exchanging rings , and off goes Pedro in his car only to be killed in a crash . Devastated , Rui attends to Pedro and then to the horror of sitting by his casket during the wake before the funeral . Flash into storyline two : the beautiful store skater Odete ( Ana Cristina De Oliveira ) lives with her lover Alberto ( the hunky Carloto Cotta ) but when she announces she would like to have a child , Alberto flees and Odete is left in depression over her plight . She just happens to be a neighbor of the recently dead Pedro and in her loneliness she attends Pedro's wake , follows the casket through the funeral and to the grave where she begins to obsess over the dead Pedro . She spends her time draped across his grave , fantasizes that she is pregnant by him and confronts Pedro's mother with the concept . She truly has pseudosiesis ( false imagined hysterical pregnancy ) and when it is an exposed condition she alters her appearance , cutting her hair and wearing Pedro's clothes and even convincing Pedro's mother to let her sleep in his bed . Ultimately Odete , now inhabiting the persona of Pedro , rejects Albert's return to her graces and instead enters into a bizarre arrangement with Rui . The actors are all physically beautiful people , superbly cast to fit the models of the personalities of the story , and they manage to make this rather incredible tale credible . The film is rich in symbolism and metaphors , among them the title of the English version ' Two Drifters ' - a phrase taken form the favorite fantasy song ' Moon River ' that is the theme of Pedro's and Rui's relationship . There are some distorted sexual scenes and innuendos that may be off-putting to some , but the inclusion works for the story . It is a tough little film but dazzling in its brave little way of taking chances , making us eager to see what João Pedro Rodrigues will do next ! Grady Harp
AMOR DE HOMBRE is a smart , snappy , fast-paced , entertaining little film which considering its release date of 1997 was a precursor to the now frequent appearance of films that deal with tender relationships between gay men and straight women ( ' My Best Friend's Wedding ' and all the spin-offs ) . It is a smart script , well cast and acted and directed and scored and should be given the chance for a theater release now , in more expansive gender-friendly times . Ramón ( Andrea Occhipinti ) is a handsome , successful lawyer in Madrid who happens to be gay and unlike most of his friends has not settled into a partnership . His closest friend is Esperanza ( Loles León ) who is a divorced school teacher , just turned 40 , who love Ramón and constantly tries to help him find the ' right man ' while Ramón tries to help her find her ' right man ' . They party together with all of Ramón's professional friends - doctors , businessmen , teachers - and Ramón is hedonistic enough to have a different be partner every evening . After an automobile accident in which Ramón is injured , Esperanza moves in to care for him , a care that includes asking one of her fellow Phys Ed teachers Roberto ( Armando del Río ) to offer physical therapy and massage to the ailing Ramón . Because Roberto seems to rebuff Ramón's growing obsession with an unattainable straight man , the therapy ends when Ramón is able to walk . A twist occurs once Ramón is well and Roberto changes roles and is seductive to Ramón , a romance that comes to a tragic ending . In the end it is the quality of friendship between Ramón and Esperanza that provides the lasting nucleus of this tale . It is refreshing to see a film that focuses on healthy men who happen to be gay instead of a series of beleaguered victims of the usual stereotypes who end up with hopeless tragic lives . Yes , the circle of friends seems always on the watch for the ' new man on the block ' , but the cruising is healthy and fun . The movie works so well because of the fine writing and direction by an amazing team - Yolanda García Serrano and Juan Luis Iborra - who seem to have pared down life in Madrid's professional sector with a fresh eye on variety ! The cast is superb with special kudos to Loles León and Andrea Occhipinti . This is a light and very entertaining comedy with a message . Recommended . In Spanish with English subtitles . Grady Harp
' You never get out of the sewer ' is the sad summary toward the end of this remarkable film from Macedonia . Director Svetozar Ristovski co-wrote this screenplay with Grace Lea Troje , a story of the struggle of youths in a country devastated with poverty and corruption - a place without hope . The message is grim , the story is brutal , but the impact is stunning . Marko ( twelve-year old Marko Kovacevic in a brilliant debut ) lives with his abusive , alcoholic father Lazo ( Vlado Jovanovski ) whose only work other than drinking is bingo games and who is in defiance of the American occupation of Macedonia ; his mute and terrified mother Angja ( Elena Mosevska ) who remains a pathetic victim of abuse ; and his trashy , angry , abusive sister Fanny ( Slavica Manaskova ) - all of whom hate each other and fill their hovel along the railroad tracks with cruelty . Marko happens to be a fine student who writes poetry and is encouraged by his Bosnian Professor ( Mustafa Nadarevic ) to write a poem for a competition that would reward him with a trip to Paris . Marko's schoolmates are disgusting thugs who beat him at every provocation : the Professor , fighting his own demons , does little to control his outrageous classroom . Marko escapes his ugly household by finding a spot on a deserted train where he can be alone and it is here that the movie takes on magic . Marko ' creates ' a friend named ' Paris ' ( Nikola Djuricko ) who gives him hope that Marko can come with him as he leaves the little cruel village . Paris teaches him to defend himself and to support himself through stealing and shoplifting , all with the goal of escaping from Macedonia . As Marko slips down the path of crime his teacher tries in vain to feed Marko's hope of writing his way to Paris , but when the gang of boys force Marko to the limit , Marko's new self challenges them , establishing his independence . The two beacons of Hope for Marko ( Professor and Paris ) both fade and the ending of the film comes as a shocking surprise , yet one that mirrors Nietzsche's astute quotation . This is a grim film to watch , overflowing with brutality of both the physical and the mental types , but the journey is worth it due to the overwhelmingly fine performance by Marko Kovacevic , a lad with the same degree of quiet facial expressiveness and acting skill as that of such greats as Giulietta Masina . The gritting , well-composed cinematography is by Vladimir Samoilovski and the haunting musical score is by Klaus Hundsbichler ( with a little help from Eric Satie ! ) . This is one of those films that is disturbing in the best sense of the word : it makes us think beyond our safe borders and contemplate the plight of the oppressed , both children and adults , in a country torn by recurring violence . In Macedonian and Bosnian with English subtitles . Recommended . Grady Harp
BOY CULTURE is a very fine little film and were it being evaluated solely within the confines of gay films , it would easily rate 10 stars . It is well written , well directed , well acted and has messages that cover a fairly broad territory ( racism , homophobia , hustler life style , relationships , coming out tales and tales from the closet , etc ) . There are some technical flaws with the film and some unresolved character problems that prevent it from being what it comes close to being , but finally here is a gay themed film that is wise , entertaining , and user-friendly for a larger population than the community for which it was made . The story is biographical in nature : " X " ( Derek Magyar ) is a male hustler who lives off the income from a limited clientèle of regulars , who occupies a living space with two gay roommates - Andrew ( Darryl Stephens ) and Joey ( Jonathon Trent ) - and who has what he thinks it takes to make him happy . The missing element is love , and in several ways he comes into proximity with that missing thread : his newest client is Gregory ( Patrick Bauchau in a richly nuanced performance as a elderly closeted loner ) who introduces X to the finer things in life , including introspection and looking for what is missing in his world . Andrew is a conflicted African American man who still misses the caring he had with a girlfriend whose wedding he is to attend . Joey has just turned 18 and looks to X and Andrew as father figures . The problem is that X and Andrew have deeper feelings of attraction and commitment to each other than either wants to admit , and the story ( as narrated by X ) is about how this mutual challenging need is resolved . Q . Allan Brocka directed and co-wrote the film with Philip Pierce and the dialog is snappy at times and gently tender at others . The cast is quite fine : the young lads are top notch eye candy while bringing solid acting skills to their roles , and the older actors bring a since of resilience to the story that keeps it grounded in style . This is a very good little film that deserves a wider audience , one that needs to see this aspect of the population once considered merely peripheral . Movies like this help understanding interpersonal relationships , and everyone needs to address that . Grady Harp
MARTIAN CHILD was marketed incorrectly - that can be the major reason for its lack of success in the theatrical release . While all the multiplex theaters are overflowing with loud , coarse , raunchy , and special effects driven financial successes ( with major exceptions , of course ! ) , little meaningful and sensitive films such as this are submerged and don't last long . Should the name of the film have been different ? Should the advertisements been better designed ? Who knows , but for those who now have the opportunity to buy or rent MARTIAN CHILD , there is a special experience in store . Based on the novel ' The Martian Child ' by David Gerrold ( beautifully adapted for the screen by Seth Bass and Jonathan Tolins ) , Director Menno Meyjes has gathered an exceptional cast to present this story about human needs and how we all find security in the warmth of other caring beings . David ( John Cusack ) is a successful science fiction writer who is a widower , still grieving for his wife . His agent Jeff ( Oliver Platt ) , his sister Liz ( Joan Cusack ) and his wife's best friend Harlee ( Amanda Peet ) aid his ' convalescence ' , but David feels the need for a child . When social worker Sophie ( Sophie Okonedo ) calls David concerning an available strange little boy Dennis ( Bobby Coleman ) who believes he is from the planet Mars and hides inside a box , covered with sunscreen and dark glasses , David responds : he , after all , writes science fiction and is attracted to the idea that Dennis believes he is here from Mars on a mission . Against the advice of his practical sister , David agrees to take Dennis home , feeling that he is one of the few who can relate to Dennis ' behavior . Life at home is not easy , but with time David and Dennis bond and Dennis comes out of his box to become ' normal ' . It is the prolonged journey on which David and Dennis embark that holds the meat of the story . Dennis has been deserted as a small child and finds security in believing he is a visiting Martian who will be ' taken home ' to Mars when his mission to understand human beings is complete . David's persistent parenting ( quoting Churchill's ' Never ever , ever , ever , ever , ever give up ' ) , while tested to the extreme , results in a bonding with Dennis that is heart wrenchingly beautiful . And how each of the characters ' lives is changed by this extraordinary relationship brings the film to a touching close . In addition to the fine performances by both Cusacks , Peet , Platt , and Okonedo , there are brief but noteworthy cameos by Anjelica Huston and Richard Schiff among others . This is a film that makes a major statement about parenting and single parenting in particular and does so with kindness , tenderness , and sincere emotion . Please see this film . Grady Harp
RENDITION accomplishes a lot in presenting a story that is tough to watch , tougher to believe , and for all that is a tremendously involving and electrifying movie . It is definitely a message film but that message is delivered by a smart script , a compassionate director , and a dream cast . But first the word rendition : according to the dictionary , " In law , rendition is a " surrender " or " handing over " of persons or property , particularly from one jurisdiction to another . For criminal suspects , extradition is the most common type of rendition . Rendition can also be seen as the act of handing over , after the request for extradition has taken place . " For many this may not be news , but for those who are not privy to our Intelligence games , the concept is a terrifying one . For this film Kelley Sane has provided director Gavin Hood with a script that examines the horrors of rendition and in doing so the two have created a story we simply cannot ignore . Anwar El-Ibrahimi ( Omar Metwally ) is an Egyptian-born American working in South Africa as the film begins : his very pregnant wife Isabella ( Reese Witherspoon ) awaits his return home but when Anwar doesn't appear at the airport , the enigma begins . Anwar has been taken prisoner in Egypt where he is tortured and interrogated for information by the cruel Abasi Fawal ( Yigal Naor ) while a reluctant CIA investigator Douglas Freeman ( Jake Gyllenhaal ) stands by , the two attempting to extract secrets to be provided to the USA : behind the scenes in Washington DC the extraordinary rendition is piloted by Intelligence expert Corrine Whitman ( Meryl Streep ) . Isabella attempts to uncover the truth of her missing husband's whereabouts and involves an old friend ( Peter Sarsgaard ) to help her . Nothing goes well , not in the US or in Egypt , where the interrogator Abasi discovers the evil that is brewing within his own family . It is Isabella's persistence , Anwar's endurance , and the ultimate heroism of Douglas Freeman that allow the resolution to the nightmare . The cast is uniformly strong , the grim realities of the torture chambers are almost unbearable to watch , and the in-our-face discovery of how our Intelligence system works ( especially since 911 ) is terrifying . Added to the DVD is a short film about two men who talk about personal experiences with ' rendition ' . It is a kick in the gut and demands action from the viewer to become an activist in preventing the continuation of these tactics . Grady Harp
PUNISH ME ( VERFOLGT ) , aptly photographed in rich black and white , is a deftly made German film that raises as many questions as disturbing thoughts , a film that in every definition is a film noir - and a superb one at that . Writer Susanne Billig and director Angelina Maccarone ( note : two very talented women ! ) have concocted a tale of disparate matching between a 50-year-old woman and a 16-year-old boy , a relationship that builds on sadomasochism as a means of filling voids in each character . The story could easily have become ' sensational ' in less sensitive hands , but here , with the sound help of a superb and wholly credible cast , it asks us to examine the extremes to which people will go to feel complete . Jan Winkler ( the gifted and inordinately handsome Kostja Ullmann ) is 16 and on probation for petty crimes . He is assigned to parole officer Elsa Seifert ( the fine actress Maren Kroymann ) , a 50-year-old frustrated woman in a marriage that has stagnated . Jan feels a strange attraction to Elsa , an act that at first Elsa rebuffs and discourages but gradually becomes fascinated with the attention and seductive behavior of the young Jan . Committed to helping Jan she manages to talk her husband into employing Jan at his car repair shop the two males strike up a friendship . In a series of subtle episodes Jan suggests his need for ' structuring ' to Elsa : what he needs is Elsa to punish him physically , and when Elsa complies she is attracted to the process of sadomasochistic behavior ( as the Dominatrix ) as well as to the tenderness that always follows their dark sessions . Elsa's husband discovers his wife's relationship with Jan while Jan's friends uncover the secret , and the resulting behavior and recriminations flesh out the surprising ending . Both Ullmann and Kroymann are outstanding in these difficult roles and manage to maintain our empathy and understanding throughout the story . Both are exceptional actors and both have compelling screen presence . The cinematography allows us to once again remember how powerful black and white film can be . This is a film that some may find difficult to view ( sadomasochism , teenage / older woman ' romance ' ) , but the director keeps the story in tight rein and the result is a powerful tale of need and love and the sticky path that often joins the two feelings . In German with English subtitles . Recommended . Grady Harp
Sur mes lèvres or READ MY LIPS is fine little thriller that also examines the lives of ' outsiders ' , people who live in the periphery of our vision who struggle with the need to ' fit in ' . Director Jacques Audiard with and co-writer Tonino Benacquista have created a tense , tight , completely entertaining little thriller that makes some significant statements about out of the norm individuals and their plights . Carla ( Emmanuelle Devos ) is a plain Jane , mostly deaf , thirty something unnoticed secretary for a company whose life is one of social and sexual isolation and whose view of the future is rather bleak . Enter Paul ( Vincent Cassel ) a recent released ex-con parolee who responds to an ad to be Carla's assistant . There is a mutual physical repulsion at first meeting : Carla had hoped for a well-groomed , genteel man who might fulfill her fantasies and Paul is a coarse , unkempt sleazy guy who is not impressed with being a clerk . Their concepts change rather quickly when Paul salvages Carla's job by filling her request to steal a letter that would cost her her job and Paul discovers Carla's lip reading ability which he sees as a way to spy on the criminals from his past who threaten his life for money owed . So this odd couple of a team join forces and together enter a dangerous suspense filled ploy to gain Paul's safety and freedom . The relationship is full of twists and edge of the seat suspense with each of these unlikely characters fulfilling roles in their lives that fill the chinks in their walls of isolation in surprising ways . Devos and Cassel deliver bravura performances and the remainder of the cast is uniformly strong . Once again Alexandre Desplat has produced a musical score that enhances the tension and cinematographer Mathieu Vadepied finds all the right lighting and angles to suggest the worlds of isolation of the characters as well as the Hitchcockian sense of suspense . Director Audiard wisely manipulates a factor that is at once sensitive and transformative for the story : he shows us the difference between ' hearing ' the world with and without hearing aids and in doing so makes some powerful social comments . This is a fine film that remains in the ranks of the best of the French film noir genre . Recommended . Grady Harp
L'amour Dangereux is a beautifully filmed and very well written ( François Lemaire , Steve Suissa and Samantha Mazeras ) story that finds more information about the early stages of love in the young set than a score of other films . Director Steve Suissa knows exactly how to balance the motivations and the responses of his cast , making a potentially predictable story one that holds our attention - and hearts - from the first frame to the last . Simon ( Nicholas Cazale , a formidable screen presence ) is a lower class laborer , kind , caring , industrious , and ' in love ' with a girl Noemie ( Jennifer Decker ) he has observed since childhood , a girl whose parents are property ( shop ) owners and thus in another class . Always ready to increase his work to make a better salary , Simon accepts a questionable ' job ' for 500 Euros for just 2 hours work . Needless to say the job is a robbery and Simon , in the course of the failed robbery , assaults a policeman who is attacking his friend , wounding the policeman badly . The others in the robbery are caught but Simon escapes . He visits the café where Noemie works , asks her if she has car keys and Noemie not only gives Simon her father's car and keys , but also asks Simon to accompany him on his escape . The remainder of the film is a road trip with Simon ( who is age 18 ) and Noemie ( age 16 ) running from the police . They find joys in nature , live in a small shack on the beach , and fall in love in one of the most sensitively written sequences on film . Simon is hesitant to say he loves Noemie because he feels responsible for her : Noemie begins to feel she must return home but will stay if Simon will only say he loves her . The cops led by the wily inspector Queyrolles ( Bruno Wolkowitch ) close in and Simon is captured and the manner in which the film ends is one that reinforces the importance of truth in life and relationships . What could have been a Hollywoodesque ending complete with suicide leap is instead a tender working through of personal growth . Nicolas Cazale is one of the more sensitive actors in French film today ( ' Three Dancing Slaves ' , multiple TV roles ) and this film should make him a star . The entire cast - including Marc Samuel as Simon's misunderstood father - is splendid . The cinematography is magnificent and the tender musical scoring mixing Schubert , Chopin and modern songs fit the mood perfectly . This is an amazing little film that bravely takes on issues of the Romeo and Juliet manner and remains entirely unique . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
FROST / NIXON is one of the most successful screen adaptations of a play yet made . Perhaps that is due in part to the fact that the popular stage play by Peter Morgan was revised for the screen by the playwright , but it is also to the credit of director Ron Howard who managed to suffuse the ' play as movie ' with such atmosphere and feeling of spontaneity that the rather long movie seems to whisk by more rapidly than history ! Everyone knows of the infamous David Frost interview with Richard Nixon after Nixon had resigned office and was living in semi-seclusion in San Clemente , California , a bitter man struggling with the demons not only form the recent past but also form his childhood . Frost took on the challenge to bring the perpetrator of the Watergate scandal to his knees to satisfy the American public's need for retribution , and in conducting these interviews he did indeed achieve that . The story is as much a character study of Frost as it is of Nixon and the parallels writer Morgan uncovers makes the film far more than a quasi-documentary . This is real drama played for all it's worth . Frank Langella is unforgettable in his portrayal of Nixon as is Michael Sheen as Frost , each actor having played the roles on Broadway and transferring that depth of understanding to the screen . The surprise in this film is the use of the peripheral cast of characters - Kevin Bacon , Oliver Platt , Sam Rockwell , Matthew Macfadyen , and Toby Jones - a group of actors who light the darker corners of the story with aplomb . FROST / NIXON should be required viewing for every Political Science major in our schools - and hopefully will urge the nation to find a similar manner to bring closure to the strangely coincidental machinations of the recent Bush administration crimes . Grady Harp
Not being a fan of boxing I usually avoid movies about the sport unless there is some other reason for watching ( as in Million Dollar Baby , the initial Rocky film ) : the idea of watching two people beat each other bloody while crazy crowds cheer just doesn't register as entertainment ( the American gladiator syndrome ) . And while Cinderella MAN is clearly about the game of boxing , the true story of a real boxer , and contains long spans of beatings , this film is not so much about boxing as it is about the indomitable human spirit . It is also one of the finest films depicting the Great Depression in the 1930s that is a timely moment for us all to remember . . . In 1928 Jim Braddock ( Russell Crowe ) was a top contender for boxing fame , supporting his wife Mae ( Renée Zellweger ) and three children , wisely investing his earnings form his winning fights in the reliable stock market , devoting his time to his family and securing their future . Then 1929 happened and the stock market crash destroyed his savings and damaged his ability to fight , plunging him into the mass of poverty accompanied by nearly all Americans . Jim and Mae struggle to feed and clothe their children , and Jim is unable to win at boxing , becomes a ' loser ' , loses his license , and survives by daily showing up at the docks for the negligible chance of work . The times are bleak , and there is a moment when Mae shifts the children around to family members because they have no food or heat . But Jim's fight manager Joe Gould ( Paul Giamatti ) , himself surviving the bad times under a hollow facade , manages to gain Jim a fight . Despite his advancing age , broken hands , fallen reputation , and challenged ego , Jim manages to sustain his spirit and fights for the survival of his family . The rest is history . Ron Howard directs this story of a man's indomitable spirit with a fine sense of pacing and manages to hold this two and a half hour movie together without a moment of wasted time . With cinematographer Salvatore Totino and musical score writer Thomas Newman he manages to recreate the gray brown mood of the Great Depression better than any film to date . There are small supporting roles that truly shine : the grossly underused Paddy Considine , Craig Bierko , and Bruce McGill among them are beautifully carved creations . Russell Crowe gives his most understated , credible role and truly inhabits ' Cinderella Man ' ( his moniker ) as a desperately needed hero of the people of the Depression Era . Renée Zellweger once again plays , well . . . Renée Zellweger . The surprising acting comes from the solid support by Paul Giamatti . If he isn't nominated for best supporting actor then people aren't watching ! Cinderella MAN is a strong film , one that sweeps you up and carries you along - even if you don't care about boxing ! Grady Harp
THE LAST KING OF Scotland delves into the history of Ugandan leadership in the 1970s with gusto . One of the characters ( Sarah , the doctor's wife ) wisely observes that the crowds that fill the streets cheering as Idi Amin takes control from Milton Obote had the same reaction for the previous dictator and will have the same for the one who follows Amin . It is that aspect of this very fine film that hits home : the people desperately want to be ruled by a hero who will care for them and they maintain hope that each successive ' hero ' will be better . Director Kevin Macdonald bases his ' biography ' on the fictionalized novel of the same name by Giles Foden , transformed into a fine screenplay by Jeremy Brock . In order for us to understand the full nature of Idi Amin the story is told through the eyes of a fresh young Scottish physician Nicholas Garrigan ( James McAvoy ) who leaves his home looking of adventure and settles in Uganda as a mission doctor with Dr . David Merrit ( Adam Kotz ) and his beautiful wife Sarah ( Gillian Anderson ) . Garrigan learns his role quickly , is attracted to Sarah , but Sarah is wise and turns Garrigan's attention to the rising problem of the overthrow of the Ugandan government by the enigmatic Idi Amin ( Forest Whitaker ) . An incident occurs that draws Garrigan into Amin's favor and much against the advice of Sarah , Garrigan falls under the spell of Amin , becoming his official physician . The two men form a warm bond of friendship and trust and it is through this bond that we see the human aspect of Idi Amin , a man born poor but who has risen to power due much to the connection with the British he loathes . Gradually Garrigan sees the inner workings of Amin's mind , his madness and his ever-increasing brutality as he faces a world as the dictator who will control everything . Garrigan has an unfortunate affair with one of Amin's wives Kay ( the very beautiful and gifted Kerry Washington ) and as the country is falling under the slaughtering of Amin , Garrigan finally sees his implication in the rule and undergoes the turnabout effects of Amin's brutal strategy . The film ends very quietly with and reenactment of the incident at Entebbe that brought the world's attention to the heinous dictator of Uganda . Forest Whitaker is brilliant as Amin : he has obviously studied the man from newsreels and has been able to go beyond press reports to find the humble man who rose to power . McAvoy embodies the fictional physician and has far more screen time and a more sophisticated role than Whitaker and deserves more praise for this performance than he has received . The entire cast is excellent . For once a film about the violence that erupts too often in Africa pays more attention to characters and the gorgeous landscape of Africa than to fighting and killing : the evidence of Amin's mass murders is shown in photographs and the monstrosity his deeds is carefully focused on one particularly heinous death . The musical score by Alex Heffes uses native songs and rarely calls attention to itself - the mark of a brilliant composer . In the end THE LAST KING OF Scotland serves up a hefty slice of history altered by fiction to enhance the storyline but presents a case for how Amin came to power and the indomitable spirit of the people of Uganda despite the government . A fine film on many levels . Grady Harp
Aleksandr Sokurov is as artist of the highest order . Not only does he understand his medium of film as his chosen avenue of creating art , he has the gifts of ingenuity , fresh creativity , and daring that make his works unique and stunning without any of the hoopla of ' experimental ' filmmakers : Sokurov honors his humanity and celebrates the miracle of life with every stroke of his hand . For those first introduced to Sokurov by viewing his extraordinary Russian ARK , a film of such importance historically as well as culturally and artistically that it stands alone : the conception and pre-camera preparation of covering 300 years of Russian history as played out in the Hermitage Museum buildings allowed this master to turn on the camera and record non-stop for the hour and a half of the complete story . The result is breathtakingly beautiful and enormously educational and enlightening - all that one can ask from a work of art . In FATHER AND SON Sokurov has distilled all of his energy into a quiet , rhapsodic , sensually elegant examination of the relationship between a father and son . There is not much story : there is much being said . A father ( the handsome and sensual Andrei Shchetinin ) lives with his son Aleksei ( Aleksei Nejmyshev - as handsome and virile and tender as Shchetinin ) in a rooftop flat in St . Petersberg . The father has had a military career and the son is now at age 19 in military school studying medicine along with his training . The mother is dead and the father and son are closely bonded by her absence and by an amazing love for each other . Aleksei has had a girlfriend ( the incandescently beautiful Marina Zasukhina ) but seeing that she is competing unsuccessfully for Aleksei's love for his father , she informs him she has found another love . Another young military student Sasha ( Aleksandr Razbash ) observes the strong bond between Aleksei and his father and being without a father , asks to move in their flat . Knowing that their time as unified family is limited by the way life passes , the two remain living alone . Aleksei has dreams that approach nightmares but generally deal with separation anxiety . The father is always there to console Aleksei after his dreams and gently encourages him to pursue the life that will bring him happiness . And that is really the bulk of the story , simple and short as it may sound . The brilliance of Sokurov's genius is in his means of telling this simple tale . He has elected to film using varying lenses and limiting his color spectrum to the sepia tones that resemble daguerreotypes come to life . His use of moments of Tchaikovsky melodies is sensitive and additive to the mood . His ability to linger over extended physical embraces between this father and son says more about love than any filmmaker before him . Part of the magic he creates is due to the physical beauty of the two actors embracing in the nude in the soft winter light of their rooftop flat . Some viewers have found this homo-erotic and are concerned about that aspect of a father with son . A pity , that , being concerned about homo-eroticism : the passion between father and son should be able to be viewed on every level for its richness , not for the fear of censorship . FATHER AND SON is one of the most beautiful artworks on film I have ever viewed . I felt the same about Russian ARK . I eagerly await viewing his MOTHER AND SON and all the other works that hopefully will flow from Sokurov's gifted mind and talent . Highly recommended . Grady Harp , March 2005
DER UNTERGANG ( DOWNFALL ) is not only a brilliant film in its close-up dissection of the mind of a lunatic , it is an important historical document that at last gives us as realistic view as possible of the last days of the Third Reich . Written by Bernd Eichinger who based his screenplay on memoirs by Traudl Junge and Melissa Müller ( ' Bis zur letzten Stunde ' ) and Joachim Fest , directed by Oliver Hirschbiegel , and acted by an all-German cast , this is about as frightening as a story can get - yet a seemingly authentic one . Bruno Ganz gives a searingly vivid performance as Hitler , and while some are enraged that the film shows too much of the human side of Hitler ( as though this could make him seem less horrid ! ) , Ganz finds that fine line of presenting Hitler as a delusional underachiever who will go to any lengths to fake a ' caring man ' to some while always being short-fused into irrational rages to others . The film takes place in the final 12 days of Hitler's life while he is living in an underground bunker surrounded by many of his fellow ghouls as Russian troops rapidly advance to stamp out his existence . There is condescension as well as blind devotion among the ranks . Hitler marries Eva Braun , informs his confidants that he will never surrender ( nor should they ) and then proceeds on his plans to commit suicide with Eva , having extracted a promise that their bodies be burned beyond recognition to prevent desecration by the Allies and encroaching Russians . How this grand final plan is carried out is terrifying , especially watching Frau Goebbels ( Corinna Harfouch ) sedate then poison all her children , and quietly placing herself in front of the firing squad . The spectrum of the horror of Hitler's atrocities is not diminished by this so-called ' humanizing ' film : quite the contrary - Bruno Ganz inhabits the role with a verismo that makes Hitler even more terrifying in being a credible mind gone mad . The entire cast of this claustrophobic underground bunker team is superb and the direction makes the 156 minutes speed by . The minimalist musical score by Stephan Zacharias lends just the right tone of eeriness and the cinematography by Rainer Klausmann ( shot in St Petersburg and Munich ) is stunning . The film opens and closes with the elderly Traudl Junge ( the ' secretary ' author of the book on which the film is based ) commenting on the terrible tragedy in which she took part . The effect is devastating . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp , August 05
AFTER THE WEDDING ( ' Efter brylluppet ' ) is a brilliant work , a two hour synthesis of life that demands our full attention and rewards that attention with some of the finest ensemble acting , directing , dialog and message that we have come to expect from Danish writer / director Susanne Bier ( Anders Thomas Jensen is also credited with the story concept ) . It is a film that raises difficult questions and situations and somehow pulls us into a world of damaged people about whom we genuinely care . Jacob ( a stellar performance by Mads Mikkelsen ) is a solitary soul who has found a niche in India as a teacher and caregiver in an orphanage . When he is informed that a wealthy donor is considering being a benefactor , Jacob leaves the children he loves to return to his native Denmark to the home of the potential donor Jørgen ( another fine performance by Rolf Lassgård ) and his wife Helene ( Sidse Babett Knudsen ) : in Jacob's past he had been lovers with Helene while both were in India ) . A major event is in the offing - the marriage of 20-year-old Anna - Stine Fischer Christensen - ( Jørgen and Helene's daughter ) and feisty Christian ( Christian Tafdrup ) . The only character who does not seem to have a secret is Jørgen's mother ( Mona Malm ) who suffers from mild dementia . It should be a happy occasion , but after the wedding old wounds are uncovered , long secrets are discovered , and nothing is as it seems . Jacob , now confronted with strange realities , longs to return to his Indian orphanage , but Jørgen manipulates his gift of money in a way that uncovers even more secrets . The multiple surprises that occur rapid fire keep the plot and character development spinning until the film closes with such grace that the audience is left stunned . As the current barrage of summer movies assault our senses , making us wonder about the mental hunger for films less than challenging , along comes the release of this magnificent work and reassures us that the era of superb cinema has not dissolved into cartoons . AFTER THE WEDDING is a perfect as a film gets . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
In a year of a true mixed bag of films and now that the year has officially passed , ME AND YOU AND EVERYONE WE KNOW remains one of the most refreshing features of 2005 . Written , directed , and starring one Miranda July ( a performance artist ) , this truly unique film has many firsts in its message , its manner of storytelling , its vision , its honesty , and its perception of life as we are currently living it . It is a little gem . There are about five stories delicately laced together in this examination of a spectrum of emotionally isolated people and their attempts to connect to each other . Miranda intentionally keeps these remarkable stories separate ( reflecting her concept that we have arrived at a state where we all are sadly alone longing to belong ) , and yet each of the characters knows each other - by proximity of living space , working space , street corners , chatrooms , and bus benches . Richard Swersey ( John Hawkes in a deeply multidimensional performance ) has recently lost his African American wife because she was bored , leaving Richard and their two sons , 14-year-old Peter ( Miles Thompson ) and 7-year-old Robby ( Brandon Ratcliff ) to move to a new apartment . Richard , desperate for attention has set fire to his hand , trying to impress his boys and deflect the pain of losing his wife . He is a simple shoe salesman and ties to make a happy world for his boys . Christine ( Miranda July ) , a video artist with strange techniques makes her living driving Eldercab , taking old people shopping . On one of these excursions she encounters Richard at his shoe store , is smitten by him , longs to be attractive to men in general and Richard in particular and goes at great lengths to " connect " to the reluctant Richard . Peter and Robby get to know their neighbors : Rebecca ( Najarra Townsend ) and Heather ( Natasha Slayton ) are under 18 with foaming hormones who flirt with Richard's co-worker Andrew ( Brad William Henke ) which drives him to leave porno notes to them on his Venetian blinds , and who eventually introduce Peter to a game of ' differential diagnosis of fellatio ' ; Sylvie ( Carlie Westerman ) who occupies her lonely life by preparing her hope chest for her ideal marriage of the future . They entertain themselves by entering chatrooms , a diversion Robby quickly masters and lines up an online date through his hilarious ideas of seduction ! Christine devotes her own time to making her art and in attempting to get noticed she approaches a gallerist who can't be bothered but who re-enters the story further in the film in a way that demonstrates that she is not the cold , self-sufficient woman she appears to be . There are far too many moments of exquisitely detailed glimpses of how each of these wonderful characters become momentarily tangent then bounce away like random atoms in orbit to quickly to even begin to relate . But that is the joy of this film . Miranda July plucks little gems from the air , disperses them throughout the film , leaves most hanging because that is the way we are living , and yet leaves us feeling that the vision of an untainted tabula rasa child's stance is beautifully fresh . Each member of this very strong cast gives performances of complete pleasure : July knows her vision and describes it well . Highly Recommended for those who long for fresh and stunning independent films . Grady Harp
' It's the wrong time and the wrong place . . . ' - there are so many excerpts of songs quoted in this movie and ones that stimulate memories of old songs that are very much in keeping with the title and the story , THE BAND'S VISIT ( BIKUR HA-TIZMORET ) . A timely piece , this little film is about humanity and the possibility of communication by various means that overcome differences between cultures far better than treaties , summit meetings , and physical and verbal demonstrations . It is a thoughtful , engaging , and completely delightful success . The Alexandria Police Ceremonial Orchestra with ' General ' Tewfiq ( Sasson Gabai ) rigidly in charge provides music for occasions , and the particular occasion for this venture is a ceremony in Israel . Flying in from Egypt well dressed in light blue uniforms to perform for the new Arab Culture Center , the small band is not met as expected at the airport . Tewfiq attempts to resolve the lack of proper greeting and transportation by reserving space on a bus - a trip that mistakenly ( through problems originating in language confusion ) results in the band being dropped off in a small village Bet Hatikva . Frustrated with circumstances , the band is met with genial hospitality by café owner Dina ( Ronit Elkabetz ) who not only feeds them but puts the small band up for the evening . Dina has eyes for Tewfig and plans an evening out on the town with him - an evening that has its own surprises as each lonely person shares life circumstances . The other members of the band are placed in lodging with Dina's workers and at a dinner party discover similarities in their lives . Khaled ( Saleh Bakri ) , a somewhat antagonistic ladies ' man , spends an evening with a terrified young man Papi ( Shlomi Avraham ) on his first real date , and in the course of the evening introduces the fine art of courtship to Papi in a hilarious but touching scene . The use of English as the common language between these Arab and Hebrew speaking people adds elements of humor as well as moments of sweetness as both the band members and the Israelis grow to know and care about each other . The conversations among each separate group are delivered in Arabic and Hebrew with English subtitles and this degree of modified privacy becomes almost more humorous because of the bumpy language barriers shared with the audience . Everyone grows through this short visit and by the time the band departs for their correct destination by the next morning's bus , bonds have been made that preserve the dignity of nationality while overriding the limitations of differences peculiar to each country . This is a quiet , gentle , at times very humorous little movie that offers insights of how to attain global community for us all . Writer / director Eran Kolirin deserves special recognition for assembling and molding this excellent cast for this remarkable , genuinely compassionate statement about important issues . Grady Harp
Ferzan Ozpetek understands as well as any writer / director today the concept and attending importance of Extended Family . Much as he spoke about the importance of friends who are often more supportive than genetic family in his beautiful film HIS SECRET LIFE , he explores a similar topic in his latest exceptional film SATURNO CONTRO ( SATURN IN OPPOSITION ) . Ozpetek and his co-writer Gianni Romoli have created a story about camaraderie , celebration , shared loss , consolation , and healing among a rather disparate group of Romans that manages to not only underscore our human needs , but also demonstrates how nearly insurmountable hurdles can be managed by the kindness and understanding of true friends . Davide ( Pierfrancesco Favino ) is a much admired writer who lives with his artist partner Lorenzo ( Luca Argentero ) in a healthy , loving relationship . Davide has many admirers who wish to fall under his influence as a writer and Lorenzo likewise has many friends who are devoted to him . These friends gather at the home of Davide and Lorenzo for meals , parties and celebrations - a place where each of the friends finds compassion for whatever is nibbling away at their happiness . Davide's close friend Antonio ( Stefano Accorsi ) is married to the beautiful Angelica ( Margherita Buy ) who is writing a book about smoking and is not aware that her husband is having an affair with florist Laura ( Isabella Ferrari ) until a mutual friend , translator Neval ( Serra Yilmaz ) - caring for both friends ' concerns - shares the information . The possible disastrous discovery is overshadowed by the sudden subarachnoid hemorrhage suffered by Lorenzo during a communal meal . Each of the friends ' lives are halted while they gather at the hospital awaiting the inevitable death of their friend - each with open arms of support for Davide and each other as they find their way through dealing with the circle of life . The story places Lorenzo's tragedy near the beginning of the film : the resolution and coping of the large number of this extended family form the message and the sidebars that explore the sanctity of friendship and caring . There are myriad moments of rare beauty in this little film , moments that include the tenderness of Lorenzo's father's acceptance of Davide's relationship to his son as the funeral is passing , the wordless mending that the death of a friend brings to the dissolving marriage of Angelica and Antonio , and many others . This is a beautifully photographed film ( Gian Filippo Corticelli ) and one with a musical score ( Giovanni Pellino ' Neffa ' ) that is so subtle that it supports without distraction ( much like the presence of Extended Families ! ) . The acting is of the highest quality from some of Italy's finest actors . We can only hope that Ferzan Oztepek continues to create meaningful films such as this for a world that too often settles for finding solace as well as happiness from artificial sources outside the circle of human relationships . In Italian with subtitles . Highly recommended . Grady Harp
NEVERWAS , a little miracle of a movie written and directed by Joshua Michael Stern , is an allegory , a fairytale , a dissection of the impact of mental illness on parents and children , and story of compassion , believing , and blossoming of character that was created with a sterling ensemble of actors in 2005 , failed to find a niche in theatrical distribution , and went straight to DVD - becoming one of those limited release films that is very elusive even in the megavideo stores . The reasons for this relative anonymity are not clear , but film lovers will do well searching out this little gem : the rewards are immediate gratification and long lasting satisfaction . Narrated by Ian McKellan who plays a major role in the film , the story concerns the return of psychiatrist Zachary Riley / Small ( Aaron Eckhart ) to an obsolete mental institution named Millhouse , the hospital where his author father T . L . Pierson ( Nick Nolte ) ended his days in suicide , having suffered from bipolar syndrome . Zach wants to discover secrets about his father , why his father's book ' Neverwas ' has been so disturbing to Zach , and to offer good medical treatment to those patients living in the obscure hospital run by the kindly but enigmatic Dr . Reed ( William Hurt ) . Zach is buoyant , greets his new job with joy , and works with various patients in group and individual therapy ( the group includes well developed characters portrayed by Alan Cumming , Vera Farmiga , and Michael Moriarty , among others ) and encounters the apparently mute Gabriel Finch ( Ian McKellan ) , a delusional man who believes Zach has returned to break the curse preventing his return to his imaginary kingdom of Neverwas . Zach meets a ' grad student botantist ' / reporter Ally ( Brittany Murphy ) who loves Zach's father's book and urges Zach to read the fairytale as a means to assuage Zach's new nightly nightmares and insomnia dealing with images of himself as a child , his father's suicide , and other strange forces . Ally's commitment to Zach's father's book , Zach's breakthrough to Gabriel Finch , together with Zach's re-evaluation of his agoraphobic mother ( Jessica Lange ) all intertwine to reestablish Zach's discovery of his relationship to a father whose mental illness prevented the close relationship Zach so desperately missed . In a tumbling set of events that incorporate the fairytale of the book Neverwas with the reality of Zach's father's relationship to Gabriel Finch brings the story to a heartwarming , well considered , touching conclusion . Being ' unordinary ' is a goal , not a curse . In addition to the above-mentioned stellar cast , small parts are also created by Bill Bellamy , Ken Roberts , Cynthia Stevenson among others . The cinematography by Michael Grady manages to keep the audience balanced between real and fantasy and the musical score by renowned composer Philip Glass fits the story like a glove . Ian McKellan gives a multifaceted performance of a man whose delusional life is far more real than his life as a mental patient , Aaron Eckhart finesses the transformation of the lost child seeking his roots with great skill , Nick Nolte gives one of his finer interpretations as the disturbed father / author , and Brittany Murphy manages to maintain a much needed lightness to the atmosphere of the mental institution story setting . The impact of the film , while absorbing from the first images , is the ending , a reinforcement of the importance of love and nurturing that too often is relegated to little books for children instead of the manner in which we live our lives . This is a fine film well worth ferreting out from the obscurity to which it so unjustly has been assigned . Grady Harp
OFF THE MAP is so unique a film that comparisons pale . Adapted from her own play Joan Ackermann has written a screenplay whose main character is the high desert of New Mexico and the magical influence that natural beauty and tranquility of the place has on people . Campbell Scott directs this intimate little story with such tenderness and intelligence that he has created what doubtless will become a cult classic . The time is the early 1970s , and the location is an isolated single home north of Taos owned by a strange family who live on less than $5000 . a year by being at one with the land for its provisions . Charley ( Sam Elliott ) is in a chronically depressive state , unable to speak much and preferring to simply sit in the dark and periodically weep . His resilient wife Arlene ( Joan Allen ) fends for the family , gardening for food and hunting for meat , selling crafts at the periodic fairs in Taos , and caring for her husband . Their daughter Bo ( Valentina de Angelis ) is 11 and not only fully capable of living the life style of her family , but also at the same time longing for the ability to leave home and see the world , a desire she feeds by wisely devising rebates on food purchases , applications for credit cards etc . The family's solid friend is George ( JK Simmons ) who has known Charley since their Korean War days and is fraught with his friend's severe depression . Into this physically gorgeous terrain that is home to this odd family comes an IRS agent William Gibbs ( Jim True-Frost ) sent by his new government boss to collect back taxes from the family who has not seen the necessity to pay taxes on their below modest income . William approaches the house , sees Arlene gardening in the nude , is stung by a bee , and lapses into an allergic reaction , a situation that makes him a patient in the household for some days . Bo is fascinated with this ' man form the outside world ' , Arlene cares for the patient , and Charley quietly opens up to him once William recovers . William's car has been stripped in the desert and he is invited to live with the family until the car is restored . Each of the family members is changed by William's presence , but none more than William himself who undergoes an epiphany viewing the Sangre de Cristo mountains approach sunset : William forsakes his previous life , begins to paint with watercolors George had intended for Charley as a therapeutic venture , and informs Arlene that he has fallen in love with her . The entire group influence each other's lives and the manner in which this happens is such rare magic that saying more in a review would be unfair to those who have yet to experience this film . The entire cast is absolutely superb , so much so that it is impossible to name the Star : Sam Elliott , Joan Allen , Valentina de Angelis , Jim True-Frost , and JK Simmons give stunning performances , the quality of acting that takes full advantage of silences , body language , probing into the characters , and most important - understanding the importance of ensemble acting . Yet if one must name the standout performance , it would be the radiant mystical land of New Mexico as captured by cinematographer Juan Ruiz Anchía . Campbell Scott has directed a great screenplay and cast in one of the best movies of the year . It is a quiet , majestic work of art . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
' Sorstalansag ' ( FATELESS ) is an inordinately powerful , quiet journey through a year in Nazi Concentration Camps at Auschwitz , Buchenwald , and Zeitz . Adapted by Imre Kertesz from his first novel , the story is semi-autobiographical as Kertesz spent a year of his youth in Auschwitz as a Hungarian Jew . Though Kertesz alters his novel of the life of one Gyorgy Koves , in a manner he carefully explains in one of the featurettes accompanying this DVD , the observational skills and tenor of his literate mind suffuse this surprisingly quiet depiction of life in a death camp . We first meet Gyorgy Koves as a curly headed handsome 14-year old youth in 1944 bidding farewell to his beloved father as he departs for a labor camp . Wearing the yellow star of David proudly , Gyorgy has little understanding of what it is to be a Jew , a lesson he will learn in the coming year and affect his perception of the world and his place in it . Gyorgy's mother left his father and his father has remarried and requests that Gyorgy stay with his stepmother while he is away ' for a while ' in the labor camp . Gyorgy is conflicted as he loves his mother but he does as his father requests . Almost inadvertently Gyorgy and his friends are taken off a bus and separated by the Nazis into trains bound for concentration camps . Gyorgy remains relatively naive about what is happening : his head is shaved , his worldly goods are absconded , and he begins the hellish life of survival in Auschwitz . Where Kertesz writes differently than other authors who have described Holocaust conditions is in his mindset of Gyorgy : Gyorgy strives to retain a sense of equilibrium in this bizarre new life , seeing certain events as probable errors , mistakes , or simply ' the way things are ' . He endures starvation , brutal work , pain from an injured and infected knee , boredom , and observing sights of torture of his fellow prisoners . Though he is walking in a stunned world , he is still able to fine the little moments of ' happiness ' because of his youthful outlook and creative mind . He gradually grows to understand what being a Jew means , and while he is unable to fathom all he sees in captivity , he learns that if he can't understand life in a concentration camp , how can he understand life outside either . Gyorgy is literally on the carts moving toward the crematorium when the Allies free the camp . He meets an American ( Daniel Craig ) who suggests he not return to Budapest , but go to America instead where he can pursue a new existence . Yet Gyorgy's devotion to family , to country , and to being a Jew returns him to Budapest where he finds a destroyed city that had been home and wanders the town square trying to make sense of it all . As Gyorgy Koves , Marcell Nagy gives a stunning performance , a picture of a child / man who is forced to enter the world of adulthood via the horrors of Auschwitz . Nagy captures the essence of the character with minimal dialogue and maximum use of his body language and eyes . The supporting cast is superb , each creating vignettes in the few moments we see them that burn into our memory . The cinematography by Gyula Pados uses subdued color for the scenes outside the camps and a subtle sepia toned black and white or the scenes within the walls of the terrifyingly real buildings and yards of the camps . The musical score by Ennio Morricone sustains the mood throughout . But it is the director Lajos Koltai whose impeccable sensitivity to Kertesz ' writing and vision that makes this long ( 140 minutes ) film a seamless pondering of the passage of time - minute by minute , hour by hour , day by day , etc - that is the essence of Gyorgy's survival of a nightmare ' with little moments of happiness wherever they may happen ' . This is a magnificent film , by a gifted crew , and though it contains visuals that will crush your heart , it must be seen to be believed . In Hungarian and German and English with subtitles . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
Films that depend heavily on special effects as created by computer generated graphics have never been too interesting for this viewer - and that , of late , covers a lot of territory from the Harry Potter series through the continuous glut of sci-fi films , vampire tales , and apocalyptic epics , etc . But there is something very different about STARDUST that brings it into a realm of solid storytelling simply enhanced by well-done special effects , and that difference is in the story itself , an unabashed fairy tale populated with wonderful characters played by some of our finest actors . And it all begins with a wall ( according to the narrator , Ian McKellen ) that separates the real world from an enchanted place and through that wall runs a young lad who starts the frolic . Flash forward and the child of the runaway lad , Tristan ( a magnetically alive Charlie Cox ) , has groan to maturity and has fallen in love with the beautiful Victoria ( Sienna Miller ) who demands a star from Tristan to prove his love . The magic begins when that ' star ' falls from the sky in the form of Yvaine ( Claire Danes , radiant even without the halo that surrounds her ) . The foul witch Lamia ( Michelle Pfeiffer ) and her wicked sisters become aware and plan to cut out the heart of Yvaine in order to gain immortality . The little village is also under the stranglehold of the impending loss of their king ( Peter O'Toole ) and there is a struggle among the seven sons to ascend the throne : the seventh son Septimus ( Mark Strong ) defeats his now spirit brothers and sets off to gain the stone that Yvaine wears which will give him immortality . The on-the-run groups encounter a pirate , Captain Shakespeare ( Robert DeNiro in a splendid role ) , who captures lightening in a marvelous flying ship manned by a swarthy crew . Of course Tristan and Yvaine become his ' captives ' , only to discover that the fey closet queen captain is on their side against the forces of evil . As the film progresses Tristan and Yvaine gradually fall in love , negating their past histories , and the ending is another act of pure magic : evil succumbs to good in the best of fairytale ways . The cast is uniformly excellent , from the true star turns by Pfeiffer , DeNiro , Danes , and Cox to the secondary roles equally well cast . The special effects are beautiful and very much in keeping with the story instead of simply breeding monsters to emerge from the bowels of the earth to destroy civilization . Everyone involved , from the director Matthew Vaughn to the writers Jane Goldman with Vaughn ( and of course the creator of the novel Neil Gaiman ) to the cast , seem to keep tongue in cheek and appear to be having as much fun as we the audience . It is a light , exceptionally beautiful fantasy that is pure joy ! Grady Harp
NOTTING HILL was a breath of fresh air when it entered the theaters in 1999 . Written by Richard Curtis ( Four Weddings and a Funeral , Love Actually , The Girl in the Cafe - as well as the Bridget Jones scripts ) and directed by Roger Michell ( Persuasion , Changing Lanes , Enduring Love ) the story is a bit cockamamie but blossoms in the hands of the fine cast . Now with this Collector's Edition release it is available for us all to appreciate again . William ( Hugh Grant ) is an ordinary bloke who runs a Travel Book Store in Notting Hill , a man whose life is abruptly changed when an American actress Anna ( Julia Roberts ) enters his shop and his life . Bumbling William spills orange juice on celebrity-shy Anna and the two cross the street to William's flat , shared with the wildly mad but lovable Spike ( Rhys Ifans ) , and despite poor starts there begins a romance to test all romances . The manner in which William and Anna gradually find each other's vulnerabilities , including exposure to each other's lives - Anna with her celebrity entourage , William with his loony but oh so tender extended family ( Tim McInnerny , Gina McKee , Emma Chambers , and Hugh Bonneville ) - is the story of love overcoming hurdles . The secondary themes are lovely and beautifully played by this committed cast . For a springy , funny , tender , sweet British humor story , this one is hard to beat . Recommended . Grady Harp
Writer / director André Téchiné ( Wild Reeds , My Favorite Season , Child of the Night , etc ) is able to take what appear to be simple emotional responses from complicated people and create an artwork that makes us think , become introspective , and be challenged and entertained all at the same time . His ability to draw intensely personal performances from his actors makes him a director with a full heart and startling technique . Essentially a love story , ' Les Temps qui changent ' ( ' Changing Times ' ) examines the lives of two people who fell in love in Paris 30 years ago , but parted . Antoine Lavau ( Gérard Depardieu ) has never married , so in love with his original flame Cécile ( Catherine Deneuve ) that he is obsessed with winning her back . Cécile has married a younger man , Natan ( Gilbert Melki ) who is a philandering physician , and lives in Tangiers where she hosts a dowdy talk show on the radio to help support the family . The couple has a bisexual son Sami ( Malik Zidi ) , who has returned to Tangiers with his drug-addled girlfriend Nadia ( Lubna Azabal ) and her son Saïd ( Idir Elomri ) much to his parent's concern , and takes up with his Moroccan lover Bilal ( Nadem Rachati ) . The family problems are further complicated by the fact that the Morroccan Nadia has a twin sister Aïcha ( also played by Lubna Azabal ) in Tangiers who is trying desperately to separate her life from her twin . Antoine , an architect of means , manages to land a job in Tangiers in hopes of rekindling his romance with Cécile , but Cécile has become a feminist and a bitter woman who resents her younger husband's infidelity and wants nothing to do with love , especially with the threat of depth of feeling that Antoine's new presence in her world presents . Antoine is persistent , meets Cécile's husband for medical reasons , and tries to woo Cécile in a close to stalking manner . Cécile's best friend Rachel ( Tanya Lopert ) convinces her that the only way to end the ardor of Antoine is to sleep with him , which she finally does with unexpected results . While the dance between Cécile and Antoine progresses , Natan meets Aïcha , Sami and Bilal arouse old emotions , and Nadia requires rehab for her out of control drug habits . How all of these coincidental occurrences coincide in an unexpected accident for Antoine is André Téchiné's magical way of sharing the power of love in the most adverse of circumstances . The ending is surprising and thought-provoking and eminently satisfying . Depardieu and Deneuve are luminous in their roles , adding yet other crowns to their careers of creating unforgettable , subtle characterizations on film . The remainder of the cast is also superb and the cinematography and music and editing and direction make this a feast for the eyes and the brain . Highly Recommended . Grady Harp
When it comes to a work of the musical stage it is difficult to imagine a finer one than Stephen Sondheim's SWEENEY TODD : THE DEMON BARBER OF FLEET STREET . For those who saw the original 1979 Hal Prince extravagant production starring Angela Lansbury and Len Cariou / George Hearn , and then the 2005 revival as condensed so creatively by John Doyle and re-orchestrated by Sarah Travis who placed the orchestral instruments in the hands of the 10 actors who tell the story of the strange Todd , the Tim Burton ( screenplay reduction by Josh Logan ) film will only enhance the pleasures of seeing SWEENEY TODD resurrected in yet another form . Each of these incarnations has its riches and together they establish Sondheim's work as a masterpiece . Johnny Depp makes a convincing Sweeney Todd , in looks and demeanor as well as in singing voice , and Helena Bonham Carter's Mrs . Lovett fits right into Tim Burton's vision of the dark , squalid and seedy London . Timothy Spall is perfect as the oily Beadle , Alan Rickman makes Judge Turpin an understandable villain , Jamie Campbell Bower and Jayne Wisener are suitably infatuated young lovers , and Sacha Baron Cohen and Ed Sanders give top flight cameos as Signor Pirelli and Toby . The one advantage of seeing this fine film on DVD is the option of turning on the subtitles so as not to miss a word of Sondheim's superb lyrics . For this viewer , however , the most successful version of this ' opera ' is the John Doyle production currently on the boards in Los Angeles with Judy Kaye as the most satisfying Mrs . Lovett on record . This uniquely economical and endlessly creative production goes to the core of the work better than any other version , and if this traveling company comes anywhere near your home , go see it ! It is the essential SWEENEY TODD and a fine adjunct to seeing the film version again and again . Grady Harp
Experiencing older Hollywood films , films made in the era when script , direction , cinematography , lighting , musical scoring and acting became melded together in an intricate but cohesive escapist adventure , is like visiting a fine art museum - masters at work creating a living work of art that time only enhances in respect . Such is the case for Roman Polanski's 1974 film noir CHINATOWN . Robert Towne's brilliant script is the baseline for this fascinating story of the Los Angeles and environs of the 1930s , a time when power was wedded to corruption , greed , family secrets of aberrant stature , and manipulation of resources ( here the Department of Water and Power , the police , and entrepreneurs ) . Using the inimitable Jack Nicholson as the smart and daring private detective who pries open a conspiracy in the family of John Huston and his daughter Faye Dunaway whose private life secret is as huge as the water stealing crimes that are at the basis of the story was a stroke of genius that has rarely been matched since . And tying all of this together with one of Jerry Goldsmith's finest musical scores and cinematography that is liquid and redolent of the wastes that were the at the core of Los Angeles ' prostitution of sunlight and shadow - the desert by the sea - was part of Polanski's genius for direction . For viewing an example of the finest in film-making , CHINATOWN remains at the top of the list . Grady Harp
Ali Selim is a gifted artist and one that surely will continue to create magical films such as his masterpiece SWEET LAND in the coming years . Selim wrote the screenplay based on Will Weaver's perfect little short story ' A Gravestone Made of Wheat ' , found the perfect setting for his tale of the trials of immigrants entering America searching for the American Dream in the spacious grandeur of Nebraska , and selected a cast to bring life to his story that simply could not be better . This film MUST be considered among the best at the time of awards . Though the time of the story is 1920 , the film opens much later in slow motion , only soft music comes from the soundtrack , yet the actors are mouthing words that make us realize we are witnessing the passing of someone important . When the characters begin to speak , the story of remembering what love and trials and experiences years ago were like , transporting us to a station house where we meet Inge ( Elizabeth Reaser ) , a Norwegian / German girl who has come to America to marry a man she has never met , a man who will provide her with home , marriage , and a chance to start afresh . Her ' intended ' is Olaf ( Tim Guinee ) who is shy and unsure of how to make Inge a part of his life : Inge's German background makes her suspect to the townsfolk who fear the course of Germany's power in WW I . Inge speaks no English but has been learning through a common phrase book . Olaf's friend Frandsen ( a brilliant role for Alan Cumming ) , married to Brownie ( Alex Kingston ) with at least eight children already , helps Inge connect with Olaf . The intended marriage cannot take place with the minister ( John Heard ) because Inge can't speak English and because she is German . . . And there begins the trial that places Inge and Olaf in a home unmarried and fending for themselves . Through extraordinary acts of love bestowed upon Frandsen and Brownie ( threatened with eviction from their farm ) Inge and Olaf gain the respect of the townspeople and gradually are appreciated for the strong couple they are . They are married , and have children , and the story proceeds to the point where it started , where the aged Inge ( now played with humility , grace and style by Lois Williams ) carries on the integrity of the departed Olaf and brings closure to her family's disparities through her bonding to her son Lars ( Patrick Heusinger and later Stephen Pelinski ) . Both Inge and Olaf wished to be buried in the soil of their land that raised the wheat that gave them material and spiritual sustenance . And it is done . There are numerous fine cameo roles portrayed by Ned Beatty , Paul Sand , Jodie Markell , Sage Kermes , Kirsten Frantzich , Stephen Yoakam , and Karen Landry . But the equal ' stars ' of this breathtaking ( and heart-taking ) film are cinematographer David Tumblety and musical scoring by Thomas Lieberman and Mark Orton . The end credits are screen on the horizon of the farm with the young Inge and Olaf dancing , a touch that places Ali Selim in the ranks with the finest of filmmakers of the day . This is a brilliant , must-see film . Grady Harp , December 06
Michael Haneke ( ' Le Temps du loup ' , ' La Pianiste ' , etc ) is a writer / director who respects the minds of his viewers . Nothing he creates is simple , instantly understandable , full of Hollywood endings , nor does he answer the questions he poses . He merely gives us the visual evidence of dysfunction , allows us to watch it without explaining it , and in doing so he makes the viewer an integral part of the film experience . CACHE is a tough movie , one that requires total concentration on the part of the viewer , and one that presents the secrets and guilt of the characters by allowing us to watch instead of depending on their explanations of their etiologies or resolutions . Watching CACHE is an exciting and stimulating experience - and at the same time it is a film so impressive that it lingers in the mind long after the film is over . Georges Laurent ( Daniel Auteuil ) and his wife Anne ( Juliette Binoche ) are successful professionals , living with their prepubescent son Pierrot ( Lester Makedonsky ) in a Parisian home of comfortable means . There is some tension between them ( Haneke likes to explore relationships subtly ) but their lives have reached an acceptable , successful routine . A videotape is left on their doorstep : the tape merely shows hours of a camera filming the front of their house . Further tapes arrive ( Georges ' childhood home , a corridor , etc ) as well as papers and cards with a stick figure smeared with red . They contact the police who do nothing but Georges and Anne become paranoid and fearful that they are being stalked , that Pierrot is at risk . Georges has a hunch who the perpetrator might be , but does not elect to share that information with Anne , a fact that infuriates her . She seeks solace through a mutual friend Pierre ( Daniel Duval ) who offers her understanding and the suggestion to the viewer that Anne may have a secret about her relationship to Pierre - and Pierrot questions his mother's secrecy . But Georges ' hunch involves one Majid ( Maurice Benichou ) , an Algerian man Georges ' mother ( Annie Girardot ) had wanted to adopt after the 1961 slaughter of Algerians in Paris ( another dark secret of Parisians that no one cares to address ) , and Georges had talked his parents out of adopting the child who would have been a challenge to his territory as an only child . Georges has nightmares about a childhood encounter with Majid , decides to find him and confront him with the accusation that Majid is sending the tapes . Majid's son ( Walid Afkir ) is privy to the past and to the detective work Georges is undertaking , and when Georges final confrontation with Majid ends in a tragedy , the son confronts Georges as being responsible for his father's wretched life . The perpetrator of the videos is not explained , the schism between Georges and Anne is not addressed , Pierrot's transient disappearance is not fully explained - and the film ends as we , the audience , sit and watch a view of Pierrot's school as parents come to pick up their children . There is no ending . Nothing is resolved for us : we are left to make our own conclusions about guilt , about the sickness that guilt creases our lives and molds our psyches , about the need or importance of communication , of relationships . . . it is all in our hands to decipher what Haneke has put before us . Each member of the cast is excellent , creating a tension almost as unbearable as the dilemma of the tapes with which we are constantly subjected . Life is an ennui , broken only by particles of our past and fragments of our actions . This may not be a movie for the general audience , but for those who are willing to invest time with a master artist of film , the journey is extraordinarily rewarding . In French with English subtitles and considerable disturbing violence . HIGHLY RECOMMENDED . Grady Harp
' When you make love to a woman you get revenge for all the things that defeated you in life . ' Few American writers have been able to examine the fear and rage and desperation of aging as eloquently as Philip Roth , and as with another of his novels brought to life on the screen ( ' The Human Stain ' ) , here Nicholas Meyer has beautifully adapted Roth's ' The Dying Animal ' with all the visceral immediacy and poetry of the novel about the terror and compassion of May / December relationships . Isabel Coixnet has managed to guide her gifted set of actors through this story as though it were a ballet . The result is one of the more beautiful ' love stories ' ever filmed . David Kepesh ( Ben Kingsley , in a performance of tremendous power and sensitivity ) is an aging author , teacher and art critic , a man who has not learned the secret of lasting relationships but who retains his animal sex drive despite his passing years : he survives time's passing by a patterned assignation with Carolyn ( Patricia Clarkson ) , an aging successful traveling business woman who drops in for sensual gratification when in town . David's closest friend is Pulitzer prize winning poet George O'Hearn ( Dennis Hopper ) who serves as his alter ego and as his confidant in David's problematic life . Into David's classroom comes Consuela Castillo ( the ravishingly beautiful and gifted Penélope Cruz ) who gains David's focus not only for her radiant beauty but also for her intelligence . Struggling with his advanced years ( David is over thirty years older than Consuela ) , a courtship dance begins and it is the emergence of this romance that forms the story . How Consuela alters David's behavior and his discovery of the need for connection outside of the bedroom is related as a journey through David's mind . The manner in which the transformation changes every member of the story is what makes this film so very memorable . Kingsley is brilliant in this probing examination of the aging man's psyche , Cruz SHOULD have received her Oscar for this performance rather than the film that honored her , Clarkson continues to be one of our best actresses on the screen , Peter Sarsgaard makes a brief but important appearance , and David Hopper manages to step out of his predictable past roles and offer a character of true compassion and finesse . The film is magnificently photographed ( Jean-Claude Larrieu ) and the music score thankfully is almost completely devoted to the works of Erik Satie ( Gnossiennes ) , Beethoven ( Diabelli Variations ) , Vivaldi ( cantatas with Phillipe Jaroussky ) - all edited by the director Isabel Coixnet . It all works well . This is one of the finer films of 2008 and deserves a wide audience of people who love quality film-making . Grady Harp
Stephen Gaghan is a master psychologist in addition to being a uniquely creative writer and director . He knows how to take a controversial topic , spread it over a period of time and from vantages that involve everyone who would ever view his information , and pace a film in such away that his viewers must stay glued to the screen and soundtrack so that not a moment of the powerful bits of intrigue he is relating fall out of place . It worked for TRAFFIC : it is stunningly effective in SYRIANA . Syriana is not just a story . Syriana is a conglomerate of stories that have as a common thread the impact the oil industry has on the globe and on every inhabitant . Involving the CIA , FBI , oil companies , Arab nations , common workers in the oil fields , children , princes , parents , spies , China , terrorists , self-martyrdom - the playing field that Gaghan gives to us piece by painfully confluent piece faults global economy , US and Middle East greed , and the pitiful reality of the global dependence on oil that threatens to destroy individuals and countries , if not the planet . Gaghan's method of film-making can be tough to follow , so seemingly dissociated are the elements of the story as it unfolds in different parts of the world , with different sets of characters somewhat tangential to reality at times and thus jolting to the linear mind . To write a synopsis of the plot is counterproductive to experiencing the film . Suffice it to say that every member of the huge cast is right on target : George Clooney , Matt Damon , Jeffrey Wright , Amanda Peet , Chris Cooper , Amr Waked , Christopher Plummer , Kayvan Novak , Alexander Siddig , Tim Blake Nelson , and Mark Strong are only a few of the extraordinarily well cast group of characters . And in all fairness the contributions of Alexandre Desplat who gives his usual high degree of excellence to the musical scoring , the cinematography by Robert Elswit and the film editing by Tim Squyres are an integral part of the impact of this powerful and very important film . Brilliant work , incredibly important viewpoint that bears seeing and hearing . Grady Harp
Director Antoine de Caunes has adapted Rene Mansor's fine screenplay concerning the enigma that still exists as to the final resting place of Napoleon Bonaparte into a film that relates the period of history from 1816 to 1840 during which time the bifurcated responses of the British and French to the legend of Napoleon initiated the scandal that still piques our interest . Opening in 1816 Napoleon ( the brilliant Philippe Torreton ) is imprisoned on the island of St . Helena along with his most trusted supporters and various citizens who elected to follow him into exile - with an eye on Napoleon's fortune when he dies . There is a new British Governor appointed , Hudson Lowe ( Richard E . Grant ) , who is steely and determined to prevent Napoleon's escape and yes , even protect the British government from the costly extended prison expenditures a prolonged exile will produce . Lowe appoints Basil Heathcote ( Jay Rodan ) to sit in watch of the Emperor / General only to come under the spell of the mysterious Napoleon and the spell of a young girl Betsy Balcombe ( Siobhan Hewlett ) who is in love with Napoleon . Others among Napoleon's party include the Montholons ( Stephane Freiss and Elsa Zylberstein ) the latter of whom Napoleon keeps as his mistress and impregnates , Cipriani ( Bruno Putzulu ) his butler and half brother , Ali ( Igor Skreblin ) his bodyguard , Marshal Bertand ( Roschdy Zem ) his aide de camp , among others . Napoleon's self perception as the Emperor makes him unavailable to close scrutiny and rumors fly about his proposed escapes and about the British idea of poisoning him . There is great mystery surrounding Napoleon's ultimate death and burial and this mystery is what drives the story in flash forward sequences to the investigation of Napoleon's ultimate exhumation to see if the man buried in Les Invalides in Paris is actually Napoleon Bonaparte - and if not , where is the true Napoleon buried ? The period atmosphere on St . Helena is scrupulously recreated , allowing a superb playing ground for the many fine performances by an excellent cast . We see Napoleon as we've never seen him , a multi-dimensional character with whom we , as viewers , tend to sympathize . This is not only due to the fine script but also to the unique portrayal by Philippe Torreton . The film is in both French and English , with English subtitles for the French only . And therein lies the fault of this otherwise superb film . The ambient sounds of the crashing sea and the annoyingly loud musical score by Stephan Eicher cover the English dialogue to such an extent that it cannot be heard most of the time . This is a film that would greatly benefit from re-mastering to add English subtitles for the entire film AND by making it available in full screen instead of the widescreen that reduces much of the action to miniaturization ! Otherwise , this is a superb period piece that opens questions about historical accuracy that invite investigation . Grady Harp
