I cannot even go to a mediocre " 5 " on this , as my memories of this show are so really small . I was all of four when it was on the air , and I must have decided to watch it , but found it not really memorable except for one little bit that was odd and I can recall . Hutton is helping one of the boys that she is now guardian . He is making a model airplane . She is concentrating on the motor of the airplane , and somehow ( in gluing it together ) Hutton manages to glue the propeller onto her nose . It is the only thing from this show I ever retained a memory of . . . hardly seems worthwhile . Lightyears away from her performances in ANNIE GET YOUR GUN , THE MIRACLE OF MORGAN'S CREEK , and THE GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH . Betty did better work than this . The only thing I can add is that when Jean Arthur , a better dramatic actress , tried to make a television sit com less than ten years later , she failed too .
This is the great mystery movie for fans of Hope and Hepburn . First of all it is the sole time they ever appeared in any movie together . Secondly it is dated - it has to be seen recalling what the heart of the Cold War was like in 1956 , the year of the Hungarian Up-rising and the Suez Crisis . Apparently it is more available for viewing in Great Britain ( it was a British film ) . I have never seen it listed on any American television station . Isn't it about time they would show it - just to settle our curiosity about this particular pairing ? My suspicion it would not be great movie viewing , but it would be interesting anyway . At least we could compare it to it's " cold war " film comedy predecessors ( NINOTCHKA , COMRADE X , and SILK STOCKINGS ) . Addendum : February 20 , 2008 - Finally I see the film . Some films have to be seen to see why they were never repeated . Bob Hope did enjoy working with certain actresses many times , most notably Dorothy Lamour and Lucille Ball . But he made this one film ( in 1956 ) that was with Kate Hepburn , and it is certainly not the best film either of them ever played in . Both were highly capable performers / stars . Both were good in comedy . But there is no chemistry between them , and they are in roles they don't fit . Hope is a hotshot heroic U . S . pilot , hoping to marry an English aristocrat ( Noelle Madison ) for financial reasons . He is pushed into an assignment by his commanding officer ( and supposed friend ) Alan Gifford to put his romance on hold while romancing Russian pilot - heroine Kate Hepburn . Now Hepburn is not defecting . She took her MIG fighter ( this film may be the first that mentioned the term " MIG " for a Russian plane ) to England out of anger at being by-passed for a promotion for an inferior rival who is a man . She is not anti-Communist , and Gifford's hopes that Hope will make her into a propaganda victory for the West . The Russians are led by James Robertson Justice ( supposedly the head of a trade commission - it was a running joke that trade commissions on both sides were loaded with KGB and CIA agents ) . He is determined to bring Hepburn back to face trial as a traitor to Russia . He uses the services of her helpless ex-boyfriend Robert Helpmann . But Helpmann is really a weak reed to lean on . Justice tries alternative ideas , including kidnapping Hepburn when she is with Hope , Gifford , a jealous Madison , a Senator from Alabama ( Alexander Gauge ) , Madison's cousin ( Nicholas Phipps ) , and an air force major ( Paul Carpenter ) . This too fails , despite the large number of agents that Justice brings with him ( they include " Carry On " Sid James , Tutte Lemkow ( from A SHOT IN THE DARK , THE WRONG ARM OF THE LAW , and THE WRONG BOX ) , and David Kosloff - Carl in INDISCREET ) . Also on hand , in one sequence , is Richard Wattis as a woman's clothing store manager . It just doesn't work . The sequence in the nightclub is the best highlight in the film , due to the accidental failure of each plot that Justice tries to spirit Hepburn away , but it's not one of the great moments of comedy ( Madison is the best in the sequence , though Gauge's really dense senator has some fun talking with Nicholas Phipps about why the British drive on the left side of the road ) . Really the lack of chemistry between the stars does the film in . ugh Hepburn tries to develop some but Hope can't relate to her . I think it's because she is too cerebral an actress . He was at home with someone like Lamour or Hedy Lamarr or Joan Fontaine , who was regular not sparkling . I don't think he ever realized what a misfire the casting opposite Kate was until it was too late . The irony is I can't see this story working well with many actors . It has been suggested that Tony Curtis ( who did a film at this time , THE PERFECT FURLOUGH , set in Paris - as a military man ) , and maybe Nathalie Wood might have worked well . But it's hard to say . It does not look well compared with other similar plots . Hepburn's purchase of western feminine dinner clothes reminds one of a similar trick in NINOTCHKA where Garbo bought that symbolic Paris hat . Similarly , Hepburn's attempts to teach Hope how to accept Communism does resemble how Garbo tries to indoctrinate Melvin Douglas . But Douglas actually does show an interest in communist theory ( to the fright of his butler ) . Hope really could not care less ( although when he gets drugged he starts mumbling about Bakunin and the " Iron Law of Wages " ) . The Gable - Hedy Lamarr film COMRADE X also was clever , particularly in the spoof of the Stalin - Trotsky rivalry between Oscar Homolka and Vladimir Sobeloff . Let's face it , those two films were far better than this . SILK STOCKINGS is a musical version of NINOTCHKA , but it's Cole Porter's music , with Astaire and Cyd Charisse's dancing , and there are some good swipes at Hollywood and American's lackadaisical view of other country's cultures . It too is far more worthy of watching than this film . Now that I have seen it , I will give the film only a " 4 " for the scene in the nightclub . But please , don't bother with this film if you really like Hope's best work , or like Hepburn's better comic parts as in DESK SET or ADAM'S RIB ( with a more chemically correct film partner in both : oh Spencer , where were you ? ) .
When Peter Sellers died in 1980 he was planning on another Clouseau film . He probably hated the idea , although he was writing the script . Sellers knew that his signature role for all time would be the stumble-bum French Inspector , but he hated how it hid his performances in , say , DR . STRANGELOVE or BEING THERE from the memory of the public . For as other actors caught in repeat performances of the same part ( think of Basil Rathbone as Sherlock Holmes or Anthony Perkins as Norman Bates ) have said , those repeat roles are just going through the same paces again and again , and don't help stretch the performers talents . What is odd about TRAIL OF THE PINK PANTHER is that it is a posthumous resurrection of Sellers due to Blake Edwards , who should have known far better than to do this . Some dead actors have managed to reappear after they died in films , like Jean Harlow in SARATOGA , but usually they were shooting the film when they got sick and died . In TRAIL OF THE PINK PANTHER Edwards decided to use outtakes and some cut sequences to build up a plot for a new film . Supposedly , for the third time in the series , the actual " Pink Panther " , the stone that Claudia Cardinale was struggling to hold onto in the first film , is the center of a robbery - a successful one . Clousseau is sent to solve the robbery . But his plane apparently crashes into the sea . Is the great detective dead or not ? Joanne Lumley plays French television journalist Marie Jouvet . She is assigned to investigate the disappearance of Clousseau and who might be behind it . There are many potential characters : Chief Inspector Dreyfus ( Herbert Lom , twitching again ) , the head of the French Mafia ( Robert Loggia ) - still struggling from their defeat by Clousseau in 1978 , and even Sir Charles and now Lady Lytton ( David Niven and Capuchine , reunited for this second film ) . Cato ( Burt Kwouk ) and Clousseau's old assistant Hercule Lajoy ( Graham Stark ) are interviewed . And the clips and outtakes are added in a sad attempt to give unity to the mess . For it was a real mess . Basically , Sellers was ( in 1982 ) seemingly irreplaceable in the role . The public identified him with the French detective who mispronounced the English pronunciation of " monkey " as " minkey " . The public watching the film could only consider it a curiosity at best . They might stretch it into an attempt at honoring a great comic actor . But they probably also thought it shabby , which it was . The other films preceding it had benefited from the energy of Sellers characterization ( rather subtle one , by the way : people tend to forget that clumsy and arrogant as Clousseau was , he was a brilliant detective - listen to his conversation with Lajoy in a sequence from A SHOT IN THE DARK regarding the suspect Maria Gambrelli - we know Clousseau is in love with her , but he points out very sharply she had no motive for the murder she has been accused of ) . The sequences with Sellers at work had his energy , but the gaps appeared when Lumley or rest of the cast struggled with the vapid plot . The actors are not doing badly . Best is Richard Mulligan as the elderly father of Clousseau ( who would like to make time with the reporter ) , and Lom of course . Stark is an old scene stealing pro ( look at his subsequent work in VICTOR / VICTORIA as a snide and suspicious waiter ) . Here he is Lajoy enjoying his retirement . He shares an easy sequence with Lumley ( one wishes there was more to it ) . She is quite good too , but her role is confused by the script ( her best sequence is not with Loggia - a sad lost opportunity by two good performers - but just before when she realizes her taxi driver is being forced to kidnap her ) . She also has a moment confronting Lom ( who can't give a damn about finding Clousseau ) where she mimics his twitching eye . But why they trotted out Niven again is beyond me . He was within a year or so of his death , from Lou Gehrig's disease . He no longer had that wonderful gentleman's voice of his , so Rich Little was dubbing for him . You listen and you realize it is not Niven . That is just doubly sad . It could have been different in two ways . In 1982 the roles of both Clousseau and Sir Charles Lytton were not totally sewed up by Sellers and Niven . A film called INSPECTOR CLOUSSEAU had been made in the middle 1960s starring Alan Arkin , who might have been available to attempt the role again . And in the early 1970s , the third Pink Panther film had resurrected Sir Charles and Lady Lytton with the jewel robber being played by Christopher Plummer . A bit of recasting would have been needed . If they had done it ( presumably if the performers were available or when they were ) more time might have been spent on the script . Sadly that was not the case here . Edwards would make another " Pink Panther " film after this , which did less box office than this one did . Then , wisely , he went onto other projects . They never did find Jacques Clousseau in these last two films . The last two films were so terrible they did not deserve to merit the recovery of Insp . Clousseau . Now , aside from an occasional viewing on television both are forgotten ( as is Arkin's one attempt at the role ) . However , Steve Martin took over the role a few years ago , with Kevin Klein taking over Lom's role as Dreyfus . Martin will shortly be seen in a sequel to his first " Pink Panther " film . Good luck to him - he has big shoes to fill .
This film should have been better somehow . It has a lot going for it , in terms of the cast ( with Stewart Granger and then wife Jean Simmons cast in roles which generate friction , not love ) . This is like the negative to their relationship in YOUNG BESS . In that story the plot of Admiral Thomas Seymour to grab control of England's throne through forcibly marrying Princess Elizabeth was twisted into a romantic tragedy ( the first of many for the " Virgin Queen " ) . But the story held one's interest , and the script was well written ( in particular giving that rising talent Deborah Kerr her first pathetic victim part as Katherine Parr Tudor Seymour ) . This is set in Victorian times , and is based on a story by W . W . Jacobs . Don't confuse him with his rival late Victorian / Edwardian / Georgian short story writer H . H . Munro . The latter , ever recalled by the nickname " Saki " is remembered for his impudent and brilliantly sardonic stories of life in the early 20th Century in Europe , like " Tobermory " and " Shredni Vasthar " and " The Interlopers " . Jacobs was always W . W . Jacobs , and is principally recalled for one masterpiece of suggestive horror : " The Monkey's Paw " . If one looks at his spot on the IMDb board , many films ( mostly forgotten ) were based on his short stories ( mostly forgotten ) . One that did get made was based on " The Money Box " , and was turned into Laurel & Hardy's comedy about two sets of twins , OUR RELATIONS . And there was this film . If it is not as good as a film with Granger and Simmons as YOUNG BESS , it is not as good a movie based on a tale by Jacobs as OUR RELATIONS . Briefly it is the story of two connivers who's goals run into each other . Granger is seen at the beginning returning from the cemetery , having buried his wife . Only when we are alone do we realize that far from mourning the loss he is very satisfied . Naturally this raises suspicions in our minds - and in the mind of an ambitious maid in the house played by Simmons . She finds proof that the wife did not die naturally , but was poisoned . She proceeds to force Granger to marry her . This was not in his scheme of things , and so he decides that Simmons must go . But in their scheming and counter-scheming others get hurt , and suspicions begin to recirculate concerning both of them . The story's resolution resembles an Eric Portman film of a few years before ( not based on the Jacob story ) called DEAR MURDERER . Oddly enough , that film was a better movie about an ill-mated pair of vipers . Whether the flaw here was that the script seemed to drift along , or the directing was not as crisp as it should be is hard to tell . For the sake of the cast , starting with it's two leads , I have given it a five . However , DEAR MURDERER would have gotten an eight .
This film should have been made by William Wellman or John Ford . Both of them made films about flight - Wellman made LAFAYETTE ESCADRILLE among others , and FORD did THE WINGS OF EAGLES . Though Ford's first love was the sea ( and he was a master of westerns and films on Irish themes ) , he had a grasp about excitement generated by flying . These were the sort of men who could have tackled this story . Or if not them , Howard Hawks , who did such a great job with ONLY ANGELS HACE WINGS . But , instead , Billy Wilder directed THE SPIRIT OF ST . LOUIS . How he got that assignment I cannot guess . Wilder was best at films that spoofed or studied our national foibles . Our propensity for litigation got the once over in THE FORTUNE COOKIE . The work ethic and corporate promotions are looked at ( acidically ) in THE APARTMENT . The Roaring ' 20s are spoofed in SOME LIKE IT HOT . Male preoccupations with sex get the once over in THE SEVEN YEAR ITCH . The tendency of news media to push tragedy over information is at the center of ACE IN THE HOLE / THE BIG CARNIVAL . While the bulk of his films ( at least up to 1966 ) were successful , Wilder's film list includes several clinkers . After THE MAJOR AND THE MINOR , THE LOST WEEKEND , and DOUBLE INDEMNITY , Wilder did the half successful , half odd THE EMPEROR'S WALTZ . It was a good film , but somehow it seemed at times to get lost - like when three minor characters do an impromptu dance number two thirds of the way through . His record of successful films in the early 1960s ended with KISS ME STUPID , which suffered from a casting change that Wilder could not control ( Peter Sellers had a near-fatal heart attack , and was replaced by Ray Walston ) . And in the 1950s Wilder did this film version of the Pulitzer Prize winning autobiography THE SPIRIT OF ST . LOUIS by Charles Lindbergh . And he turned out a well made film , but one that remains the most boring film in his career . It think part of the problem is that everyone who sees the film knows that " Lucky Lindy " is going to make it to Paris . Except for the first flight of the Wright Brothers at Kitty Hawk , the one fact of flying that everyone recalls is that Lindbergh did make the first non-stop , solo flight from New York to Paris in May 1927 . There is no real tension built up , even though we are aware that Lindbergh faced very real dangers . He had to completely fill up enough gasoline to get him across the Atlantic - which meant that he had no room for safety devices in case of emergency . He had little chance of survival in the middle of the ocean ( which we are reminded about in the film's references to Charles Nungesser and his partner Raymond Coli , who disappeared on route from Paris to New York two weeks before Lindbergh took off ) . These dangers would grip us if it was a fictional story , so that we do not know the conclusion . Once you know he got to his goal , you don't care about these " apparent " threats . It is also static for nearly twenty minutes of the film - representing the three day flight by having Jimmy Stewart as Lindbergh making comments to himself while flying or looking out of the window . With little real action and a lot of talk , the film becomes progressively stiff and dead , so that many people don't stay around for the conclusion ( the arrival of the plane at Orly Airport in Paris ) . While there are some nice moments in the film , most viewers probably turn it off before it is over . For the sake of Billy Wilder , James Stewart , and even Charles Lindbergh , this film gets a " 5 " for being a nice try .
I never fully understood the reasons that my parents took us to see movies in the 1950s and 1960s . We saw popular films like Disney's " Peter Pan " , " The Sound Of Music " , " My Fair Lady " , and " South Pacific " . We saw kid oriented films like " The Incredible Mr . Limpet " . We saw obscure films ( nowadays ) like " Escapade In Japan " . But we also saw comedies like " The Great Race " and " Buona Sera , Mrs . Campbell " . But I have never figured out why my parents took us to see " Oh Dad , Poor Dad , Mama's Hung You In The Closet And I'm Feeling So Sad " . We saw it just a year before I went to high school , so it was the year before I began going by myself to the movies . Was my coming of age at 13 considered the reason to see this avant garde comedy ? If so , I consider it a waste of time . That same year we saw " Guess Who's Coming To Dinner " , so my parents still could pick good films . . . but why this ? I am inclined to think it was my father who chose it . Dad could be curious about odd films now and then . Certainly the cast was good : Rosalind Russell , Robert Morse , Barbara Harris , Hugh Griffith , Jonanthan Winters , and Lionel Jeffries were all above average performers . But the film was not a good film . The story ( from a play by Arthur Kopit ) skewered sex and money . Russell inherited the fortune of her high-living husband Winters , who died after leaving her with a son . The son grows up ( in terms of chronological age ) as Robert Morse . Russell travels with him and his stamp collection , and plays the rich widow who everyone else caters too . While in a Caribbean port she is attracted to elderly millionaire sailor Hugh Griffth , or ( as she is always looking for the main chance ) his impressive multi-million dollar yacht . She begins a romance with him , while a local girl ( Harris ) tries to reach out to the infantile , socially awkward Morse . The film follows the two resulting romances , as well as Russell's attempts to maintain control over Morse : you see , she is aware of how her husband Winters died - he overdid his drinking , eating , and sleeping around until he was found dead in bed . Russell doesn't want that to happen to Morse . One of the critiques on this thread mentions that a small positive for this film was Russell had a chance to redo her Mame Dennis characterization . True , but Madame Rosepettle is very status oriented and wealth consumed ( she mentions her son's philatelic interest has created a very rare stamp collection - probably purchased at her direction ) . Mame only looked at wealth as a means , not an end , and did shower affection on Patrick , on Agnes , on Beauregard , and on her friends Lindsay and Vera . Put another way , if Mame met Madame Rosepettle once she wouldn't have sought out the lady again . Come to think of it , one wonders if the Upson Family would have either . At the time this film came out , Russell was riding a crest . She had managed to keep her female star billing up to the middle of the 1960s , at a time when most of her contemporary stars ( Claudette Colbert , Norma Shearer , Jean Arthur ) were retiring , or were treading water in horror films ( Bette Davis , Joan Crawford . . . once Olivia De Havilland ) . Although Russell had never gotten the Oscar De Havilland , Davis , Shearer , Colbert , and Crawford got ( one could add Hepburn to that list ) , she still was packing in fans on Broadway ( in " Wonderful Town " and " Auntie Mame " ) and in decent film lead roles ( " Auntie Mame " , " A Majority Of One " , " Gypsy " , " Picnic " ) . But there were signs this was ending . She had just appeared in " The Trouble With Angels " , wherein she was a Mother Superior with her hands full from two girl students - and her role supported the two student parts . Shortly after " Oh Dad " , Russell was in the sequel film " Where Angels Go Troubles Follow " . Her last real star turn would be in the film " Rosie " at the end of the 1960s as a female " Mame " type confronted by a " King Lear " situation . That film would flop . So with OH DAD , POOR DAD we are entering the twilight of Russell's career . We also are witnessing the brief rise and fall of Morse's film career . He had just made a hit in " How To Succeed In Business Without Really Trying " , and repeated it in the film version . A terrific stage performer ( whom I'd see years later as Truman Capote ) , his film credits were mixed . . . possibly only " The Matchmaker " and " The Loved One " being worthy of film memory with " How To Succeed " . His performance as Jonathan Rosepettle was capably handled as far as it went , but the character seemed a caricature of an infantile young man ( literally sucking his thumb and mumbling " I love you mommy ! " at the end ) . Morse never had a real chance in motion pictures after this . Winters , Harris , and Griffith acquit themselves well . Winters is dead from the start ( in the present scenes he is only seen as a stuffed corpse in Mom's closet ) . He is dead , but enjoying being out of the reach of his wife . He comments on the actions . . . and gives the last word on the movie ( as in the Summary Line above ) . One wishes the work had better dialog for him . Harris and Griffith pursue their sexual interests in the Rosepettles . . . to their gradual late realization of their mistakes . Lionel Jeffries ( as a local airport official ) does the best he can with the paucity of his material . Interesting that so many characters have " Rose " in their names : Madame and Jonathan ROSEpettle , Commodore ROSEabove , ROSEalie . But a better film based on a play , Tennessee Williams ' The Rose Tattoo " did the same thing earlier . Game cast - mediocre results . Russell's career hurdles to oblivion , and Morse's film career collapses . Just too bad .
This is definitely not the greatest film comedy , but it has it's moments . The plot has to do with mob boss Ryan's discovery of a large scale theft of cash that seemed about to be uncovered by his mob's bookkeeper , Bill Dana . Dana is killed in front of Ryan and his right hand gopher Sid Caesar while barbecuing ( somebody tampered with the oil used on the barbecue grill ) . When the discovery is made , Ryan zeroes in on Caesar as the thief , and probable murderer of Dana . Caesar spends the film trying to 1 ) keep out of the hands of Ryan and his goons ( Godfrey Cambridge and Marty Ingalls ) , 2 ) keep out of the hands of the police ( Richard Pryor ) , 3 ) keep his meddlesome mother out of his hair ( Kay Medford ) , 4 ) solve the mystery of the death of Dana and his disappearing corpse , 5 ) find out who , exactly , is trying to frame him , and 6 ) looking after Dana's newly made widow ( Arlene Golonka ) who is looking very appealing to Caesar . Actually the plot fits pretty well , but it is a so-so plot for all that . I think by the time the film is half-way through you will realize who the framer is . But it is the little shticks by borscht belt comics , Caesar , Jan Murray , Cambridge ( with Ingalls ) , Dana ( briefly ) , and with long time comedian Ben Blue and recent arrivals Richard Pryor and Dom DeLuis , that should hold one's attention . Blue is the perennial nervous nelly , a witness against Caesar who is confronted by him ( not threatened by him , mind you , but confronted ) and keeps collapsing in fear of being tortured . As mentioned in another comment on this thread , a woman tries to vamp a dummy that Caesar has left at a bus stop . You have to understand that Caesar introduced her to the dummy as his friend , Matthias Kreplach , who was rich . The woman leaves in a huff when Matthias just won't respond to her chatter - he just sits there like a dummy . I may add that while that scene is good , my favorite moment is the last scene involving Jan Murray and Anne Baxter as a larcenous husband and wife . He gets a final rise out of her that George Sanders did not achieve in ALL ABOUT EVE .
They try , but for a short film made on a shoestring it shows it . Trying to gain some mileage from the big sleeper hit of 1931 , THE SIN OF MADELON CLAUDET , which won an Oscar for Helen Hayes , and to use the novel narrative style of THE POWER AND THE GLORY , THE SIN OF NORA MORAN has neither a major studio backing it with it's resources nor the screenplay from one of Hollywood's all time top talents ( Preston Sturges ) . It is a curiosity today because of it's twisty " the wrong person is going to die in the chair " plot , and due to some of the performers - all of whom did better films . Zita Moran ( as was mentioned in the synopsis ) is sentenced to die for a murder she never committed . She does not want to hurt all the people she cared for by revealing the truth . So she does die in the end . SPOILER COMING UP . She had been having an affair with the Governor of the state , played by that underrated cultivated actor Paul Cavanagh . His performance is worth watching because he is torn by his own knowledge of her innocence and his sense of duty ( somewhat comparable to " Governor " William Powell's sense of duty versus friendship for the doomed murderer Clark Gable in MANHATTAN MELODRAMA , a far more interesting and better produced film ) . In the end Cavanagh's tragedy is not being able to live with what has resulted from his actions and lack of them . Because of it's attempt to be far better than it is , and for Paul Cavanagh's under-appreciated career , I rank this a " 6 " .
Unless one really digs Ayn Rand's philosophical theories , THE FOUNTAINHEAD will leave you pretty cold . Yet the film has it's fascinations . Cooper , Massey , and Neal manage to make their ridiculous dialog sound meaningful ( particularly Cooper's courtroom defense ) . King Vidor was able to have some fun with the sexual symbolism of skyscrapers and Neal's yearning for Cooper ( a real yearning as it turned out - as they began a long love affair while on the movie ) . But to me the most interesting fascination is that of the character of the chief villain in the story , Ellsworth Tooey ( Robert Douglas ) . Douglas normally played ( in the words of the novelist George MacDonald Fraser ) one of those villains with the " sibilant " esses in their speech ( like Henry Daniel , George Macready , Basil Rathbone ) , who usually played costume parts . Douglas was Sir Christopher Hatton in THE VIRGIN QUEEN , and the Duke of Lorca in Errol Flynn's DON JUAN . His characters are always plotting or carrying out some political double cross . Here , he is out of his normal background . It's modern times , and he is the critic ( on Raymond Massey's newspaper ) on architecture . But he is on costume even here - usually wearing tales and a top hat . How such a ridiculously dressed character would imagine he'd be taken seriously by the world is beyond me . Most people really don't care about architecture , unless they are going to be affected by a building they will live in or work in . They rarely read books about it , or newspaper columns about it . Yet Tooey ( we are told ) has great influence , and uses it to hurt the public . He boasts to his friends that he favors anything that will give the common man ugly looking housing and business structures . Just how come he gets his jollies from this is never explained - sheer cussedness I guess . But given his appearance ( like former Governor Dewey of New York , he looks like the groom on top of a wedding cake ) how can he be seriously taken by that public ? If he dressed like a common worker he might have a chance , but in the garb he wears everyone would suspect him . In the film he succeeds in manipulating his acolytes and allies into most of the important departments of the newspaper owned by Massey , so that he basically takes it away from Massey , who kills himself when he realizes his dreams of guiding public opinion are sand castles in the wind . That is not quite how the novel ends - in fact the novel deals with Tooey in a far more effective manner than the movie did . When the movie last sees Tooey he is in court listening in anger to Roark's courageous ( or long-winded , depending on your view ) defense of the artist's right to control his vision . In the novel , there is a follow up to Tooey's apparently successful coup at the newspaper . In the novel , a day or so after Tooey has demonstrated his control of the newspaper's staff and policies to Gail Wynand ( Massey ) , he comes back " in triumph " to resume his control of the paper . He is told to report to his desk , which is on the top floor ( where Wynand's office is ) . As he enters the building , Tooey notices how few people seem to be around , but goes upstairs . A secretary ushers him into the office , and he finds his desk there - opposite Wynand's . This pleases him to some extent ( it is symbolically showing he is equal to the publisher ) . Wynand is busy with some paperwork at his desk , and looks up and nods at Tooey , and then resumes his paperwork . Tooey walks to his desk and sits down . He starts readying his desk for work , but is amazed to find nothing on the desk to look at or deal with . He waits . He taps the desk . He looks around the room and out the window at the nice view . It begins to bother him - this absolute silence from Wynand . Why no comments ? He considers the situation , and realizes that the publisher has just been humiliated and trounced by him , so that may explain it . Tooey starts speaking to Wynand , and explains that although what happened was . . . perhaps somewhat high-handed and humiliating to Wynand , actually Tooey is a human being and they can probably get along very well . Wynand looks up , doesn't say a word , and resumes his paperwork . It slowly begins driving Tooey mad . Why is he here if there is nothing to do but watch Wynand ? Didn't the paper tiger publisher learn his lesson the other day ? And where is everyone else ? Suddenly the clock strikes noon . Wynand looks up , and puts his papers into his attaché case . He gets up from behind his desk . He then tells Tooey : 1 ) as of this moment the newspaper ceases to exist . It is being closed down . The staff has been paid off , and the various company properties are being sold . 2 ) . Tooey will find a check for the balance of his contractual salary for the time left on the contract . As for his future , Wynand does not care what he does , but he won't get any reference from him . Tooey pops up one last time just before the novel ends . He has found another job , but he has to start at the bottom again ( he won't be headlining any column like he did on Wynand's newspaper ) . While he is politely listened to by others at his new job , his reputation is not great because his allies at his last job all lost their jobs . Somehow that was a more satisfactory conclusion to the novel than what is in the film . I wish they had used it - it might have made the movie more amusing .
It is somewhat sad that for all the interest shown regarding the South Pole ( the movie SCOTT OF THE ANTARCTIC , and the series THE LAST PLACE ON EARTH ) , the only film dealing with the great North Pole controversy of the same period is this mediocre retelling of the story from the point of view of die-hard Cook supporters . As such it puts the best spin on the case for Dr . Cook , but it leaves many issues unresolved . But first let me try to fill in the basic problem . Between 1890 and 1909 there were four explorations done by Lt . Robert Peary to the North Pole . Peary , a United States Naval Officer , had originally been involved in exploration in Nicaragua's jungles , looking over the possible routes for a transoceanic canal . He was assisted by a servant , Matthew Henson ( a African-American ) . When Peary turned his attention to the Pole , he took Henson with him . They worked well together , but Peary saw that Henson could be good as a go-between with the native Inuits . However they went on the four journeys together , and Peary slowly got promoted to Commander , Commodore , and finally Rear Admiral ( Henson rose in naval rank too , though never as high as Peary - however , among explorers Henson was widely respected and was a member of the Explorer's Club with Peary ) . Peary suffered on these journeys - he lost eight of his ten toes to frostbite . But he learned the lesson of the Arctic through Henson and the Inuits . You had to live off the land , and to travel like an Inuit to get through the Arctic . His determination to reach the North Pole won him many wealthy supporters in the U . S . But after each of the first three voyages ( especially the third ) there was increasing skepticism about whether the burning determination would help him nail the " big nail " ( as the Pole was called ) . He certainly had many rivals - one was Fridjof Nansen , the great Norwegian explorer whose drift in the " Fram " in 1893 was one of the greatest scientific journeys in the golden age of Arctic exploration ( 1821 - 1928 ) . Another was Nansen's younger Norwegian rival Raoul Amundsen , the first to sail through the Northwest Passage completely ( 1903 - 1905 ) . Both of them intended to try to reach the Pole . So did some lesser explorers like Anthony Fiala . A Swedish aeronaut , Saloman Andree , disappeared in 1897 with two companions in an attempt to fly to the Pole ( their remains were found in 1930 ) . One unexpected rival was Dr . Frederick Cook . Dr . Cook had experience on an Antarctic Exploration in the 1890s , and had served as the medical officer on one of Peary's journeys . But he soon branched out on his own . In 1906 he announced at the Explorer's Club that he had reached the summit of Mount McKinley , and soon published TO THE TOP OF THE CONTINENT with photographs of his assent . Based on this he announced his intention to reach the Pole . This was upsetting to Peary , who felt he had first rights to it . The television film follows the journey of the two rivals in 1908 - 1909 . It gets part of the story correct - although Peary is officially credited with reaching the North Pole on April 6 , 1909 accompanied by Henson , the evidence is . . . err . . . " spotty " . It has not stood up too well , particularly sledding speeds and distances that have rarely been duplicated in the Polar areas by others . However , Cook by this time had returned to civilization and announced he reached the Pole in April 1908 accompanied by two Inuits . Here the film jumps totally into the pro-Cook camp , and never recovers it's balance . Cook did not document his trip too well either . The two Inuits said that he spent the period living with them among some islands in the North of Greenland ( ironically , if Cook had told the truth about this , and published the results , his fame as a daring explorer might be greater now than if he had reached the Pole ) . Documents he claimed supported his travel speeds were left behind in Greenland . He claimed Peary should have brought them back , as he ( Cook ) requested . Quite rightly Peary had refused because ( as he pointed out ) if the documents did not support Cook's claim he would have been accused of tampering with Cook's records . Cook soon found that others were attacking him . Several mountain climbers tackled Mount Mckinley , and found massive holes in the story of Cook's climbing it in 1906 ( one photo of him at the " summit " turned out to be a fake ) . By 1910 Cook's reputation was tattered . Subsequent actions by him , such as stealing credit for a Polynesian dictionary that a missionary wrote , and the sale of valueless oil stock in the 1920s ( leading to a prison sentence ) finished his credibility with most of the public . However a sizable number still insist that he did climb Mt . McKinley to the top and that he did reach the Pole , but because he was a poor individualist ( and not - like Peary - supported by bloated rich men ) he was traduced by his enemies . Richard Chamberlain and Rod Steiger give excellent performances as Cook and Peary . I recommend the film to see the pro-Cook argument . If they ever do a more even-handed account showing the defects of both explorers ' claims it would be all to the better .
There are some films that are forever lost that one wishes still existed : the complete GREED and THE MAGNIFICENT AMBERSONS ( Welles final cut ) for examples . In the cinema of Alfred Hitchcock , THE PARADINE CASE as he originally shot would have been of great interest . Whether it would have been better is another matter . THE PARADINE CASE is generally conceded as among Hitchcock's lesser films . It's most interesting parts of the performances of the leads ( except for Alida Valli , who is quite dull ) , and the famous sequence of the portrait of Valli whose eyes seem to follow the camera ( standing in for Gregory Peck / Anthony Keane ) as it passes from one room to the next . Hitchcock told Francois Truffaut that he felt the casting was wrong . He wanted Greta Garbo for Mrs . Paradine ( but Selznick had Alida Valli signed up ) . He wanted Ronald Colman or Laurence Olivier as Keane ( but Selznick had Gregory Peck signed up ) . He did not want Louis Jourdan as LaTour , but wanted Robert Newton . Again Selznick said no . As a result of our general respect for Hitchcock the suspense film artist we sympathize with his comments , and dismiss Selznick as a bullying producer who destroyed a masterpiece . I seriously question this view . First of all , David Selznick ( for most of his career as a producer ) was way ahead of the majority of such Hollywood figures because of his taste and ability . Anyone who could create GONE WITH THE WIND , David COPPERFIELD , SINCE YOU WENT AWAY , and other high caliber movies is not one to dismiss so cavalierly . Most of the films he did with Hitchcock ( whom he brought to Hollywood in 1939 ) were very good films : REBECCA , SUSPICION , SHADOW OF A DOUBT , LIFEBOAT , FOREIGN CORRESPONDENT - they were not crappy . Secondly , he was aware of difficulties in getting performers : Olivier was working in England in 1948 . Colman was working mostly at MGM , but was a bit too old for the role . And Peck was not an unknown talent : He had worked with Hitchcock already . As for Garbo , she had been in retirement for six years , and there was no sign she was interested in a film come-back . The Jourdan - Newton problem is another matter . LaTour , in the film , is Colonel Paradine's loyal batman , now a valet and groom on the estate . Mrs . Paradine has made a play for his affections , and he has rejected them out of loyalty to his master . Hitchcock felt that Robert Newton , with his physical appearance , would have looked more like a man who worked in the mire of a stable than Louis Jourdan did , although as Jourdan remained the Colonel's personal servant that seemed a minor casting point in favor of Newton . Hitchcock also skirted the issue ( soon to be handled in ROPE , STRANGERS ON A TRAIN , and NORTH BY NORTHWEST ) of a homosexual relationship between his characters . LaTour was supposed to be more openly close to the Colonel in Hitchcock's opinion . But it was a 1948 film - how close was the relationship supposed to be ? Furthermore , Selznick as producer would be aware of one defect regarding Newton not found in Hitchcock's account to Truffaut : Newton's alcoholism . Given the size of Newton's benders he was a poor risk in most film acting roles ( no matter how available he was ) . Not so with Louis Jourdan . The film was brought in under 93 days , and that record would not have been possible if Newton had been in the cast and kept getting drunk . As for the homosexual relationship , it never is fleshed at all in the film . But would a 1948 audience have been willing to accept that ? I don't think so . The supporting players , particularly Ann Todd , Charles Laughton as the sadistic Mr . Justice Lord Hawfield , and Ethel Barrymore as Lady Hawfield , gave good accounts of themselves in the film , especially Laughton as the Judge who takes out his frustrations with Mrs . Keane ( ANN TODD ) to wreck her husband's case . His best scene , where he compares a walnut to a human brain sums up the character's beastliness . I think that what Hitchcock fans fail to notice here is that it is Hitch's only real courtroom film . While his characters face hearings and sentencing in court ( like in the start of NOTORIOUS ) , they rarely are shown being tried . I CONFESS is an exception - and the bulk of the film is not a trial . Here the bulk of the film is the trial of the anti-heroine Mrs . Paradine . It is not typical Hitchcock , and fails to fascinate the audience . The highpoint is the verbal clashes between Laughton and Peck ( sometimes assisted by Leo G . Carroll as the prosecutor ) , Jourdan's collapse in the witness box when Keane attacks him for secretly betraying his master with the defendant , and Valli's final condemnation of Keane in court . But the circumstances and the dialog do not fascinate the viewers . Compare the way the trial in THE PARADINE CASE compares with those in Billy Wilder's WITNESS FOR THE PROSECUTION , and in TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD . Laughton's Sir Wilfred Robarts enlivens the film , and his tactics in attacking Torin Thatcher's case for the prosecution of Tyrone Power are solid and interesting in the former . Gregory Peck's Atticus Finch , in defending Brock Peters on a rape charge in a segregated , bigoted South , are cutting and sensible . The key is the script - both of those films have better scripts , based on better writings ( Agatha Christie and Harper Lee ) than the Robert Hitchens novel . One can bemoan the loss of the three hour version or the 119 minute version that we lack now , but if it was anything as dull as the slow moving courtroom sequences of the currently extant film , I doubt that any improvement would have appeared .
I wonder if the screenwriter for this film had somebody in mind as a model for the criminal Humphrey Bogart plays . In the 1920s and 1930s there was a major war between Joe Masseria and Salvator Marranzano for control of New York's criminal underworld . Marranzano , on the surface , seemed more modern to the younger crowd of gangsters like Luciano , Costello , Siegel , Lansky , and Lepke , and they helped him get rid of the " Mustache Petes " or old style gangsters supporting Masseria ( and eventually Masseria himself ) . But they found that rather than restructuring the criminal world into a model corporate structure , Marranzano had delusions of grandeur . He was intoxicated by the image and memory of Gaius Julius Caesar , and intended to make himself the Caesar of the New York Underworld . Eventually " Caesar " Marranzano was bumped off by the disgruntled young Turks who did not plan for him to be a " Capo di Capo " . Interestingly enough he was stabbed to death in his office - one wonders if Luciano and the others purposely copied Caesar's demise in the forum . In this remake of an early Paul Muni film , DR . SOCRATES , Kay Francis is a female doctor who discovers that her late husband was tied to a powerful mobster ( Bogart ) and got killed helping him with some medical attention for one of his gang . The police and A . D . A . ( Pierre Watkins ) arrest and try Francis on really weak grounds as an accomplice , but the jury is deadlocked and she is released while the A . D . A . decides whether or not to retry her . Francis is determined to prove her innocence by catching Bogart . Humphrey Bogart played many gangsters in the 1930s , and most of them were quite dangerous types , like Duke Mantee in THE PETRIFIED FOREST or Baby Face Martin in DEAD END . But his gangster boss here is ridiculous . The reason is that the screenwriter created a personality point about this gangster that is never pursued properly in the film . Bogart is enamored by the career of Napoleon Bonaparte , and keeps mentioning this . Never once in the course of the film , outside an occasional reference to say Waterloo or some incident like that , do we see Bogie trying to use Napoleons aphorisms and strategies in his crimes ! For example , Bonaparte once dismissed military brilliance and said something to the effect that he preferred " lucky " generals to brilliant ones . He realized that a brilliant general could get so hung up about his own brilliant schemes that he could blow a major battle , whereas a " lucky " general looks quickly at a situation and grabs the initiative . Bogart does not show any inclination to follow that particular piece of wisdom , and does not even mention it . Bogart also is never shown using any of the strategies that made Marengo or Austerlitz or Jena victories that rang down through the last two centuries in his robbery schemes or crimes . For a man who supposedly admires a great figure he doesn't seem willing to learn from him ! In the plot Francis hides in a small town and Bogart shows up there to rescue two of his men from the local police ( actually similar to an incident involving gangster John Dillinger ) . Bogart has also picked up a traveling writer ( James Stephenson ) who he realizes can ghost write Bogies criminal memoirs . Stephenson is arrested in the incident , but he is released into Francis ' custody ( she is now a doctor in the town ) , and subsequently kidnapped by Bogie ( not quite like the unfortunate Duc de Enghien ) . Soon Francis is in pursuit , and notes Bogies health as a potential key to undermining his control of her fate and Stephenson's . It involves giving him a peculiar drug that has to be also given to all his men at the same time to disable them all . This part of the script is absolutely unbelievable as Bogie's gangster does not accept the simple solution of selecting one of his men as a guinea pig to test the drug on ( Francis manages to browbeat him into taking the drug ! ) . There are elements of other , better films in KING OF THE UNDERWORLD . Most notable is James Stephenson's writer / hobo who resembles Leslie Howard's in THE PETRIFIED FOREST . The acting is pretty good ( best are the scenes involving the local bigwig doctor who resents the arrival of Francis in the small town , and starts making problems for her ) . Stephenson was a fine young actor , whose best role ( the troubled barrister defending Bette Davis ' " Leslie Crosby " in THE LETTER ) was yet to come , and his death in the early 1940s was a true loss to movies . Francis does nicely in her role , even if her victory over Bogie is asinine . Bogie is good - wish I could say the same for his character or the script .
I have commented before on the paucity of American films dealing with the history of Canada and Mexico ( our next door neighbors ) . We are easily receptive to films made here or in the British Commonwealth about the history of England , and then we have a tendency to enjoy films about the history of France . But then it is spotty . Films about Germany deal with it's military history or the Nazis ( how many Americans would sit through a film about Goethe or Schiller - a few years back a film about Beethoven appeared , and was not a box office favorite ) . It gets weaker too when we edge to Scandanavia . Ask how many historic films deal with Sweden ( which once was the dominant power in Eastern Europe ) I can only recall two historical films made in America : " Queen Christina " and " Desiree " . The former showed Greta Garbo ( finally playing a Swedish person of importance ) as the 17th Century ruler who abdicated in 1655 . The latter dealt with French people surrounding one of the world's most fascinating men : Napoleon Bonaparte . But Napoleon was Marlon Brando , and the film followed the career of one of the women in Napoleon's life who ended up not in bed with him but with one of his rivals . Desiree Clary ( Jean Simmons ) had dated Napoleon when he was a young officer , but his career and ambitions took him away from her . However , she met a rival of Bonaparte , Jean Bernadotte . Bernadotte ( who would eventually rise to be one of the Emperor's Marshalls , and a persistent critic , was sent into ambassadorial exile in 1809 to Sweden , taking his wife and son with him . As French Ambassador to Stockholm , he ingratiated himself into the affections of the childless King of Sweden , as well as the people . In 1811 , shortly before his death , the King of Sweden made Bernadotte his heir - and the Swedish public acclaimed the decision . It turned out to be very wise : Bernadotte had grown disgusted by Napoleon's continuous warfare , and once he became King of Sweden he joined with the Russians and Austrians and Prussians in working for the end of Napoleons wars . As a result , in 1815 , the Congress of Vienna accepted Bernadotte's title as King , and even granted him territory ( all of Norway ) taken from Napoleon's faithful ally , Denmark . This forced union lasted until 1905 ( it was peacefully settled ) . But the family of the Bernadottes still are the reigning family of Sweden . The film is lopsided . Simmons plays her role well enough , but it is not really developed as an independent character . Her husband is played by Michael Rennie , and he does what he can to show his growing disenchantment with his rival . Brando is superb as Bonaparte - witness the scene where to satisfy his sisters who resent having to hold the train of their sister-in-law Josephine ( Merle Oberon , in a touching and sad performance ) , gives them silly titles that they are so happy to get as awards for holding the train . But such scenes are rare . The film is not as static and dull as Sacha Guitry's 1955 film " Napoleon " , but it has an improbable script . While I will note that Napoleon did more than anyone to spread the ideals of the French Revolution around Europe and the world , he never mouthed a statement that he sought to create a United States of Europe ( as Brando , at the end of the film , tells Simmons ) . More likely he wanted a United States of Napoleon , though one where there was more opportunity for everyone to move upwardly than in the 18th Century courts that existed . It is a colorful film , and the performances are not bad ( especially Brando and Oberon ) , but it ain't French history . But I'll give it a 6 for a brief window into Swedish history .
The question will never be really answered : What was the exact set of goals of Maximillien Robespierre , lawyer from Arras , France , who was ( from July 1793 to June 1794 ) the central figure of public attention in France and the apparent dictator of the country ? We won't know because he failed in the end - in possibly the most satisfactory fall from power of any dictator in modern history . His secrets died with him . Robespierre has been painted as the great " green-eyed " monster of the Revolution . That was the phrase used by Thomas Carlyle in describing Robespierre in Carlyle's classic history of the revolution . A prissy , powder-wigged figure , who never found a kind word to say about anybody who was in power - and so undermined several rivals while he grew more powerful . He did give lip service to the Revolution's ideals , but apparently was more in love with the concept of mankind , than in individual men and women . He spoke about a cult of pure reason ( an idea he gathered from the philosophes , especially Jean-Jacques Rousseau ) and even held a festival for the cult shortly before he fell from power . Not really much to say about his program , except that his proscription made the Reign of Terror what it was . But was he blown out of size ? Some historians in the 20th Century feel that he was not all powerful . He was elected head of the Jacobin Club , and he was a member of the Committee of Public Safety - with eleven other men . The Committee was actually a committee set up with extraordinary powers by the National Assembly , and was supposed to run the war effort against Europe , and keep a lid on the problems on the home front . The historian R . R . Palmer ( in " Twelve Who Ruled " ) makes a good case that Robespierre was not the only one with authority , but that all these men did valuable work . In particular , Louis Lazare Carnot , an amateur who turned out to be one of military history's most amazingly , unexpected geniuses . Carnot built the great French Revolutionary armies that were to be the weapon that Napoleon and his marshals used to conquer most of Europe . But it was Robespierre ( along with his two closest allies on the Committee : Robert Couthon and Antoine St . Just ) who was the most fanatical in searching for hidden internal enemies . Their standards are the model for later similar " witch hunters " , like Heinrich Himmler , Laventi Beria , and Senator Joseph McCarthy - you find a weak point , spread a lie , and then pound the lie into everyone until it becomes the truth . Robespierre did this with the Royal Family , the Girondists ( moderates ) , General Lafayette ( fortunately in an Austrian prison when denounced ) , General Dumouriez ( who decided to surrender himself for safety sake to the Prussians ) , and then the radicals . He did not have to go after all his rivals . Jean Paul Marat would be stabbed by Charlotte Corday ( the Girondists later said they wished she had consulted with them , they would have pointed out another target ) . But he did confront and destroy his right of center moderate rival Georges Danton , and later his far left rival Hebert . There are , oddly enough , very few films dealing with this story . Robespierre does show up at the end of " Marie Antoinette " , and is Chauvin's boss in " The Scarlet Pimpernel " . The various versions of " A Tale Of Two Cities " do not need him ( he's not in Dicken's novel ) . Only two films deal with him that I am aware of . A French film , " Danton " , deals with his duel to the death with the great moderate and orator ( played by Gerard Depardieu ) , and how Danton warns the country of the dangers of Robespierre's policies and personality but is unable to avoid being proscribed and executed . Then there is this film . Directed by Anthony Mann , it paints a dismal view of the Paris of the months of May - June 1794 , and how Robespierre finally is brought down . Played ( very well ) by Richard Basehart , his Achilles heel is a book of names of allies and enemies , and when he will destroy them to achieve total power . Robert Cummings and Arlene Dahl , with a cynical assist from Arnold Moss ( as Joseph Fouche , Napoleon's future secret police chief ) demolish Robespierre by getting the book into the right hands . Did the book exist ? We don't know . Stanley Loomis , in his interesting " Paris In The Terror " shows that it did not need to actually be in existence . Robespierre always had a proscription list in mind , and had he been smart he could have revealed it and reassured many who would not have stood in his way . But he was too arrogant and refused to do so . Fouche , who was an enemy of Robespierre , spread the word to almost every member of the National Assembly that they were on the hit list . Robespierre was shouted down when he tried to finally explain his plans , and was shot in the mouth just before he was arrested . On July 11 , 1794 ( " Thermidor " on the French Revolutionary Calender ) , he , Couthon , St . Just , and a dozen close associates were all guillotined . Although conservative , reactionary " White Terror " occurred in 1795 , it was short and not as wholesale . Robespierre's Reign of Terror cost about 14 , 000 lives in France . . . and don't forget it was planned to continue for quite a while afterward . As Loomis writes in his study , the Terror died with him .
I actually did see this particular episode of the series . For a change the format did not seem out of place , probably because the interview of modern political leaders would fit into the 1930s . Except for one point : Joseph Stalin would have never agreed to that kind of journalism unless it was done by one of his henchmen in the press like Walter Duranty . Stalin's rise to control of the Soviet Union is less well known in this country than Hitler's in Germany or even Mussolini's in Italy . Stalin had been a minor Bolshevik leader , but gradually got into the inner circle of Lenin in the early 1920s . Lenin never trusted Stalin , for the Georgian was not much of a political theorist as Lenin and his ally Trotsky were . But Stalin was gifted in moving people he could use into important positions of power . This slowly pushed him into being head of the Communist Party , just as Lenin died . Lenin's health had declined between 1919 and 1924 due to a serious wounding in an assassination attempt . He always planned to dump Stalin , but he never got the chance . Stalin made alliances with Zinoviev and Bulkarin and several others . Like his Austrian-German counterpart these alliances were all of convenience and temporary until he could throw them aside . His intention was to build a fence around the Party leadership and the government and force out Trotsky , whose achievements had been mostly under the early years of the regime ( he had rebuilt the Russian Army with Alexei Brusilov ) , and was able to use it to put down the White Russian Armies in the Civil Wars of 1919 - 21 . But in the maneuvering following Lenin's death Stalin was a better tactician . For one thing , Stalin made it appear that Lenin was breaking with Trotsky over policy differences ( the two men actually respected each other's ideas ) . This included excluding Trotsky from the pall bearers at Lenin's burial . Trotsky also made the foolish mistake of refusing to attend the funeral to show his anger . The others ( at Stalin's prodding ) thought it showed Trotsky was not a team player . By 1928 Trotsky had been stripped of all his appointments . He saw the handwriting on the wall , and left Russia . He proceeded to France , where he would live into the middle 1930s , when French politics forced him out . He ended up in Mexico , until his assassination in 1940 . But his last decade made him Stalin's worst enemy ( hence the need to kill him ) , as he took his literary talents to analyze Stalin's blunders and crimes . Stalin tried to turn the Soviet Union into a revolution that was concentrating on only Russia . Lenin and Trotsky wanted to export the revolution around the globe ( and Soviet foreign policy up to 1928 did just that under Gregory Zinoviev ) . Stalin ended that , leaving Zinoviev's Comintern rather useless . As I said , he dropped his one time allies when no longer useful as quickly as Hitler did . The various economic schemes ( the five year plans ) were not as successful for the immediate time - though it turned out in World War II some of them proved very helpful in putting industry out of the way of the German Army . There was talk of replacing Stalin with the head of the Soviet Party in Leningrad ( the former and future St . Petersburg ) Kirov . Kirov was assassinated ( we now know that Stalin ordered it ) in 1934 . In 1936 he announced a massive anti-Soviet conspiracy that he claimed was linked to the murder of Kirov . This was the start of the purge trials . Mostly they were the military leaders like Marshal Tuckhachevski , but gradually hundreds and then thousands were dragged in like Zinoviev and Bulkharin and Karl Radek . The show shows the thoroughness of what one writer called " The Great Terror " . We see Bukharin pleading with his family not to try to do anything to stop his inevitable execution . We see Yagoda , the then head of the KGB , realizing that Yedzhov ( his successor ) was the willing tool of the trials with their " court arranged " confessions gained by tortures . The situation used in 1984 in describing the nightmare world of Winston Smith was created by Stalin in 1936 , as much if not more than by Hitler in the same period . Finally Trotsky and his son rip apart the so-called conspiracy of the victims of the purges , Trotsky and Hitler . " I'm a Jew . " , says Trotsky , " Why would Hitler make a plan with me against anyone ? " The number of victims of the purge trials ( that lasted until 1941 ) was close to 10 , 000 . Others who were not shot after they confessed were sent to the gulags as slave laborers . The purges did destroy the effective leadership of the military which was one of the reasons the Wehrmacht was able to do so well for the opening year of the war . It has only been in the last fifteen years that the victims have slowly been rehabilitated by the Russian government .
I remember seeing this series on public television in 1968 , while I was still attending high school in New York City . After the phenomenal international success of the first " Forsyte Saga " ( with Eric Porter , Nyree Dawn Porter , Kenneth More , Susan Hampshire , Martin Jarvis , Nicholas Pennell , and Michael York ) , the producers of " Masterpiece Theater " looked about for another quality novel to turn into a series . Eventually they would find many , but they stumbled here . Why they chose this novel of Aldous Huxley's instead of the one he is remembered for , his anti-Utopean novel " Brave New World " is a mystery to me . If any producer seeks out a work of a known novelist for filming or staging it should be a popular choice . This is why there are so many versions of Dickens ' " A Christmas Carol " , but no film versions of " The Chimes " , " The Battle of Life " , or " Dombey and Son " . The public knows what is memorable and lovable . Occasionally an experiment can be conducted with a less than well known title . In all the Jules Verne novels turned to movies stands " The Sothern Star " and " Facing The Flag " , neither of which most people recall in their original printed form . But the former is considered an entertaining , if minor film , and the latter is best known ( in it's Czech film version ) for the interesting production technique used . " Brave New World " was a scary view of a future of vacuous minded ninnies who live for pleasure , and don't think ( thinking is done for them by the rulers ) . It is almost as good a negative view of the future as Orwell's " 1984 " . But Aldous Huxley wrote at least twenty novels , and " Brave New World " is the one we all remember . " Chrome Yellow " , " Ape and Essence " , " After Many a Summer Dies the Swan " , and " Eyeless in Gaza " are not recognizable titles anymore . For many years Bantam paperbacks did reprint them , but most of these are now out of print - the public lost interest in them , but not in " Brave New World " . " Point Counterpoint " was apparently chosen from this list of losers because it was set in the 1920s , the era of the " gay young things " that Evelyn Waugh ( a far better and more deserving novelist than Huxley ) spoofed unerringly in novel after novel . As a novel of the 1920s and 1930s , with characters based on famous or infamous people of that period , it seemed a natural to follow " Forsyte " . You see , when the " Forsyte " saga appeared on television , it actually dramatized all of the main stories of John Galsworthy's family of wealth in the first two series of trilogies ( " The Forsyte Saga " and " A Modern Comedy " ) . There was actually a third trilogy that Galsworthy wrote that followed " A Modern Comedy " , which James Michener ( in an article in T . V . Guide when the " Saga " was on television ) said were terrible . For instance , in the second trilogy , Fleur Forsyte finds a new admirer in her husband Michael's friend Wilfred Desert . Wilfred vanished from the series - seemingly without reason . In the final three novels he reappears . The third trilogy is entitled " End Of The Chapter " . There were also a separate volume of tales of the " Forsyte " family called " On Forsyte ' Change " . So having brought that international audience into the wonderful long weekend of the 1920s , public television , " Masterpiece Theater " , and British television followed with another series set in the 1920s , but chose Huxley rather than Waugh . Big mistake . For all Waugh's crankiness about Jews and Americans , and whatever else he disliked , he was a great novelist . Huxley is a mediocre one . " Point Counterpoint " is the story of a writer named Philip Quarles , who decides to write a novel based on all the people he knows . He figures that their struggles and problems actually are the reverse image of each other's for comparison sake ( hence the title , " Point Counterpoint " ) . The figures are based on well known people of the period . For example , Max Adrian played John Bidlake , a well known artist and social creature ( and gourmet ) , who is - apparently - based in part on Augustus John . His problem is his health is in decline , and his gourmet days are over - he has to eat simpler foods now to survive . This reduces his social charm considerably . But he is surviving at the end of the story . Meanwhile , Quarles and his wife are having marital problems , and these disappear only when their only child - a boy - developes a serious illness . Suddenly the hitherto ignored child gets all the attention that Bidlake has sacrificed . Edward Judd - last seen as the backer of Mr . Cavour's experiments in anti - gravity " cavourite " in " First Men In The Moon " - is Sir Everard Webley , a right wing political figure leading a paramilitary group who hates Jews . Obviously he is based on Sir Oswald Mosley . Webley is killed by another character secretly , and this becomes part of the plot . While not a bad story thread , Huxley did not develop it as well as it could have been ( Webley's goons become their own detectives and track down the killer ) . Frankly P . G . Wodehouse had more fun spoofing his version of Mosley in several novels , as a fascist in the daytime , but secretly the wealthy manufacturer of ladies underwear . The result is a very uneven series - it was well acted , and produced , of course . . . but it was lacking any real interest for the audience of the late 1960s . Unlike the characters in " The Forsyte Saga " , whom we got to really know in half a year , after six episodes of this series nobody cared about these people . I give it a " 7 " for it's production values - but it was so dull I tremble thinking that that " 7 " may be too generous .
In 1925 the U . S . Naval Air Force's major new piece of military hardware was a zeppelin that had been built in Germany at the end of the First World War , which was given to the U . S as a reparation , and renamed the U . S . S . Shenandoah . The craft had a crack team running it , and it had an excellent head , Commander Zachary Landowne . It was in fair demand around the country , for most people believed that the future of long distance air travel would be in airships , not airplanes . So the Navy brass frequently sent the Shenandoah on public relations flights , rather than using it for military purposes or long distance flights . It was sent to Ohio where local politicians wanted to use the zeppelin to impress voters . Unfortunately , there was a storm front with heavy thundershowers in the path of the zeppelin , and the zeppelin had recently had some damage to a fin on it's tale . There had been no time to repair the damage . So when the zeppelin crossed into the storm front , the zeppelin was ripped apart by the winds and crashed killing Landsdowne and fourteen men . Landsdowne's close friend , Brigadier General Billy Mitchell was exceptionally critical of the disaster . He blamed the politicians and military brass who ordered the flight . As Mitchell had been long a thorn in the side of these two groups , as he tried to push his views on air power and the need for a unified , strong air force , he was charged with insubordination and ordered to be court martial-ed . Gary Cooper plays Mitchell well , as an honest , honorable man , who realizes that the future will be only safe for those who have a strong air arm . He is fighting old fashion ideas , mouthed by old fashioned army leaders like Fred Clark . He does have allies like his lawyer , a Congressman played by Ralph Bellamy , and like one of the judges ( General Douglas MacArthur - who was the only one to vote for acquittal ) . But the issue goes down to the Mitchell's insubordination . And this leads to the dramatic high point , when Cooper is cross-examined by the malicious and clever Rod Steiger . Steiger is able to get Cooper to not only reveal his lack of respect for the brass but to reveal his mistrust of the Japanese . That he is correct in the long run does not save him - he is found guilty and suspended without pay from the army for five years . Mitchell died in 1936 , not in time to see his vindication five years later . But he is remembered now as the real founder of the modern American Air Force . The film is a pretty good retelling of his story , and reminds us how frequently a prophet is despised and rejected in his or her time .
There seem to be certain rules about " madcap comedy " in the 1930s . It had to center around the idle rich and newspapers frequently played an important part in the story lines . . . oh yes , and Walter Connolly had to be the rich millionaire father who is bedeviled by the antics of the people around him , be they his daughters ( Claudette Colbert in IT HAPPENED ONE NIGHT , Myrna Loy in Broadway BILL and LIBELED LADY , or Olivia de Haviland in the current film , FOUR'S A CROWD . Somehow when Frank Capra used him Connolly was treated with more respect than in the other films . In IT HAPPENED ONE NIGHT he was the wise man who saw through the fortune hunting airplane pilot and pushed his daughter into the hands of Clark Gable . But in LIBELED LADY he is a man who is easily impressed by a conniver's claims at being a trout fisherman . In FOUR'S A CROWD he's the nation's richest man , who has a secret passion that is sillier in it's way than trout fishing ( which , after all , is exercise ) . Connolly is John Dillingwell , who is a very private millionaire who does not care about public relations . His daughter is Olivia de Haviland , who is currently being romanced by newspaper owner Patrick Knowles . Knowles ' ace reporter is Rosalind Russell , whose boyfriend is Errol Flynn . Flynn runs a public relations firm , and would love a chance to have Connolly as a client . The film follows how Flynn tries to land this account , and uses Knowles ' newspaper to ensnare Connolly . In the background of this comedy was an actual transformation . In the 1900s the most hated figure in American business was our richest man , John D . Rockefeller . The business savvy tied to tricks and chicanery used by Rockefeller to build up Standard Oil to controlling 90 % of the oil refining in the U . S . was done at the expense of countless rivals driven to bankruptcy . Ida Tarbell's HISTORY OF THE STANDARD OIL COMPANY was one of the great ( if not fully trustworthy ) muckraking books of the Progressive Era . John D . Rockefeller was fully hated . Then , about 1910 , Rockefeller hired publicist Ivy Lee to figure out how to get rid of this bad image . Lee was a genius about advertising . He convinced Rockefeller to get involved with turning a huge portion of his fortune into charity . This eventually led to Rockefeller University , the Rockefeller Foundation , medical charities , work at restoring the colonial town of Williamsburg ( and the Cloisters in upper Manhattan ) . It also led to Lee's interesting suggestion to turn the elderly Rockefeller into a " lovable old codger " by giving dimes away as gifts or tips to strangers . And it worked . By the time Rockefeller died in 1937 ( at the age of 97 ) he had become a well-liked figure to the American public . Flynn uses bad publicity stories to make Connolly so disliked that street children thrown stones at him . He also uses Knowles ' newspaper to print anti-Connolly articles ( which threatens Knowels ' romance with de Haviland . Then at one point he calls Connolly to offer his services . Connolly responds , " I'd be glad to accept your offer . . . WHEN BANANAS GROW AT THE NORTH POLE ! ! " Since global warming is not happening in 1938 , this portends no business contract . Instead , Flynn uses Knowles to get Flynn an introduction to Da Haviland . And in visiting her , Flynn finds the key to Connolly's heart : he and his servant Melville Cooper have one of the most elaborate toy train sets in America . Flynn challenges Connolly to a contest between his train and Connolly's favorite one . And surreptitiously sabotages Connolly's train's traction ability . As the relationship between Loy , Powell , Tracy , and Harlow in LIBELED LADY got " twisty " ( to say the least ) , in this film a similar growth of jealousy and confusion renders relations between Flynn , Russell , de Haviland , and Knowles equally confusing at the end - especially when all four end up at Justice of the Peace Hugh Herbert's to get married . The result is four voices in disharmony speaking at once , joined by Herbert ( for once not saying " WOO - WOO " as he claps his hands ) trying to read through the marriage service once . It is not a great comedy , but it is amusing , and most people will like it .
I like I WALK ALONE . It is an interesting example of film noir , but it also has curious slants of it's own . It is also one of the first pairings of Kirk Douglas and Burt Lancaster in film . Douglas and Lancaster were so well balanced in their movies that they were interchangeable . While in most of them they were allies or buddies ( THE DEVIL'S DESCIPLE , GUNFIGHT AT O . K . CORRAL , TOUGH GUYS ) they could alternate as the villain against each other . It's hard to find a pair of actors who did this as well or at all . Matthau and Lemmon usually were in comedies ( although they both could be at loggerheads on some ethical points or past history ) . Grant and Ralph Bellamy are normally love rivals ( Bellamy being hopelessly outclassed ) . Crosby and Fitzgerald are usually in a battle of the generations , and a confrontation of two street smart types . And so it goes in other male pairings . SPOILERS AHEAD : Here , Kirk is the villain - he got away with a large stolen cash prize in a crime back in the 1920s / early 1930s . His partner Burt got caught , and was sent to prison for 14 years ( actually rather lucky for him - a cop was killed ) . Burt is now out of prison , and he discovers that Kirk is quite a social success . He took the money and used it to build a gang , but he was smart enough to use his profits to get a legitimate sheen to his image : he's a successful " nightclub " owner with many wealthy friends and customers . One of the best moments early in the film is when Lancaster sees newspapers and magazines that show Douglas swanning with the swells ( even wearing top hat and overcoat in a rotogravure shot ) . Not quite like the good old Dillinger days , or even Al Capone . Other films had touched upon the " legitimization " of mob money as time passed . In THE ROARING TWENTIES , while Jimmy Cagney is building up his hooch empire he invests the money in a legitimate taxi company ( an early example of money laundering ) , only to lose everything when the stock market crashes . Ironically , his untrustworthy second-in-command ( Humphrey Bogart ) never diversifies but keeps to the illegal activities . He not only survives the crash , but he profits by it ( taking over Cagney's property - though he contemptuously leaves him one taxicab ) . But even he tries to pick up a better public image - you see him practicing his putting in his office at one point . Lancaster confronts Douglas in his nightclub , only to be brought into the modern world of organized crime . All Lancaster really wants is his half of the original money . But as Douglas ' accountant , Wendell Corey , says they can't just give him the cash as it has been invested throughout Douglas's financial empire . Lancaster is left without cash , and led a chase as well by Douglas using Lizbeth Scott as femme fatale bait . He ends up getting beaten ( by Mike Mazurki ) . But he remains determined to beat Douglas and get his share . He does in a manner that today would not pass muster . He entraps Douglas by pretending to have him at the end of a loaded gun , forcing Douglas to make a confession before the police . Douglas , naturally frightened , does admit information that only the criminal involved in the crime would have known , but at the end , he sneers at Lancaster saying that the confession was gotten under duress . But then Lancaster shows his gun was empty . Civil libertarians today would denounce this trick , saying the confession was tainted . In 1948 it was perfectly legal .
Charles Laughton had a personality that was totally dominating , as one can see in his greatest performances as Henry VIII , Captain Bligh , Quasimodo , Sir Wilfred Robards , Henry Horatio Hobson . But he knew ( for the most part ) when to control his more hammy moments . It is unfair to compare him with his sometime co-star Robert Newton , as Newton had an alcohol problem not shared by Laughton . But Newton's overblown , drunken performances ( like his BLACKBEARD ) are never matched by Laughton , the consummate professional . Laughton could do a role badly due to poor script or direction . Commander Sturm , the jealous submarine commander married to Talullah Bankhead , is one of his worse parts . But they are usually early roles . Once he was established he rarely made such missteps . IT STARTED WITH EVE is not one of Laughton's greatest film parts , but it is a feel good comedy . He plays Jonathan Reynolds Sr . , a multi-millionaire who is on his death bed . He only wants to see his son ( Bob Cummings ) and his son's fiancé once before he dies . But the fiancé is not in New York City yet ( she will be the next day ) . So Cummings takes a hat check girl ( Deanna Durbin ) with him to introduce to his father as " Gloria " his fiancé . Unfortunately , Durbin's personality is very pleasing to the old man - and his spirits rising , his health improves . This brings all sorts of complications up , not even just for Cummings and Durbin . For example , a side issue in the first half hour of the film - two harpies from the national museum are there to make a death mask of Mr . Reynolds . They are sitting quietly waiting for the good news ( that Reynolds is dead and they can make their death mask ) . Every time it looks promising , they perk up - only to be forced to wait longer . Then , when Durbin plays the piano and sings for Laughton , he gets out of bed to hear it . The two men realize that this is hopeless , and pack up and leave . Cummings ' character is faulted for not confronting his father with the truth , and turning wimpish . It is not quite fair . The doctor ( Walter Catlett ) feels that Laughton's health has to rebuild itself for awhile before the truth can be revealed , and he convinces Cummings not to tell Laughton that Durbin is not his future daughter-in-law . All three leads actually blend quite nicely , Laughton's tendency to dominate reduced because he is recovering from his illness ( although his booming dominance reappears once , when he gets impatient with Cummngs not supposedly forgetting a quarrel with Durbin , and starts shouting , " Say you forgive her , say you forgive her " in his best Bligh tones ) . Durbin , who was a good actress when the right part came her way , easily ingratiates herself with Laughton by being his lookout when he smokes his forbidden cigars . Cummings trying to figure out how to break up with the false " Gloria " , and to reintroduce the real " Gloria " actually is not so wimpish at just pathetically unable to carry out any of his schemes successfully . Add to the three Walter Catlett , here playing a decent doctor who has gotten onto Laughton's nerves ( because of his forcing Laughton to lose weight and to stop smoking ) gives a fine performance as he is slowly driven to distraction by his patient's antics . Not a great film , but a good example of a studio inspired comedy that is well worth watching .
This version appeared on television three years ago , and was supposedly based on Welles ' completed script . It got roasted by the television critics ( probably unfairly ) because it wasn't directed by Welles - lacking his great narration and touches . But it is not a bad film , and it does have a coherence that the other film lacks because of the truncated cutting . The only thing I disagree with is the emphasis on Welles ' script . Welles planned to close the film on a down note with Lucy rejecting a crippled George , and Fanny living in a boarding house as the cook . This is not like the television version where an unrepentant , still arrogant George has to be accepted by Eugene as his son-in-law . But it was well acted and directed , and if not as great as Welles ' work , it was entertaining and thoughtful . It also explained some of the problems linked to the plot that the truncated version did not go into . For one , why the collapse of the Major's fortune ? The Major ( John Cromwell ) has to sell off his property to support Isabel and George ( Madeleine Stowe and Jonathan Rhys - Meyers ) on their prolonged trip to Europe . Don't forget , Georgie never had plans for a career , and he is depended on money from grandpa . As Cromwell says , " Does he think I'm made of money ? " It also has the real moment of comeuppance that is not found in the Welles ' version ( in so outwardly a manifestation ) . George can accept the loss of outward possession , because he knows who he is and what his family was like . But he sees a book on sale in a local bookshop about the first families of Indianapolis . He sees it's expensive , but he buys a copy . He is shocked to find no mention of the Ambersons in the entire book . He is a little less arrogant after that . No , it is not the controversial classic of 1942 , but it is - on it's own terms - a worthy film version too .
The cartoon is fairly amusing , but nothing notable by itself . In the 1930s there was a serious polo playing group out of the Hollywood movie set . It included Walt Disney ( it also included Spencer Tracy , of all people , and Will Rogers ) . Odd that such a kind of upper class sport became so popular in the movie colony . In any case , Disney made this 1936 cartoon showing a polo match between a Disney team of Mickey Mouse , Donald Duck , the Big Bad Wolf , and Goofy , against a " star team " of Laurel & Hardy , Harpo Marx , and Charlie Chaplin . The Western star , Jack Holt , is the referee . Disney enjoyed doing cartoons with caricatures of various stars of the day . Here he includes other figures in the viewing stand . Among them are Clark Gable ( who is sitting with the amorous Claribel Cow , a long forgotten Disney cartoon figure who was usually teamed with Horace Horsecollar ) . Gable keeps getting bothered by Claribel , and eventually blushes red when she kisses him . The Three Little Pigs are in the stand next to Shirley Temple . Their appearance leads to a pleasant kind of sequel to the earlier Disney cartoon classic . Eddie Cantor , Harold Lloyd , Edna Mae Oliver ( who is annoyed by Oswald the Rabbit ) , W . C . Fields , Greta Garbo , Mrs . Roosevelt , and Charles Laughton ( dressed up as Henry VIII ) are also in the bleachers . The humor of the bulk of the cartoon is not the greatest the Disney studio ever concocted , but it is better than average . The different polo players are riding animals that resemble them ( Harpo is on an ostrich ; Ollie is on a tremendously fat horse , whose face has a Hardy scowl on it , and a smudge of a mustache , Chaplin's horse is like Charlie in appearance ( even bow legged ) , and Stan's has a head of tousled hair and a silly grin . Even Holt's horse looks like Holt . We see incidents like Harpo and his ostrich ( when they seen the other players charging them ) putting their heads in the earth ; or Hardy having trouble remounting his horse with " assistance " from Stan ; or Charlie deftly turning his horse a quarter to the left by use of his cane on the goal posts . Donald Duck ( who gets into a kind of fight with Harpo - which he loses ) swallows the polo ball and keeps trying to avoid the other players . As for the Big Bad Wolf , he is heckled by his old enemies , the pigs ( now aided by Shirley ) . But now they are not in the third pigs ' brick house , but in a wooden stand . The Big Bad Wolf stops his playing , turns and blows the portion of the stand apart , causing the pigs and Shirley to hide from him . It's somewhat nice to know that here Disney actually gave an ironic follow-up to a previous cartoon for a change . A pleasant and enjoyable cartoon , it is not one of Disney's greatest works but it is worth looking at .
Like most biographies of musicians or lyricists WORDS AND MUSIC is great as a showcase of the music , but a bent synopsis of the life story . It's of a piece with films as diverse as A SONG TO REMEMBER about Chopin , YANKEE DOODLE DANDY about Cohan , NIGHT AND DAY about Cole Porter , or STARS AND STRIPES FOREVER about Sousa . Except for elements about Chopin's patriotism to his native Poland and his affair with George Sand ( which was twisted unfairly against Sand ) A SONG TO REMEMBER was the most successful film of this bunch in chronicling a composer's career and showing some type of tension ridden story line . YANKEE DOODLE DANDY was ( due to the upbeat nature of Cohan's stage career ) the best of these films , but hid everything negative about the man . The Cole Porter film NIGHT AND DAY did capture the problems of Porter's physical catastrophe ( the riding accident that crippled him ) , but it left him a total heterosexual . It was not until the more recent movie with Kevin Kline that his homosexuality was brought out . It was a distinct negative for YANKEE DOODLE DANDY that Cohan was still alive , and vetoed any information about his first wife Ethel Leavy , and his campaign against Actor's Equity . Cole Porter was similarly alive when NIGHT AND DAY came out , but the studio would never ( in the late 1940s ) discuss homosexuality . Otherwise , we know Porter loved the film - he said he could not complain about a movie where he was portrayed by Cary Grant ! With WORDS AND MUSIC , concentrating as it did on Lorenz Hart ( safely dead in 1948 ) it made nonsense about that lyricists personal demons . As mentioned on another review , Hart was fully as gay as Porter or Tschaikovsky were . For most of his life he was unhappy about this and sought a woman he could love who would make him a heterosexual . As has been pointed out , Vivienne Segall was the Broadway star he approached on several occasions to marry , and he never could get her to say yes ( probably a wise move by Vivienne ) . Unfortunately , her last rejection was during the revival of A CONNECTICUT YANKEE in 1943 , and it played a role in undermining his spirits . The film shows June Alysson doing the " Thou Swell " number from YANKEE's original production in 1930 . For the revival , Hart wrote the lyrics for his last masterly piece - Morgan Le Fay's " To Keep My Love Alive " , which Ms Segall sang on opening night . Ironically , Hart died before the opening night of the revival . Broadway people in the know were aware that Vivienne may have turned down Larry , but that she came as close to loving him as was possible for a woman . When she finished her number , there was a standing ovation for her - and for the man who was not quite the man of her dreams . This film is full of good moments , from Alysson in the above number , and Perry Como doing " Mountain Greenery " and Rooney and Garland in their last duet on film . It does not touch upon the struggles of Hart and Rodgers in getting Hollywood to take their work seriously . Fortunately their skillful use of " song - dialog " appears in several of the Paramount films of the early 1930s , most notably in the great LOVE ME TONIGHT and HALLELUJAH , I'M A BUM . There use of ballet ( with George Ballanchine ) in ON YOUR TOES on Broadway is not noted , nor is their pushing one of the best first book musicals : PAL JOEY . One can go on like this about what is not properly shown . It was not until a few years later that a solid dual biography about collaborators in musical theater , THE GREAT GILBERT AND SULLIVAN , turned up with Robert Morley and Maurice Evans . But in that case , both central characters were safely dead , and their personal quarrels were so well known to make a real story line , punctuated by segments from their operettas . Even so , this was not enough to change Hollywood technique - the next big musical biography was THE STARS AND STRIPES FOREVER with Clifton Webb , a good film but barely with any details of the subject's life and non-musical achievements . As was mentioned on this thread in another review , Larry Hart's final , fatal binge ( reminiscent of the father's death in A TREE GROWS IN BROOKLYN , by the way ) was done after his attending the first night's performance of OKLAHOMA . Hart probably saw the handwriting on the wall : a new lyricist named Oscar was on the horizon to take his place - a good family man or impeccable theatrical background and success , and not a drinker ! But there is another element to it . The split between Hart and Rodgers had been growing for awhile , and Rodgers ( per forma ) had offered the job of lyricist in OKLAHOMA to Hart . Hart did not like the book , and begged out . He actually was approached by another composer to do the lyrics for an operetta . It was Emmerich Kalman , best known for the operetta COUNTESS MARITZA . Hart was still thinking about this offer ( he had done lyrics for the movie version of THE MERRY WIDOW for MGM in 1934 ) . Whether he and Kalman might have been as successful as Rodgers and Hammerstein were is a curious question to ponder .
When one talks of Bernard Shaw's best plays , one thinks of those plays he wrote from MRS . WARREN'S PROFESSION ( 1895 ) to ST . JOAN ( 1923 ) , with a nod at THE APPLE CART ( 1930 ) and TOO TRUE TO BE GOOD ( 1932 ) . After 1923 there is a slackening in his creativity - the plays become impossible for one reason or another - in one case a horrifying political time capsule ( GENEVA , his valentine to Hitler , Mussolini , and Stalin ) . But some of the great plays of the early days creak a bit today . MAN AND SUPERMAN , his first five hour play ( with DON JUAN IN HELL as a play within the play ) is not revived too often . The Fabian sayings at the end were dismissed by George Orwell as " crackerjack sayings " in the 1940s . THE DOCTOR'S DILEMMA is a similar defective masterpiece today . There is no doubt that the medical profession deserves critical review every decade or so , as Sinclair Lewis and A . J . Cronin demonstrated in the 1920s and 1930s . The fact that doctors can show more interest in making pots of money than in curing the ills of man is constantly in front of us . But Shaw's attack in THE DOCTOR'S DILEMMA was something else : the plot involves the age old question of who should live and who should die . Dubedat ( Dirk Bogarde ) is a great painter , with a devoted wife - but he is a scoundrel . He is dying of tuberculosis , and Mrs . Dubedat ( Leslie Caron ) goes to see Sir Colonso Ridgeon ( John Robinson ) to see if he can use his tuberculosis " cure " on her husband . It has gotten good results , and Ridgeon seems willing to use it , but he slowly gets to dislike Dubedat , and begins wondering if his life is worth saving ( there are alternative patients to try to help ) . SPOILER COMING UP : Certainly Dubedat ( a bigamist and male chauvinist type ) is questionable , if very talented . But as Shaw pursues the matter something else enters the issue that is more personal : Ridgeon finds he is falling in love with Mrs . Dubedat . It is this personal element ( kept hidden until the end ) that raises the play . But now comes the part that ages it . If you read the long ( typically overly long ) introduction that accompanies THE DOCTOR'S DILEMMA , Shaw was making a commentary on the recent failure of the British surgeon , Sir Almroth Wright , to find a method of eradicating tuberculosis in the London Metropolitan area ( THE DOCTOR'S DILEMMA was published in 1907 ) . Wright was on the cutting edge of scientific study on tuberculosis , like his German contemporary Robert Koch , developer of tuberculin . Wright tried to convince the public authorities to allow him to inoculate hundreds of people with tuberculin injections and the like . He was certain this would get rid of this great " white death " plague . It didn't work - it produced some interesting statistical data ( earning Wright the satiric nickname , " Sir Almost Right " ! ) . But the disease remained as prevalent as ever . Actually it just helped to show the failure of tuberculin as a cure . Shaw the cynical satirist took up this to attack the intellectual pretensions of the medical profession on " curing " disease . If he meant that Wright had jumped to conclusions , Shaw was partly right , but the alternative of just standing around doing nothing when he had the chance seems ridiculous . Shaw goes beyond the tuberculosis issue - he attacks the profession for having " cut-happy " surgeons like Robert Morley or worse , high class quacks like Alistair Sim ( he insists blood poisoning is the cause of most of man's ills , due to everyone having a particular sack in their intestines - one that he is lucky enough not to have , so he's safe ! ) . Only the elderly , wise Felix Aylmer is an acceptable doctor to Shaw - he questions everything with a lifetime of healthy skepticism . It is entertaining , until you realize that Shaw would simply have doctors visit you , examine you , tell you what is wrong , and then leave without doing anything for you ( except if you are dying they'd make you comfortable ) . This is hardly what is expected of doctors in any society - people want to be better . Shaw would say that the life force would cure itself ( he would keep returning to the life force - making it omnipotent in BACK TO METHUSALEH in the 1920s ) . That a life force may need support he'd dismiss . One has to remember , Shaw may have read up on Wright's statistical findings , but he probably barely understood them - he was not a scientist , but a social critic and dramatist . A lifetime vegetarian , it is symbolic of the idiocy of his views on medicine that he spent part of his last years defending having to use a beef-liver extract for his health ( my God ! how could he dare use a doctor's prescription for medicine when he had that life force ! ) from criticism from other vegetarians about his hypocrisy . Apparently he never chose to notice his hypocrisy either .
THE MAN FROM THE DINER'S CLUB is not Danny Kaye's best film by any stretch , but it has it's moments . Kaye is a member of the staff of the local office of the Diner's Club , and has several things against him . He is a stumble-bum type , frequently causing trouble for fellow employees . There is a running gag with Anne Marie Gilbert , who runs the computer system . It is one of the original computers - which had hundreds of cards in the system . Kaye keeps causing a switch to be pushed that causes all the cards to come out and fall through a window into the street like so much confetti . His boss Everett Sloane threatens to fire him if he goofs up again . So does his supervisor Howard Caine ( who is mad that Kaye got the job that should have gone to Caine's nephew ) . Kaye is also in the middle of wedding plans . He is marrying Martha Hyer , and is more nervous than usual as the date of the wedding ( a few days later ) approaches ) . But then a real disaster upsets everything . Kaye discovers he has approved the credit card application of a notorious mobster ( Telly Savalas ) , and that this is the type of goof-up that Sloane and Caine are looking for . The film follows Kaye's attempts to retrieve the credit card from Savallas . Little does he know that Savallas ( in an early role here - complete with wig ) is planning to get to Mexico using the Diner's Club Card of a member - but not the one Kaye would think . He also is planning to have his trail ended by using a substitute corpse . There are funny moments in the film - Kaye rushing through a wedding rehearsal much to the dismay of Hyer and the annoyance of minister Ronald Long . Also Kaye pretending to be a German masseuse and giving a ridiculous rubdown to his foe Caine ( you will see this and never be able to hear the word " tensing " said again with a straight face ) . Savallas is fine as a self-pitying gangster , wondering why we fought World War II if we allowed a home-grown gestapo ( i . e . : his take on the FBI ) take root . Savallas is also good dealing with his girlfriend Cara Williams , who he keeps referring to as a " birdbrain " . In the end she does show she has more in her than he thinks . George Kennedy , as Savallas ' right hand man , does the best he can with his role . And the final sight of Everett Sloane is also curious . Injured towards the end of the movie , we last see him on two crutches . Momentarily we think of Sloane's best recalled film role : Arthur Bannister in THE LADY FROM SHANGHAI .
For some reason this film gets mediocre reviews whenever it is mentioned in some newspaper television sections like The New York Times . I really can't understand why . For while it is not an iconic western , like SHANE or RIDE THE HIGH COUNTRY , it has some appealing elements . Marilyn Monroe gets to sing several tunes , including the theme song , accompanying her singing on a guitar . She had a serviceable voice for singing , but her song sung to Tommy Retig is unique - she rarely showed so much of a possible maternal side to her character . Monroe's " Kay Weston " is a dance hall girl who is married ( although it turns out it's a common-law marriage at best ) to Rory Calhoun ( " Harry Weston " ) , a small time gambler . They are in a mining town , where Robert Mitchum ( " Matt Calder " ) has arrived to pick up his only son Tommy Retig ( " Mark Calder " ) . Even here Monroe has shown a maternal interest in the boy , keeping an eye on him when his father has not shown up ( the man who was bringing the boy took off to start prospecting once they reached the town ) . Mitchum takes his son back to his homestead and starts trying to rebuild the relationship between them . Retig is very willing to get used to this . In the meantime , Calhoun has somehow managed to get the jackpot he always dreamed of - he has won a gold mine claim in a card game with a prospector ( Murvyn Vye as " Dave Colby " ) . For reasons we are left to guess at , he is determined to get his claim filed as soon as possible in the nearest large town , but he can't buy a horse . However he buys ( with Monroe's money ) a raft , and they proceed to go down the so-called River of No Return . They are almost drowned , but Mitchum rescues them with a lasso . However , although a reasonable type , he refuses to sell his horse ( needed for transportation or planting on the farm ) to Calhoun to use to get to the town . Calhoun takes the animal by force , nearly killing Mitchum in the process , and tells Monroe he'll be back to pick her up when the claim is filed . In the course of this incident , Calhoun mentions that he recognizes Mitchum as a man who was sent to prison for murdering another man by shooting him in the back . Retig's growing close relationship with Mitchum is strained by this knowledge , although Mitchum explains he shot the man that way because the man was about to kill a friend of Mitchum's . The local Indians are not fond of Mitchum's homesteading and seeing he's been disarmed they attack the farm . Mitchum , Retig , and Monroe are forced to go by the raft towards the town that Calhoun is headed for , but by the river ( which Mitchum is aware has many dangerous rapids in it ) . They film proceeds to show how the trip gradually affects the three working together . Will it make Mitchum get over his mistrust of Monroe , who was Calhoun's girlfriend ? Will it make Monroe show more of her interest in the welfare of Retig , and reconsider the value of her lover ? Will Retig slowly realize how much his father is better than the prison record suggests ? The film works - given the director ( Otto Preminger ) usually dealt with urban problems ( rape / murder trials in ANATOMY OF A MURDER ; crime among the social elite in LAURA ; high political wheeling and dealing in ADVISE AND CONSENT ; drug addiction in THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN ARM ) it is nice to see how well he handles a simple western story , and how he does make full use of the locale's attractions and dangers . There is only one example of his tendency of pushing the sexual envelope here : at one point Monroe has fallen into some mud , and when helped up by Mitchum the mud is visible on her pant's posterior , suggestive ( briefly ) of mud wrestling - but it is done very quickly . The four leads do very well , including Calhoun as a selfish man with a charming facade . Whether he really intended to go off with Monroe at the end is really never settled ( she finds him finally ) , nor whether he beat Vye out of the claim in an honest poker game ( Vye certainly does not think it was honest ) . Calhoun's television career was more successful than his movie career , but here he does maintain our interest to the end . This was probably his best performance in a movie . No , it is not a western like HIGH NOON for the ages , but it is a respectable piece of work .
It is many years since I saw this television show - which was a special done in the U . S . Juliet Mills was hostess , but Michael Redgrave played the part of the ghost or spirit of Charles Dickens , talking about his career and works . Because it is so long ago I really have problems remembering the program , except for the last fifteen minutes . Dickens meant " Christmas " to many Americans and Englishman in his day to ours , due to his " Christmas Novels " like " A Christmas Carol " and " The Chimes " . Mills brings it up , and Redgrave says he doesn't mind discussing some of his Christmas works , but he'd prefer not to do " A Christmas Carol " because it has been done to death . So instead , he decides to tell a lesser story . Unfortunately this is a chancy gamble , because some minor stories are dull . Instead of choosing " The Chimes " or " The Cricket On The Hearth " , Dickens tells a story called THE SEVEN POOR TRAVELERS , which is about seven poor people traveling in the Christmas season in London and taking advantage of a religious charity . As a mildly interesting account of a fact of Victorian life it is worth noting , but the story was really dull . Still it was nice to see another of the " Christmas Novels " told to the public . For that reason and Redgrave and Mills good performances , I give the show a " 7 " out of " 10 " , but I wish they had done " The Chimes " or " The Haunted Man And The Ghost's Bargain " instead .
I actually saw this short on television back in the 1960s , and never forgot about it . Dr . Philippe Pinel was an early doctor ( from France ) who handled the inmates of asylums . In the 18th Century the average mental doctor or alienist ( one did not call them psychologists or psychiatrists yet - there was no real psychiatry ) treated the mentally ill as though they were only slightly better than a criminal . Dr . Benjamin Rush , for example , was a signer of the Declaration of Independence , and a leading physician and spokesman for American democracy - but his invention to assist the mentally ill was an isolation - style device that sealed the patient in total darkness . It was not to cure the patient , but to so isolate him or her as to shut the patient up ! Pinel did something that showed a fine spirit and originality - he treated his patients as though they were sick human beings . He did not chain them to chairs or beds or walls . He used kindness and simple acts of normality to remind the mentally ill how to react to proper behavior . It was rudimentary psychiatry , but compared to what was going on around the world it was light years ahead of anyone else . Pinel got his position due to the favoritism of aristocrats who knew him in France . In 1793 , a mob of Revolutionaries chased Pinel in the streets of Paris to kill him as a typical aristocratic stooge ( this was not unusual during the Revolution - the great chemist Lavoisier was sent to the guillotine because he had been one of the Farmer Generals of the Revenues in the Ancien Regime , and Fouquier Tinville ( his prosecutor ) supposedly said " The Revolution has no need for scientists ! " as they took him away ; also the mathematician Condercet , a leading Girondist , committed suicide when facing a similar fate by the Jacobins ) . Pinel was cornered by the mob , when a respectable elderly man came over and started attacking members of the mob with his cane . The mob members fled , and the man took Pinel into a building to recover . It turned out the man was one Hector Chevigny , the first man that Pinel's treatment of decency helped recover his sanity . It was an interesting study of one of the first steps towards modern treatment of the insane .
I have to agree that this is a film that is not as good as it should be . Robert Rossen is a fine director ( " All The King's Men " , " Alexander The Great " , " The Hustler " ) , but he is not a popular one . His films do tackle weighty themes and characters , but too frequently he gets talky and loses his audience . Such a thing happens in " They Came To Cordura " , where the theme of what is courage is overdeveloped . From what one of the earlier comments on this thread suggested Rossen's movie was half an hour longer than it is . Since many viewers lose their interest in the film at it's current length , why would a longer version improve matters ? In 1916 , while World War I was occupying most people's attention , President Wilson was concerned with the continuous unsettled state of Mexico , then in the sixth year of it's Revolution . Initially he was delighted with the first head of the Revolution , Francisco Madero , who was trying to make the country a nation ruled by constitutional law . But in 1913 , Madero was overthrown and murdered by the head of the Mexican army , General Huerta . Huerta had support by the then Ambassador to Mexico , a gentleman named Henry Wilson ( no relation to the then President-elect ) , who openly cooperated in the assassination . After Woodrow Wilson was inaugurated , he replaced Henry , but the damage was done to Mexican-American relations . The new President was too ham handed to improve matters . In 1914 he had the Marines land at Vera Cruz after our flag had been insulted . Many lives were lost in this battle . Wilson worked to force Huerta out of his office . This brought him into considering someone to replace Huerta . Why a puritanical prude like Woodrow Wilson thought of supporting Francisco " Pancho " Villa as the corrective to Huerta has never been adequately explained . Although the two men never met , it is inconceivable that Wilson would have found the hard drinking , bloody minded , and woman chasing Pancho as an ideal type to run Mexico . But he did , and for a year or so ( until Huerta left Mexico ) Villa was given arms and supplies from the U . S . This honeymoon lasted until a new figure arose - General Venusiano Carranza . Carranza ( like Madero ) wanted the adoption of a permanent national constitution to run the country . Wilson liked this ( he did not notice that Carranza did not hesitate to feather his own nest while stressing the constitution . So in 1916 Wilson began aiding Carranza , and slowly ceased assisting Villa . Villa was angered by this , and decided to teach the gringos a lesson . He raided the town of Columbus , New Mexico , killing about a dozen citizens . It was the first foreign invasion of American soil since the War of 1812 , and would be the only invasion of the continental territory of the U . S . between 1814 and / 2001 . Wilson was furious , and demanded that President Carranza arrest the bandit / revolutionary . Wilson might as well have demanded that Carranza arrest the winds of Mexico . He had fought several battle against Villa , and knew that Pancho was no pushover . When Carranza gave some half-baked reason for not catching Pancho , Wilson decided to take the matter into his own hands : he sent troops into Mexico under General John J . Pershing to catch the bandit revolutionary . For a year or so Pershing tried to catch Villa , but the wily Pancho managed to keep escaping . Finally the U . S . troops were called back . Mexicans were incensed at American arrogance in invading their country ( sound familiar ? ) . The only good thing was that it enabled us to test our army out here , under if's future Expeditionary Commander's leadership , before we went into the European conflict . Except , possibly , " The Three Amigos " , this is the only commercially made film that is set in the Anti - Villa expedition of 1916 - 1917 . As such it barely touches the reasons for the expedition . Instead it concentrates on Gary Cooper's assignment to find five men who should receive the U . S . Medal of Honor for gallantry and bravery in action . It is a cynical act by Washington , because 1 ) the purpose is public relations cosmetics for a botched armed intervention ; and 2 ) Cooper's Major Thorn is actually given the assignment because he acted cowardly on the field of battle . For the Major to be given this quiet assignment is actual an insult - his own courage is being questioned . Soon he finds a battle going on and picks out his five men ( Van Heflin , Richard Conte , Michael Callan , Tab Hunter , and Dick York ) . This gives him some problems with an old friend , Robert Keith , who planned the attack , and hoped it would lead to him getting the award ( actually , Cooper was only impressed at how slapdash and badly planned the attack was , and cannot think of it's architect getting any type of award as a result ) . Keith ends his friendship with Cooper as a result . Taking his five men with him , Cooper starts trying to get to know them . He soon discovers that the men are not interested in the medal , and ( as they have a long trek to Cordura , where they have to go to finalize the awards ) , Cooper learns that the men are not very noble at all . To worsen things , they capture a hacienda owner who is American ( Rita Hayworth ) , who gave assistance to Villa's men . The woman reawakens sexual tensions and rivalries between the five men , as well as Cooper . The film ends with Cooper and the men coming to turns ( after several nearly deadly confrontations ) with their own views of the values of true courage and it's being honored . It is not a dull matter , but one questions a full two hour about it . Because of the covering of this dismal incident of the diplomatic history of the U . S . and Mexico , and the acting ( all the leads are good ) , and Rossen's direction - it is worth a " 7 " out of " 10 " .
For my money THE DOCTOR AND THE DEVILS is a worthy horror film for several reasons . It has a good cast , including Timothy Bottoms , Jonathan Pryce , Twiggy , Sean Rea , Patrick Stewart , Sian Phillips , Beryl Reid , and Patricia Neal ( whose name I did not note in the cast - she was the mother-in-law of Dr . Rock ) . Secondly , it had a screenplay that was legendary for decades as one of the great unpublished screenplays by a prominent writer ( Dylan Thomas , of all people ) . Finally , for the only time in his career comedy king Mel Brooks decided to produce this work . Despite the occasional dab at horror that was in some of his spoofs ( the Holacaust in THE PRODUCERS - both versions ; anti - Semitism in " the Inquisition " segment of HISTORY OF THE WORLD , PART I ; the monsters in YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN and Dracula , DEAD AND LOVING IT ; the murder conspiracy in HIGH ANXIETY all come to mind ) , Brooks always showed the spoof or satire behind the familiar sequences . Here , for the only time , he showed the grimness of serial killings . Those points said I have to limit the success . One misses Brooks ' humor which leavens even the worse of his films . Still one can excuse it because Brooks did not direct the film ( or at least it is not apparent if he did suggest anything ) . His production standards are high - he is creating the Edinburgh of 1828 - 29 . For THE DOCTOR AND THE DEVILS is the retelling of the Burke and Hare story . As such it lacks the conciseness and tensions of the fictional retelling via Val Lewton and Robert Louis Stevenson of THE BODY SNATCHER ( still the best version of the story ) , and the best historical account , MANIA . Also it lacks the blank verse approach of Thomas ' original screenplay ( which was never totally completed ) . It has been retouched here to make it more approachable as a movie project - which explains why it finally made it to the screen . The story does show how the murders were committed by Burke and Hare ( Fang and Broome : Pryce and Rea ) , and even goes in greater detail about the luring of the victims and the method of suffocation used . But the variety of the victims seemed better shown in MANIA , and the chilliness of the killings were best shown in THE BODY SNATCHER in the sequences where the blind street singer and the blackmailing Joseph were both killed . Also here the capture of Fang is tied to his attempted rape of Jennie Bailey ( Twiggy ) , a good set piece but not historically truthful at all . But the betrayal of Fang by Broome is correct - and here we see Broome smilingly getting away with it ( not like the blinding of Hare - Donald Pleasance - in MANIA , which is not proved as true as of yet ) . Still , with all the changes , the story is still compelling enough , and the acting still first rate . It is a respectable attempt ( as I said earlier ) if not the best version of the horrible tragedy of the West Port .
George Tobias is best remembered by my generation for a wonderful comic " cameo-supporting " role he had in the series BEWITCHED , opposite Alice Pearce . He was the immortal Abner Kravitz , neighbor of Samantha and Darren Stevens , who was married to the overly snoopy Gladys Kravitz ( Pearce ) , who was always certain something odd was going on at the Stevens ' home . Gladys was right , but she never was able to get her timing correct with Abner ( always reading the newspaper , or doing his taxes , or watching television , while she was certain she saw something unearthly across the street ) . Tobias could play dramatic as well as comic roles , but his timing as a comic performer was wonderful here - with a complete deadpan he always put down his wife , whom he was increasingly convinced was a nut job ! This comic ability was put to first rate use by Warner Brothers in his career from the middle 1930s to the 1940s ( lest I leave you thinking him just good at comedy , look at his self-sacrificing legionnaire in Burt Lancaster's TEN TALL MEN or his escaped convict in RAWHIDE ) . In films like THE STRAWBERRY BLOND or YANKEE DOODLE DANDY Tobias enlivened the proceedings like others of the perennial supporting actors crew ( like Frank McHugh , Alan Hale Sr . , S . Z . Sakall ) . Tobias did it very realistically . Look at his performance in YANKEE DOODLE DANDY as Mr . Dietz ( of Dietz and Goff , the theatrical producers ) . His matter-of-fact rejection of George . M . Cohan's work the audience knows is wrongheaded , but we also know that 90 % of the theater producers in 1903 would have agreed with him . His look of total puzzlement listening to Cohan's tunes ( Cagney's singing " Harrigan " ) makes sense as the tune is not the type of sentimental number about Irishmen that was acceptable on stage in 1903 ( Cohan's tune has a feistier , more realistic type involved ) . When a fed up Cagney dismisses Tobias by saying he has no ear for music , Tobias quietly answers he has a wonderful ear for music . Even if the long term result for Dietz and his partner was wrong , the short term one happened to make sense . I bring this all up because of Tobias ' role in TORRID ZONE , as the local revolutionary " bandit " chief , Rosario La Mata . Head of a gang who commit robberies mostly of the local American owned businesses ( ironically for this comedy , his two henchmen are the ill-fated George Reeves and the ill-fated Victor Killian ) , he is usually assisting the locals against greedy gringos and their corrupt minions . This is not approved of by the American owned fruit company that employs Jerome Cowan , Pat 0'Brien , and Jimmy Cagney , but the closer the employee is to the reality of the situation ( Cagney is the lowest rung of management here ) , the more apparent that for all the trouble La Mata is doing he actually is helping his people more than the government is . Notice , Cagney does refer to him as " Rosie " , hardly a negative view of the man . The main plot of TORRID ZONE bears comparison to MGM's film ( set in French Indo-China ) of RED DUST . There to we have Clark Gable and his staff ( Tully Marshall and Donald Crisp ) on their rubber plantation , awaiting the new manager ( Gene Raymond ) and his attractive wife ( Mary Astor ) . There a triangle develops between Gable , Astor , and Jean Harlow ( who is currently stuck on the plantation ) . Here it is Cagney's relationship with Cowan's wife Helen Vinson , and his growing attraction to Ann Sheridan . O'Brien ( in this , another of his " buddy " films with Cagney ) is Cagney's immediate supervisor trying to keep the peace in the business between Cagney and Cowan . It is the business with Tobias ' Rosie that lifts it . There is no similar character in RED DUST . His antics , his confrontation at the conclusion with Cagney , O'Brien , Sheridan , and the others , and the nifty way he and Cagney get each other out of the final jam lift the film . Now my question is why was Tobias given such a likable rogue figure in 1940 . Well it's obvious that the screenwriters were thinking of someone , a trifle less funny but somewhat admirable in his way . Rosie is a clone ( if you will ) of August Sandino , the Nicaraguan national hero who was fighting the Somoza Family and their ally ( the United Fruit Company ) in the late 1920s ( see my film review on MARGIE ) . Sandino was a more ruthless type , but his goal was understandable to his foes . One of them , General Smedley Butler , wrote an interesting book of memoirs about how his Marine Corps commands ended up being used by the Federal Government to help American corporations in Latin America - including Nicaragua . One wishes that Sandino could have seen the film to see some Americans did appreciate his goals . Unfortunately , he was killed in an ambush in 1933 .
This film is a good one to add to MOULIN ROUGE , LUST FOR LIFE ( especially LUST FOR LIFE ) , THE NAKED MAJA , and THE AGONY AND THE ECSTASY , as one of the few to tackle the great artist struggling to perfect his art ( interestingly none of the films look at female artists , such as Rosa Bonheur or Mary Cassatt ) . In this case it is based on a novel by W . Somerset Maugham of the same title as the film . The novel is different . To begin with , Maugham is clever enough to add little touches to the story that suggest it is a biography , not a novel . For example , he includes footnotes to non-existent literary studies on the works of Charles Strickland . I did not think that anyone did that sort of thing except the " Devil's Lexicographer " Ambrose Bierce . But the basics of the story are the same : Charles Strickland is a middle class stock broker , living in apparent Victorian respectability with his wife and children . Then , without warning , he deserts his wife and becomes totally bohemian , and when confronted by her and her family he repudiates their middle class morality and insists he wants to paint , and only paint - he is not interested in stocks and bonds . Throughout the rest of the movie we see Strickland use and drop people like old laundry . He is a detestable cad ( and is played by moviedom's most detestable / fascinating cad , George Sanders ) . But he is a painter of genius . And we watch as he moves from London to the continent to the South Seas for the stunning conclusion of the film . Yes it is based in part on the career of Paul Gaughin ( whom we last saw as Anthony Quinn in LUST FOR LIFE , shrugging off that nut he was living with in Arles who mutilated his ear lobe ) . But Maugham apparently also included some details with a less recalled artist who was a friend of his , Sir Augustus Johns . Johns too had a bad reputation of using friends , and was also determined to be free to paint ( I suspect Joyce Carey may have had him in mind too for Gully Jimson in THE HORSE'S MOUTH ) . The business of Strickland going to the South Seas is pure Gaughin , although not the final chapter of Strickland's last masterpiece . That is pure invention . I remember when I saw this film back in the 1970s the conclusion was one of the versions that showed Strickland's final work in color , and it is basically Gaughin's work or style . It is a breathtaking moment of artistic splendor ( sorry if I am being a bit explosive , but you'd have to see it to understand ) . And given the circumstances of the artist when it was achieved , and the ironic conclusion to the story , the effect does knock the viewer for a loop . Sanders gave his best to the role , never apologizing for his using people . Herbert Marshall is okay as Somerset Maugham , but his role is relatively simple and drab , as a type of narrator . Best in support is Steven Geray , that always reliable supporting player who all too infrequently was not used enough ( see him in GILDA or THE MASK OF DEMETRIOS to see him when he had a well written role ) . Here he is a man who finds that Sanders stole his woman and his happiness from him , but when the woman dies after Sanders deserts her , Geray visits Sanders and says he forgives him ( getting a sneer back from Sanders as his reward ) . As I said it is a very fine film .
Aside from a curious double edged piece of racism , this " Silly Symphony " Cartoon is pegged on the film stars of the 1930s . I suspect more people than we can think of actually can remember most of these stars . They include , Katherine Hepburn ( as " Little Bo Peep " - rallee she is ) ; Charles Laughton , Spencer Tracy , and Freddie Bartholemew as the Three Men in a boat ( Laughton is Captain Bligh , Tracy is Manuel from CAPTAIN'S COURAGEOUS , and Freddie is David Copperfield ) ; Hugh Herbert as Old King Cole , Ned Sparks as his " merry " Jester , Groucho , Chico , and Harpo Marx as his fiddler three , Joe ( UGH ! ! ) Penner as the servant bringing him a bowl ( actually a kettle ) and asking if he wants a " Duck " ( Donald Duck ) ; Stan Laurel as Simple Simon and Oliver Hardy as the pie-man ; Eddie Cantor as Little Jack Horner , and his four and twenty blackbirds include Cab Calloway , Fats Waller , and Lincoln Perry ( Stepin ' Fetchit ) ; Wallace Beery as Little Boy Blue ; Greta Garbo as Marjorie Daw , taught a lesson by Edward G . Robinson ; and at the conclusion they have Fred Astaire ( unfortunately dancing alone ) , Zazu Pitts , Edna Mae Oliver and Mae West playing horns ( Oliver Hardy and Stan Laurel and the Marx Brothers also return playing instruments , and we see George Arliss playing a saxophone and Clark Gable on another instrument ) , and Martha Raye and Joe E . Brown dancing and kissing . Most of these figures are still pretty easy to remember ( Penner and Arliss I think are the most obscure - the former quite understandably ) . The reason is the films of most of these people ( or the recordings of Calloway and Waller ) are accessible by DVD or video . The interesting thing is how the Disney people were watching the movies of the day or the culture . As pointed out in another review of this cartoon only three Marx Brothers pop up - Zeppo had left the act in 1933 . W . C . Fields is Humpty Dumpty , and he is pestered by Charlie McCarthy ( this was the same year as their film together , YOU CAN'T CHEAT AN HONEST MAN ) . When they do the three men in a tub , Laughton is Bligh , Tracy is Manuel , and Bartholemew is young David Copperfield ( oddly enough , not Harvey Cheyne - the role he played opposite Tracy's Manuel in CAPTAIN'S COURAGEOUS ) . Garbo had said " I want to be alone " in GRAND HOTEL in 1933 , but the line was still her best known one - it would be spoofed by Sig Ruman in NINOTCHKA , opposite Garbo . The Laurel and Hardy jokes show careful study of how Stan always does something that Ollie can't and when Ollie figures he can do it he comes a cropper . But Ollie later changes the range of Stan's clarinet playing from tenor to base by hitting Stan on the head with a mallet . That is similar to a joke done by Ollie to a singing Stan in WAY OUT WEST in 1937 . Oddly enough Raye and Brown would be in a comedy together ( ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS A TOUCHDOWN ) in 1939 , so possibly rumors about such a teaming were in the air . Somebody was doing his homework here . The racist jokes dealing with the four and twenty " blackbirds " is as I said a two - edged sword . On the one hand the caricatures are definitely racist , in particular Perry . But the fact that all three were included strikes me as showing they are considered celebrities . Why have them otherwise if they weren't be recognized by the audience watching the cartoon ( the Fleischer cartoons at Paramount frequently used Cab Callaway too ) . The only inexcusable racist joke ( aside from exaggerating Perry's shtick ) was that a blackberry pie hits Hepburn in the face , turning her into an African-American " Bo - Peep " for a moment , and she starts talking with a southern drawl . Hepburn knew of the cartoon - she mentioned it on a program she did in the 1990s about her life for PBS , and said the cartoon's sequence of her " Bo - Peep " riding an outboard motor passed the three men in the tub , was the first time on screen her persona and Tracy's shared a scene or sequence . Odd to think it happened here .
" Mr . Skeffington " is one of Bette Davis ' best performances , and the best of the four teaming with Claude Rains ( " Now Voyager " does not have as many sequences with both of them sharing scenes as " Skeffington " ) . It is the story of a silly , vain woman who marries a man for his money , and to protect her brother . She fails to protect her brother , but she does find that the man she married is a better man than she deserves . It is also an over-the-years tale , beginning about 1914 , and involving World War I , prohibition , the rise of Nazism and anti-Semitism , and ending in World War II . Job Skeffington is a successful stock dealer and banker on Wall Street , and he is a rarity : he's Jewish . Somehow he hires Fanny Trellis's brother Trippy , who returns the favor by embezzling some funds . As Fanny and Trippy are socialites they are used to their friends covering up for their errors . But Job can't simply allow this , because the money doesn't belong to him but to his customers . When he approaches Fanny ( gently - he just wants Trippy to return the money ) Fanny pulls out her stops to entice him . It works and they marry . Job puts the money back himself . But Trippy is an anti-Semite , and is furious that Fanny sold herself to that Jew . He leaves in high anger . Later Fanny hopes that he will return after he gets it out of his system , but Trippy is killed in the war . Although it is not Job's fault , Fanny does not quite forgive him for that . She becomes more and more outspokenly unfaithful , much to Job's chagrin and pain . Eventually it leads to a divorce . They have a young daughter who lives mostly with Job , and only joins Fanny later . But that is after a shock hits Fanny's self-image . . . and sets the stage for a final reconciliation with Job . All the performances in the film , Davis , Rains , Richard Waring , Walter Abel , Jerome Cowan , are excellent . But one of my favorites is the unexpected comic turn of George Coulouris as the popular psychologist , Dr . Byles . Coulouris usually was a humorless schemer in movies and television , but could rise to the occasion in comedy ( witness his progressively increasing irritation as Walter Parkes Thatcher in " Citizen Kane " ) . Here he is ready to leave on a long planned , much needed vacation , when Fanny barges in to unload her misery and woe without so much as a scheduled appointment . By only showing the clock in the background to show the length she takes away from the boiling Dr . Byles , one is ready for the inevitable conclusion - when the good Doctor tells her off . And he is the first person to do so in the movie .
In the later group of Columbo episodes several previous villains were able to return for new confrontations with Peter Falk . William Shatner and Robert Culp ( actually in a comic bit ) were two of the returnees , but Patrick McGoohan made two return visits . The first was this one . McGoohan is a leading criminal trial lawyer , who has been managing the career of a former assistant District Attorney ( Denis Arndt ) who is now a popular young Congressman . McGoohan is approached by a Governor ( Arthur Hill ) who is the party's leading contender for the Presidency - he wants Arndt as his Vice President . McGoohan is quite happy at this prospect - not only his protégée as Veep but he would possibly hold a cabinet post . But he gets a call from Louis Zorich , a mobster who is facing prison . Zorich knows a dirty secret about McGoohan ( his former attorney ) and Arndt regarding destroying vital evidence against Zorich twenty years before . Zorich wants McGoohan to help quash the criminal case against him now . McGoohan has no intention of ruining his chances or Arndt's . Instead he kills Zorich , but sets things up to make it look like a suicide after a conference ended hours earlier . Of course , when Colombo shows up he notes the interesting modern tech telephone system that Zorich has , and that it records the last phone number he dialed - and this is where he starts zeroing in on McGoohan . With the earlier episode co-starring Jackie Cooper Falk's detective twice gets involved with political campaigners who don't deserve their chance at office . But the unraveling of the two cases are different , and the duel of wits by McGoohan with Falk was far more compatible and even ( Cooper seemed too surprised in his battle of wits at times ) . This episode is interesting too because it is one of the few episodes that refers to an actual criminal case : here the conviction of Ted Bundy . Definitely one of the better later episodes .
There are a lot of aspects about this fine film which are odd . Coming at the end of the first horror film cycle , it re-teamed Boris Karloff and Bela Lugosi , but they never shared a scene in the film . The character who was most interesting ( actually two characters , literally welded into one ) was Professor George Kingsley / " Red " Cannon played by Stanley Ridges . The screenplay was partially written by Curt Siodmak , who would eventually return to the subject of brain surgery and transplanted brains ( to far better effect , it must be admitted ) in " Donavan's Brain " . But that novel and film looked at the threat of unhampered capitalism in the hands of an evil man . That's not the case in " Black Friday " , which touches on greed ( a missing half a million dollars in 1940 dollars ) but also looks at the struggle of personality - as appears in " Donavan'S Brain " as well . Whatever was the reason that Boris and Bela did not share scene space ( and jealousy can't be ruled out - Bela's feeling that Boris was too good a competitor in the area of horror films is well known ) , they don't appear together . It's hard to imagine how their characters , Dr . Ernest Sovak and gangster boss Eric Marnay , could have shared any scenes . Most likely they might have shared one if Marney tried to sabotage the brain transplant at the hospital ( to make sure that Cannon dies ) by threatening Sovak's daughter or by kidnapping the doctor . But the screenplay would have been radically different then . There was one aspect of the film that was never fully affected in the production . When Marnay is captured by Cannon , he is shut in an airtight closet and locked in . We see Marnay yelling to be let out . Eventually we see him collapse and die . In the planning stages of the production Bela was supposed to be hypnotized into gradually looking weaker and weaker while being suffocated . The scheme did not work well on film . There are stills showing Bela undergoing hypnosis for the attempted treatment . Siodmak is fascinated by the way certain personalities dominate . Warren Donavan's is strong enough ( and his rejuvenated brain - thanks to Dr . Cory - even stronger ) to take over the brains of Cory and of a greedy news photographer in that film ( among others ) . Here Kingsley is a sweet old fellow - a close friend of Sovak - who has the misfortune of getting seriously injured in the assassination attack on Cannon . Cannon is a brutal creep , who thinks nothing about hurting anyone if it gets what he wants . It's the key role in the film , and Ridges was the right guy to get it . Stanley Ridges was one of those actors who never disappointed you . In " Yellow Jack " he is this doctor working on the Yellow Fever cure , who when Henry Hull dies accidentally questions the logic and correctness of the experiment . It seems they had to give Yellow Fever to the subjects ( volunteers ) but accidentally Hull got infected and died . Ridges ' scene is a brief one , but he actually hit the moral center of the movie - Hull's character , Dr . Lazear , was a widely gifted man . What was the gain to the world by the loss of someone like this due to this experiment ? Another example ( again based on history ) was in " The Suwpect " with Charles Laughton . Based on the 1910 Crippen Case , Ridges plays the Scotland Yard Inspector ( based on the real life Inspector Walter Dew ) who realized that the death was no accident and pursued his quarry step by step . While not following Dew's success in catching Crippen , like Dew with the Doctor Ridges gets to sympathize with Laughton as a basically good man caught up in a nightmare . Laughton was a super-actor , and only one of his own type could come off well with him . Ridges could play villains . He is Ronald Colman's cynical friend in " If I Were King " who sees the conflict with Charles the Bold against Louis XI as an opportunity to loot Paris ( while Colman would save Paris ) . He could play sympathetic losers , as in " The Scoundrel " , as Noel Coward's rival over a woman . He could play anything . He delineates his two roles perfectly , to the point that they seem to be two men ( even his features get younger as Cannon ) . Kingsbury , a charming fellow in the script , gets progressively more and more confused at the personality switches - reassured by Sovac it is part of his recovery . But every time he hears heavy bell ringing ( did Siodmak think of Pavlov's dog experiment ? ) he changes into the bullying Cannon . Ironically it is Cannon who deservedly gets shot in the end , but poor Kingsbury who dies wondering why he was shot . Karloff posthumously attempts to explain .
Terry Jones wonderful examination of the mess of Viking life and legend is a funny film - almost as good as MONTY PYTHON AND THE HOLY GRAIL . His intelligence is at work here . Jones wrote a book version of the story first , and in it examined some of the odd concepts of that remarkable period of rapine and violence . Jones is an expert on the Middle Ages ( he did a very amusing and informative multi-episode series on the people of the Middle Ages for the history channel ) . So his grasp on detail is marvelous . To date , this is the only film to look at the Vikings and their religious / spiritual beliefs . What was their idea of heaven and hell . Well , we finally see Valhalla for what it was supposed to be . And the fallacy of it is brought home in the conclusion when Erik and his crew realize what garbage their culture embraces . This is the only movie I know that also deals with the lost island of Hy-Brazil . Not to be confused with the huge country in South America , Hy-Brazil was one of many fictitious islands that were believed to be in the Atlantic Ocean in the Middle Ages - in some cases to the 19th Century . Hy-Brazil was supposed to sink every now and then , as it does in this film . But it sinks due to a violation of the moral purity of the island , for an act of violence occurs there that is against the state of the island . And the King of Hy-Brazil ( Jones ) is so self-centered that he can imagine that everything is fine , that he refuses to accept that the island is sinking and his subjects are drowning . The King is also one of the examples of the marvelous twisted logic of the film - he has gotten a piece of cloth that he is told makes the wearer invisible . Nobody else but the king believes this . Erik , caught in the rooms of the King's daughter , puts the cloth on him . The King comes in to see who is there , and can't see him , although everyone else can see him . There is a similar piece of logic at the end of the film , when the crew has reached Valhalla , and found it not as they wanted to find it . They are trapped there because their belief and religion makes them seek Valhalla . Only the one Christian among them ( Freddie Jones , in a nice performance ) can't see what they see - he is a Christian , not a Viking Pagan . So he is able to return to their boat and free the others because he is not trapped by their mindset . The performances are good , especially John Cleese as an expert in extortion and torture , who is treated like the benevolent laird of the manor ( he willingly changes the dates of torments and tortures he schedules ) . Eartha Kitt as a priestess , and Mickey Rooney as a feisty grandfather of Erik , give good performances too . It is an interesting , odd , but successful period comedy .
This film was shown tonight on TURNER CLASSIC FILMS channel under it's American title , SHE PLAYED WITH FIRE . The title ( to be honest ) is misleading , but understandably so - Arlene Dahl's character is innocent of anything connected with fire , but for her American fans it suggested sexual promiscuity , which translates into more box office . Jack Hawkins was one of the great tragedies of British cinema in the middle years of our last century . From the 1940s to the 1970s ( when he died ) he was in many films , several of them classics ( such as THE FALLEN IDOL where he is supporting Ralph Richardson , and BEN-HUR when he plays a Roman general who befriends Charleton Heston ) . He had superb classic profile , including large but well trimmed eyebrows , and a firm nose . He could do comedy as well as drama . But his biggest asset was his great speaking voice - a true British trumpet without forced affect ( as even Olivier's could be at times ) . But at the height of his international career , Hawkins developed larynx cancer , and to save his life his voice box was removed . He continued acting , but the words were spoken by other actors imitating his voice . Sometimes ( as when he played Emperor Franz Josef in OH , WHAT A LOVELY WAR ) he did not say anything in the film - he just appeared briefly . It was a sad conclusion to a fine career . Many of his roles were as a detective or policeman . Think of him as Chief Inspector Gideon in John Ford's GIDEON'S DAY , or as the aviation investigator who is trying to come to grips with eccentric Jimmy Stewart in NO HIGHWAY IN THE SKY . And , of course , he played crooks too . Think of him as the leader of the ex-army band in THE LEAGUE OF GENTLEMEN . Here he is a type of investigator - an insurance adjuster for a firm like Lloyd's of London . He discovers that a fire that destroyed some classic paintings at a great country house was covered by a policy of his own company . The policy was taken out by Dennis Price ( the conniving Louis Mazzini-D'Ascoygne in KIND HEARTS AND CORONETS ) , who is married to Arlene Dahl . But Dahl and Hawkins had known each other five years before and had a heavy romance . It collapsed , and they haven't seen each other since . Normally astute , Hawkins gives a quick look-over of the damage and okays the payment . Subsequently Price takes out more insurance on the house's main section . But Hawkins notices something odd concerning the house when he is shown the estate - he remembers having seen the country house in a position that he could not have physically been at before . Later it dawns on him - he has seen a picture that was painted by an old master of the house in that position . He finds the picture again in the apartment of an American ( John Phillips , the British actor who frequently played Americans - he is the American Ambassador in ROMANOFF AND JULIET ) . He questions Phillips and finds out the picture is an original that a woman ( who sounds like Dahl ) sold to Phillips . That's nice , except that Hawkins realizes that the original was one of the pictures supposedly destroyed in the fire . Hawkins now suspects a forgery and arson fraud case . Knowing that the house should be empty , Hawkins returns to it at night to examine some of the paintings . He finds an apparently dead Price and a raging fire . After sending for the fire department ( pretending to be Price ) , Hawkins returns home . He keeps a low profile , having his associate Geoffrey Keene conduct the investigation . As a result , Dahl gets 30 , 000 pounds . Hawkins at first confronts Dahl months afterward , but subsequently realizes his suspicions about her are not supported by fact . He proposes to her , and they marry . They plan to return the money , but instead they find that she is facing blackmail , and that circumstances are making Hawkins look like a co-conspirator . The film is talky at times , but it goes along pretty well , and the closing noose around Hawkins and Dahl as they make one blunder after another without trying is a nice touch . I should add that the film ends with a plausible explanation of what happened the night of the second fire , but it could easily have ended differently . I like it on the whole , and felt that it gave Hawkins and Dahl some good moments ( note Dahl's scene with blackmailer Bernard Miles ) . Certainly I was glad for the opportunity to see this rarely shown film on television .
Somehow I have to believe that Mel Brooks saw this film as a young man , and filed it's plot line away for future use . Basically it is an embryonic version of THE PRODUCERS , but unlike Zero Mostel and Gene Wilder - who produce a dreadful musical to score a windfall by Broadway accounting methods - Alan Mowbray and Donald MacBride are seeking to force a departing star from departing for a rival producer . Helen Vinson has been starring in a series of plays written by Mowbray , and directed by him , and produced by his partner MacBride . She is tired of being their " Galatea " ( they constantly take credit for her talent ) . So she has given notice to MacBride that she is not renewing her contract . However , the contract has a clause that after giving such notice Vinson must be in one last production before the contract is finished . But it is chosen by MacBride and Mowbray . Mowbray is on his vacation when Vinson springs her surprise . The vacation is in a small town ( Mowbray likes to go duck hunting near there ) . One of the locals is Barbara Read , a young girl who has written a long-winded tragedy called THE END OF EVERYTHING . She somehow manages to get a tired Mowbray to say that she can send him a copy of the play ( he says it to get rid of her ) . She does so , just as MacBride and Mowbray start seeking a sure-fired bomb . Just like Kenneth Mars writes SPRINGTIME FOR Hitler , Read's play is a seeming godsend to MacBride . Mowbray ( like Gene Wilder ) is not so certain about this . He doesn't like the damage such a bomb would do to his reputation as a director . What MacBride hopes is that Vinson , when she sees the play , will panic and cave in to returning to the contract with no problems . But Vinson reads the play and likes the fact that the central figure is her role . It has most of the lines and is the center of attention - a great star vehicle . So she starts encouraging Read's involvement in the production . But Mowbray ( and a now panicked MacBride ) want to doctor the play into some type of coherence . To do this MacBride suggests that Mowbray try to romance Read so that he can start making " helpful " suggestions regarding the structure of the play . In some ways the best moments of the film are when Mowbray is forced into a round-the-clock romance and play rehearsal timetable . He is soon fairly potty because of lack of sleep ( his abilities as a director are so compromised he acts like a zombie ) . Suffice it to say , Mowbray finally pulls himself together to straighten out Read , and to save the production . One misses the snappy musical comedy numbers of " Springtime for Hitler " , but Mowbray and MacBride ( with Vinson and Read ) make this an enjoyable little comedy . It eventually spawned a sequel , which I have yet to see .
Buster Keaton's films will always be amusing , but that doesn't mean they are flawless . This is a good short comedy he was making on his way up , and shows he is learning his craft . But the key to this film is a little flaw that is not really resolved until the last shot . The short is really two shorts stitched together . In the first we see Buster playing golf and trying to impress an expert female golfer ( Sybil Seeley ) . The highpoint is a spoof by Keaton of water traps : his ball goes into a stream full of trout and he has to try to locate the trout that swallowed his ball . It works because of the typical Keaton determination to get to the heart of the matter - he goes through several fish before he finds the trout and removes the ball . Probably that would have been the conclusion for most comics , but not Keaton . He tops it with two other jokes ( hitting the ball out of the stream back into the fairways ; and then paddling his makeshift river raft to shore with his golf club ) . Had he stuck to the golf game only the resulting short might have been a " 10 " . Likewise when he goes into the prison section : the prison section could have been a " 10 " also . But when pushed together that stitching shows , as does it's resolution at the conclusion . Supposedly , while Buster is golfing , a convict flees a nearby prison . Buster manages to knock himself out with his own golf ball . The escapee sees Keaton lying on the ground and exchanges clothes . Buster ends up " Convict 13 " in the local prison , and he discovers he is to be hanged soon . He also discovers the girl he likes is the daughter of the warden . He is prepped for his hanging by hangman Eddie Cline ( who would be a successful director in Hollywood ) . One of the best moments in this section is when Buster corners Sybil in the prison yard , puts a handkerchief on the ground , kneels on it announcing how he loves her forever and wants to marry her , and is dragged up by the guards and hustled over to be hanged ! Sybil does try to help ruin the hanging by substituting an elasticated rope for the hangman's rope . Cline is left puzzled by Buster bumping up and down in a weird anticipation of bungee chord exercise . Another nice touch in the hanging sequence is that the other prisoners are enjoying the show from bleacher seats . The final section is dealing with the meanest of the prisoners , Joe Roberts . We see him effortlessly beating up on guards until confronted by Buster ( now having switched his prison garb with a guards ) and threatening Buster . There is even a repeat of the hanging business , this time varied with Joe being attached to the rope from the wrong end . Buster ends up thwarting a prison break ( set at 3 : 00 P . M . ) and being made Assistant Warden . If you noticed how effortlessly Keaton steps from golf player to prisoner to guard to Assistant Warden , something would tip you off as to what is going on . That comes out in the last moment of the film , when all these crazy switches that everyone accepts are resolved . I won't explain how , but look over the sequence of events and you'll probably figure it out . It is a very funny comedy , with Keaton using his physical abilities to show he could have had fun with an Argenine bolo if one came his way . It's just the seams that ironically keep it from being one of his best shorts .
I will not try to determine what is the best film performance in Al Pacino's career , which included Donnie Brasso and Michael Corleone and Serpico . But his performance as Lt . Col . Frank Slade in SCENT OF A WOMAN must rank among his top ten performances . It was a surprise film performance that captured his second Oscar , and gave new impetus to his career . It is also an interesting view on the importance of character , and how it can be intentionally smashed by those supposed to be building it up . Chris O'Donnell is Charley Simms , a teenager on a scholarship to one of the most elite prep schools in America . He works in the library . One day he and another student are the last two locking up the library , and they see three students ( one is Bradley Whitford ) trashing an expensive new automobile belonging to the pompous and unlikeable new headmaster Mr . Trask ( James Rebhorn ) . Trask sees the activities and runs to his car , but the three boys scatter . He is pretty certain who they are , but he did not see them clearly . He does stop Charley and the other boy and demands to know what they saw . And here the problem begins that will mushroom until the film ends . Trask is a petty little snot-nose , and wants the heads of the three boys not so much because they did a wrong , but because they held him up to ridicule before the school body . Soon he is pressuring his two " witnesses " to cooperate , or face serious consequences ( expulsion and probable social ruin ) . The other boy , your typical rich kid party animal , is weak and under additional pressure from his father ( who'll ship him to the military if he does not knuckle under ) . Charlie is poor , and can be easily swatted , but Trask is willing that if Charlie cooperates there is nothing the school won't do for him when he heads for a high university career . It is Thanksgiving weekend , and Charley is not going home to Oregon . He sees that there is a blind officer who wants to go to New York City for the holiday , and needs an assistant . It is Lt . Col . Slade , and Charley goes to offer his services , only to find Slade a bitter and prickly man . He was once a promising military figure ( he was an aide to President Lyndon Johnson ) but he lost his eyesight in a stupid trick he was playing , and was retired from the military . Although he has a good pension he feels his life is in tatters . The two go to Manhattan , checking into a first rate hotel , and enjoying the sites ( as much as Slade can enjoy it , or Charley for that matter due to the crisis back at the school ) . But the two click , and Slade begins seeing in Charley the son that he would always have liked to have . Highlights of the trip include a wonderful moment when Charley and Slade ( who can pretend he can see ) test a magnificent convertible on a deserted twelfth avenue in Manhattan on Sunday morning with Slade driving while Charley keeps an eye on potential dangers . Slade also is still quite the lady's man , the title being a reference to his enhanced sense of smell of women's perfumes . In the end Slade learns what the situation is for Charley , who cannot depend on anyone to help him ( his father is long gone from his life , and his step-father could not care less about him ) . Slade ends up with Charlie at the conclusion - a hearing where Trask is going to break both his witnesses to get at the three guilty parties . And while the other boy somewhat caves in , Charley just can't bring himself to say anything . SPOILER COMING UP : Slade is the one who humiliates Trask . He announces that whatever Charley failed to do to satisfy the little headmaster he was not a snitch , and that the ideals of the school are dying in the hands of the headmaster who'd break the spirit of the boys there for his own pettiness . The quote in the Summary Line is part of Slade's speech , in answer to Trask commenting about the great men who came out of the prep school . What good of having these great men to talk of if the very character building blocks that are sought are demolished by the likes of Trask ? Slade points out to the students and teachers that if they leadership they should stick to Charley who won't snitch as opposed to the other fellow and the three idiots who caused the prank but lack the spirit to confess and face punishment . Slade's speech does the trick , and Charley is not punished . In the end one senses the two men will remain close . It seems right that they should . Oh , I kept referring to the other witness without telling who he is . It was a surprise when I watched the film recently . The character , George Wills Jr . , is a party animal type - not really bright and his father has paved his way in with money and donations . I knew someone like that in my college - he was a nice guy but a heavy drinker . He died prematurely ( before his own father ) in 1989 , from the results of his heavy drinking . The character of George Wills , Jr . , helpless in the hands of his dad and Trask ( though he tries to limit the damage of his " testimony " ) was played by the young Philip Seymour Hoffman . It's interesting to see a budding personality of the screen in an early performance of promise . Within fifteen years Hoffman too would have his best acting Oscar . As for my old college acquaintance , this is dedicated to the unfortunate Donald .
When Pauline Kael did her celebrated combination of original research and character assassination , entitled " Raising Kane " , she mentioned that in the course of the final version of CITIZEN KANE that we have Orson Welles pruned out some events put into the script by Herman Mankiewicz . Mankiewicz , for example , wanted to make the eventual collapse of the first Kane marriage to Emily Norton Monroe to be caused by Kane's accidental encouragement of the assassination of Emily's uncle , the President of the United States . This was based on an incident that Hearst's enemies seized on involving Ambrose Bierce ( a Hearst columnist in 1900-1901 ) writing a quatrain about the killing ( in 1900 ) of Governor-elect William Goebel of Kentucky , that suggested that the missing assassination bullet was headed for Washington " to stretch McKinley on his bier . " When Leon Czolgosz shot and killed the President in September 1901 Hearst's foes recalled the lines and said Hearst encouraged political murder . The original script for Kane had Emily accusing Charles for her uncle's death , and never forgiving him . That was cut , with Emily's growing dislike for Charles based , instead on his ego , his concentration on his newspaper empire and political ambitions , and his neglect of her ( and probably their son ) . The business with Susan Alexander is the final straw . It was not the only cut of a sensational nature . In the final film Susan tells the reporter that he should speak to Raymond the butler because " ( h ) e knows where all the bodies are . " In the original script Raymond was ( with Susan ) a witness to Kane actually killing a man , but covering it up . This is why Raymond remains so important to Kane in his later years . It also helps explain Susan's growing dislike for her husband . It too was cut . Welles was wise here - everyone in Hollywood would have known what that was about , and any denials about Kane not being based on Hearst would have been dismissed because the dead man would have been too much of a coincidence to ignore . In 1941 it was generally suspected throughout Hollywood ( and in much of the U . S . ) that William Randolph Hearst was in some way responsible for the death ( in 1924 ) of movie director / producer / pioneer Thomas Ince . Ince had been one of a set of guests invited on Hearst's luxury yacht , the " Onieda " for a cruise . Others on the cruise included novelist Elinior Glyn , Hearst's mistress Marion Davies , the great Charlie Chaplin , Tom Ince , and a newcomer to the Hearst empire , gossip writer Louella Parsons . At some point on the trip ( which was supposed to be a two week cruise ) Ince was rushed ashore in serious condition and taken to a hospital . He died two days later . The cause was varied according to the bulletins , usually being either a heart attack or a stomach ailment . However , rumors soon emerged that an incident happened on board the Oneida that led to the shooting of Ince , probably at the hands of Hearst . The story has never completely died , and even today there is a small body of evidence that Ince did not die a natural death . The basic scenario was that Ince was on deck when Hearst was chasing Chaplin ( who had been fooling around with Davies ) and in shooting at Chaplin Hearst accidentally wounded Ince . Hearst was powerful enough to clamp down on the tragedy , but at the same time there was a cost : Louella Parsons was just a new employee at the time . Now , she blackmailed her boss into making her a national columnist and a real power in Hollywood . Peter Bogdanovitch ( who directed THE CAT'S MEOW ) was a close friend of Orson Welles . One can't quite get it out of one's head that this film , a twisted " prequill " to KANE , was meant as Bogdanovitch's homage to the classic film and his attempt to smear Hearst , who after 1941 did everything he could to hurt Welles . The period detail is very good , and Edward Herrmann makes a dandy Hearst ( sort of a return to the mad playboy husband of Goldie Hawn in OVERBOARD , which also takes place on a yacht ) . Certainly he is supremely confident as the millionaire , but he is also smart . A running story line is that Tom Ince ( Cary Elwys ) is trying to get Hearst's backing for a rejuvenation of Ince's film career ( supposedly on the verge of collapse in 1924 ) but that Hearst is not stupid enough to waste his money that way . However , Herrmann does also demonstrate that he is more than a little possessive about Ms Davies ( Kirsten Dunst ) , and that he is worried about that little cockney Chaplin ( Eddie Izzard ) going after his woman . Certainly Chaplin's reputation with the ladies was enough to give any man pause . Jennifer Tilly ( Louella Parsons ) certainly is keeping her eyes open ( she is , after all , a gossip writer ) , and it pays dividends at the end . As for Joanne Lumley as Elinor Glyn , she gives the film a kind of narrative and framework ( Glyn , by the way , if you can't recall her was the woman who termed the euphemism for sex appeal as " it " , and was to make a screenplay called " It " that starred Clara Bow , who became the " It girl " - otherwise she has become pretty forgotten ) . The film is worth watching - not perhaps another PAPER MOON or LAST PICTURE SHOW , but better than AT LONG LAST LOVE . Do I think Hearst killed Ince ? If he did it was a sheer accident , because who would kill a well known figure under such circumstances as part of a comprehensive murder plan !
I watched this film this evening for the first time . It's a bit stagy at times ( understandable because of the movie's basis in a stage play ) . This has one bad effect - there is too much dialog in the conclusion , with Dirk Bogarde and Kay Walsh's final confrontation being too long as the psychological control see-saws between them over each other . Dirk Bogarde has become one of the forgotten figures of British cinema in the last thirty years , because of his decision to have a remarkably quiet lifestyle . Up to the 1970s , when he made Visconti's " The Damned " , and " Death In Venice " , he was one of the leading British cinema stars with great name recognition in America . But after that , the star appeared increasingly infrequently . He would live for several decades more , but by the time he died ( even though he had gotten honored ) he was like an afterthought . It was a regrettable conclusion for a fine acting career . Bogarde played all kinds of films , from comedies like " Doctor In The House " and " Doctor At Sea " ( as Dr . Simon Sparrow ) to dramas like " The Spanish Gardener " to war films like " A Bridge Too Far " . A homosexual in real life , he portrayed a blackmailed one in " Victim " . He was able to do costume films , such as " H . M . S . Defiant " . And that last film brings up an interesting point - Bogarde was quite good at playing villains . His character in " The Damned " is a fortune hunter marrying into a Krupp-like family , who willingly sells his soul to the Nazis to get backup for his ambitions ( and eventually is out-maneuvered by even more ruthless figures ) . In " Libel " he is fighting charges of impersonation and treason , playing two men who were in a P . O . W . camp together ( one a good guy , one a sneak ) . Bogarde plays " Teddy " Bare , a charming creep who romances elderly , rich women . He aims at Mona Washbourne , and succeeds with her , but before he kills her she changes her will so he can't benefit . He then aims at a younger woman ( Margaret Leighton ) , who is loud and common . Someone on this thread compared Bogarde's character to Charlie Chaplin as " Monsieur Verdoux " . If one does that ( although Chaplin is far more suave ) , Leighton resembles a rougher version of Martha Raye . But she is also not easy to twist like Washbourne had seemed . So Bogarde aims for Kay Walsh , another older woman with money . He thinks she might be a better target - and then he starts finding her quite unsettling . Is he pursuing Walsh as another Victim , or is she hunting him , and why ? The conclusion is quite predictable ( unfortunately ) due to one of the characters showing up for the last confrontation , suggesting what has to happen to Bogarde . But the acting ( especially Leighton's lower class rich woman who is fragile despite her hard shell ) is quite good . And Bogarde is such a fascinating creep . . . as he was in all his villain roles .
Made the same year as DESIRE , THE GENERAL DIED AT DAWN is closer to the norm of Gary Cooper's film image . Rather than the charm and humor of Borzage and Lubitsch's film , Lewis Milestone's movie concentrated on the straight and honest decent American that Coop played in westerns and adventure films . Here he is on a mission to buy weapons for the peasantry fighting one of the warlords who overran China between 1911 and 1931 , when Japanese aggression became a centralizing force in uniting Chinese ( except for Kuomintang v . Communists for awhile longer ) . The General here is Wang ( Akim Tamiroff , at his most subtly threatening ) . He is aware that there is a scheme to arm his enemies , and he is making all efforts to scotch it by kidnapping the gun dealer ( William Frawley - as said elsewhere on this thread in a performance that unfortunately mirrors his frequently mean drunk self ) , and finding the man who is trying to buy the weapons . Cooper shows early his " boy scout " honor by illustrating ( to Russell Hicks , a glib , cynical traveler ) what Wang's rule means to the peasants . He asks for a match , and Hicks says he hasn't any . Cooper knocks him down , and calmly asks for the match again . A furious Hicks repeats he said he has no matches . Cooper says he understands that , but what he just did to Hicks about matches is exactly what Wang does to the peasants for food , possessions , whatever he wants , and he treats them far worse than just knocking them down if they refuse him . Madeleine Carroll is the anti-heroine , the daughter of Porter Hall ( a year away from killing Cooper as Jack McCall in THE PLAINSMAN ) . As sneaky as ever he encourages her to help preoccupy Cooper while Hall gets the money from him . Cooper does realize ( slightly late ) what's going on , and he does confront Carroll ( who is not happy at her actions ) . Eventually there is a confrontation with Hall as well - which ends badly . Hall is not the worst figure in the film . Besides Tamiroff and Frawley there is also J . M . Kerrigan as " Leach " ( an apt name ) , who is a blackmailing scoundrel only out for his own benefit . Like the other villains in the film he does a first rate job . So does Dudley Digges as Mr . Wu , the restaurant owner who is also the contact man for Cooper when he is supposed to get Frawley's weapons . Notice his comment about the pleasure of a particular Chinese dish . Also notice ( briefly ) the appearance of John O'Hara , the novelist , as a reporter early in the film . He is closer to " Samara " than to " Gibbsville " in this movie . The film's threads all come together in a mass confrontation on Wang's junk . The conclusion is one that only makes sense if you realize what an egomaniac Tamiroff's character really is . I like this adventure film , which is a worthy continuation of the story of China's fragmentation in those years to Von Sternberg's SHANGHAI EXPRESS . Definitely a film to watch and enjoy .
Walt Disney usually had good production standards , talented performers , and good production groups ( directors , etc . ) . In the last year of the Mickey Mouse Club he had this 19 week serial centered around his most attractive and talented Mousequetier , Annette Funicello . She plays a newly orphaned girl who moves in to the home of a wealthy aunt and uncle , and tries to adjust to a new town . But she has lived on a farm , so the clique of rich kids at the top of the school are likely to look down at her . In particular , the typical " rich bitch " character Roberta Shore ( as Laura Rogan ) , who dislikes Annette as a basically decent person who is her rival . There was music and nice settings in the episodes , such as a hay ride where ( I believe ) Annette sang a tune I recall , " How do I know my love ? How do I know my darling ? " . The real crux of the conflict occurs when Annette is invited to a party at Shore's home and the latter's necklace vanishes . Shore of course jumps to the conclusion that Annette took it , which she finally denounces as untrue . It was in the middle of the series of episodes , and only at the tail end did it blow up in Shore's face . SPOILER : The kids ( including Annette and Shore ) had been around the grand piano in the mansion's living room . Shore took her necklace off to basically wave it in the face of Annette . But she puts it down poorly and it falls into the piano . Now about five months pass with the necklace lost , but although Shore claims they looked apparently nobody looked in the piano . So when in the last episode someone playing the piano finds it sounds out of tune , and discovers the necklace was in the harp , they naturally think Shore knew and lied . It smashes her reputation . Still I do remember the show and series . It was fine for kids from 5 to 11 .
This television version of the novel is actually closer to the story than the Hitchcock film of 1939 . In particular , my best memory of it was the handling of the actual head of the smuggler / wreckers . In the film it was Laughton playing a regency buck country squire ( who was in a purgatory because of the idiots who surrounded a man of his taste ) . Here it is John McEnery as Reverend Davie , a fake clergyman who turned out to be one of the last practicing Druids in Cornwall . His death at the conclusion was quite impressive because he was allowed to behave as though it was a serious religious matter . It was a good conclusion to this version , which was perhaps too long but made the story a bit more coherent .
People mistakenly think that the two films that made Humphrey Bogart a star were " The Maltese Falcon " and " Casablanca " . In fact it is this film , made the same year as " The Maltese Falcon " and directed by Raoul Walsh , not John Huston and Michael Curtiz . Based on a novel by W . R . Burnett ( author of " Little Caesar " and " The Asphalt Jungle " ) , it is quite well written . Roy Earle ( Bogie ) is a clone of Dillinger ( like Bogie's first notable role of " Duke Mantee " in " The Petrified Forrest " ) . He has been in prison , but he gets an early release ( by bribes ) engineered by an old friend ( Donald MacBride , in a good serious performance ) . MacBride is planning the robbery of a luxury resort , and needs Bogart to do it . But Bogart finds that MacBride's assistant ( an ex-cop played by Barton MacLane ) is untrustworthy . He also worries about the young men he has to work with - especially a too friendly inside man ( Cornell Wilde in one of his first roles ) . And on top of everything else there is the matter of a young girl with a club foot ( Joan Leslie ) that could be Bogart's daughter . He falls for her , and wants to help cure her . He can when he has the cash - he has a friendly doctor ( Henry Hull ) to assist him . But he is so hung up about the girl that he ignores the signs of another , tougher woman ( Ida Lupino ) who does show an interest in him . Also , he tries to ignore the stories of demons and doom regarding an adorable little dog that a caretaker ( Willie Best ) tells him . The film is a first rate one , just a smidge less impressive than " The Maltese Falcon " and " Casablanca " because of the strength of the script . " High Sierra " is well written , but it has no memorable quotes , like , " Of all the gin joints . . . . " or " I enjoy talking to a man . . . . " Willie Best's details about the ill-luck pursuing the dog is the best stretch of real dialogue in the film , and today ( due to feelings about racial stereotyping concerning Best ) many people tend to overlook how it sets the stage for later levels of the tragedy in the film . The only problem I have regarding it is Jerome Cowan . He is given one of the lead positions in the credits , but his role ( a reporter who appears in the last ten minutes of the film ) doesn't merit it . He also has dialogue directed to Ida Lupino suggesting they met or know each other somehow . There appears to have been cut scenes in the film . Was Cowan in those cut scenes ?
As I mentioned in FINNEGAN BEGIN AGAIN , OUTRAGE ! was Robert Preston's last performance on film . He plays Dennis Riordan , a man of quiet determination . His daughter was raped and murdered , and as a result his wife died of the horror and strain of the tragedy . But what made it worse was one of those legal technicalities came up regarding the even handedness of the " fair trial " theory of our law . As a result the perpetrator is released . So Preston , a few months later , tracks him down and kills him . Preston , of course , is arrested , and would have a perfect defense of temporary insanity . He refuses the suggestion of his lawyer Beau Bridges to use this defense . He knew what he was doing - killing a mad dog who destroyed his family . Of course , in our legal system , that is not a viable defense . . . or is it ? OUTRAGE ! picks at the defects of the judicial system . The perpetrator was not stopped and seized by the police properly . He was grabbed because of a racially chosen reason ( he did not racially fit into the neighborhood the police grabbed him in ) . Had the court not thrown the arrest and the evidence collected out , the perpetrator would have ended up in prison . But it is one of those " fruit of the poisonous tree " legal no-nos , because it is not based on a reasonable , non-biased reason to have suspected the perpetrator . That this view is actually ridiculous under the circumstances does not matter . As Ambrose Bierce points out , in one of his FANTASTIC FABLES , when a Supreme Court Judge allows a man the right to use a boat on a river that sinks and drowns him - the state of the boat was not brought to the Judge's attention ! This , unfortunately , is a problem we all share ( even , by the way , the criminals - I wish somebody would one day do a film showing a " successful " criminal tied up in knots by the legal system that has previously helped him ) . Bridges wants to find out why the perpetrator got out , and slowly finds it was a decision by Judge Mel Ferrer ( a fine performance of a man who hates having to do such things ) . Bridges shows that this legal nit-picking is responsible for real loss of respect for the law . SPOILER COMING UP : Bridges in his summation turns the situation around on it's head . He points out to the jury that what it all came down to was a legal decision for philosophical reasons to throw out important evidence against the rapist killer because it did not seem fair . So , Bridges says , he wishes that if it was up to him , the jury would consider the actual physical and eyewitness testimony against Preston as so much evidence that can be discarded for the same reason . The jury takes the hint , and releases Preston . Preston's health must have been beginning to deteriorate ( he died in 1987 ) . His character has some good moments in the script , chatting with Bridges about the idiocies of a legal system he really can't understand . But he is not as central in the film as Bridges or Ferrer are . Still the film was thoughtful enough to make it a good final film for Preston's career to end with .
In 1944 Laird Cregar had appeared in the film version of THE LODGER which has generally been considered the best version of that film of the three versions ( although Hitchcock's silent version has it's admirers ) . Cregar's performance led to a follow-up film HANGOVER SQUARE , which proved to be his final performance due to a crash diet he put himself on that killed him . Nine years later 20th Century Fox decided to remake THE LODGER , and the current version starred Jack Palance . It was retitled MAN IN THE ATTIC - perhaps because the 1944 film had gained classic status . The story remains the same . It is based on a legend of the Ripper that keeps cropping up , most recently in the discussions of the connection of the painter Walter Sickert with the Whitechapel Murders . Sickert loved to discuss crimes , and he told the story about having rented rooms at a lodging house , and being told the former tenant of the rooms was suspected by the landlady of being Jack the Ripper . The prior tenant had only gone out at night , and came back disheveled , and would pounce on all the newspapers on those days that followed the next Ripper murder . However , this tenant had left the room when his health failed , and the landlady learned that he had died two months later . Sickert did tell this story to several people : Osbert Sitwell ( who wrote of it in his book NOBLE ESSENCES ) , Max Beerbohm , and Sir William Rothenstein being three of them . But no name was ever passed down on this suspect ( Rothenstein apparently wrote it down , but the writing was destroyed ) . The story became known to novelist Marie Belloc Lowndes ( possibly she heard it from Sickert or some common acquaintance ) , and she wrote a short story " The Lodger " which was subsequently expanded into a small novel or novella of the same name . Mr . Slade ( Palance ) is a pathologist at a London Hospital , who rents rooms in the lodging house of the Harleys ( Rhys Williams and Frances Bavier - " Aunt Bea " on THE ANDY GRIFFITH SHOW " ) . Slade is very silent and mysterious , and slowly Mrs . Harley begins to suspect if Slade is the Ripper . However Mr . Harley keeps contesting her proof ( by the fact that he would act the same way as Slade would ) . The situation worsens when the Harley's niece Lily Bonner ( Constance Smith ) returns from a successful tour of Paris , to perform at the Picadilly Music Hall . Bavier is increasingly worried about her niece , who is the only person who can somehow make Slade relax and be friendly . In the novel / novella the actual guilt of Slade as the Ripper is left unsolved by his suicide before the police can act ( his death by drowning is also based on a rumor that the Ripper drowned himself - a matter as contentious as any other in the mystery ) . In this version Palance makes one suspicious for most of the film , but we feel he is capable of better actions ( and he is disgusted by some of his rival's , Detective Inspector Warwick - Byron Palmer - patterns of behavior , such as predicting he understands the Ripper or taking Lily for a tour , with Slade , through the Black Museum of Scotland Yard ) . The conclusion of the film actually is far more exciting than in the 1944 version ( complete with a horse and carriage chase ) . But the ambiguity of Slade's guilt remains here , unlike the 1944 version . When he does threaten - SPOILER HERE - Lily he can't bring himself to kill her , as he loves her . Palance brings this off well , unlike Cregar whose interest in Merle Oberon in 1944 was not as potentially romantic , but simply part of a religious mania . I still like Cregar's version of the central role better , but Palance's performance is well worth watching - as are Bavier , Williams , Palmer and Smith in support . I also note that this version is good in capturing some of the actual story . Sir Charles Warren , the Commissioner of Scotland Yard is mentioned , as is his resignation under fire in November 1888 . Another character is named as Chief Inspector Melville , an actual Chief Inspector of the Yard . Maybe not quite as atmospheric as the 1944 version , but not one to be casually dismissed out of hand either .
Years ago I was privileged to see Werner Klemperer on stage and after the same play . He was portraying the Russian composer Prokofief , in a play with Philip Bosco ( as Andre Zhdanov ) and Austin Pendleton ( as Shostakovitch ) and George Hearn ( as Joseph Stalin ) . The play dealt with Stalin trying to rebuild a shattered Russia in the wake of World War II . They have won the war , but have suffered horrible losses . Yet while trying to rebuild , Stalin's own monstrous personality and defects are harming any chance of true repair work . The play was actually a work in progress , so there was a question and answer period after it was over that I stayed for . The actors were discussing the roles , and seeking responses from the audience about their reaction to the play . Klemperer was quite good , portraying the composer of " Peter and the Wolf " as an ailing man , struggling to recover from a stroke , but aware that he and his younger rival Shostakovitch are suspect by Stalin and Zhdanov ( Stalin's deputy at the time ) of " revisionism " in their music ( they are too original in their work - too much " western / capitalistic " influences ; Stalin wants Russian folk music used instead - like Amran Khatchaturian's melodies ) . One watched Klemperer looking physically frail , but trying to retain his dignity ( although in one scene he left the room , and vomited in the bathroom due to his fear of the Russian monster he just left ) . Werner Klemperer came from a musical background . His father was a great conductor , Otto Klemperer . But the family had to flee Germany in the 1930s , as they were Jewish . Here Werner became an actor ( like his older contemporary Walter Slezak , son of the opera star Leo Slezak ) . In his career as an actor , he would sometimes play people involved in music ( in the movie HOUSE BOAT , he is the agent for conductor Eduardo Cianelli ) . But , like Slezak , he frequently was cast as Germans , especially Nazis . His best recalled performance was in JUDGMENT AT NUREMBURG , where he is an unrepentant Nazi judge ( his high point in the film is when he confronts Burt Lancaster's self-condemning judge with cries of " Traitor . . . TRAITOR ! ! " ) . Later on Klemperer would play Adolf Eichman in a film . He played one of the anti-Semitic crew of a German liner in SHIP OF FOOLS . But , of course , he became a television immortal ( and Emmy winner ) for being Colonel Wilhelm Klink on HOGAN'S HEROES . How , after being so negative in his portrayals of Nazis ( including one of the arch murderers of the bunch - Eichman ) could Klemperer play Klink ? He explained it on a television talk-show once that he only agreed to play Klink when he told the producers that he did not want those guys ( the Nazis ) to be portrayed as good guys . Certainly the Nazis on the show are the heavies , but enough humanizing elements are thrown in to make us realize that Klink and Sgt . Schultz ( and . . . maybe . . . General Buchalter ) are not always villainous , if only villainous in hoping to aid their side to victory . The only really unlikeable Nazi in the show was Howard Caine , as Major Hochstadter , the S . S . man . This episode of ONE STEP BEYOND allowed Klemperer to portray a totally unrepentant Nazi . It is April 1945 , and Klemperer is an S . S . man who is being sent to Argentina by U - Boat . His mission is to help set up ( with the aid of the Peron regime , no doubt ) that country to welcome Nazi refugees from their destroyed Fatherland . The U - Boat starts it's cruise , but the crew begins hearing a metallic pounding inside the hull every day . It only stops when the sub goes to the surface , but as the war is still going on it is dangerous for the sub to do that . It can be spotted by the Allied air-forces or naval crafts . The pounding is driving the crew to distraction , but really taking a toll on Klemperer . He acts like he is being pursued by some demons . When it is not pounding he is quite arrogant and a totally committed zealot . But as soon as the sub is underwater again , the pounding begins , and he is a trembling sufferer . Some allied craft show up while it is underwater . The pounding begins again , louder and louder , and it is attracting sonar in the allied boats . They start using depth charges . Finally , despite Klemperer's threats , the boat surfaces - the Captain would prefer surrender to being sunk . As soon as they surface ( and surrender ) the pounding ends . At the tail end , John Newland points out that when the u - boat was scrapped a year or two later , a skeleton was found within the skin of the boat . The u - boats were frequently built with slave labor , and it may have been a slave who had been accidentally caught within the ship's skin and it may have been his / her spirit that was pounding on the hull . An interesting idea - a similar story ( apparently true ) is connected to the great 19th Century ocean liner , THE GREAT EASTERN , where two skeletons were found when that ship was finally scrapped in 1888 . Klemperer's performance is properly despicable , and the episode was pretty good .
In many of the episodes of ARE YOU BEING SERVED ? the issue of sexism comes up . Usually Mrs . Slocombe ( Mollie Sugden ) and Miss Brahams ( Wendy Richards ) find that the men bind together in a kind of chauvinist club against them when they present fairly reasonable requests . In this episode Mr . Mash ( Larry Martyn ) brings some supplies to the ladies ' department , including ladies ' panties that have sexually suggestive phrases or illustrations ( like shadows of hands on the parts over the behind ) on them . Mrs . Slocombe and Miss Brahams both feel these are demeaning and Slocombe tells Captain Peacock ( Frank Thornton ) that she has no intention of selling them . Peacock reminds her that she is obliged to sell what the purchase department has bought for her department as merchandise . Slocombe still refuses and does so again when Mr . Rumbold ( Nicholas Smith ) also confronts her . She has no intention to resign ( although she says to Miss Brahams she came close to doing so ) , but attempts to defend her position . She finds not only Peacock and Rumbold hostile , but so are Mr . Grainger ( Arthur Borough ) , who feels that she has been a pest ever since she was moved to what had been his floor , and with Mr . Humphrey ( John Inman ) and Mr . Lucas ( Trevor Bannister ) agreeing that if they removed Slocombe's ladies ' department the men's wear department could expand back to what it was . So except for Miss Brahams nobody is supporting Mrs . Slocombe . But suddenly Young Mr . Grace ( Harold Bennett ) appears and requests that Mrs . Slocombe see him later in the afternoon . He announces that he is planning on remarrying . Naturally the men on the floor now see Mrs . Slocombe as about to be married to the owner of the department store , and thus their boss . Everyone who had previously been harshly rejecting her ideas suddenly does a 180 degree reversal , insisting that she is right about everything . They bend over backwards in helping her get ready for her meeting with Mr . Grace . Grainger even allows her to use his department's dressing room , although when she does use it she finds it being occupied by a man being fitted for a new pair of pants . Other events are going on in the episode , including how Mr . Lucas and Mr . Humphrey sell a sweater to a customer ( John Clegg ) who manages to get his wig lost in pulling off the sweater . In the end Mrs . Slocombe's bubble of success and social position is burst as a false dream . But in the closing moments of the show she is able to use her failure to gain a bit of satisfaction and success at the expense of the boot-licking males on the floor . And she also gives advise to Mr . Grace regarding his plans as well .
This was a very good series , based on the memoirs of an employee at the White House from the Taft Administration through President Eisenhower's . It's obvious too that besides the book by Lillian Rogers Parks , there are also bits from other White House books that are frequently used by historians ( Leslie Nielson plays White House usher Ike Hoover , who wrote an important volume that is frequently used as a source book ) . Leslie Uggams plays Lillian , and the film begins with Lillian's mother Maggie ( Olivia Cole ) starting there in 1911 when William and Nellie Taft are in the White House ( or as the unhappy Taft called it , " the great White Jail " ) . Maggie's daughter Lillian eventually overcomes a physical disability to become a useful member of the staff . But the most interesting thing in the series was the glimpse into the eight first families who inhabited the building from 1909 to 1961 . Interestingly the families preceding and following the framing administrations ( Theodore Roosevelt's and John Kennedy's ) are better known to most people than some of those in the eight ( the Tafts , Hardings , Coolidges , and Hoovers are not all that well known today - although Warren Harding's scandal filled administration is recalled to some extent ) . Each administration and the way they handled the White House is different . Taft ( Victor Buono , in a rare nice-guy role ) is concerned with the health of wife Nellie ( Julie Harris ) who had a stroke and had to learn how to speak again . He is also upset at how his old friend Teddy Roosevelt has turned against him ( in one moment he shows how a reconciliation is impossible , as he is depending on Major Archibald Butt to bring Teddy and him back together - and Butt's returning from Europe on the Titanic ) . Wilson ( Robert Vaughan ) has two wives , and the first one ( Ellen - Kim Hunter ) was better liked than the second ( Edith - Claire Bloom ) . Later it is Wilson's health collapse in the fight for the League of Nations that is followed , with Edith taking over his office quietly . Warren and Florence Harding ( George Kennedy and Celeste Holms ) are stuck with a dimwitted husband ( and a corrupt one ) learning that his administration has more holes in it than a swiss cheese . His infidelities are revealed ( before Kennedy and Clinton Harding was our most priapic President ) . Also shown is Mrs . Harding playing Warren's favorite song ( Carrie Jacob Bond's " The End of a Perfect Day . " ) on the piano . But George Kennedy and the script writer has one moment giving some dignity to our 29th President . During the 1920 campaign a nasty smear was thrown at Harding based on rumors that his family was not originally white but African - American ( see Francis Russell's THE SHADOW OF BLOOMING GROVE for an account of this ) . Maggie sees a furious Harding ripping up a " book " about his ancestry by one " Professor " William Estabrook Chancellor that the Justice Department confiscated . Harding sees Maggie , turns to her , and heartily apologizes for the racist piece of garbage directed at all African-Americans . After he leaves , Maggie sees the book and tells another servant to let the book burn . Ed Flanders shows Coolidge as a businesslike , honest man - a welcome change in terms of abilities to Harding , who is in love with his wife Grace ( Lee Grant ) , and broken - hearted about the death of his younger son Calvin from blood poisoning in a freak accident . Flanders has a great moment telling off ( in ironic manner ) Cloris Leachman as the snooty head of the staff ( leading to her resignation ) . The Hoovers ( Larry Gates and Jan Sterling ) are done too quickly , and one gets the impression they were too aloof from the staff . F . D . R . ( John Anderson ) and Eleanor ( Eileen Heckart ) are shown to be sympathetic to the minority groups due to the President's physical condition . The Trumans ( Harry Morgan and Estelle Parsons ) show that President's feistiness ( and Bess's love of mystery novels ) . And then President and Mrs . Eisenhower ( Andrew Duggan and Barbra Barrie ) raps things up as we reach fairly modern times . It was a welcome view of Presidential private lives rarely done before or since on television ( except for individual Presidents or events in their administrations ) . It has not been revived on television since 1979 , but now is on video and well worth catching .
This movie is going to enter the area of Hollywood Legend because of the background circumstances that mirror it's theme . I am referring to how Jennifer Aniston's marriage to Brad Pitt collapsed ( apparently ) after the latter made the film MR . AND MRS . SMITH with Angelina Jolie , and Pitt and Jolie's subsequent romance blossomed into a marriage with children both conceived and adopted by the parents . Ms Aniston subsequently made this film with Vince Vaughan , with whom she too would have a relationship ( that now seems to be over ) . Since this film is about how relationships between couples fail through non-chemistry or miscalculation or misunderstanding , the film seems to mirror the Aniston - Pitt - Jolie triangle . Oddly enough , that is the one element of such dissolutions that does not appear in this film . Although all sorts of escalating confrontations occur ( including a couple of dates Aniston goes on ) there was no real triangle for either of the two principles . THE BREAK-UP begins with Vaughan at a baseball game with his closest friend ( Jon Favrreau - a man who if there is any possibility that a person is doing something for a good reason or a hurtful reason , will always figure out it is for the hurtful reason ) . He sees Aniston at the game , and is really struck by her - in fact he gives her one of six hot-dogs he buys so that he can talk to her . Eventually he coaxes her into going out with him for a drink . Soon a series of still photos show how they seem to be on the right wavelength for being married eventually . But it's all surface unity . While Aniston is into some sports ( baseball and bowling ) she is also rather artistic . Her family happens to be from academia , and she works in an art gallery . Her favorite sibling ( her brother ) is a member of an all male chorus of harmonizers . It turns out that Vaughan does not think well of her family ( which he probably thinks looks down on him ) . In particular he considers Aniston's brother ( John Michael Higgins ) a closet gay man - something Aniston keeps denying . Vaughan and his two brothers run a tourist bus company , and are planning expansion for a tourist boat , and hopefully a helicopter as well . Vaughan is the guide , and is usually exhausted when he gets home - too exhausted to follow simple requests , like the purchase of a specific number of lemons for a dinner party . The dinner party is the point where the schism between Aniston and Vaughan begins to widen . Aniston feels Vaughan lacks any true feeling for her efforts - he rarely volunteers to assist her . Vaughan feels that Aniston does not appreciate his hard working schedule ( although he keeps ignoring her hard work at the art gallery owned by Judy Davis ) . So we watch as Aniston refuses to have anything to do with Vaughan ( hoping , in his loneliness he will return with contrition ) , and Vaughan escalates to undoing various things about the apartment that Aniston was opposed to ( watch the business about the pool table ) , and then the division of the apartment into his and her sections , and a no-man's land for helpless guests . Soon it also involves their friends on the bowling team and on game night . . . well you can see the threads of the relationship just split apart like a fat man putting on an old army uniform . It is actually a sad story of two people , who for all their anger do still care for each other , but who through mistiming and intentional explosions of anger wreck the possible reunification of their lives together . Yet , at the end they are both aware of what their stupidity has caused - so that there is no hard feelings at the conclusion . It was a pretty good look at people fumbling at a lasting relationship , but growing up in the end . If the Aniston - Pitt - Jolie business helped to create this project , something worthwhile came out of that love triangle .
This is one of those " B-feature " film gems that are frequently more lasting and popular than " A-features " that were overproduced . It is about a woman , a witness to the murder of her husband ( a gangster ) , by several more important gangsters . She has been found in Chicago , and she has to be brought back to Los Angelas . Two Police Detectives are sent , but meet danger along the way ( one of them is killed ) . The other manages to get the witness to the train , but it is two days before they reach Los Angeles , and anything can happen . It's unlike most of the other classic train mystery films . THE LADY VANISHES deals with proving that a woman who has disappeared on a train actually existed , and how it endangers a carload of British travelers . NIGHT TRAIN ( a . k . a . NIGHT TRAIN TO MUNICH ) deals with rescuing a kidnapped scientist back from Germany just before the start of World War II . SLEEPING CAR TO TRIESTE deals with two agents tracking down a double-crossing partner and the stolen diary they sought for their political cause . MURDER ON THE ORIENT EXPRESS deals with a great detective ( Hercule Poirot ) trying to figure out who among the passengers on the train murdered a singularly unpleasant man . Here it is just getting a government witness ( an unpleasant one , by the way ) past criminal agents . The cast of THE NARROW MARGIN has no major stars in it ( Marie Windsor , as the witness , is probably the best known name , although Charles McGraw appeared in many B-features as either a cop or a hood ) . The variety of characters , in particular a young boy who may be too sharp for his own good , is interesting . But best is Paul Maxey . Mr . Maxey may have been the fattest looking man in movies . He normally was a businessman or a politico or anyone in the background of the films he appeared in . He is the producer of Dolores Grey's television show in IT'S ALWAYS FAIR WEATHER , who has to calm her down when she is reminded she can't have the huge meals she wants to eat because it will ruin her people-popular figure . " Well , why can you eat what you want to ? ! " , she asks Maxey . " Well they don't want to watch me ! " , he explains . Here he actually had a . . . . err , " meaty " role . He is one of the film surprises . At first he is just a seemingly funny , fat guy , then he seems like a potential assistant for the criminals . It turns out quite differently at the end . In many ways , it was Paul Maxey's best role in movies . A good twisty plot , a top-notch cast and direction , and a decent set of production values . The original THE NARROW MARGIN is first rate entertainment which I recommend if you can see it .
When Abraham Lincoln won the 1860 Republican Nomination for the Presidency , most Americans must have been surprised . Lincoln had served in the Illinois State Assembly in the 1830s and 1840s , but had only served one term in a national level job . From 1847 to 1849 Lincoln held the job of Congressman from his town of Springfield in Illinois . His main achievements were ( ironically , given his later fame ) questioning the purpose of the Mexican War , and demanding the impeachment and removal from the Presidency of War making President James Knox Polk . It was one of the first serious attempts to impeach a sitting President . But nothing further was heard of him on the national scene . He had become a leading corporate attorney in Illinois , ironically being attorney for the Illinois Central Railroad when it's President was his future commander George Brinton McClellan . In 1856 , at the first Republican Presidential Convention , Lincoln had been mentioned for the Vice Presidency - to run with the " Pathfinder " Explorer of the West , Senator John Charles Fremont of California . Instead , William Dayton of New Jersey ran with Fremont , and lost to James Buchanan and John Breckenridge . Yet Lincoln was known as an eloquent spokesman for national unity and for the abolition of slavery . This was due to his 1858 campaign to wrest the seat of U . S . Senator Stephen Douglas of Illinois . The Lincoln - Douglas debates helped crystallize the issues of Free and Slave States for the nation . Yet , when the votes were counted , Judge Douglas ( he had been a state jurist once ) beat Lincoln . Charles Durning plays the clever Douglas , who had won his national following for his support of " Popular " or " Squatter Sovereignty " . Basically he felt that the population determined if states should be free or slave , by moving into the new territories in such numbers that the better organized segments would end up in the majority and determine the support or rejection of slavery . It seems like a sensible point of view , but Douglas was aware that the South just did not have the population to match Northern settlers in the new territories . Douglas chose not to speak much about slavery , but to concentrate on our growth and foreign interests . Lincoln kept returning to the topic . The results were that Douglas beat Lincoln in the election , but that Lincoln's brilliance as an orator became widely known . Douglas was fully aware that he had not destroyed his opponent but given him massive publicity . He and Lincoln went back to the 1830s , as rival attorneys , as rivals in the Assembly , and now as Senatorial candidates confronting each other . They had also both been rivals over Mary Todd , who eventually married Lincoln . Yet they both liked each other , for even with their differences they appreciated each other's strengths . Douglas may have not cared about the fate of the African American in his society , but he was a passionate believer in democracy and in the development of the western territories . Lincoln may have felt " Squatter Sovereignty " a secondary issue to Slavery , but he appreciated that it did push for government in the hands of the common ( if white skinned ) man . In the end , Lincoln faced Douglas in 1860 , with the Senator as the official Democratic Candidate for the Presidency . But 1860s was a bad Presidential Election Year . The Democrats were split , the Southerners supporting John Breckenridge . Their was also a fragment of the Whig Party called the Constitution Party , who supported John Bell of Tennessee . We know that Lincoln won the election , but he won with a plurality because the vote was split . Had the Democrats supported Douglas's candidacy he would have won . As it was he got more popular votes than Breckenridge , but less electoral votes than the Vice President or Lincoln . But we don't realize today that Douglas , when he saw the Sothern delegates walk out of his convention and create a new party , did one of the bravest acts in American political history . Instead of contacting Breckenridge and his supporters , and publicly reassuring them of his willingness to work with them and accept their platform , Douglas stumped the country begging the South not to secede and cause a Civil War . He did this at considerable risk to his own safety . It did not work , but it was the most constructive attempt to ward off the disaster of any of the candidates in the campaign ( the great historian , Allan Nevins felt that he liked Stephen Douglas more than Lincoln when he read what Douglas did that Lincoln didn't try to do ) . In the end , on Inauguration Day March 4 , 1861 , Stephen Douglas sat next to Lincoln on the central stand in front of the Capital Building , and held his friend's hat while Lincoln took the oath of office . He was fully supporting the President's efforts to keep the country together - and after Fort Sumter was attacked he supported the war . Douglas died in June 1861 ( Lincoln knew his friend was dying ) , but had he lived he would have been deeply involved in governmental planning to restore the Union . Charles Durning did a very fine job as Douglas , growing from a slightly patronizing view of his friend and rival to a man who understood better than most what Lincoln was about . And as Lincoln , Arthur Hill showed the man of vision who cut to the basic issue that was splitting our society , yet could see his rival was ( if slightly short sighted ) fully as committed to that society as he ( Lincoln ) was .
In the early 1930s Alfred Hitchcock did a historic costume movie called WALTZES FROM VIENNA about the Strauss Family . He obviously never enjoyed such films ( he never tried musicals or pseudo-biographies again ) . But it was the first of three attempts he made to do a historic film . While none were total disasters , none is usually counted among his best films . One can't deny this is fair with WALTZES FROM VIENNA but JAMAICA INN should not be totally denied as being a good Hitchcock film . It was his first attempt to do a story from novelist Daphne Du Maurier . This would also be part of the reason for JAMAICA INN's low rating - the following year Hitch would do Du Maurier's REBECCA , as his first Hollywood film , his first film with David Selznick , and it would be his only film to win the Oscar as best picture . Without trying to rip down REBECCA , it's higher production standards outclass JAMAICA INN . JAMAICA INN would also be the first of two films that Hitch made with Charles Laughton . Given that the other was THE PARADINE CASE , neither of them are in his top films . Hitchcock would always say that he always found Laughton a very difficult actor to direct , and claim that Laughton insisted on trying to base the character of Sir Humphrey on the walk he had . Supposedly his mincing little walk was that of a public school boy who had peed in his pants . Yet his regency baronet and his corrupt Old Bailey Judge were both excellent performances , and are among Laughton's best characters . The film is about wrecking during the Regency period ( roughly 1810 to 1837 ) . As such one can see it as a kind of continuation of George Arliss ' DR . SYN ( later remade with Patrick MacGoohan as THE SCARECROW OF ROMNEY MARSH ) . That was set in the 1770s - 1780s . But the issue of the wreckers is handled differently . The Arliss and MacGoohan films stress the economic unfairness of the revenue anti-smuggling laws , and how they impact on the locals who support the smuggling ring . Arliss , in his trial scene , reminds the jury how he helped his neighbors . MacGoohan's followers insist on chanting a sardonic mantra , " THE KING'S LAW , THE KING'S LAW " , when discussing the revenue laws . But Hitch follows a pro-law and order point of view . The wreckers have murdered people and are targeted by the government for destruction . Robert Newton is sent as their leading agent to find out the smuggler's secret . Newton ( here young , vigorous , and not the slave to alcohol he became a decade later ) learns that the key is at Jamaica Inn , a desolate , ill-famed hostelry , run by Leslie Banks ( this would be Banks ' second film with Hitchcock - he'd been in the original THE MAN WHO KNEW TOO MUCH ) . Banks does not like strangers too much , but he has his hands full - his niece Maureen O'Hara has shown up in need of a home and job . O'Hara notices the comings and goings of certain locals at the inn , and so does Newton . Eventually they join forces to solve the riddle . They find only one ally : the local magistrate and baronet , Sir Humphrey . Laughton's regency buck is far better than the mincing step story suggests . He is a cultivated type surrounded by boobs , and he lets us know what he is up against . His performance , supported by Newton , O'Hara , and Banks , makes the film . But the best dramatic moment in the film is by Stephen Haggard , the youngest of the smugglers . When told he will be hanged , he gets hysterical , screaming about he's too young to die . Even the last scene with Sir Humphrey is not quite as effective as that moment . A scene like that should have guaranteed a lasting career for Haggard in film . Sadly , if you look up his filmography on this board , you will find he was ( like Leslie Howard ) a war casualty in 1943 .
This 1936 film was the only movie about the Anglo-Irish War of Liberation ( 1916 - 1922 ) that centered on a character based on Michael Collins prior to the 1996 movie called MICHAEL COLLINS . Why it took so long to outwardly make a major film about the Irish hero is a matter of mystery to me . The best reason is that Hollywood did not wish to jeopardize English and British Empire sales of their films by painting a positive image of the man who gave them such a stunning black eye and won independence ( or technically semi-independence ) for Eire in 1922 . Hollywood would be willing to show a great Irish leader destroyed by a sex scandal ( the abysmal 1939 film PARNELL ) , but that leader failed . This 1935 film , BELOVED ENEMY , follows the general outlines of the events of 1921-22 . Collins , directing intelligence against the British forces , destroyed the Black and Tans and managed to make mincemeat of British operations throughout the provinces of Ireland ( except for Belfast and it's norther neighbors ) . Prime Minister Lloyd George and his advisers ( including Winston Churchill ) decided to have a peace treaty - but the negotiations were extremely difficult for all concerned . Lloyd George wanted to get the British forces disengaged , because the nation's prestige was badly shaken by it's increased defeat . The Irish negotiators ( led by Arthur Griffiths and Michael Collins ) were to try to get full independence if they could . However , Collins was put in charge of the negotiation team only because his one rival , Eamon de Valera , refused to go . This has remained a matter of controversy to this day , as to whether de Valera did this out of distrust of the British or as a cynical way of shafting Collins who would be blamed for the resulting treaty . Gumming up the work further were the Northern Irish Protestants ( Ulstermen ) led by Edward Carson and James Craig . They too were split ( Carson wanted all of Ireland to remain in the United Kingdom , as Great Britain was officially known in 1922 ; Craig just wanted to protect the six northern Protestant provinces from being part of the Catholic Ireland envisioned by Collins and de Valera ) . The resulting treaty basically satisfied nobody - and still doesn't . Eire was created as a semi-Independent part of the United Kingdon ( in a sense it achieved Parnell's long dead " Home Rule " parliament system ) . Northern Ireland got it's independence as a semi-independent section with it's capital at Stormont near Belfast ( Craig would become it's first Prime Minister ; Carson was disgusted by the decision and never accepted it ) . Griffiths died of natural causes a few weeks after the treaty was signed . Collins had to face the anger of de Valera , who rejected the result . Within two months Collins was assassinated by anti-treaty Irish , and a Civil War began that lasted a year ( and was bloodier than the fight against the British ) . Eventually de Valera would be elected President of Eire . In 1949 he formally removed Eire from the United Kingdom . The southern Irish state has remained independent ever since . The story was changed in BELOVED ENEMY . Based on a story that during the long negotiations Collins met and romanced an English aristocratic lady , the Collins character Dennis Reardon ( Brian Ahearn ) meets and falls in love with aristocratic Helen Drummond ( Merle Oberon ) , whose father is involved on the English negotiation team . When the treaty is presented to the world , and does not give the full independence that the Southern Irish expected , Reardon is denounced as a traitor . His closest friend O'Roarke ( Jerome Cowan ) decides to punish him for his treason by shooting him when he is riding in an open car ( as Collins was killed ) . The only difference is that here Reardon ( although wounded ) lives to return to his aristocratic lover . The film was well produced and acted , so despite trivializing a true tragedy by giving it a happy ending I will give it an .
Mel Brooks did not invent the comedy spoof movie , but his best work ( " Blazing Saddles " , " Young Frankenstein " , " Dracula , Dead And Loving It " , and " High Anxiety " ) certainly make the most of it - even if some of it gets rather too dirty ( literally dirty - " caca " dirty ) . " History Of The World " is a funny film , but it is not one of his best films . It looks like it was based on bits and pieces of ideas that could have been built up into separate movies : a film about the stone age , a film about the Roman Empire , a film about the French Revolution . I am sure that Brooks was inventive enough to have created three film spoofs , but for some reason he decided to just concentrate on pasting these mini-spoofs together . It has wonderful moments in it - some are thrown away . The four desperate refugees from the Roman Empire , followed by centurions , pray for a miracle . Suddenly they see an old man - Brooks dressed like Moses ( from an earlier sequence in the film ) . A river is parted like the Red Sea with " Moses " arms in the air . The refugees flee thanking God and Moses . In a moment we see there is a robber in back of " Moses " holding him up ( hence his arms in the air ) , and when the robber leaves the old man starts cursing him . Similar stuff is throughout the film ( typical of Brooks ' inventiveness ) . After fleeing Rome , Brooks has reached Palestine and is the waiter serving the " Last Supper " . Besides having a problem when he keeps saying " JEEZUS " causing John Hurt ( who is Christ ) to ask , " Yes ? " , there is the problem of the painting being done by Da Vinci ( Art Metrano ) , and how Brooks manages to get into the background of the masterpiece - holding his tray like a halo behind Hurt ) . Brooks uses a number of his regulars in the film : Madeline Kahn as the Empress Nympho , Dom DeLuis as the Emperor ( one could call him " piggy " after one particular comment about his eating habits ) , Harvey Korman as the foppish Count du Monet , Sid Caesar as a caveman who is full of awe . He was also lucky to have Gregory Hines , usually a dancer but here a strikingly breezy comic , and Orson Welles doing the narration properly ( note his voice's confusion at the start when describing the first heterosexual marriage , followed by the first homosexual one ) . The disjointed style is a minor problem in enjoying the film . Judging from the final scenes from the sequel , Brooks could have done a Viking movie , a skating film about Nazism , and a space musical about the Jews . Alas , only those scenes were ever shot . A second part might not have been a great film either , but it would have been quite as amusing .
I caught this short film on the Turner Classic network on Wednesday , September 20 , 2006 from 7 : 30 - 8 : 00 P . M . Coming out in 1952 , I was figuring out that it would be far from positive about the Soviet Union or it's policies . This turned out to be quite true , but it's attack is a fair one . The opportunism of the Soviet Union in the 1920s and 1930s and 1940s into the 1950s is an open historical record . Each switch of policy ( mirrored in the Communist Parties of the United States and Europe and Asia as well ) is called a " round " ( like in a boxing match . Round four is pro-Western , as Stalin tries ( supposedly ) to link up with the United States , England , and France against Nazi aggression . Round five is the Soviet about face in their aligning with the Nazis in the Non-Aggression Pact of 1939 . Round six is when Russia is attacked by Germany and reaches out to Britain and America again . Round seven is when the Second World War ends , and Russia becomes a threat to Western democracy . It turned out that of the first 48 vetoes of the Security Council of the U . N . from 1945 to 1953 , 47 were from the Soviet Union . No doubt someone can make a case that British and French ( and to a lesser extent , American ) diplomatic blundering made Stalin and Molotov swallow their bile and sign that infamous 1939 non-aggression pact with Hitler and Von Ribbentrop . But the argument about safety and buying time to rearm , while plausible to an extent , does not explain the Soviet Union's willingness to grab the eastern portion of neighboring Poland while Germany grabbed the Western portion , nor using this to eventually attack the Baltic states of Latvia , Lithuania , and Esthonia , and Finland . What is curious about this is the even-handedness of the attack on enemies of democracy . The narration warns about believing " snake oil " salesmen of totalitarian ideas , of all stripes ( Fascist , Nazi , Communist ) . But this even goes against people spreading hate towards people who are " suspect " ( intellectuals , or foreign born types ) . This was made in 1952 , the height of the McCarthy period - and yet it makes a case that might almost be aimed at the Senator himself . It never hints at the Senator , mind you , but it is an odd point of view in an age of the Hollywood blacklist . Interestingly enough two of the narrators were Robert Taylor and George Murphy , both conservative types : Murphy eventually becoming a Republican U . S . Senator in the 1960s , and Taylor a " friendly witness " against Communist influences in the movie industry ( Taylor had been in a controversial film , THE NORTH STAR , which painted Soviet Union life too positively ) . But neither says anything that one can actually find really far right in political position . With narratives also by Walter Pigeon ( interestingly he deals with American foreign policy - under General George Marshall ( sort of anathema to McCarthyites in 1952 ) - and quite favorably ) , Barry Sullivan , Dore Schare , Howard Keel , and James Whitmore . I suspect that Schare may have been behind the project , but I really don't know . It was actually quite well worth watching
Sam Fuller is one of the few directors who improves when one sees his movies several times . Yeah , I know that his reputation is that of a director who enjoyed sensationalism too much , but he also knew how to use sensationalism like a spice in a recipe - not too much of it in all situations ( the madhouse in SHOCK CORRIDOR is an exception ) , but enough to maintain our interest . Fuller once said that the story had to be a good one to make a good picture . Perhaps this truism sounds as simple as Coolidge's , " The business of America is business ! " But like most people who dismiss Coolidge's comment as second-rate , they don't realize he meant that the American people see all means of employment as business and pursue it for advantage . He just said it in that laconic style of his . Fuller's truism is also correct at the simplest : good films have good stories . Yeah . . . but how many film directors and actors and producers get to work with good stories ? Not that many - just look at the number of film flops each year . THE CRIMSON KIMONO starts off with stripper Sugar Torch ( Gloria Pall ) doing her normal act in some shabby theater on Main Street in Los Angeles . She is all smiles as she does the act , and then she leaves at the end , and her face shows the weariness of two or three shows a night on it . She heads for her dressing room , sees the theater owner and borrows a puff from his cigarette , and then heads for her door . She hears a shot - opens the door and sees a masked figure with a gun who fires at her . She runs out of the theater into the street and down into the street , where she is shot and killed in the gutter . While watching this three minute sequence ( long because of the initial song and strip tease ) I compared it to another sequence in a film noir of one year earlier : the opening three minutes of Welles ' TOUCH OF EVIL , wherein Rudy Linnekar and his girlfriend drive off in a car that we know is going to blow up . Welles rarely got big budgets but did so on the 1958 film , and did the most he could . Fuller was given a larger budget than usual for THE CRIMSON KIMONO , and managed to get considerable mileage from it too . Both set the mood of the film quite well . The death of the strip tease star brings two L . A . Detectives on the case : Sgt . Charlie Bancroft ( Glenn Corbett ) and Joe Kojaku ( James Shigeta ) . The two have been pals since serving in the Korean War together ( Bancroft was badly wounded and Kojaku gave him a pint of his own blood ) . Now living together in a residential hotel they are assigned to this case . . . one with two few clues . The theater manager can only tell them that Sugar was going to move to Las Vegas with a new act called " The Crimson Kimono " wherein she is the prize in a battle to the death between a karate master and a Samurai . But they have some pictures of Sugar in a Crimson kimono , and start looking for the artist , as well as the fellow who would have played the karate master . Fuller loads his canvass with colorful types . Bancroft knows an alcoholic artist named Mac ( Anna Lee ) who knows all the artist talent in the L . A . area . After getting her a bottle of her favorite bourbon Mac goes to town , and the next day recalls the artist of the drawings , " Chris " is connected to some art school . It turns out " Chris " is not a man but a woman named " Christine Downs " ( Victoria Shaw ) . Bancroft goes to interview her , and she recalls a man who was with Sugar - and draws a sketch of him . But Bancroft finds he is falling for her , and takes her to dinner as well as to headquarters to hand in the sketch . Kojaku in the meantime has found the person who was to be the karate specialist in the sketch , one Yuki . He tries to catch him , but finds it impossible . Chris's sketch gives her unwanted notoriety . While at her sorority house that night she is lured to the phone by the man who she drew , Hansel ( Neyle Morrow ) . Someone shoots at her while she is on the phone . She is taken into protective custody by the two detectives , and Mac is used as a chaperon . They proceed to find Yuki and this time subdue him together . He finally tells them what he knows of the man known as " Hansel " . We see them trace him , but he always seems one step ahead of them . Bancroft goes out one night to investigate , leaving Chris alone with Kojaku . The two get into a discussion of art and find they have much in common . In fact , Chris admits she is in love with Kojaku . This is troubling , for he feels the same way , but he knows Bankcroft loves her too . At this point the film seems to leave the film noir element and concentrates on Fuller's look at bi-racial love affairs , and racial bigotry . A lot of criticism is flung at Fuller for this because the eventual resolution of the noir plot is relatively mild compared to the bigotry theme or love affair theme . Actually Fuller keeps our interest in the new twist by the karate class mock duel that a jealous Kojaku turns into a violent attack on Bankroft . Also , the resolution of the noir plot deals with a second jealousy fueled murder , which makes Kojaku realize what has happened to him . And the final confrontation with the perpetrator ends in the gutter ( during a parade ) and somewhat compares with the earlier shooting of Sugar . Fuller pulled his story together well - he knew how to tell a good story .
There is an ironic point about the production of SHE WORE A YELLOW RIBBON immediately after FORT APACHE . Most critics agree that Col . Owen Thursday , the martinet commander , is based on General George Armstrong Custer , and that the massacre of his command due to his own pig headedness is the battle of the Little Bighorn . But SHE WORE A YELLOW RIBBON begins with that moment in the summer of 1876 when the entire frontier was nervous after word came of the destruction of Custer forces . The historic continuity ( which is amazingly consistent , despite minor anachronisms ) is shown early when Captain Brittles , visiting his wife's grave , mentions to her the death of Captain Miles Keogh at the Little Bighorn . Historically this is correct . Keogh , a hero of the American Civil War , served with Custer's Seventh Cavalry and died with his commander and fellows . In fact , the only " survivor " of Custer's forces at that disaster was Keogh's horse , " Commanche " . Captain Brittles has served in the American cavalry for thirty years . He was one of those soldiers who held higher rank in the Civil War with a " Brevet " , but in the cutbacks in the army following the war ( Custer went from brevet major general to Lt . Col . in the regular army ) Brittles had to be satisfied with the rank of Captain . His wife and children died ( presumably of some epidemic illness at the post - they are buried nearby ) . His old orderly from the war , Quincannon ( Victor McLaglen ) is still serving him . But he is facing a crisis . His thirty years means retirement , unless the army decides to promote him to Colonel . Despite the debacle in Montana , it is not too likely that the politically unconnected Brittles will get the promotion his fine abilities deserve . So we are watching an old soldier slowly fade away in this film . Brittles is aware he has days before he is to leave ( unless a promotion turns up ) , and he has to try to keep the hot blooded Indian braves , impressed at what they just saw Crazy Horse and the Lakota forces accomplish , go on the warpath . He also has to keep his two most promising young officers ( John Agar and Harry Carey Jr . ) concentrating on their careers rather than fighting over Joanne Dru . He is worried too for Sgt . Quincannon , who is likewise going to be leaving the army a few days after Brittles . Will Quincannon's drunken , roistering ways ruin his chances to maintain his pension ? And he has to keep an eye on the suspicious behavior of the local fort sutler ( Paul Fix ) is up to - can he be running guns ? Whatever he faces , he faces unflinchingly , and his motto is never to apologize - it's a sign of weakness . For all the anachronisms listed on this thread , such as the 48 star flag ( in 1876 ? ) , Ford got the time and place perfect in what counts . Note the fascinating relationship of Brittles and Sgt . Tyree ( Ben Johnson ) . 1876 was a crossroad year for the U . S . regarding the results of the Civil War . In the negative , a questionable Presidential election result was solidified when three southern states agreed to support the Republican ( Rutherford Hayes ) over the Democrat ( Samuel Tilden ) in return for the Federal troops being pulled out of the south and the official end of Reconstruction policies benefiting southern African-Americans . One can't deny that is still a stain in American history ( despite Hayes excellent handling of the Presidency afterwords ) . But the former foes were finding less and less reason to dislike each other , and more and more to admire the grit both sides had shown . During the Civil War , Tyree was a Confederate Captain - he was Brittles ' equal in rank . Once the war ended , after a few years , he joins the American Army and rises to the rank of Sergeant . Technically he is not as high a Sergeant as Quincannon , who is Brittles ' aide . But Brittles constantly treats Tyree as a full equal , consulting him again and again on how to move next when going out of the fort to confront the Indian threat . The highpoint of this respect is when one of Tyree's " soldiers " , " Trooper Smith " turns out to be a former Confederate cavalry leader named Rome Clay , and dies of wounds in an action against the Indians . Brittles and his men watch silently while Tyree and his fellow southern soldiers bury Clay properly with his flag , the Confederate one . In terms of relations between the whites of the North and South , SHE WORE A YELLOW RIBBON is miles away from the confrontations of , say THE PRISONER OF SHARK ISLAND . There John Carridine's northern officer has nothing but fanatical contempt for Dr . Mudd , whom he considers evil for helping John Wilkes Booth . Until the end of that film , Carridine takes a sadistic interest in making Warner Baxter regret his every move . The events of THE PRISONER was from 1865 - 1869 ( when Mudd finally returned to Maryland ) . This is seven years afterwords . There are other little historical pointers . The rivalry of immigrant groups is shown when Quincannon is facing rival Sergeant Hochbauer , who openly dislikes the former as an overbearing Irishman ( Hochbauer being a German ) . There is the civilian clothes that are meant for Brittles ( complete with " Muller cut-down hat " ) that Quincannon ends sampling ( which leads to his hysterically funny fight with Hochbauer and the other soldiers meant to take him to the guardhouse ) . Quincannon insists he is not out of uniform ( technically he is ) but is simply dressed as a retired gentleman should be . Yes , in 1876 , that would be the dress of a retired gentleman . I like this film . The characterizations of the all the actors are strong , and Ford had great set pieces in it . Perhaps not as great a film as THE SEARCHERS ( which is more meaty and dark ) , but a top notch Western all the same .
James Barrie's literary fame has never disappeared , but it has shrunk terribly . Although of late this seems to be changing , in reality it is still grounded on one work of his . He wrote the novel and then the play PETER PAN , immortalizing Peter , Wendy , her brothers , the lost boys , Captain Cook , Smee , the pirate crew , Tiger Lily and the Indians , and Tinker Bell the fairy . The recent film about how Barrie created the play was a success last year - but it remains firmly in place dealing with the one story everyone recalls Barrie created . Forgotten , of course , is the various novels about Scottish life that gave him his early literary reputation . Best of these was THE LITTLE MINISTER , which was turned into a successful early movie with Katherine Hepburn . He also wrote other successful West End plays , such as DEAR BRUTUS ( which was an early starring work for Helen Hayes ) , and this play : THE ADMIRABLE CRICHTON . Yet Barrie's plays ( pace PETER PAN ) are rarely produced - especially on television . The original " Admirable Crichton " was a figure in Elizabethan England , who had made a name for himself as a scholar ( especially of languages ) , courtier , lover , minor writer , and adventurer , before he was killed in a fight in the late 16th Century . Ironically the term " the admirable Crichton " which was to complement the man for his achievements survived his actual achievements , so that he is but a footnote today . But the phrase now means ( when it is used ) that the person to whom it is applied is quite a clever and capable fellow in several fields . Barrie took this to examine society and it's hypocrisy . Lord Loam ( Laurence Naismith ) is an outspoken " Liberal " peer of the realm who talks a great deal about equality and democracy . But his daughter ( Virginia McKenna ) is going to be married to another aristocrat soon . But first Loam and his family are going on a short vacation to the south seas . With them is the family butler , Crichton ( Bill Travers ) , who is extremely capable to do all sorts of things that his betters just take for granted . He has good executive and organizational abilities as well . But he is from a class that produces butlers . Moreover he is supposedly engaged to one of the parlor-maids . The family and Crichton board a chartered yacht . Ah , but it is sunk in a collision off a deserted island , and while everyone survives the social order does not . Crichton is the only one in the group who knows how to survive . When some of the men try to put him in his place , he knocks them down firmly putting them in theirs . Soon Crichton is ruling the group and the island , and his Lordship and the others are his vassals . This includes Lady Mary ( McKenna ) who finds she and Crichton are in love . The turning point comes when their is a possibility of rescue : will Crichton send the signal or let it pass to continue his uninterrupted reign over his mental inferiors . It was only shown once , and I recall the performances were good , especially McKenna and Travers ( fresh from their film triumph in BORN FREE ) . One hopes it is released again one day - revivals of all of Barrie aside from PETER PAN are still quite rare .
The tale of the last great ruler of Ancient Egypt , Cleopatra , has been the subject of many films . Theda Bara played her in 1917 . That version ( if it still exists ) is rarely seen - and if it were the broad gestures of early silent movies would probably strike us as funny . Nearly twenty years later , in 1934 , Claudette Colbert did a wonderful job as the Queen of the Nile under the guidance of Cecil B . DeMille . In 1946 England produced CAESAR AND CLEOPATRA with Claude Rains sharing acting honors with Vivien Leigh , to dialog by Bernard Shaw . Finally came this 1963 version - which is different from most of the others ( the 1946 is the closest to it for a different reason ) . The 1963 version with Elizabeth Taylor , Richard Burton , and Rex Harrison is remembered for the beginning of the Taylor - Burton relationship which destroyed their respective marriages , and got more news coverage than any items of that period except for the Cuban Missile Crisis and the assassination of President Kennedy . The film is also remembered for being ( up to that time ) the most expensive " flop " film of American movie history . It cost ( in 1963 money ) twenty five million dollars , which was nearly twenty two million over original budget . Which is why the 1946 version is also so similar - it was the most expensive film of the British cinema up to that time , and it too was a box office flop . The film was a mess - it was started without decent control of budget and cast from 20th Century Fox's leadership . The original filming was in England under Rouben Mamoulian , but he got no where with his stars ( they included Peter Finch as Caesar and Stephen Boyd as Anthony ) . He was replaced by Joseph Mankiewicz , at the demand of Taylor ( who had worked well with him on SUDDENLY LAST SUMMER ) . Mankiewicz tried to give coherence to the script - and eventually created a plan for a six hour , two part movie first about Cleopatra and her romance with Gaius Julius Caesar , and then her relationship with Marc Anthony . Mankiewicz apparently shot that much ( or almost that much ) but the leadership at 20th Century Fox was changed , and Darryl Zanuck returned to command . Zanuck insisted on a single long film - the four hour version that most of us have seen . Despite the cuts , the remaining film is quite a worthy one . It is attacked as pompous because the dialog is more formal than ours - it is based on Plutarch , Suetonius , and other ancient Latin and Greek historians , as well as Shakespeare ( and a little of Shaw ) . But the basic story of the princess who fought her way to the oldest throne in the ancient world , and twice came close to being the lover / wife of the most powerful man in the Roman Empire . The supporting cast is fine , including Hume Cronym as an Egyptian adviser to Taylor , and ( possibly the best performance ) Roddy MacDowell as Octavian ( later Emperor Augustus ) who is a compound of brains , suspicions , and respect for his foes . Look at the end when he berates a soldier for dismissing Anthony as a drunken failure , reminding the soldier that he was one of Rome's greatest soldiers . Mankiewicz may lack De Mille's gift for special effects ( only eight years after THE TEN COMMANDMENTS ) but there were no miracles in the tale of Cleopatra - she used her wiles , her intelligence , her looks to beguile to powerful men , who also saw her as a key to their own ambitions . So there was no " parting of the Red Sea " here . But there is a fine production of the naval battle at Actium to really climax the second part of the story . For all the expense , the ego clashes , and the pompous language , CLEOPATRA remains a good epic film retelling of a remarkable ancient figure and her world . It's nice to note that after twenty years , it finally made a small profit from television rentals , foreign distribution , and later videos and DVDs .
In the pantheon of fine thriller and adventure novelists of the 20th Century , Eric Ambler has always been in a shadow . He began writing in the 1930s , and continued turning out novels ( and screenplays ) until his death in the 1980s . With a few exceptions these novels were all quite good . But he was in the shadow of his fellow Britain Graham Greene . Greene ( like Ambler ) wrote political thrillers and spy novels , but Greene ( a serious supporter of Catholicism ) was able to examine the universal hold of the Catholic religion in his novels like " The End Of The Affair " and " The Power And The Glory " . In particular , like Alfred Hitchcock , Greene enjoyed looking at how guilt makes us all shared sinners - like his Candide traveler innocent Holly Martins plunged into betraying his old friend Harry Lime in " The Third Man " . Ambler never ( sorry to say this ) had that kind of depth in his writing . He did reveal the hidden connections between economic realities and international politics in books like " A Coffin For Demetrios " , or " Cause For Alarm " or " The Intercom Conspiracy " . But he was not pushing a religious agenda and philosophy in his novels . So while he had ( and still has ) deserved popularity and readers , he never could achieve the thoughtful criticism that Greene could ( and still does ) arouse . His 1963 novel , " The Light Of Day " , was a kind of break from his usual . Instead of concentrating a plot dealing with the political realities of Europe or the Far East , " The Light Of Day " was a first person narrative of one Arthur Simpson ( played in the film by Peter Ustinov ) . Simpson is a small time con-man , who is hired to transport a car secretly full of illegal weapons to Istanbul from Greece . As relations between the two countries were fragile ( and still are ) , it would not be good for him to be caught by the Turkish Secret Service with those weapons . Unfortunately for him he is so caught . The mastermind of the crime has set things up for the registration of the car and the bill of sale for the arms to be in Simpson's name . But the frantic man manages to convince the Turkish officer interrogating him to believe he knew nothing about the weapons . Simpson has to continue on his way to Istanbul to keep an eye on the people behind this . He is kept on as a chauffeur , and subsequently discovers that the weapons are not part of an assassination plot or a plan to overthrow the government , but part of a robbery scheme . That is the plot of the novel . But Ambler makes Simpson an engaging rogue , and one fully ambivalent to the forces that make him feel like a tennis ball . By the time the novel is finished one does not care for the cynic who plans the crime , or for the Turkish police official . Both only see the fruition of their plans as important . Simpson is quite amusing , first in his honesty in seeing what a lowly toad of a small-time crook he is , and secondly his repeated abilities to create situations that make him believe he is controlling events when he really is not in such a position . As a comic novel , this may be Ambler's masterpiece . When the novel was turned into this first rate crime caper comedy , Jules Daissin had been making films in Europe for over a decade . Starting in Hollywood in the late 1940s , his best work ( " The Naked City ) suggested a major career in film here . But Daissin had left wing political ideas , and he was blacklisted . Unlike many of the victims of the blacklist , Daissin moved to France and continued movie making . His biggest hit was " Rafifi " , his painstaking look at a crime heist ( a jewelry robbery , no less ) , where he played the lead role as the safe cracker . The movie also showed the success of the robbery collapse when the thieves fall out over personal matters . After his marriage to Melina Mercouri , Daissin moved to Greece , and would make his two masterpiece comedies " Topkapi " and " Never On Sunday " ( again he starred as Homer , opposite Mercouri in that film ) . But Daissin also took advantage , when he made " Topkapi " , to alter the script . In the novel there is no character like Mercouri's Elizabeth Lipp . The scheme is totally planned by the male character that Maximillian Schell plays . The weapons are involved in the jewel robbery scheme , but here there is a difference that Daissin brought into Ambler's story . Simpson ( in the novel ) never goes into great detail about the robbery - he is only there as the chauffeur for the getaway car , so he is sitting outside when the robbery takes place . But for the creator of RIFIFI , Daissin could not resist creating a second complicated robbery scheme , involving setting up an alibi at a public wrestling match , delaying the movement of a lighthouse , using pulleys and tackle to lower a man through a window into the main room of a museum , and criss-crossing the Topkapi Palace / Museum roof without being seen . He does this very well . The cast ably assists , with Mercouri as an honest nymphomaniac who loves jewelry , Schell as her partner and sometimes lover , Robert Morley as a mechanical genius who manages to wipe axle grease on his face in a quick comedy highlight , Akim Tamiroff as a drunken Turkish cook who hates the foreigners ( except Simpson ) and only likes the British , and best - Ustinov as the sweaty , hopelessly over-his-head Simpson . It was a role that won Ustinov his second Best Supporting Actor Oscar . I notice there is a lament that , despite the ending , there was never any sequel film . I suspect this was due to Ambler , who did write a second novel narrated by Simpson , about a land grab in Africa . It is not as good as " The Light Of Day " , and has never been filmed .
In 1976 Jack Klugman , James Franciscus , and Elizabeth Ashley made a clever television mystery , ONE OF MY WIVES IS MISSING , which is about a weird extortion scheme by an impostor . It was remade ( in my opinion slightly better ) in 1986 with Elliot Gould , Mike Farrell , and Margot Kidder in the lead roles . I say better because , while the supporting cast of ONE OF MY WIVES IS MISSING , was good , this remake had Fred Gwynne in a pivotal role as a somewhat shady clergyman - an ally of Kidder's in her scheme . There was also a nice bit by that underrated supporting actor Graham Jarvis ( MARY HARTMAN , MARY HARTMAN ) as a holistic doctor who gets dragged into the mystery . Finally the writer / producers in this were the creators of Lt . Columbo , William Link and Richard Levinson . They improved the script a bit , particularly with Gwynne's role . The story is the same - Farrell is the newlywed husband who had an argument with his wife , and she left their cabin in high dudgeon . When he reports this to officer Elliot Gould , suddenly the door opens and Kidder comes in begging Farrell's forgiveness for the argument and her snit . But Farrell insists she is a fake . Gould , thinking he's been the victim of a joke , leaves disgusted . And then Kidder reveals her larcenous demands on Farrell unless he wishes to have serious problems with the law . Farrell , forced to go along with her demands , keeps looking for a chance to get Gould to come back and investigate a bit more . But when Gould reappears a " witness " shows up to support Kidder - a Catholic clergyman played by Gwynne . Of course once Gould leaves again , Farrell faces now two extortionists working some badger game on him . Again the tension is maintained by a good cast and the improved dialog of the script . What is going on ? Where is Farrell's wife , and what have Kidder and Gwynne done with her ? Will Jarvis , who has stumbled into the mystery accidentally , help Farrell overcome these villains ? And what is Gould up to . . . for he to begins acting oddly after awhile ? Again the ending catches the viewer by surprise ( unless they saw the original television film ) . Certainly worth catching if it is shown again as one of the best television mystery films .
This novel-turned-to-television play is set in the late 1870s . At that time pugilism , which was about to be organized by the Marquis of Queensbury's rules , was turning away from the old fashioned style of boxing called " bare-knuckled " boxing . Before one boxed with boxing gloves the boxers hit each other without any protective gear . It was very bloody as a result - in fact the boxers had a good chance of doing permanent damage to each other's faces , as well as to their hands . So it was considered very dangerous and forbidden by law . But there were boxing fans who were willing to pay a great deal of money to see the old fashioned " bare-knuckled " fights . This is the background of THE DETECTIVE WORE SILK DRAWERS . Cribb and Thackeray are sent by Jowett to investigate the discoveries in the Thames of the beheaded bodies of several men - who appear to be pugilists . From the states of their bodies they have been involved in bare-knuckled fighting . So Cribb is disguised as a fight manager - promoter . Assigned to help him is Constable Henry Jago , a new police officer who is the champion amateur boxer of Scotland Yard . He is to be Cribb's pug , whom Cribb is to try to get into the illegal fights . Hopefully he will find who is putting on the illegal fights , and is responsible for the murders . The twist in this story is that Jago is under Cribb in this investigation , but is treated with more deference than Cribb by Jowett . It seems Jago is from the upper middle class , and ( as I have mentioned in other reviews of this series ) Cribb is lower class . This will have an effect at the end of the story that is natural for the age of Victorian England , but certainly less than fair to the fans of the Sergeant .
Wallace Beery was a complicated man . He was ( from what I have read of him ) a nasty customer in many ways - he skirted the edge of the law on several occasions . But he was an entertaining performer , in both drama ( CHINA SEAS , THE CHAMP ) or comedy ( DINNER AT EIGHT , A DATE WITH JUDY ) . Although his Oscar ( in the first tie vote in Academy history - with Fredric March in DR . JECKYL AND MR . HYDE ) was for THE CHAMP , in some ways his most sympathetic role was as Pancho Villa in VIVA VILLA . It is rather curious that this film , the first really serious sound film to study the Mexican Revolution , picked up on Villa as the hero , rather than Francisco Madero , the original leader of the revolution in 1910 . Madero appears in the film ( played by Henry B . Walthall , in a good performance ) , but it is Villa's story ( or what passes for it ) . He was more colorful than the unfortunate Madero , now best recalled for his murder in 1913 by General Huerta . Villa was a highly successful bandit ( a model for Alfonso Badoya's great bandit in THE TREASURE OF SIERRA MADRES ) , who did support some amount of social reform for the lower classes - but he never was as committed to it as his southern rival Zapata . In fact , when Villa finally ended fighting the government , he retired to a large landed estate he had acquired . But he had great color . . . for good or bad . On one occasion he was giving an interview to a newspaperman , when he noted a drunken soldier who was making too much noise , so that he could not hear the newsman's questions . Quietly , without looking vicious or nasty , Villa took out his gun and shot and killed the soldier . He then resumed the interview with the horrified newsman . Villa was like that . He considered his killing someone like that natural . He was an odd man , very childlike at times , very cunning ( to a point rather clever as a military strategist ) , and highly murderous when angered . He loved women , and would " marry " many to satisfy their scruples if they hesitated having sex with him . This led Theodore Roosevelt to make the rather loopy comment that Villa was an evil murderer and bigamist . Villa was also the last man in history ( prior to Osama Ben Laden's tools ) to attack the continental United States . Angered that President Woodrow Wilson stopped supporting him and his men in 1916 , Villa attacked Columbus , New Mexico , killing several Americans . The failure of the Carranza government to arrest or catch Villa led Wilson to blunder into Mexican affairs by sending General John Pershing and a large armed force into northern Mexico to catch Villa . Villa led Pershing a merry chase , and finally the Americans had to withdraw in humiliation . Actually that was his highpoint as a public figure . Within two years his army was in ruins and he had to surrender to the government forces . He retired to his ranch , only to be assassinated by personal enemies in 1923 . Beery was not the only actor to play Villa . Yul Brynner and Telly Savalas both played the role in films too . But the Beery film is best in making the Mexican into a tragic hero . He is an overgrown child , who needs a father figure to bring out his best side ( briefly found in Madero ) , and does not fully know when he does wrong . But he also has a sense of right and wrong : witness his willingness to humiliate himself before his enemy General Pascal ( Joseph Schildkraut ) , to save lives - only to find that Madero has pardoned him already . Later , when he learns that Madero was betrayed and murdered by Pascal , he captures the General and gives the latter a brutal punishment , but one that the audience fully supports . His friendship with the John Reed character ( Stu Erwin as Johnny Sykes ) shows that he was capable of being a more reasonable man , but was troubled by his behavior and his failures . He never did fully deliver the reforms to Mexico that he had pledged Madero he would bring . In the end , as he lays dying , Sykes is there to comfort him - telling him how Mexico will honor his memory . But he dies crying the line in the " summary " line above - what had he done wrong indeed ! Not the historic Villa , but a worthy portrait of a fascinating man .
The Stewart Granger - Deborah Kerr movie version of Anthony Hope's THE PRISONER OF ZENDA is an entertaining film , but it comes off second best to it's 1937 predecessor with Ronald Colman and Madeleine Carroll . The fact that the film was in Technicolor ( Colman's was in black and white ) is odd but possibly part of the reason for the slightly lesser result . All of the performers in the 1952 version did very good work that was comparable to the work that the previous cast did . Yet the later film is not quite as good . According to the Turner Classic Movie's Stewart Granger was at a dinner at Ronald Colman's house where they ran the 1937 film as entertainment . Granger liked the film and convinced MGM to do a remake . The film was like a scene by scene remake - with a small screen set up showing the original film for the cast to review when they did their scenes . The only changes was the production crew , the cast and the color film stock . Granger comes off as good as Rudolf Rassendyl and King Rudolf V , but he is a trifle self conscious . When Colman played the part he had a great lightness of touch that helped color his performance ( particularly when dealing with both Douglas Fairbanks Jr . as Rupert of Hentzau and Raymond Massey as Black Michael ) . Granger tries to copy this but it seems a little forced . It's odd because he had an advantage over Colman regarding the cast - Rupert in the 1952 film was played by James Mason , who had already appeared in two films ( as deadly adversary ) to Granger ( THE MAN IN GRAY and FANNY BY GASLIGHT ) . Colman never appeared opposite Fairbanks in any previous movie to their version of THE PRISONER . As a result there is a screen chemistry between Granger and Mason , but it doesn't translate to a better pair of performances . Some critics point out that Mason seems to old for Rupert , but except for being called " Young Hentzau " by Colonel Sapt ( Louis Calhern ) there is nothing to suggest he is in his early 20s . However , Fairbanks was leaner in appearance than Mason , so that his youthful qualities did shine through while Mason's just did not do so . The part of Michael is handled by Robert Douglas as though he is just jealous of his half-brother's luck of birth . Yet he is shown with one thing that Raymond Massey's performance did not have - Massey was not crippled . Douglas constantly walks with a cane , which suggests a physical weakness that is a mirror to his emotional one . But it's too little , and it is never really developed . Deborah Kerr's Flavia is appealing ( any performance of Kerr's is appealing ) but Madeleine Carroll was able to get the jolt of that sense of duty that prevents Rassendyl and Flavia from leaving at the end - Kerr seems to be just repeating her lines by rote in their last scene . Mary Astor and Jane Greer both were equally affective as Michael's mistress , as were C . Aubrey Smith and Louis Calhern as Sapt ( Calhern was able to give a devilish twist to the Colonel at one point when commenting on a hidden passage in the royal palace at Streslau which was useful for protecting royal reputations ) . David Niven and Robert Coote were Fritz von Tarkeheim in the two versions , and both played the role effectively but not remarkably . The color was useful in the 1952 film in making the sets more evocative of that period from 1890 to 1897 ( Victoria's upcoming Jubilee is mentioned at one point ) . But it only goes so far - it just reminds us that the characters are in a realistic setting . But the story is such romantic fluff that the realism seems unimportant . In short the 1952 film is really good , but the earlier one is nearly perfect in comparison . I still would stick to Colman's version than Granger's . As for the 1979 Peter Seller's spoof , or the 1975 Malcolm MacDowell " George Macdonald Fraser's " ROYAL FLASH , or the 1965 partial spoof in the Blake Edwards ' THE GREAT RACE , they are in a special class as they are not serious remakes but done for laughs mostly .
Sir Anthony Hope Hawkins was a successful London barrister , who got his measure of permanent fame as the author of several novels . Some were quite popular in their day , like " The Dolly Dialogues " and " The Man In The Car " ( which bases it's central figure on Cecil Rhodes ) . But it is his two " Ruritanian " Romances , " The Prisoner Of Zenda " and " Rupert Of Hentzau " that are the main novels he is recalled for , especially " The Prisoner Of Zenda " . Set in a middle European kingdom , it was ( for it's day in the last decades of the 19th Century ) an updating of the swashbuckling novels of Alexandre Dumas . Dumas had some stories set in " modern Europe " ( " The Count Of Monte Cristo " is set in the period of 1815 - 1830 , and was written in 1844 - 1845 ) , but most were in earlier periods , such as the 16th , 17th , and 18th Centuries . Hope Hawkins ( who wrote under the name Anthony Hope ) figured that there was sufficient intrigue and deviltry in modern Europe to transplant the plot style to the 1870s - 1890s . And there was considerable intrigue , especially in Eastern Europe . In the 1880s Prince Alexander of Battenberg seemed set to become first Prince or King of Bulgaria . He had won admiration in Europe for his stunning victories over the armies of the Kingdom of Serbia in a war of 1885 ( the war that was the background to Shaw's ARMS AND THE MAN ) , and was poised to get his crown , when the Russian Empire balked . They thought Alexander was too pro-German , and too close ( due to family relationships ) to Great Britain . So Alexander was toppled , and forced to leave Bulgaria under very humiliating circumstances . Eventually Prince Ferdinand of Saxe-Coburg got the Bulgarian throne . " The Prisoner Of Zenda " is not based on the story of Alexander of Battenberg , but it shows the type of conspiracy atmosphere that pervaded the area . Basically the plot is an old one of substitutions concerning political figures . Dumas had used one in " The Vicomte De Bragalone " , a huge multi-volume novel that included " The Man In The Iron Mask " . One of the theories about the Iron Mask ( the one that Dumas used ) was that it was the twin brother of King Louis XIV . In that novel D'Artagnan has to thwart a plot to replace the Sun King with his brother - a plot that almost succeeds . Hope changed this slightly . Here the King is threatened by his ambitious half-brother , and the King's distant twin cousin replaces him to save the throne . The 1937 film version of the novel is usually considered the best of several ( including the 1951 version with Stewart Granger and Deborah Kerr , and a comic version with Peter Sellers and Lionel Jeffries in 1978 ) . David Selznick was the producer , this being part of his series of movies-based-on-famous-novels that included " A Tale Of Two Cities " ( also with Colman ) , " David Copperfield " ( with W . C . Fields ) , and finally " Gone With The Wind " . His casting was top notch , with Colman supported by Madeleine Carroll , Douglas Fairbanks Jr . , Raymond Massey , Mary Astor , C . Aubrey Smith , and David Niven . It is an exciting and well made film , and definitely worth watching . Selznick hoped to do the sequel " Rupert Of Hentzau " , but that book is a comparative downer . Several of the main characters from the first novel are killed , and one of them shows a less likable side to his personality than in the first story . He toyed with a total rewrite of the story , to try to make Fairbanks a hero instead of a villain . The project never reached fruition . Probably just as well . It is rare for a successful film production to be replicated in a sequel .
HORSE FEATHERS , the fourth of the five Paramount Marx Brother Movies , is one of their best - tackling the world of higher education in America . Groucho is the latest of the Presidents of Huxley College , which is doing very badly ( apparently ) not because of poor scholastic standards but due to not having a successful football team . His son ( Zeppo ! ) steers him toward solving this issue , but with typical Groucho ineptness he thinks the two semi-professional football players he is looking for are Harpo and Chico . He proceeds to regret his own mistake , until the climactic football game . The music numbers of this film are well remembered , particularly Groucho's introduction ( " I'M AGAINST IT ! " ) and " Everyone Says I love you " . The latter was sung to the anti-heroine of the story , Thelma Todd in her second and last film with the brothers . Thelma plays the " college widow " , a popular fictional figure in early 20th Century American humor - a euphemism for an ever-ready widow of a college professor who was there to have sex with students or the staff . George Ade , the humorist who wrote FABLES IN SLANG , wrote a play called " THE COLLEGE WIDOW " in the teens of the 20th Century . Thelma is certainly effective as the vamp trying to help David Landau ( President of Darwin College ) get the football signals of Huxley College . Her scenes with Groucho and Chico are quite funny . Chico is playing the piano and she sings . She says she has a falsetto voice . Chico says that's all right , his aunt has a false set of teeth . And Groucho , when taking Thelma for a boat trip throws her a lifesaver ( literally ) , while returning with a duck who interrupted his singing . The final football game is the second best spoof of college football on film ( the one in Harold Lloyd's THE FRESHMAN is a better one ) . In the end we see the boys demolish football huddles , football signals , even hot dogs ( poor Nat Pendleton ) . A delightful antique , it is well worth watching . This is one film I'm not against .
One year after arranging for the near destruction of the Earth by invaders from Mars ( 1898 ) , H . G . Wells turned the story around and had humans invade another heavenly body - the moon . THE FIRST MEN IN THE MOON , written in 1899 , created a bit of controversy when it appeared . Jules Verne was still alive , and he had some proprietary interests in the Moon , as he sent three men ( two Americans and a Frenchmen ) to the moon in 1865 ( FROM THE EARTH TO THE MOON ) , and returned them to earth in a sequel in 1870 ( AROUND THE MOON ) , and - although most people don't recall it - had the Americans and their gun club associates try to use the " Columbiad " cannon to affect the earth's tilt ( in THE PURCHASE OF THE NORTH POLE in 1889 ) . Verne's moon cannon and projectile , despite some amazing predictions regarding it's physical location and the time to reach the moon ( four days ) , is now known to be erroneous due to the power of the explosion to reduce the projectile to dust . But it was cutting edge science in 1865 , and it was based on everyday physical items of use , like gun-cotton and steel . Verne dismissed his English rival's work , asking where M . Wells found his Cavorite . The reply of Wells is not known . Actually , Wells does tackle the subject of Cavorite a little towards the last page ( literally ) of the novel . Cavor , in his final moments of desperation for help from his fellow men , tries to send the formula for Cavourite , and we learn it is based on hydrogen ( the lightest of all elements ) . However , Cavor stops the transmission , probably cornered by the Selenites , with a final message of " Uless " , meaning probably " Useless . " The film version does expand the story quite well , especially in the performances of Lionel Jeffries as Joseph Cavor , Edward Judd as Arnold Bedford , and Martha Hyer as Kate Callender . Jeffries normally played comic parts ( like his dim-witted policemen in TWO WAY STRETCH and THE WRONG ARM OF THE LAW ) . He did do overly excitable dramatic characters , like his Marquiss of Queensbury in Peter Finch's film about Oscar Wilde . But Cavor may have been his best acting job , as he ends up sacrificing himself to save Judd and Hyer , and to somehow restrain the thousands of Selenites who seek mankind's destruction . His act is also one of guilt , as his overly chatty admissions about the militarism and destructive activities of human beings brings about the final decisions to destroy man by the Selenite people . Judd's career was mostly in science fiction . He rarely had one of the three leads in a film , and he makes the most of it as he blindly goes ahead financing Cavor's anti-gravity experiments , despite warnings of how dangerous they are ( with the collapsing smokestack of Cavor's chimney as a reminder ) . He also , by not leveling with his girlfriend Hyer , gets her tangled up in the trip to the moon , and ends up endangering her as well as Jeffries and himself . Ms Hyer's performance is not in the original story ( as Arlene Dahl's appearance in the film version of JOURNEY TO THE CENTER OF THE EARTH is not in that book either . It was thrown in to make the story more scary , as there were now three intrepid explorers to the Moon , one of whom was female . It really was not needed , but it was a good move , as Ms Hyer turns out to be a welcome addition to the cast . She has one moment of unintentional comedy . The Selenites are examining their unwanted visitors , and we see a screen ( some type of x-ray device ) and a skeleton on the screen ( a full skeleton . We hear Ms Hyer talking angrily about being violated , and she walks out from in back of the screen - her clothes all on . The violation was the x-ray machine revealing so much ( her skeleton ? ) . Ray Harryhausen adds to his memorable stable of animated clay figures with his moon cow - a centipede type monster that the space travelers manage to kill . We see the Selenites strip it of it's meat , leaving a large skeleton behind . Altogether a superior science fiction film .
Anthony Trollope's position as a leading British novelist is established today in a way that would seem odd to our grandparent's generation of 1900 - 1930 . He seemed so quaint and old hat , having little of the fire and exuberance of Dickens , the passions of the Bronte sisters , the intellectual realism of George Eliot , or the mystical tragedy of Thomas Hardy . He got high grades for being amusing , mostly due to the novels he wrote of the cathedral city of Barchester in the county of Barset . As this comprised only seven or eight novels out of his over seventy titles , it was like a polite slap in the face . However , after 1930 , prodded in part by the book EARLY VICTORIAN NOVELISTS by Lord David Cecil , Trollope ( like his Amercian contemporary , Herman Melville ) began to get reassessed . His novels about the Palisser family were noted for their tireless realism in showing the political world . Novels like THE WAY WE LIVE NOW showed a subtle and perceptive social critic , who saw the greed and selfishness that pervaded his society . And he never lost his sense of ironic humor either . Today , after Dickens and the Brontes and George Eliot , Trollope would come as the leading Victorian novelist . In fact , in readability , he would be higher than Eliot . The series THE BARCHESTER CHRONICLES dealt with two novels : THE WARDEN and BARCHESTER TOWERS . THE WARDEN deals with Reverend Septimius Harding , a kindly clergyman who has an 800 pound a year job ( a very good salary for 1855 - the year the novel was written ) taking care of a charity almshouse , that is supposed to be a home for about one dozen men . The charity was set up in the eighteenth century , and comes to the attention of a local reformer named John Bold , who ( misguidedly ) brings it to the attention of England's leading newspaper THE THUNDERER . Bold claims that the charity as handled by the church cheats the dozen men , who should be getting more of the money . THE THUNDERER leads the attack on the greedy clergy , particularly Harding . He is in a precarious position : his younger daughter Eleanor is being courted by John Bold , and his older daughter is married to Archdeacon Grantley . Harding does not like the negative publicity , and tries to get out of it , but Grantley ( a bullying type ) refuses to allow him . Bold tries to stop the campaign from hurting Harding , only to get a lecture from the power-hungry editor of the paper of not putting one's interests above the public . In the end Harding manages to resign . And the old men find that the promised increase in their money is non-existent , and Harding is replaced by a less sympathetic clergyman . BARCHESTER TOWERS takes place a year later . Grantley's father , the Bishop of Barchester dies . THE THUNDERER pushes the appointment of one Rev . Mr . Proudie , who is married to a very dominating type of wife , and has a curate , Mr . Slope , who is very efficient , very devious , and very ambitious . Trollope looks into the split between " High Church " and " Low Church " when dealing with Slope's " Low Church " views ( including cutting down expenses by reducing church choirs ) . This is opposed by the old guard of Grantley , Harding , and Dean Arabin . They call in all their various allies , including Dean Stanhope , who has been living with his family in Italy for ten years . The Proudies and Slope use every possible weapon against the old guard to push their religious reforms agenda . But Slope is looking for a wealthy wife ( he wants to have power base away from Mrs . Proudie ) . Mary Harding had married John Bold , and had a son by him , but Bold has died , and she's a wealthy widow . Grantley can't stand the idea of Slope as a brother-in-law . Bertie Stanhope , a son of the returned Dean , is handsome , but somewhat weak . Slope presses his suit , but finds that Mrs . Proudie is critical ( it is affecting his position with the Bishop ) . Mary has to make a choice , and notes that Slope seems just as attracted to Bertie's sister , Madame Neroni , as to her . Soon the social world of Barchester gets drawn heavily into the political and theological world in ways that are astounding . Donald Pleasance played Septimus Harding , making the most of his quieter side - he is far from his villainous Blofeld or similar characters here , and quite effectively so . Nigel Hawthorne's Grantley is properly pompous , as Alan Rickman's Slope greasy . David Gwillim as John Bold is properly well intentioned , but chews off more than he can handle . Janet Maw is Eleanor Harding Bolt , and was adequate . Her sister Susan was Angela Pleasance ( the daughter of the man playing her character's father ) . Susan Hampshire was Madame Neroni , the woman who tempts Slope . And Clive Swift is the Bishop who is as wife dominated as his later Richard Bucket was by Hyacinth in KEEPING UP APPEARANCES . The series was very good , but oddly enough it was not followed up by the other novels of the complete series that Trollope wrote .
Business is bad at Grace Brothers , and Mr . Rumbold ( Nicholas Smith ) calls for a meeting of the staff to discuss ways of bringing business into the store . Besides the initial problem of getting the women's and men's wear department people in at some point , the meeting finds a depressing lack of ideas , except for one fairly sensible one : Captain Peacock ( Frank Thornton ) figures that a fashion show would certainly make people aware of the good and practical clothing sold at the store . In typical fashion Rumbold ( who is usually befuddled and timid , except when throwing his own importance around ) appropriates Peacock's idea only changing the title of the fashion show . The episode's last ten minutes show an impatient Young Mr . Grace ( Harold Bennett - he's impatient because he does not want to miss the Walt Disney cartoon at the movies , where he is going after work ) watching a make-ship fashion show by the staff to get an idea of what the concept is . In typical fashion the costumes of the personnel mirror their personalities ( Peacock dressed like a prosperous professional and strutting about ; Mr . Humphreys - John Inman - flouncing around in an elegant but flamboyant outfit ) . In the end , Mr . Grace makes a sensible suggestion ( for a change ) that brings some discomfort to Mr . Rumbold .
It would be of interest to study the dramatists of late 19th Century through 20th Century Hungary . The only one who has left a lasting imprint to most theatergoers in the U . S . and England ( and the English - speaking world ) is Ferencz Molnar , best recalled for LILLIOM and THE PLAY'S THE THING . But Ernst Lubitsch was born in middle Europe and frequently turned to German , Austrian , and Hungarian dramatists for his movie scripts . It is to him that we owe the discovery of Miklos Lazslo's THE SHOP AROUND THE CORNER , which has a remarkable track record : it is one of the few stage plays that was the basis for three successful movie versions . THE SHOP AROUND THE CORNER was the first and possibly the best ( YOU'VE GOT MAIL may actually be the best , depending on who you talk to ) . The middle one is IN THE GOOD OLD SUMMERTIME , which was the first musical version ( there was a second , successful musical , for Broadway , called SHE LOVES ME ) . Oddly enough , it is the only play by Lazslo that seems to have been discovered . Perhaps someone will look over his dramatic confections to see if anything else is worth taking . The plot of THE SHOP AROUND THE CORNER is very simple . James Stewart is Alfred Kralek , who is the chief salesman at Matuschek and Company , a leather goods store in Budapesth that is owned by Hugo Matuschek ( Frank Morgan ) . Kralek is forced to work with Klara Novak ( Margaret Sullivan ) , an intelligent saleswoman ( who initially he resisted hiring ) , who seems to question all of his ideas and orders . In the meantime Kralek has started writing letters to a pen pal whom he has never met - a woman that attracts him . What he does not know is that Klara is the woman , and she is equally attracted to his pen-pal form . So they love each other in their letters , but ( not knowing each other's pen-pal personae ) they dislike each other in the flesh . However , their pen-pal versions set up a date , and this is jeopardized by a change in the usually jovial personality of Mr . Matuschek , who becomes very harsh towards Kralek ( up-to-then his " fair haired " boy ) . It turns out that Matuschek is aware that his wife is carrying on an affair with a male employee . He believes it is Kralek ( who has been invited over to Matuschek's home several times ) . Finally , he fires Kralek a week before Christmas , and the night that Kralek was to finally meet his pen-pal . Kralek does go to the meeting spot with his close friend and co-worker Pirovich ( Felix Bressart ) . He discovers Klara is his pen-pal , but he shows up ( as though by accident - he claims he's waiting for Pirovich who has gone home ) , and proceeds to needle Klara . Klara manages to finally get him to leave . But her " pen-pal " never shows up . In the end the actual villain is revealed , and Morgan does rehire Stewart . I won't go into the rest of the film - delightful as it is - but the film does surround itself with Christmas . The store has a banner Christmas sales ( an element rarely touched in Christmas stories ; the commercial side is usually not considered something to push in Christmas stories ) . And the romance is straightened out in an entertaining fashion . Stewart and Sullivan make a very appealing couple ( even when bickering ) . Morgan plays the comedy as he typically did , but his moments of anger and jealousy show he is really hurting ( and disappointed at his wife ) . Bressart makes an art out of running out of sight when his boss wants advice ( and he also has interesting views about apartments and having friends over for dinner ) . William Tracy ( as Pepi ) , who is the store's messenger boy , is wonderfully nasty at several points to Mrs . Matuschek and her boyfriend , and to the fellow whom he eventually hires as his replacement - and look at his wonderful brief scene with Edwin Maxwell as Matuschek's doctor . And Joseph Schildkraut , as Ferencz Vardas ( the villain ) is properly sleazy and sneaky ( although when Stewart is fired he shows he is feeling guilty about that ) . Perhaps not as soul enriching as IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE , but it's sweet presentation of a set of little people who find each other makes it one of the nicest of all film romantic comedies .
This is possibly the only first rate spy thriller , whose most classic set of dialog lines ( spoken by Max Von Sydow ) became the basis of a very funny moment in a " Seinfeld " Episode . Originally published as SIX DAYS OF THE CONDOR , the film title took a reduction of days to three . Robert Redford is working in what we would call a CIA " think tank " in Manhattan in an old brownstone . He reads there , and makes reports of what he reads . It is a pleasant enough job . One day he goes to work , not realizing that he and his fellow workers are all being watched and counted as they enter the building . They start working , but Redford goes out a back door to get some coffee . Soon the men outside come in , and shoot down all the people in the building . They note that Redford is not there , and that the back door is not locked , so they realize he stepped out . But time is of the essence , as the NYC police may be on the scene soon . So they leave before Redford returns . The film then follows what happens to Redford . He is horrified at the murder of all his colleagues , and tries to get some guidance from his contact ( Cliff Robertson ) but soon he is beginning to wonder if Robertson is really being so very helpful . He seems hesitant to assist Redford in figuring who committed this set of killings . And one attempt at a safe surrender ends in the murder of a close friend . The film is dated in one ironic manner - the meetings of Robertson and his C . I . A . boss ( John Houseman , at his most cynical weary ) are in the agency offices in the World Trade Center . But we see slowly what is at the base of this . There appears to be a rogue C . I . A . group acting here , and for patriotic motives ( in their own eyes ) . Von Sydow is a freelance assassin used by the C . I . A . , who has been involved in the massacre . Redford , realizing he can't trust Robertson or the latter's bosses , becomes his own protector , hiding out in Brooklyn Heights at the apartment of Faye Dunaway , and using a stolen port - o - phone used by telephone workers to telephone Robertson without being traceable . We follow the rest of this splendid thriller as Redford slowly finds out who did the dirty work , why , and gets his own back at the Agency . Oh yeah , SEINFELD . Remember the episode where Cosmo Kramer tried to start a movement to get people to drop all use of the U . S . Post Office . His pal Newman , realizing what Kramer is bucking , tries to warn him , while driving a postal truck ( Kramer is standing in the street ) , that one day a friendly face will offer him a ride in a postal truck . " Do not take that offer ! " warns Newman . But a moment later , Newman sees that two of the " Postal police " have seen him and Kramer together , and Newman tries to get Kramer into the truck . Unfortunately for both , Kramer has learned not to trust such offers . So both are caught . Kramer is then intimidated by a smooth as silk Postmaster General ( a splendid Wilford Brimley - whose golf game was just spoiled by all this ) . As a crestfallen Kramer leaves , he sees Newman brought in for his " punishment " tied up with a bucket over his head . " Tell my story to the world ! " , the postman squeals . A perfect comic salute to a first rate thriller .
George Bernard Shaw was very wary about allowing his movies to be filmed . He had seen movies by other famous writers and dramatists thoroughly rewritten for the screen , and thoroughly wrecked as a result . So the greatest English speaking dramatist of the 20th Century held off from any involvement with motion pictures into the 1930s . Then he met Gabriel Pascal . Mr . Pascal was thoroughly honest . He admitted he did not have a cent to his name , but he also admitted a desire to produce all of Shaw's major plays as movies exactly as Shaw wanted them shown . Shaw was impressed and made an agreement giving Pascal a monopoly on all his plays for movie making . In return , Shaw was to be involved in the productions . It turned out to be a remarkably small but fruitful partnership . Of the over fifty plays of Shaw's output ( not to mention several novels ) , only four were produced by Pascal . They are PYGMALION ( 1938 ) , MAJOR BARBARA ( 1940 ) , CAESAR AND CLEOPATRA ( 1945 ) , and ANDROCLES AND THE LION ( 1952 ) . They are all good films , and the first three have reason to be considered great . Shaw died in 1950 , so he was not there to see ( after Pascal's death ) the decline in standards of films based on his plays - such as Otto Preminger's brave attempt at ST . JOAN , and the wretched THE MILLIONAIRESS with Peter Sellers and Sophia Loren . PYGMALION was a good choice for the first of the series , probably as it was the most popular comedy by Shaw . It was also one of the most controversial plays because of the problem that bedeviled the original production of 1914 and has effected it ever since : how is it supposed to end ? Will Higgins and Eliza put aside their differences and admit they love each other and come together at the end ? Shaw clearly felt that Pygmalion Higgins and Galatea Doolittle were doomed not to end in an embrace . He wanted the audience to be left thinking of Eliza as one of the 20th Century's " New Women " , who is independent and strong , not just a piece of weak clay to be kneaded by an artistic and overpowering male ego . In the dialog ( which he uses in the play and in the movie script ) Shaw insisted that Eliza favors Freddy Eynesford-Hill over Higgins because Freddy is a weakling . All her life she has been dominated by strong men ( first her father Alfred , then Higgins , and ( although he is kinder ) Col . Pickering ) . Freddy is the first one to show his need for guidance and help - he is shown at the beginning of the play as little better than a servant for his mother and sister , getting them a cab in the rain . But Shaw did not have an easy time with this view . The play was produced by Sir Herbert Beerbohm Tree , one of England's leading stars of the Edwardian and Georgian stage ( he was brother of critic and writer Sir Max Beerbohm , and his son David Tree plays Freddy in this film version ) . Beerbohm Tree felt that there was a real romance between Higgins and Doolittle , and insisted on playing it like that , to the point of throwing a bouquet of flowers to Eliza as she is leaving . Shaw was furious at this , and wrote a seven page afterword which ( mercifully ) is never read at productions . I saw Peter O'Toole as Higgins in 1988 , with Amanda Plummer as Eliza , Lionel Jeffries as Pickering , and the late Sir John Mills as Alfred Doolittle , and the play ended on the right note of uncertainty wanted . It did not have a thin , bearded actor as Shaw coming out to read the afterward . In this afterward , Shaw said that Eliza learns from the brutal Higgins he is a confirmed bachelor devoted to his mother ( an interesting psychological point there that another play could have been built from ) . She does marry Freddy , and ( as Higgins had sneered ) things are tough - though not due to Freddy being unfaithful but that he is not very sharp . But Col . Pickering helps them set up a florist business , and after awhile it prospers . Clara Eynesford-Hill ( whose character is barely developed in the play or on the screen ) does become a friend of the socialist and novelist H . G . Wells . Alfred Doolittle , after getting speech lessons from Higgins , becomes a popular speaker and writer on social issues . As you can see , Shaw's anger got the better of him . Shaw was convinced by Pascal ( for business reasons ) to soften the conclusion , by showing Eliza fleeing Higgins in Freddy's car , Higgins walking alone through London to his home , slamming the door of his study , causing the phonograph to go on , playing a record of Eliza's old voice talking . As he sits with head in his hands , Eliza shows up at the door , turns off the machine , and starts talking as on the record . But Higgins realizes it is her , although he does not turn around . He sits back with a happy , if smug expression on his face , pulls his hat down over his eyes , and says ( shot from his back to Eliza ) , " Where the devil are my slippers , Eliza ? " It is suggestive of a meeting of two souls , but it leaves it still in the air . It is superior to that idiotic afterward . George Bernard Shaw won his only Oscar for a screenplay for PYGMALION . It is a brilliant play and script , given top notched direction by Anthony Asquith and Leslie Howard , with Howard giving one of his three top performances in it as Higgins - ably matched by Wendy Hiller as Eliza and Wilfred Lawson as Doolittle . And it's conclusion was so good , it was kept by Learner and Lowe for MY FAIR LADY on stage and screen .
If you remember any novel at all of Charlotte Bronte , it is JANE EYRE , her romance of a struggling governess who falls in love with a wealthy , mysterious land - owner whose ward needs an educator . It is the story that has been filmed most often of all of Bronte's novels ( three films and a series , as opposed to only one series based on VILLETTE and none for SHIRLEY or THE PROFESSOR ) . It is not as overpowering in it's appeal as her sister Emily's WUTHERING HEIGHTS , but it is ( for most people ) a good romantic novel . It is also one of the few Victorian novels that is read today ( in fact , it was used in an episode of FRIENDS , when Phoebe and Rachel are supposed to be in a literature night school class ) . What was unique about the novel when it was published in 1847 was that it was rare for a novel to be told from the perspective of lowly governess , and about unrequited love for her employer . This was really hot stuff for Victorian England ( though not as hot as Heathcliff and Cathy running wild on the moors of Yorkshire ) . The novel also gave Charlotte Bronte a chance to even one old score . The business about her being sent to the school run by Henry Brocklehurst was based on Charlotte's personal feelings about a school she had been sent to that was run by one William Carus Wilson . She felt Wilson was a hypocrite and tyrant ( this view has been disputed by scholars researching Bronte since the 19th Century ) . This is the best known version of the novel , but it is not as complete a version as one imagines . The early part of the novel , showing how Jane's aunt Mrs . Reed and her son John bully Jane ( as a poor relation ) is cut ( John doesn't even have any lines ) . Henry Daniell is effective as Brocklehurst , in that his religious tyranny over his students is shown , but the hypocrisy of his behavior ( in the novel his wife and daughters are fashionably dressed , as opposed to the girls in his school ) is not commented upon . The subplot concerning the Rivers cousins is not included in the film . Possibly this is wise , as it concentrates the narrative to Jane's hiring by Edward Rochester , her growing love for her " Byronic " employer , and her discovering of the shattering secret that derails their marriage . When the film was made Joan Fontaine was at the height of her career as a movie star . She had won her Oscar for best actress in SUSPICION only three years before . She fit the role of the quiet " plain Jane " heroine quite well . But in her memoirs NO BED OF ROSES she reveals that she did not like this film . Her co-star got on her nerves . Orson Welles did the role of Rochester because he was trying to demonstrate to Hollywood producers that he was quite a good actor , even if he was not directing as he wanted . But , as it turned out , he got involved in the production of the film - and he had some clashes with Fontane whom he thought was a spoiled star . That their scenes together worked is amazing . Of the others in the cast , the two I find most interesting are Elizabeth Taylor as the ill-fated Helen Burns , Jane's closest friend at Brocklehurst's school . It is a small part , but the beautiful young Taylor makes it heart-breaking . But also note the performance of Hillary Brooke as the fortune - hunting Blanche Ingram , who summarizes the reason for her defeat in this movie while playing billiards with her parents : " GOVERNESSES , MAMA ! ! "
Some comedians rely on plot and screenplay - such as the Marx Brothers , who have to have sharp dialog for Groucho and Chico , and some social target to aim at . So did W . C . Fields . But Laurel & Hardy were frequently at their best when they had a simple story line and just expanded the situation without words . IN BUSY BODIES they are going to work at a wood mill run by Tiny Sanford . They have to go to work by car , and we see them in a rare moment of pleasant peace with the world , listening to music on their car radio - or I should say car " radio " as it is something special . They arrive at the work site , and quickly have their first run in with Charlie Hall , causing him to become discomforted by a mild joke ( which he is not crazy about ) . But shortly they head inside , and keep getting into a variety of simple but effective sequences that are pure gold humor . First Ollie keeps getting hit in the head by co-workers with bars . Then Ollie's fingers get stuck in a window frame , that Stan can't quite get him out of . Curiously enough Stan starts showing a bit of initiative here - looking at a blueprint supposedly of the window frame . Ollie , impatiently points out it is a blue print for the Hoover / Boulder Dam ( why ? what's it doing there ? ) . Shortly occurs another confrontation with Hall , which ends with a surprising action by Stan . More mayhem ( including Stan having to give Ollie a shave with a wood plane - you have to be there to see it ) follows , topped by Ollie being shot through an air duct into crashing on top of a shed , demolishing it ( and nearly demolishing Tiny Sanford ) . The film ends with the boys trying to drive off in their Model T , only to find that a buzz saw has other other ideas . It is not as organized as say THE MUSIC BOX or HELPMATES , but it is as funny as those two sound shorts were . This is a delight to watch to see how the boys did so much with so little .
It's a little odd watching BREAKFAST AT TIFFANY'S and realizing that of it's main stars only Patricia Neal , Mickey Rooney , and Jose Luis de Villalonga ( who played the wealthy Brazilian in the movie ) are still alive , as is the director Blake Edwards . Audrey Hepburn , George Peppard , Buddy Ebsen , Martin Balsam , John McGiver , Alan Reed Jr . , Stanley Adams , and Dorothy Whitney are all gone , as is Truman Capote and George Axelrod and the cats who played " Cat " . The city of New York is still a fascinating one , but much of it has changed . For instance , the card catalogs of the 42nd Street Public Library that Holly Golightly and Paul Varjak visit are not in those card drawers as they showed in the film scene . They were photocopied into multi-volume sets of card catalog volumes in the early 1970s , and since then the remainder have been put on computers . Even in the late 1960s and early 1970s the reading room did not have any sculptures in them - just desks and library shelves and the central area to pick up the books you ordered . The period of the film is quite set in New York City in 1959 - 61 . Take a look at the " Halloween masks " on sale in the Woolworth's that Holly and Paul steal . Among the masks they try on is one of Huckleberry Hound , the Hanna-Barbera cartoon character who was popular in 1960 . It is mentioned on this thread that the mask reminds us of the lyrics in " MOON RIVER " regarding " my huckleberry friend " . But that reference was to " Huckleberry Finn " , and his being found on the Mississippi River ( possibly the original for the " Moon River " of the song ) . It had nothing to do with the cartoon character . ( Come to think of it , Woolworth's itself is a thing of the past - it having gone out of business five years ago . ) But the story is still quite compelling , and Holly remains Audrey Hepburn's best remembered performance ( even more than her Royal Princess in ROMAN HOLIDAY ) . Only her performance as Eliza Doolittle in MY FAIR LADY is as recalled by name , and Holly is more glamorous from the start . Holly is not really " Holly " but Lula Mae Barnes Golightly - one time second wife of Doc Golightly ( Ebsen ) , who tired of country living and got an annulment , and has only tried to get some financial footing to help herself and her brother Fred ( who is currently in the army ) . She has always found life hard ( Doc tells Paul that Lula and Fred were caught by him stealing turkey eggs when kids ) . So Holly discovers that only if she can be a sophisticate can she break her poverty routes . She is " discovered " by Hollywood movie boss O . J . Berman ( Balsam ) who classifies her as " a real phony " , meaning that she really buys the glitz and color he has taught her . But Holly is a call girl , and she has not found the man who can rescue her ( and brother Fred ) from poverty . She does find a fellow drifter - Paul Varjak , a writer and kept man for wealthy ( Mrs . Failenson ) . He is living in the apartment above Holly's , and the two do become close ( in the original story they only become confidants - Paul in the novel is gay ) . Slowly , in the film Paul finds that Holly is such a fragile type that he falls in love with her - unlike himself she needs protection . But she is determined to hook her millionaire - so she goes after " Rusty Trawler " the ninth richest man in the world , and " Jose Da Silva Pereira " - the wealthy Brazilian ) . In the meantime , to pay the rent between her " dates " Holly agrees to deliver " weather reports " from Sing Sing prison , where she visits mobster Sally Tomato ( Alan Reed in a really nice little cameo ) . She is unaware of the meaning of those messages . Holly is something of a classy feather-head , not being able to understand the reports of " snow " in New Orleans from Uncle Sally , nor being able to understand how she gets under the skin of her neighbor , the photographer Mr . Yunioshi ( Mickey Rooney ) . She drives the latter crazy by her constantly waking him up to let her into the apartment when she forgets her passkey , and also by her loud parties . Yet even Yunioshi is secretly captivated by this annoying neighbor : notice how she gets him to calm down by promising to allow him he'll photograph her in the buff . All the performances are fine ( of note see Ebsen in his saddest part , as the broken-hearted Doc , but notice too John McGiver's fine salesman at Tiffany's ) . Rooney's Yunioshi is now considered racist , but it was not seen as such in 1961 - in fact it was normal ( compare to Marlon Brando in TEAHOUSE OF THE AUGUST MOON ) . On the whole the film still is well worth watching .
While nothing can approach reading the actual novel , this television film version of THE MASTER OF BALLENTRAE is far better than the 1953 film version . At the very least it managed to recreate the real personality problems that appear in that egoist James Durrie . Michael York is shown to be an amoral , selfish human being from the start , when he is carrying on an affair with a poor girl of the local village - an affair that leaves the girl with a child that his family has to help support . York never shows any redeeming quality in his James Durrie . In fact one moment I recall ( which is not in the novel , but should have been ) is when he and his friend Col . Burke ( here Timothy Dalton ) are commenting on requests from the Durrie family to try to economize while they are living in Paris . York smiles and laughs that they will stop drinking so much brandy and only drink champaign from now on . Richard Thomas plays Henry far better than Anthony Steel did . Steel was too young in the role - he never grew into the money obsessed ant to York's spendthrift grasshopper that Thomas could grown into . But the writers watered it down a little , allowing Thomas to be a bit warmer than Henry is in the novel ( and allowing a genuine affection to grow between Thomas and his wife ) . It is a bearable change in the story . Similarly commendable is the worldwide scope of this film version : there are scenes in the novel in the Caribbean , Europe , and India , which are picked up on as we watch James traveling around the world with Burke . The only difference here is that Burke dies in India ( but significantly his death barely fazes his so-called friend James ) . The pirate section in the Caribbean is also changed because the pirate is Blackbeard ( called Captain Teach - Brian Blessed in a nice performance ) . I don't think that Blackbeard would have killed off his own crew as Blessed did , but it was an interesting section of the film . The finale of the novel in the upstate section of the colony of New York maintains the fantastic trick that Stevenson used in the novel - a trick which may be too fantastic . However , it's results are also watered down here , as only one fatality results . With all these alterations the story's bitterness is handled quite well . It certainly is a worthy addition to the films that have appeared based on Stevenson's works in the movies and on television .
Anthony Mann's westerns with Jimmy Stewart are slowly gaining for that director a position with John Ford and Howard Hawks as the best film director in that genre . He certainly knows how to give dimension to nice guy Stewart - in Mann's films there is an edge to Jimmy that is slowly demonstrated to the audience . In WINCHESTER ' 73 it was the relationship of Stewart to his brother and how it twists him into a figure of vengeance . Here it is a " I trust only myself " attitude , which leads to one complication after another . Even before the film properly begins he ( as Jeff Webster ) kills two of his hired cowboys who were helping on a cattle drive to Seattle because of some dispute ( we never are clear about it - either they wanted to leave the cattle drive , or they tried to steal the cattle ) . He meets his match in Skagway , the port he has to get to in order to take his herd to Dawson . Skagway's boss is a so-called law man named Gannon ( John McIntyre ) who reminds one of the real boss of Skagway in the " Gold Rush " Jefferson " Soapy " Smith and Judge Roy Bean . The problem is that neither Smith nor Bean would have gotten quite as sleazy as Gannon in turning every opportunity into a chance to make some money . Stewart's herd interrupted a public hanging - so ( as a penalty fine ) the herd is confiscated ( to be sold later for Gannon's profit ) . Stewart is partner with Ben ( Walter Brennan - who oddly enough won his last Oscar playing Judge Roy Bean ) . They are also joined by Rube Morris ( Jay C . Flippen ) and also meet two women , the sophisticated Rhonda Castle ( Ruth Roman ) and the friendly and helpful Renee Vallon ( Corinne Calvert ) . Rhonda works closely with Gannon , but had helped Jeff earlier in fleeing the authorities in Seattle . However , she has a similar " I only trust myself " attitude to Jeff . She does offer him employment to get supplies for herself to Dawson . He , Ben , and Rube go but at night ( while the others are asleep ) they go back and steal back their cattle . Renee follows and warns them that Gannon and his associates are following . Jeff holds off Gannon long enough for the cattle herd to be brought over the Canadian border , although Gannon points out that since Jeff has to return by way of Skagway Gannon can wait until he does to hang him . The reunited party of Rhonda and Jeff split over the trail to take to Dawson , Jeff opting for a longer and safer route . After he is proved right , they go by his route and reach Dawson only to find there is a lawless element threatening the community due to the gold fields . The herd is sold to Rhonda , and Jeff , Ben , Rube , and Renee start prospecting . There is soon two groups in the town of Dawson . One led by Connie Gilchrist and Chubby Johnson want to build a decent town . But the Mounties won't be setting up a station in Dawson for months . The other , centering around the " dancehall " run by Rhonda , are in cahoots with Gannon who has a vast claim jumping scheme using his gang of gunslingers ( Robert J . Wilke - really scary in one sequence with Chubby Johnson and Jay C . Flippen , Jack Elam , and Harry Morgan ) . Jeff wishes to steer clear of both , and head with his new wealth and Ben for a ranch they want in Utah . But will they get there ? And will Jeff remain neutral ? The performances are dandy here , including Stewart as a man who is willing to face all comers , but would otherwise be peaceful enough . Brennan is playing one of his patented old codgers , whose love of good coffee has unexpectedly bad results . Flippen is a drunk at first , but tragedy and responsibility shake him into a better frame of mind - and one who has a chance to verbally stab Stewart in the heart using Stewart's own words against him . McIntyre would achieve stardom on television in WAGON TRAIN replacing Ward Bond , but his work in Mann's films show his abilities as a villain ( such as his trade post opportunist who outsmarts himself in WINCHESTER ' 73 ) . He is , as is said elsewhere on this thread , really sleazy - but he has a sense of humor . Roman is an interesting blend of opportunist and human being , whose fate is determined by her better feelings . And Calvert is both a voice of conscience and a frontier " Gigi " aware that she is more than a young girl but a budding woman . Best of all is the Canadian Rockies background - as wonderful in its way as the use of Monument Valley by John Ford . Mann certainly did a first rate job directing this film , and the viewer will appreciate the results .
Frequently in Bob Hope films he portrays inept stage artists . In MY FAVORITE SPY he's a third rate burlesque comic , Peanuts White . In FANCY PANTS he is Arthur Tyler , who has learned too much about cue lines in plays ( he keeps jumping slightly ahead of them - which is pretty bad usually , but worse in a stage melodrama like the play we see him in ) . He does play the great vaudevillian Eddie Foy Sr . in THE SEVEN LITTLE FOYS , but to keep his kids near him all the time Eddie has to incorporate them into an act that is so bad it is entertaining in an unintentional way . In HERE COME THE GIRLS he remains his normal inept self . He is Stanley Snodgrass , a woefully bad chorus boy who has been working in a small New York theater for years , much to the annoyance of the theater owner-producer Harry Fraser ( Fred Clark ) . Not only is Stanley a bad dancer ( lousing up the choreography ) but he is annoying the leading lady Irene Bailey ( Arlene Dahl ) with his attentions . This is also annoying to her boyfriend and co-star Allen Trent ( Tony Martin ) , and also unsettling to the one person in the cast who likes Stanley , chorus girl Daisy Crockett ( Rosemary Clooney ) . Daisy ( level headed girl that she appears ) actually loves Stanley . Although he appreciates her interest he's too tied up throwing himself ( sometimes literally ) before the fed up Irene to really consider it . I may add that while Stanley's mother is all for Stanley's artistic efforts , his father Albert ( Millard Mitchell ) wants Stanley to settle down and take over his coal transporting business ( the film is set in 1900 - coal is used for heating homes and buildings ) . Stanley will have none of it . One day Stanley louses up so badly that a happy Fraser fires him . Except for Clooney the cast and company are quite happy at this decision . Unfortunately for Fraser's peace of mind Irene has won a second unwanted conquest - a local psychopathic type known as " Jack the Slasher " ( Robert Strauss ) . He has killed several men and women for various reasons , and he now sends a message that he will kill his rival for Irene . This is a threat directed at Trent , so Fraser is beside himself : not only is the performer's life in danger , but he may lose a good leading man ( Clark's characters are always " quite sentimental " ) . The New York Detective on the case , Dennis Logan ( William Demerest ) suggests that they set a trap using another patsy for the bait . Biting back his bile , Fraser rehires Stanley , and promotes him to the lead ( with Trent as his understudy ) . The results are quite funny , with the still inept Stanley holding center stage now of what is supposed to be a hit musical comedy . But why are so many odd things happening to him - close calls and near calamities . Daisy is concerned about this , and tries to inquire , only to be put off by Fraser and Logan . As for Stanley , he is more concerned about following through with his approach to Irene , who is sick of fighting him off ( at one point she manages to knock him out ) . Allen , of course is not thrilled about that , nor of getting lectured about acting and singing from the new lead . There are some great moments in the film , including a brief telephone sequence where a hopeful Fred Clark asks if Strauss has killed Hope , only to learn no such luck . A disaster with a Chinese-owned business shows Mitchell the wisdom of his son being involved in the family business . The conclusion , with Hope running amok on stage to avoid an infuriated Strauss is one of the best conclusions in Hope's films , as is the epilogue pay-off that Clooney manages to set up for Hope's benefit . Definitely one of the best of Hope's films
This particular film was shown on TMC tonight with several other Harold Lloyd films which are being sold in new DVD form . The new film DVDs have full scores that were composed for them . And , at the start of this film ( unfortunately just the first five minutes ) there is an attempt to show hand tinting of the scene . Harold Lloyd plays a shy , stuttering country boy who has never had a girl friend ( the local girls like to tease him about this ) , but who has written a ridiculous book about how to get girls , which he is trying to get published . He meets Jobyna Ralston , a wealthy girl from Los Angeles , on the train to that town . He manages to reunite her with her pet dog and she , in turn , is the only girl that he finds himself comfortable enough to talk to . To protect the dog from an intrusive conductor , Harold eats some dog biscuits meant for her pet ( he keeps the box ) . He buys a box of cracker jacks for her , and she keeps the box . They become symbols of the tight feelings they feel for each other . But Jobyna is being pursued by a suitor named De Vore ( Carlton Griffin ) . She does not know of a nasty secret he is hiding . Due to a personal humiliation , Harold decides he has to break with Jobyna , and she decides to marry Griffin . But Harold learns the secret , and is determined to stop the wedding . In the last half hour he proceeds to go from his village to Los Angeles , using automobiles , horses , buggies , trolley cars , and motorcycles . In the course of the chase he makes comments about prohibition bootleggers and agents , about 1920s automobile driver's training , the way streetcars could accidentally run themselves ( if one is not careful ) , and on the lack of preparation some fire departments showed regarding properly tying down their hoses . It is a well done , amusing chase , and wraps up the film quite conveniently . Only the chases in two later Lloyd silent comedies would duplicate it - but not beat it as the best of the three .
The original THE DESPERATE HOURS is one of the best true suspense films that were ever made . The incident happened in upstate New York in 1953 , when three escaped convicts invaded a private home , and then terrorized the family until they were captured and killed by the police . In fact , the story became a successful Broadway play that this film is based on ( the family in the original incident brought an unsuccessful lawsuit against the dramatist for invasion of privacy ) . Humphrey Bogart , his brother Dewey Martin , and that marvelous villain Robert Middleton play the three convicts , who having escaped prison take the Hilliard prisoners . Bogart is awaiting his girlfriend who is supposed to bring money and a car for their total getaway . In the meantime Bogart is doing his best to make the Hilliards as unhappy as possible . Not too difficult , as Martha Scott , Mary Murphy , and Richard Eyer are facing three thugs who are armed . And Fredric March is the family head , frightened at the most hideous prospect possible ( his family being wiped out ) , but struggling to maintain his courage but also his head - he hates Bogart but must not do anything that will antagonize him . Bogart fully returns the dislike . A poor guy all his life , he turned to crime to make a living . When the younger and softer Martin tries to speak out for March / Hilliard , Bogart snarls out , " And what did the Hilliards ever do for you ? " In truth not much , which is what this particular Hilliard is paying for now . After awhile , watching March's careful thinking of what to do , Bogart starts taunting him as though he's a machine he sees through - saying the line in the " Subject line " above . There are several problems that gradually increase the tensions : 1 ) Richard Eyer is brave as a little kid who does not understand that guns can kill . He thinks his father is the bravest man in the world , and cannot understand why he doesn't take on and destroy the bad guys . 2 ) The family has to maintain the aura of normality - Bogart and Murphy have to go out to their jobs and act without stirring any notice . Hard in normal situations , it is driving Murphy to insanity because she can't talk to her boyfriend , Gig Young . And Young is beginning to wonder why . 3 ) If the surface is to look normal , you have to keep anything unusual hidden . The original getaway car is in the Hilliard garage ( now closed ) . But the local garbage man ( Walter Baldwin ) finds it accidentally - leading to an ugly tragedy . 4 ) Bogart and Martin are brothers , but Martin is attracted to a normal life , not one of violence . He may eventually want not to stick to Bogart . 5 ) Middleton came along , but he really is not trusted by Bogart - and he has a weapon of his own . 6 ) Bogart's plans include killing the officer who sent him to prison , Arthur Kennedy . Kennedy and the state police are coordinating the entire search , and keeping a tight lid on top of the escaped prisoners ( making their temporary safety more claustrophobic ) . All of these elements build the pressure up and up and up until the last twenty minutes . The results are quite explosive and impressive , and memorable . This was Bogart's last film as a bad guy , and he made the most of it . It was also his only film with Fredric March , and the tension in their scenes together grows until it shatters at the conclusion . Martha Scott , Gig Young ( whose character's independent actions throws the convicts ' plans out of wack ) , Middleton ( quite chilling ) , and Kennedy give first rate performances . Martin's performance is also good , and ultimately tragic . No lover of suspense films will be disappointed by THE DESPERATE HOURS .
There is a moment of ironical comedy ( with a bitter aftertaste ) that I always liked in Stanley Kramer's JUDGMENT AT NUREMBURG where the whole matter of the organized death known as the " Holacaust " is brought up against the defendants for the first time . After all , the four jurists helped speed along the death of those millions of Jews , of Gypsies , of the feeble minded ( like Monty Clift ) , of the political incorrect , that one has to show the results . There is a luncheon break and the four jurists are eating . Werner Klemperer is fuming , " How dare they ! " about blaming these guardians of the law for being butchers . One of them ( I think it's Torben Meyer ) does not believe the statistics quoted by Richard Widmark in court . How could they kill so many in such a short time . It turns out that the jurists sit at one table and in back is a second table with Concentration Camp personnel eating their lunch . Meyer turns and asks one ( Otto Waldis ) , " It is impossible , isn't it ? " Waldis is munching nonchalantly on his lunch and says , " Well . . . actually it can be done quite simply . " Waldis than proceeds to give a perfectly logical argument of a technician based on a modern international railroad and engineering system that shows it is simple ! Meyer looks very shocked at finding it is not that difficult to create a death system like the Nazi one . His reaction is the funny part . The bitter part is thinking of the results , and the matter-of-fact reaction of Waldis . CONSPIRACY is the story of the actual creation of that system , and it's chief architect Reinhard Heydrich . We have met this creature before - when I discussed one of the two film based on his demise in 1942 ( tragically after he created " the final solution " , not before ) . In Douglas Sirk's HITLER'S MADMAN ( and also Fritz Lang's HANGMEN ALSO DIE ) Hollywood showed how Heydrich was assassinated by Czech patriots , and how it led to hundreds of other deaths and the destruction of Lidice and other Czech towns . While neither of the two assassination films are flawless or correct in detail , they do capture the right approach to the subject matter . Put another way , of all the political assassination in World History , Heydrich's is the only one I think of immediately as more of an execution not an assassination . And as he suffered for several days after the attack , that is only fitting . Kenneth Branagh played Heydrich , who headed this conference at Wandesee Palace in 1941 . Germany was ( despite the failure of the Battle of Britain ) at the height of it's control of Europe , and it was determined to implement Hitler's intention of getting rid of the Jews . Hitler was clever enough never to put anything into formal writing ( such as orders ) on the subject ( a point that " Holacaust Deniers " seize upon to this day as " proof " that there was no " Holacaust " ) . Regretfully no records of the meeting were kept ( they were destroyed ) . But enough details came out to guess what happened . With his assistant , Adolf Eichmann ( Stanley Tucci here ) at his side , Heydrich got all the various heads of departments who were to organize the special trains , assist in the round-ups of the Jews , build the barely livable quarters for them at the camps , organize the camps , and set up the timetables , supply systems ( if for the victims you could call them that ) , and the work programs ( or slave programs , if you will ) that were to be used . Also the issue of whether to use poison gas on the Jews - was it cheaper or more expensive than bullets , and was it safer ( for the users ! ) . The wonderful thing about this film is the party and social backbiting involved . One of the officials is actually closer to Martin Bormann ( soon to be Hitler's new deputy ) than to Heydrich , and makes veiled allusions to Heydrich's possible Jewish ancestry . Eichmann looks at him , smiles , and says , " Why don't you say that to Herr Heydrich's face ? " The official shuts up . Eichmann himself has mixed feelings about his boss . At the end of the film we hear a piece of romantic German music that Heydrich put on the record player . Heydrich played the violin ( so did his father ) and saw himself as a man of culture . Eichmann looks at the record ( it's by Franz Schubert ) and disparages the piece . There are petty inter-departmental confrontations too . What soon becomes apparent is that these people are looking at the murder of millions of human beings as a math problem and how to solve it . And , with only one exception - who is rapidly silenced - none are looking or choose to look at the moral nightmare they are adopting . The conference ends with total agreement about implementing the plan . The plan did work - only cost six million Jews , and when extended seven million non-Jews more ! Heydrich ( as Branagh ) leaves the conference saying that when the war is finished he will return to do only wonderful things . Gee , he never had the chance to do so .
The title of this comedy is based on the situation at the beginning : Stan's boxing match ( Ollie is his manager ) against Noah Young ( the heavy they shared with fellow Hal Roach alumnus Harold Lloyd ) . In 1927 the American sports loving public was fully aware of what was " the battle of the century " . It was a reference to the second boxing match between Gene Tunney and Jack Dempsey ( the one that again ended with Tunney's victory , but has lasted in sports controversy because of the notorious " long count " that may have denied Dempsey his victory ) . The idea of comparing any boxing match that Stan Laurel is in with the likes of one between Tunney and Dempsey is laughable in itself , but it sets the stage here . John McCabe gave a brief description of the boxing match in his biography MR . LAUREL AND MR . HARDY . But seeing it on the recently restored Video , one can appreciate it all the more . Young is ready for real boxing business , but Stan is all weird business ( some at the expense of manager Ollie ) . After about ten minutes Young sees a chance , and lands one punch , and Stan falls down . What adds to the comic beginning is that one sees in the nearby bleachers a dozen or so boxing fans . One of them is young - and thinner than he subsequently looked . It's Lou Costello . I don't know if Costello was working alone in Hollywood at the time , or if he knew someone at Roach's studio , but he gives an interesting little performance in a way he never showed in his own comedies with Bud Abbott . He reacts incredulously at the antics of Stan ( and Ollie ) in the ring - in fact he acts fairly realistically . It is a curious moment in film history , as it unites Stan and Ollie with half of the film comedy team that slightly eclipsed them in the 1940s , and it presents that half in a quieter manner than as the " baaad boy ! " . The rest of the film dealt with insurance and pies . Ollie has a real boxing loser , and he has to recoup his financial loss . So he meets Eugene Palette , an insurance salesman , who sells him an accident policy on Stan's life . Now all Ollie has to do is organize some accident . Unfortunate , he's Oliver Hardy , so we know he will keep bungling it ( especially when he tries to get Stan to trip on a banana peel ) . This is the straw that breaks the wrong camel's back . Charlie Hall is delivering pies , and he trips on the peel . He happens to see Ollie trying to hide the tell tale banana peel , so he knows who is responsible . Soon he puts a pie in Hardy's face . But Stan doesn't like that , and he takes a pie and puts it into Hall's face . Soon what McCabe calls " reciprocal destruction " spreads over the street , involving all types of people ( including Palette , who tries to use the fight as an opportunity to sell more insurance policies ! ) . The culmination is when Anita Garvin slips on a pie , sitting on it . She does not realize it is a pie , and her embarrassment is priceless . It was their second film - and it was one of their best ones .
This work has been a comedy joy for over sixty years now , and has even been redone on television a few times - but the original is still the best . It takes a totally fantastic situation ( the possible existence of Santa Claus ) and looks at it from the real world's point of view . It has been said that the eventual recognition of Kris Kringle ( Edmund Gwenn , in his Oscar winning role ) as Santa is due to the necessity of people and organizations in society that can't decry the Christmas spirit . It's too unpopular to do that . Mr Macy ( the fictional owner of the Department store ) is not going to denounce Santa , who helps bring holiday shoppers into his store at Christmas ( neither - although he is not involved in the court case - would his fictional rival Mr . Gimbel ) . The wisdom of the entire matter is summed up in a great speech by Charlie Halloran ( William Frawley ) , the political wizard behind Judge Harper ( Gene Lockhard ) . If Harper decides to deny the existence of Santa he'll make enemies of merchants , toy manufacturers , kids and their parents , and others who get some satisfaction from the material side of the holiday season - Harper will ensure his total defeat at the polls ! It is a lesson the astute Judge takes to heart . I suppose that the materialism of Christmas is to be denounced by purists , who think of the spiritual aspects frequently forgotten at Christmas . But the film reaffirms that the materialism of the holiday actually is an engine to the meaning of the holiday . In celebrating the birth and life of Jesus Christ , one is affirming a belief ( ultimately ) in the goodness of mankind and the truth of love . To show love frequently means sacrifice - here in expensive gifts to loved ones . If the pressures of modern advertising make this materialism too visible , the underlying purpose of gift buying is not to be materialistic but to show one cares for those one loves . Oddly enough Kris himself is willing to advertise the materialism to a point . At the Thanksgiving Day Parade he is last seen telling the children in the crowd that there are plenty of toys to be bought at Macy's ( which , by the way , would be what he or the original " Santa " ( Percy Helton ) would have had to say in any case ) . Only later is Kris able to show more selective honesty here - he does tell one customer ( Thelma Ritter ) where she can get a toy at a cheaper cost than at Macy's . As a result the Department Store picks up on this and starts a policy of guiding people to other stores . In the real world I must admit it would not occur , but one likes the concept and wishes it would . The characters ( for the most part ) are likable , the one exception being Sawyer ( Porter Hall ) the obnoxious store " psychologist " . Sawyer misuses his so-called knowledge to make people feel mentally ill ( telling one nice guy that his yearly stint at an orphanage as Santa is really from some bad act of his from many years past ) . Kris tells off Sawyer very easily , separating this vicious quack from genuine therapists who can help people . ( Kris tells his friend Fred Gailey that he can easily control his visits with therapists , because he knows the answers to their questions which are usually the same ones . Actually this happens to be a common problem in therapy when dealing with criminals in prison who know what the therapists want to hear . But Kris actually does know what good they do , and how Sawyer is misusing his power . By the way , Kris / Gwenn makes a mistake in showing how he knows the right answers . He says John Quincy Adams ' Vice President was Daniel D . Tompkins . Tompkins ( who was Governor of New York in the War of 1812 ) was James Monroe's Vice President - Adams ' Veep was John C . Calhoun . ) The real spiritual sense of the holiday is shown in the relationship of Kris and Fred with Doris and Susan Walker ( Maureen O'Hara and Natalie Wood ) . Fred begins the process by softening the divorced Doris with his own version of kindness to her and Susan . But it is hard to reach Susan at first ( though she likes Fred ) because Doris is so determined to make her daughter a realist . It is only when Fred realizes that Doris does not like fancy or the outlandish because of her own hard fall into reality through her marriage that he shakes her up regarding what exactly makes life worthwhile ( and it is not an adherence to reality all the time ) . As for Susan , her view is softened by Kris , who becomes a surrogate grandfather to her . The snagging point is that her world would be complete if she had a home , not a cramped apartment with her mother . Kris is concerned about the possibility of granting Susan that wish , but does not give up on it . And ( as it turns out ) it does complete the relationship between Doris and Fred - who will probably marry and move into such a house . We never see this , but we see ( in the last shot ) a symbolic approval of such a plan from Kris to the young couple . Again an affirmation of love , the center of the Christmas holiday .
Dr . Edmund Bickleigh is a man who is very careful and very determined . And he is especially determined to not get caught committing the perfect murder of his wife . In the end he succeeds but then finds circumstances are " agin him " . Francis Iles was an innovative detective story novelist , whose best known work ( BEFORE THE FACT ) was filmed by Alfred Hitchcock as SUSPICION and became a successful motion picture . But the film had to cripple the full effect of Iles ' novel . In his novel Johnny Aysgard ( Cary Grant in the movie ) had proved to be the murderer his wife suspected , and she ( Joan Fontaine in the movie ) became his victim . But she willingly dies to help him ( he needs the life insurance on her life to save himself from an embezzlement charge ) . He is a crushed man as a result of her sacrifice . In the film , due to problems by the studio and Grant's agent ( but not Grant , who wanted to play a villain ) Hitchcock had to change the ending so that Grant is not the murderer his wife fears , and they are reconciled to face their uncertain future together at the end . Hitchcock wanted to shoot MALICE AFORETHOUGHT with Alec Guinness as Dr . Edmund Bickleigh . The project never got put together , so it is one of those ideas of this master film maker that we can only wonder about . However , given Hitchcock's track record with comedy films ( MR . AND MRS . SMITH , THE TROUBLE WITH HARRY ) it may be just as well that he did not do this one . Iles was basing Dr . Bickleigh ( a hen-pecked country physician who turns on his wife and kills her ) on two cases which occurred within a dozen years of each other , and gave him the character's profession , the setting , and the undoing of the killer . By the sound of his name , Bickleigh is based on the hen-pecked wife killer Dr . Hawley Harvey ( " Peter " ) Crippen . But the setting in the English countryside ( Crippen killed his wife Belle in a London suburb ) is based on the murder site of Hay , near the Welsh border . In 1921 , eleven years after Crippen hanged , a solicitor named Major Herbert Armstrong was married to a strong willed wife . She was the sort of person who did not think twice of stopping a tennis game her husband was playing in , by reminding him it was time to take a bath . Armstrong poisoned his wife Katie , and successfully passed off the killing as an illness . But shortly afterward he spoiled his perfect crime . Armstrong tried to kill his rival solicitor Oswald Martin with poison at a tea party . This reopened issues about the death of Mrs . Armstrong , and her corpse was exhumed . Arsenic was found in her body , and Armstrong was arrested for her killing . After a hard fought trial he was convicted and later hanged ( he is the only lawyer hanged for murder in Great Britain in modern times ) . The combination of the two wife killers is not too difficult . Bickleigh ( Hywel Bennett ) has a hideously bossy wife ( Julia Bickleigh - Judy Parfitt ) that he would like to get rid of so he can pursue a fascinating younger woman ( Madeleine Cranmere - Cheryl Campbell ) . He does this by getting the unsuspecting wife hooked on opium . As a result he sets up the situation that she is stealing drugs from his dispensary for her habit . This will lead to her " giving herself a fatal overdose " . The killing works perfectly . But then Madeleine turns out to be more of a nymphomaniac ( and less considerate of previous promises she made to him ) than he expects . She is also seeing more of a young rival of Bickleigh's named Denny Bourne ( Christopher Guard ) . Bickleigh is angered by this - although his treatment by Madeleine is actually the same as his own dropping of his original girlfriend Ivy Ridgeway ( Bellinda Carroll ) . He is also less than happy about a rival doctor in the area ( William Chatford - David Ashford ) . He tries to get rid of Chatford , and makes the same mistake there that Armstrong did with Oswald Martin . But the difference is that Iles is rewriting history to have some fun . There is a trial of Bickleigh for the murder of his wife . But he is able ( through his barrister Sir Francis Lee - Bannermann - Thorley Walters ) to demonstrate flaw after flaw in the prosecution case . Chatford's illness was faked in a way , and this is shown to extend doubts to his veracity . Madeleine ( who in a moment of stupidity Bickleigh threatened ) is willing to testify about this , but she is shown to be neurotic and narcissistic . Ivy gives him a good defense about an alibi he needs . And then he is questioned heavily . Remaining totally cool he lies perfectly well ( as he says to himself - and the audience hears this - " And I can keep doing this until the cows come home ! " ) . Bickleigh wins acquittal . SPOILER COMING UP . Bickleigh wins up to this point . But his rival Denny Bourne has died prematurely after a picnic that Bickleigh also attended . Bickleigh is arrested and this time loses . As he hears the sentence of death being given , he realizes that the symptoms of poisoning Denny showed are similar to cholera , and he remembers that he had warned Madeleine and Denny to clean the drains of their home . He is screaming ( to nobody's attention ) , " It was the drains " as the series ended . The story was well played , particularly by the droll Bennett , who looks harmless , until one sees his eyes looking fiercely through his spectacles . Parfitt is the perfect dragon-wife , but gains our sympathy as we watch her physically collapse due to opium . Production values were good ( I especially liked the 1920 automobiles ) . The story was redone well in 2005 , but the original series was best .
Tyrone Power came from a family of stage performers - even stage stars . His great grandfather was one of the best loved " Irish " comic actors of the Jacksonian Era in the 1820s - 1841 ( when his ship was lost at sea ) . His father was a prominent stage star , who came to Hollywood in the silent period , and appeared in John Wayne's first sound feature film . When Power himself began making films in the 1930s he was notable ( at 20th Century Fox ) for his remarkably good physical features . Power had a problem with Darryl Zanuck . Zanuck had him in 18th Century stories like " Lloyds Of London " and " Son Of Fury " and ( when lent to M . G . M . ) in " Marie Antoinette " . If they were closer in time to the 20th Century , they were in exotic locales - like " Blood And Sand " . As for westerns , Power was " Jesse James " and an early 19th Century Spanish - American fop in " The Mask Of Zorro " . Zanuck gave the best material to Power , who underestimated how really good his performances were in the costume / historical films . Occasionally Zanuck would allow Power to try a modern story he picked out . This was particularly the case after Power returned from his stint in the South Pacific in World War II . In 1946 Zanuck allowed Power to play Larry , the truth seeker and war survivor in " The Razor's Edge " . Based on a hit novel of Somerset Maugham , it was a hit film - but the hit was based more on the comic performance of Clifton Webb as snobbish Eliot Templeton , and the tragic brief performance ( and Oscar winner ) of Anne Baxter . Power was good , but the part was not well developed to explain what Larry discovered as the key to spirituality in India . Shortly after Power finished " The Razor's Edge " , he starred in " Nightmare Alley " . Based on a noir novel of the day , Power felt it would finally show his acting ability ( he actually need only have considered his performance in " The Black Swan " to have seen it was there all the time ) . Zanuck knew that Power generally listened to him , and that his roles could show a dark side ( as in Jesse James , and in his bullfighter in " Blood And Sand " ) . So he decided to let him go ahead with " Nightmare Alley " . Both turned out to be shown to be right . The film flopped at the box office , as people used to Power the hero saw Power the creep . But what a creep ! Stanton Carlyle is the greatest acting performance in Power's career , and ( more than " The Razor's Edge " ) it opened the second half of his film career , where the choices of subject were less frequently historic than in the earlier part . Zanuck made sure that Power got meaty acting parts , and Power was able to get into modern times . Carlyle has no redeeming features in him - a total opportunist he uses people right and left , making love to Zeena to learn her mentalist act - and killing her husband accidentally in the process - and also romancing Molly with no desire to do right by her . He rises from carnival worker to nightclub mentalist . Then he makes the mistake of joining forces with a psychiatrist , in an effort to go further - become a guru to the wealthy , using information from the psychiatrist to convince the rich that he has contact with the dead and the afterlife . Oddly enough if the discovery of Larry of spirituality in " The Razor's Edge " was never well explained , Stan Carlyle's clever fraud is very well explained . The others in the film are good , in particular Joan Blondell as Zeena , who gets a kick in the teeth from Stan on the way up , but shows him that he still is fated to fall . Colleen Grey's Molly is not as well developed ( why does she stick to the two-timing louse ? ) . Helen Walker's psychiatrist is very nicely sinister - springing a last minute trap on Stan that is unexpected . But note Mike Mazurki as the circus strong man Bruno . Mazurki usually played villains ( or comic toughs ) in films , but here he turns out to be smart and morally superior to Stan . It was a nice change of pace for this actor . The conclusion of the film was softened from the original novel , but even so it still gave Power an opportunity to show the total limits of his acting ability . However , he did not play another louse until the end of his career . Eleven years later his role as Leonard Vole in " Witness For The Prosecution " gave him his second real villain part .
For Americans , after Yorktown , there seems a vague jump of six years of history we ignore . We know Washington , Lafayette , and Rochambeau defeat Lord Cornwallis but we tend to ignore the period of the Articles of Confederation government - except for the Northwest Ordinance of 1787 and Daniel Shay's Rebellion and the Constitutional Convention . Few concentrate on the issue of the Peace Treaty of Paris in 1783 , and how Lord Shelburne sacrificed his political career to get Parliament to swallow it ( Shelburne was very generous because he , like Franklin , realized that America's best interest was to have gradual rapprochement with Britain ) . The political mess in England was dreadful . Lord North was discredited , and replaced by the Marquis of Rockingham , who died . Rockingham was replaced by Shelburne , who got the peace but lost his office . And suddenly North returned supported by one of his persistent critics during the war : Charles James Fox . The " broad - bottom " ministry of North and Fox struggled for about a year when it lost a vote of confidence . King George III was happy about this ( he disliked Fox ) , and turned to an unexpected figure to head the new government : William Pitt the Younger . Pitt the Younger was the son of William Pitt , Earl of Chatham : the architect of great victory in the French and Indian ( or Seven Years ) War , which had left Britain the most powerful country in the world . The Earl had tried to prevent the American Revolution , but failed . He died in 1778 , shortly after giving another drubbing on North's failed policies in the House of Lords . His title went to an older son , but his younger son and namesake went into Parliament . A brilliant speaker and organizer , Pitt the Younger was also a smart economical theorist . England needed peace - it had done very badly in the war ( the only major war in nearly three hundred years it lost ) . It did have some naval victories under Romney and Hood in the Caribbean and Hughes ( barely ) over the brilliant Suffren in the Indian Ocean , and did acquire Florida , but it lost it's main empire . Pitt the Younger gave England a good respite . He rebuilt the fleet , and he encouraged agriculture and industry ( the film briefly covers this - even mentioning the forgotten Richard Trevethick and his early locomotives ) . He was determined to continue , but history was against him - he found that his monarch's health was uncertain ( see THE MADNESS OF KING GEORGE ) , and that the French Revolution unsettled Europe . From 1792 through 1815 Europe had only two brief periods of peace . Pitt was Prime minister until the first peace in 1802 , and then Prime Minister from 1804 to his death in 1806 . His economic dreams and his desire for peace were ruined by the French and Napoleon I , but he lived long enough to make certain that Napoleon would ultimately fail . Except for not mentioning the insanity of the King ( Raymond Lovell here ) , the movie is actually fairly factual . It does sugarcoat the reforming urge of Pitt the Younger ( Robert Donat ) . He did rebuild the economy , and did set the stage for final victory . But he was willing to keep many corrupt political practices like " Rotten Boroughs " and government bribery . Unmentioned in this film was the 1797 great mutiny of the British fleets Pitt had rebuilt , because dockyard corruption affected the men's pay and rations . A more balanced view of Mr . Pitt appears in THE MADNESS OF KING GEORGE where he is seen as a master manipulator that he was . But this film was a British war film , meant to really compare Pitt's activities against Bonaparte ( Herbert Lom , in his first appearance as the " Little Corporal " ) with the current struggle with Hitler . It doesn't quite work historically . Not only was the Younger Pitt capable of winking at corruption , but his opponent Charles James Fox ( Robert Morley here ) was a charming , if virtually ineffective supporter of democratic reform . Fox led the Whigs until his death in 1807 . He did hold high office again in 1806 - 07 as Foreign Secretary under the Duke of Portland , but he died too soon . In the film he is made to seem an obstructionist who is ready to make peace with France too quickly ( like Nevil Chamberlain with Germany , perhaps ) . He was actually far cagier than that , and the film at least suggests that Fox realizes ( when Napoleon's invasion of Britain seems probable ) that Pitt must return to office over Henry Addington , his somewhat weaker successor . ( Lom , of course , replayed Napoleon in the film WAR AND PEACE with Henry Fonda , Audrey Hepburn , and Mel Ferrer . ) Donat gives a splendid pair of performances as Chatham ( briefly at the start ) and Pitt the Younger . He captures the workaholic and near inebriate who worked and drank himself into an early grave before his fiftieth year ( but managed to serve one of the longest tenures as Prime Minister ) . A romance is created for him with Phyllis Calvert , which is doomed due to his public sense of duty . Also there is the appearance of John Mills as William Wilberforce , forced to watch his campaign to wipe out slavery in the British Empire put on hold ( this is not shown totally - a twenty year old " Masterpiece Theater " series did better on that subject ) . Note too Albert Lieven's Talleyrand , willing to serve the new master of France ( Lom ) but already showing his manipulation of Napoleon to get him to do his work ( and also undercutting Nappy's comments about the weaknesses of Pitt and England ) . As a whole it is pretty good as history told in film . Certainly a film to come back to now and then .
In a personal essay kind of program about her career that she made for television in the 1990s Katherine Hepburn pointed out that technically this was not the first time she was in a film ( in one version or another ) with the man she would appear in movies with more often than anyone else , and the man most romantically linked to her : Spencer Tracy . Hepburn and Tracy appeared ( as cartoon figures ) in a 1938 Walt Disney cartoon about fairy tale figures , with Hepburn as Little Bo Peep and Tracy as one of the three men in a tub ( with Tracy looking like Manuel in CAPTAIN'S COURAGEOUS next to Freddie Barholemew and Lionel Barrymore ) . In fact Hepburn's Bo Peep motor skis into the sequence with Tracy , upsetting the boat . But they finally met in the flesh in 1942 when they made the MGM film WOMAN OF THE YEAR . The first of ten movies that they share title to , it is one of the best of them . Hepburn's " Tess Harding " is a globe trotting reporter and voice of democracy and modern thought . Tracy has nothing against that , but his " Sam Craig " , a leading sports writer for the same newspaper that Hepburn works at is angry at her suggestion ( based on a snobbish lack of interest ) that baseball be stopped during the war effort . He writes an editorial against this , and his editor ( Reginald Owen ) arranges a meeting to stop an internecine squabble in his newspaper . And the two antagonists find they like what they see ( as did the two performers ) . ( Less you think Hepburn was being ridiculous , in 1918 President Woodrow Wilson ( hardly an apostle of sportsmanship and games ) declared that the baseball season should be shortened for the war effort in World War I . It was not a very popular move , and Franklin Roosevelt very wisely announced in 1942 it would not be repeated . ) The film is an early movie regarding the problem of a career woman facing a new life as a married lady . For she and Tracy do marry , but Hepburn's " Tess " is an international figure of distinction for that age - the newspaper / radio reporter version of say photo-journalist Margaret Bourke-White . She is on a first name level with most of the leaders in the free world . Her obnoxious secretary " Gerald " - played with quiet sneer very well by Dan Tobin - is seen calling for a connection with Col . Battista , the President of Cuba ( until Fidel kicked him out in 1958 ) to speak with Tess . She is constantly on the go meeting all kinds of people and giving all kinds of speeches and making all kinds of commitments . And Sam is soon aware that he has a decidedly minor position in the world of Tess . There are a series of blows , beginning with each meeting the friends of the others . Hers are all brainy snobs , while his are all earthy sports fans and common types . Then comes a final series of blows . After returning from a game he had to cover in Chicago , Sam discovers that Tess ( who vaguely knew his itinerary ) was also in the Windy City for a day , and could have met him at least for lunch but . . . err forgot . Then she breaks the news that they are going to have a child . That almost restores him , until he learns the little boy named Chris ( George Kezas ) has been given to Tess by the Greek Child Refugee Council as a symbol of her leadership for that group . Sam honestly is not happy about this , but shows far more fatherly concern for the boy than Tess does . Then Tess is named " Woman of the Year " , and is to honored at a dinner - Sam in attendance . But Sam learns Chris will be left alone that night in the apartment ( even the maid has the night off ; Tess airily taking care of the problem by having an elevator operator check into the boy's welfare every couple of hours ) . Sam refuses to leave Chris and a dangerous split forms between the couple . Tess finds the split really widens when she returns to the apartment . The film has other supporting parts , like the marvelous William Bendix talking about how he beat James Braddock in a fight ( he has to describe all 8 rounds of the fight in detail ) . Minor Watson ( as Hepburn's widowed father ) and Fay Bainter ( as Hepburn's friend and mentor ) make a charming older and wiser pair of lovers . As for the conclusion , I always enjoy thinking of the image of Hepburn desperately trying to save her marriage while making an early morning breakfast wearing a fur coat and impractical dressing gown in a kitchen . Just for that final twelve minutes the movie deserves a " 10 " . A final " launching " makes it actually worth an " 11 " .
George C . Scott was one of America's best actors , but the number of times that he did second-rate films hurt his reputation . JANE EYRE was made near the peak of his career , in 1970 , when he won the Oscar for PATTON . It was a superb performance ( on par with Orson Welles in the same role in the 1944 version as Edward Rochester ) . Suzanna York was good as Jane ( and presumably got along better with Scott than Fontane did with Welles ) . But Scott's performance as Rochester also had his idiosyncrasies in it - his tendency to posture when trying to react to some comments . Frank Gorshin would spoof Scott's Rochester on television later in 1970 . The film did not show as much of the Brocklehurst - Eyre conflict as the 1944 version . This is partly notable in the rather weak and sad performance of Jack Hawkins as Brocklehurst as opposed to Henry Daniell's tyrant . Hawkins career was coming to an end due to the loss of his vocal chords to cancer , so he could not really give a very effective performance . There is more of the portion of the novel dealing with Jane discovering her Rivers cousins ( and her brief interest in the missionary St . John Rivers ) . Otherwise it sticks to the same plot line as the 1944 version ( in particular when Rochester tells Eyre not to worry about Blanche Ingram , whom ( Scott says in a line he could get away with in 1970 but Welles couldn't in 1944 ) only wants to marry him so his money could manure her father's fields . Both film versions were equally good , but neither fully told the complete novel as well as they could have .
What happens to an ivy tower atmosphere if it is invaded by a sexually alluring siren ? Will it lead to events similar to the expulsion of Adam and Eve from their perfect cocoon of the Garden of Eden ? But the sin of Adam and Eve was tasting of the forbidden fruit from the tree of knowledge . The eight professors in the ivy tower already have all the known knowledge of the world - their only problem is trying to dispense that knowledge within a three year deadline . Will they now miss that deadline ? That is the situation of Howard Hawk's comedy " Ball Of Fire " , one of the two great comedies ( with " The Lady Eve " ) that Barbara Stanwyck made at Paramount in 1941 . People who think of Stanwyck as the dramatic equal of Davis and Hepburn only think of her in films like " Stella Dallas " , " Baby Face " , " Double Indemnity " , or " Sorry , Wrong Number " . Nobody denies Stanwyck's abilities as a fine dramatic actress , but she was terrific too in comedies ( and it is interesting that her two finest comedies showcase her as a sexually alluring comedian ) . Katherine " Sugarpuss " O'Shea is a nightclub entertainer , who is also the girlfriend of mob boss Joe Lilac ( Dana Andrews , in a rare villainous role ) . Joe is having trouble with the District Attorney of New York City ( Addison Richards ) who is trying to crack a murder that may be linked to the mobster . It turns out that Sugarpuss can cement the case , so Joe needs to hide his girlfriend . . . and maybe marry her ( if they marry she can't testify against her husband ) . He sends his two henchmen , Duke Pastrami ( Dan Duryea ) and Asthma Anderson ( Ralph Peters ) to tell her to lay low . . . but where ? Earlier that evening Sugarpuss got a visit from a Professor Bertram Potts ( Gary Cooper ) who needs her knowledge of street vernacular for an article he is writing in an encyclopedia on the subject of " slang " . Although she initially rejected his request for help , she now finds it fits nicely into the needs of her boyfriend Joe . So she turns up at the building in Manhattan that Potts and seven colleagues ( Richard Haydn , Aubrey Mather , Tully Marshall , Oscar Homolka , Leonid Kinski , Harry Travers , and S . Z . Sakall ) have been living at for nearly a decade while working on this major encyclopedia for a foundation . That is the bare bones set-up for this film , one of Howard Hawks best comedies . Like " His Gal Friday " and " I Was A Male War Bride " , Hawks makes his female lead fully capable at being a match or more than a match for the male characters . If Cary Grant's newspaper editor Walter Burns did connive and scheme against Rosalind Russell's Hildy Johnson , she gave him as good as he gave her until circumstances played into his hands . The situation is the same here , except that Sugarpuss is like a breath of youth and fresh air to Cooper and the seven older professors , so that for all their book learning they lack a certain amount of common sense in dealing with the charming singer . She manages to compromise them from the start , establishing a room for herself in their headquarters building that the foundation never made plans for . Not everyone is taken in : Kathleen Howard , the housekeeper Mrs . Bragg , finds out the truth from a newspaper and almost ruins Sugarpuss ' schemes . But what is worse , perhaps , is the slow realization by Sugarpuss that the square , geeky Bertram is a decent guy - and a better boyfriend than Joe . Which sort of gums up the works for Joe and his schemes , and Joe is not the sort to like his schemes to be gummed up at all . Samuel Goldwyn produced " Ball Of Fire " , and since he did he got a first rate director and cast together . Stanwyck appears to have been third choice for Sugarpuss ( Lucille Ball was supposed to play the role , but was dropped when Stanwyck became available - she might have carried it off , for she played a similar role in " The Big Street " opposite Henry Fonda a few years later ) . One wonder is Hawks originally planned for Grant in the lead ( one could see him as the expert on English , who is a naive professor - similar to his anthropologist in " Bringing Up Baby " ) . But Goldwyn made several films with Cooper , and probably pushed for that leading man . Cooper shows enough naiveté in his performance to make his discovery of love all the sweeter . The real joy that he expresses when he realizes that Stanwyck favors him over Andrews is rather touching , even though it is presented at a moment of danger to Cooper and several others . As for the supporting cast , they are all good . Duryea is properly insolent and dumb as the hoodlum Pastrami . Allen Jenkins is a garbage man seeking knowledge for pecuniary gain ( quiz show answers ) . The professors are individually cute , particularly Homolka , driving with an out-of-date driver's license ( from 1906 ) but insisting Teddy Roosevelt thought his driving " bully " , and Haydn , the only one of the professors to have ever married , who proves a sentimental type ( he carries his dead wife's hair around in a locket ) . One also notes Mary Field as Miss Totten , the daughter of the wealthy inventor who created the foundation , who ( despite the wise words of her lawyer Charles Lane ) keeps giving the professors more time to finish their work because she is sweet on Cooper . We last see that young lady enjoying a chase sequence - it was more fun than she ever had experienced before . Finally there is a nice sequence where Stanwyck demonstrates her voice by singing " Drum Boogie " to the accompaniment of Gene Krupa and his band . She also ( with the seven elderly professors ) dances the conga . Stanwyck rarely appeared in musicals ( I can only recall " Lady Of Burlesque " off hand ) , so it is nice to see her show her singing and her dancing here as well .
When Michael Curtiz directed this odd ballet and horror film he presumably had the recent success of the John Barrymore - Marian Marsh film SVENGALI ( from George Du Maurier's TRILBY ) in mind . That story was based on a novel wherein a great singer is actually controlled ( by hypnosis ) by her impresario . Although Svengali's character in the novel was quite obnoxious , the film version softened it to make one realize he was in control of Trilby but loved her and could not be certain if she loved him back . In the end it turned out she did . The story of THE MAD GENIUS was similar - Donald Cook is a brilliant ballet dancer who was trained by impresario Barrymore , and the latter is determined to get his protégé the career he deserves - by all means necessary . This means derailing anything or anyone who Barrymore concludes will prevent this . Marsh is a female member of the ballet company that Cook is falling for , and Barrymore is willing to push her out of the company , and even turn her into a wealthy nobleman's mistress to keep Cook in line . The film actually works . In the background was a misunderstanding of the relationship between Diaghilev and Nijinski ( who many thought was that impresario's puppet ) . Here one realizes Barrymore is a man who is so hung up on the success of his adopted son that he does not stop even while he realizes he is doing harm to so many others . To perfect the boy's dancing ( and the company's ) he is willing to be the drug supplier to dance master Luis Alberni ( one of the first examples of cocaine use in movies ) . When not pimping for his wealthy aristocratic backer , he runs a tight ship on all the dancers and his factotum associate Charles Butterworth . But he is human . One of the funniest aspects of the film is how Barrymore picks up his own sexual partners from starry eyed young woman coming in to join the ballet company . He always uses the same line with them , and even the same hour the next day to visit his office ( three o'clock ) . Butterworth adds his bit too , as he tries constantly to interest Barrymore or anyone in a really bad ballet he's written ( Barrymore , who is happy and drunk when Butterworth finally corners him , slowly sobers up when hearing this idiotic story line , and ends up saying he never realized what an ass Butterworth really was ) . Finally there is a cameo that I find fascinating . This is the film wherein Boris Karloff ( for about one minute ) shares screen time with John Barrymore . They never did so again .
With the rigidity of it's archaic rules , one would think the fictional department store Grace Brothers could not get more oppressive on it's staff . This episode demonstrates it can and would . Rumbold ( Nicholas Smith ) announces to the staff that there have been too many cases of shop lifting and pilfering in the store , so Young Mr . Grace ( Harold Bennett ) has ordered the installment of cameras on the floor of the women's wear and men's wear departments as a test . If the system helps reduce thefts there the cameras will be set up in the entire store . Although the staff is aware of the need for the security system , they soon find the annoyance of it . At first , they are preening themselves for the camera , trying to get their best sides photographed ( the worst offenders are Mrs . Slocombe , Captain Peacock , and Mr . Humphreys - Mollie Sugden , Frank Thornton , and John Inman ) . Then Rumbold shows off the central television monitor to Mr . Mash ( Larry Martyn ) , and they are actually spying on the staff , not looking for various shop-lifters . Soon small rule infractions ( too much time smoking or goofing off ) are visible , as are conversations as well ( the system has an audio component ) . The staff suddenly becomes aware of " Big Brotherism " and does not like it . Leave it to Mr . Lucas ( Trevor Bannister ) and Mr . Humphreys to figure out how to properly use the system to force it's removal . The plan needs a great deal of misinformation and the Department Store's doctor to work . And it does .
Sequels are rarely as good as the first film in a series so AFTER THE THIN MAN is atypical . It actually fits the first film quite well ( almost not quite though ) . As THE THIN MAN ends , Nick and Nora ( William Powell and Myrna Loy ) are headed back to their home in San Francisco , accompanied by Maureen O'Sullivan and her husband . We even are aware that they are having a private moment of sex as the film ends , in their own Pullman births . AFTER THE THIN MAN begins as the same train is pulling into San Francisco ( but Ms O'Sullivan and her husband are not seen anymore ) . At the tail end of this sequel the result of that moment of sexual satisfaction is given to us when Loy turns coy about sewing baby booties , etc . I like the continuity here . The series manages to keep it up for awhile . We also find that Asta has a sex life in San Francisco , that Nora's aunt ( Jessie Ralph , splendidly haughty and stiff ) does not like Nick ( she keeps referring to him as " Nicholas " ) , and that the police in San Francisco have a businesslike chief in Sam Levine ( who is less dumb than his New York counterpart Nat Pendleton was ) . The plot is as complex as the first film's , but it is in the resolution that we are really amazed . While " the least likely suspect " is frequently used in popular movie series ( perhaps most often in Charley Chan films ) , it is a toss-up if the killer in this film is the most unexpected in the series of " Thin Man " movies , or the one in THE THIN MAN GOES HOME is the most unexpected one . To be fair , this actor made another film in this period when he was a wanted murderer , but his performance here goes so over the top that one cannot forget it once you've seen it to the conclusion . THE THIN MAN dealt with the disappearance of a famous inventor / industrialist , and whether or not he is responsible for a series of murders . Here , we are taken into Nora's socially prominent family , and how her cousin Elissa Landi is having problems with her two-timing husband Alan Marshal . Landi's problems are compounded by the murder of Marshal , and the revelation of the involvement of a gang ( led by Joseph Calleia ) in manipulating Marshal for it's own purposes . Landi becomes the chief suspect , although Calleia and some of the others are suspicious enough . Besides Powell and Loy helping Landi , she counts on the support of an old boyfriend , Jimmy Stewart . Among other odd , and threatening figures , are our old friend George Zucco , wearing bottle cap eyeglasses , as a psychiatrist on salary to Jessie Ralph , and a rare film appearance of Teddy Hart ( lyracist Larry Hart's younger brother ) as a crooked , obnoxious lawyer . The casting , acting , and direction ( and the story ) are pretty good again . And the solution ends up being simple - it all depends on an old photograph .
Three things of note happened with the Academy Awards in 1931 that were unique . For the first time in it's history the best picture of the year was a western , CIMMERON ( which , though dated by today's standards , cemented the stardom of Richard Dix and Irene Dunne ) . For years CIMMERON would be the only western to win the best picture award ( despite films like STAGECOACH , FORT APACHE , RED RIVER , SHANE , BUTCH CASSIDY AND THE SUNDANCE KID coming along ) . Then in 1992 THE UNFORGIVEN won the best picture award too , so now it looks like western may be allowable to compete more often . But science fiction is another matter . For in 1931 ( for the only time in Oscar's history ) an Oscar was awarded for a performance in a science fiction role for best actor . It went to Fredric March , that consummate actor , for Dr . Henry Jekyll / Mr . Edward Hyde . Perhaps because that year was the first time a category had two tied winners ( the third unique event ) March's performance remains the only science fiction performance to win - he tied with Wallace Beery for the latter's end of the road pugilist in THE CHAMP . This may explain why Boris Karloff was overlooked for Frankenstein , Imhotep ( the Mummy ) , and Grey the coachman ( THE BODY SNATCHER ) in later years . Even today people try to differentiate between March's character and say Bela Lugosi's Dracula or Lon Chaney's Wolf Man . Yet it is a science fiction situation : Henry Jekyll does separate his personality with chemicals into good and bad components - just as Griffin ( Claude Rains ) separates his body from visibility with chemicals in THE INVISIBLE MAN . There is some snobbery here - Stevenson is not quite the same author as Mrs . Shelley , Bram Stoker , or even H . G . Wells . This is nonsense - all these writers worked hard at their craft , which is why they are still read ( although Stoker's prose is frequently laughable ) . Be it as it may , no other science fiction figure has won an actor an Oscar ( including Spencer Tracy for his performance as Jekyll and Hyde ) since 1931 . Stevenson later said that his idea came from the story of Deacon William Brodie , an Edinburgh carpenter and city official who was discovered to be a successful burglar and hanged in 1788 . He had a nightmare about this situation , and turned it into the novella THE STRANGE CASE OF DR . JECKYLL AND MR . HYDE . The original story is basically about how the unleashing of unfettered evil cannot be controlled or restored to normal no matter how hard one tries . In it , Hyde is responsible for severely ( and unconcernedly ) injuring a child , and for murdering a member of Parliament named Carew . Eventually he also causes the death of a friend of Jekyll's , who learns the secret to his own cost . But when Stevenson's story was turned into a successful stage play for actor Richard Mansfield ( in 1887-88 ) , the murder of an unfortunate " barmaid " ( Ivy ) was added , as was a marriage being planned for Jekyll and Carew's daughter ( which leads to the murder of Carew ) . Mansfield was one of the great actors of his day , and with a minimum of make-up ( and special lighting tricks ) managed to change from the proper Jekyll to the evil Hyde every night before his audience . Possibly one person who saw the play in London was influenced by it that year of 1888 . We shall never know now . The similarities in barbaric , carefree evil between Edward Hyde in the novella and play , and Jack the Ripper was very evident so a connection of influence is possible . It certainly adds to the story's continued fascination . March was made to look rather simian in his " Hyde " make-up . Sort of like the drugs he used made Hyde a throw-back to an earlier , ape-like creature ( in the story Hyde looks younger than Jekyll , which is why he is not recognized by his acquaintances ) . His creature of evil is quite a violent type ( see him jumping up and down when fighting , and enjoying it ) . It is not as subtly evil as Spencer Tracy's cat-and-mouse Hyde of ten years later ( which , I must admit , I think is superior ) . Still , March holds one's attention throughout the film . Miriam Hopkins similarly shows a forward sexiness and a frailty as the doomed , unhappy Ivy . Witness how she is forced to sing the jaunty " Champaign Ivy is my name " tune ( based on a popular song , " Champaign Charlie " ) into a nervous number when Hyde demands she sing it for him . The other performances are capable ones but not as good as the two leads . Mamoulian's direction is strong , although he does not stick to his " I am a camera " approach after the first twenty minutes of the film . All in all , it is worth a .
There are plenty of films about the effect of teacher's over the years on their students . The best known is GOODBYE MR . CHIPS with Robert Donat , but there are others ( GOOD MORNING , MISS DOVE , for example ) . The tragic personal life of the teacher as opposed to his or her dedication to the students is the subject of the drama . Yet the formula works when does well , and MR . HOLLAND'S OPUS was an example of such a successful version . Richard Dreyfus is Glenn Holland , who has been hired in 1965 to teach music appreciation at JOHN F . KENNEDY HIGH SCHOOL ( the principal is Olympia Dukakis , and the vice principal is William H . Macy ) . Holland's wife ( Iris - Glenne Headley ) and there child Cole are in a house in the town , and we watch his domestic tragedy - not so much with his wife , but that their son is deaf . Holland concentrates over time on his students , and his constant warfare with the vice principal on matters like rock and roll or the values of music appreciation in learning . Among the students he helps are young athletes trying to accomplish academic achievement , young women trying to break into the field of entertainment or trying to bolster their self-confidence . But he is constantly brought up short by the problems of his relations with his family - especially as his son Cole grows up ( Joseph Anderson - age 15 Cole here ) . Cole is deaf but he is intelligent , and he blows up when Glenn fails to realize that Cole is intelligent about music - a subject he thinks Cole can never share with him . The running thread through all this is that Glenn began the teaching gig as a money maker while he creates his musical masterpiece - a symphony . But both the home life and the school work take up all his time . Yet , as the film ends he realizes that he did leave an imprint on his students , and he did prove a warm and loving husband and father despite real strains due to Cole's condition . The film ends with a proper validation of his full success . Dreyfus was wonderful as Glenn ( ably supported by Headley , Macy , Dukakis , and Jay Thomas as his friend the sports coach ) , and got nominated for a second Best Actor Oscar . While he did not win , his career rejuvenated . And he would eventually try ( with Thomas ) to do a television show in the next decade that dealt with the problems of a teacher in a high school .
It was really somewhat unique in the history of film comedy . I can only think of one near miss on a similar level , and in that case the artist involved had made movies . Samuel Becket , dramatist , novelist , secretary to James Joyce , and Nobel Literary Lauriate , loved comedy . His first and greatest play , WAITING FOR GODOT has a pair of hobos ( Vladimir and Estragon ) who in the course of the play frequently do music hall turns reminiscent of Laurel & Hardy among others . Others have situations that are certainly odd in a striking and comic manner ( like one woman who is half buried in sand throughout a one act play ) . In the hands of a lesser writer these oddities would vaguely amuse , but Becket structured his comic turns and sight gags to have a value in the themes of his plays , so that gradually ( even as we are amused ) we are fascinated and learn of aspects of the human race we frequently bury or try to ignore . " Shall we go ? " , one of the two hobos says to the other as WAITING FOR GODOT ends . Godot ( God ? The Wonderful Future ? The Messiah ? ) is not coming as they hope . " Yes , " says the other hobo , " Let's go ! " . They stand perfectly still as the curtain goes down - and that conclusion makes perfect sense to the audience . When he wrote WAITING FOR GODOT , Becket offered it to Buster Keaton . Keaton's career had revived , especially after his duet with Charlie Chaplin in LIMELIGHT . But Keaton was uncertain about doing it , so it was done by Bert Lahr instead . But Becket always admired Keaton , and in 1965 offered him what was tantamount to a solo appearance ( there are only three other actors in the film , very briefly ) . It is Buster's only philosophical movie . Can we escape any form of examination of our activities ? Keaton's character is shown for 95 % of the film from the back or side ( towards the end something of the " Great Stone Face " is shown but still from the nape of the neck ) . He is constantly running from view . He knocks down a clergyman and a woman , but both when watching him see something else that horrifies them . So does an elderly flower seller in Keaton's rooming house ( who faints when she sees the unseen presence ) . Keaton enters his room and slowly does everything to remove any watchful eyes from staring at him . This includes pets he has , and even a picture of a sculpture head ( interestingly of a Sumarian or Babylonian figure with wide eyes - these statues were usually meant to represent pious priests ) . When certain that he is unobserved Keaton looks at some photographs he got , and only then ( for the first time ) we see a picture of Keaton facing us - and with an eye patch ) . After getting rid of the photos Keaton apparently falls asleep , but then . . . he faces the ultimate intensive critic looking him over - and his final scene shows a tragic resignation that even death won't avoid . It's philosophical beat makes it unique among Keaton's silent movies . It remains a nice final highpoint towards the end of his career - and one that fellow silent comics Chaplin and Lloyd did not quite match ( although Chaplin's social comments , and Lloyd's spin on the success ethic are close to it in other areas of thought ) . The only other time a similar arrangement appears to have been tried was when Salvador Dali offered a surrealistic comedy script to the Marx Brothers , and sent Harpo a specially designed harp . The script was never seriously considered by the Brothers ( although Dali had been involved in surrealistic films in the 1920s and 1930s , and would work with Alfred Hitchcock on SPELLBOUND ) . Except for that one attempt no other major 20th Century artist appears to have approached any of the major film clowns to collaborate on any work .
James Mason ( like Richard Burton , Edward Arnold , and many other splendid actors - and actresses ) never received the Oscar for any of his performances . This is one of the unfair side issues regarding the Academy Awards , as a measuring stick to film stardom . Everyone who has seen Mason's performances ( and the others I mentioned ) may know they are appearing in a " turkey " , but they are serving their sections of the " turkey " with deluxe dressing . When they are appearing in " filet mignon " or the like , they really reach the heights . So , despite his lack of Academy recognition , Mason is remembered with great fondness by everyone who enjoys movies . To this day his voice is imitated in cartoons if you want to see a snooty , aristocratic villain . Yet I said " villain " . How can I call the wounded , deserted IRA gunman Johnny ( ODD MAN OUT ) or Norman Main ( A STAR IS BORN ) or Humbert Humbert ( LOLITA ) a " villain " . Yes , he did play Mr . Van Dam in NORTH BY NORTHWEST , but even that fellow had his less villainous moments ( too few perhaps ) . The fact is , when Mason came to the U . S . to appear in Hollywood films in the late 1940s , it was as one of Britain's best villains . This was odd . He had been in films since the late 1930s , and had played a shell shock victim in THE HILL HAVE EYES as well as other parts . In FIRE OVER ENGLAND ( an early role ) he was an English Catholic nobleman who is planning to aid King Philip of Spain ( for reasons of politics and religious freedom ) but who is drowned fleeing the police of Elizabeth I . None of these performances had gained him his fame , deserved as it was . It was THE MAN IN GRAY that gained him fame . Set in Regency England ( c . 1790 - 1837 ) , Mason was what was termed " a Regency Buck " . This was a fashionable , upper crust Regency aristocrat or wealthy man who enjoyed his privileges - frequently at the expense of everyone else around them . When Leslie Howard played Sir Percy Blakeney in THE SCARLET PIMPERNEL , his character is a foppish version of " the Regency Buck " , acting the buffoon at the expense of Col Higgensbottom and even the Prince of Wales - regarding cravats - to hide his serious mission ) . Mason's character is actually a more openly forceful version of this character . The Marquis of Rohan is a great grandee of England ( despite having the last name of a noted French Aristocratic house - connected to the " Affair of the Diamond Necklace " ) . He is fully aware of his position , and the subservient position of everyone else involved with it . Phyllis Calvert is Clarissa , the daughter of a local good family , who was a close friend of Margaret Lockwood ( Hester ) . Their relations is similar to that of Amelia Sedley and Becky Sharp in VANITY FAIR , as good girl and bad girl . Rohan chooses to marry Clarissa because she is a proper ( and subservient ) wife to breed an heir . Clarissa tries to help Hester by getting her a good position in the household ( bad mistake ) . Rohan is soon bored by marriage , and Clarissa mistakes this as a signal that she is on her own . She meets a traveling actor named Rokeby ( Stewart Granger ) and starts a relationship with him - egged on by Hester . Hester intention is to reveal it at the right time to Rohan , and replace the disgraced Clarissa . And she does . But it actually does two things . He does go after Rokeby to kill him . But after taking care of that problem , Rohan finds Clarissa going into physical decline . And his better character comes out . He tries to help his wife , but nothing he does helps . . . and she finally dies . The Marquis is heartbroken . SPOILER COMING UP : Hester still blind to the reality of the situation , confronts Rohan , and reveals her own passions . But now Rohan is fully aware of why Hester made her revelations , and what it has led to . Furious at being used , and at his own cost and of the woman he got to love , Rohan grabs a horse whip and whips Hester to death ! It is an orchestrated , violent conclusion ( and it's violence may be why the film is rarely shown on television ) . Despite making Rohan a killer at the end , because he is killing the real villain in the plot Rohan gets the audience to cheer him on ! He becomes the " anti-hero " of the story . It gained Mason his international standing as " a man you love to hate " . And it opened the doors to future Hollywood stardom .
