I have to admit it that I don't watch the Today show . I prefer the Imus show on MSNBC because I feel like it's real , candid , and authentic with great guests . I have stopped watching morning shows like Today because I can't stand the pretentious and falseness . Everybody appears a little too happy for me especially in the morning if you are not a morning person like myself . I am happy for Meredith Viera because she probably felt like she was saving from the Titanic or the The View as it's called so she seems so much happier now . but for NBC to ditch daytime soaps like Passions and Another World is ridiculous . The Today Show is becoming more and more like cable television . We don't need four hours of the Today Show . We do need shows like Passions though . It's a well-known fact that NBC has wanted to ditch the soaps for a long time . The only problem now is Days of Our Lives which has a strong fan base that will do anything to keep it on the air . Anyway , NBC is going in the toilet faster than the View . remember when there was Saturday morning cartoons for kids and television programming for teens with shows like Saved by the Bell . Sorry , the Today Show for 2 hours is too much and four is just awful .
I'm not much for movies nowadays about teens but this garbage was on in my hotel room . Loser is unrealistic but thoughtful love story between a commuter female college student sleeping with her professor and the boy who falls in love with her . It has its moments and charming scenes but overall it's lame just like most of the movies out there . Anyway the film could have been better because it seems to just move in a predictable direction rather than maintain some memorable moments in the film . The acting was mediocre along with the writing and I don't think they shot it in New York City but I can't be sure . Anyway , it's just another teen movie that grossly underestimates the college experience .
I hope there will be another Kissel movie out there . I read two books about the Kissel Brothers . I felt that Robin Tunney gave the best performance as unhinged Nancy Kissel . You hated her one minute and felt sorry for her in the next minute . She felt like property than a wife . It is true that her father-in-law looked down upon his daughter-in-law from day one . The two hour film which is really only 90 minutes plus a few couldn't unfold the events that led to the downfalls of both Kissel brothers . Robert Kissel was the good brother who succeeded in the financial world and even landed a job in Hong Kong but was troubled by an unstable wife . Andrew Kissel played by John Stamos is the only other standout performance in the film . He is both troubled and devious in deceiving his investors of the actual losses . Their spouses aren't as memorable as Nancy and Andrew . Maybe they should have gotten together in the first place but it would be a deadly combination . Sadly , since it is based on the true Kissel story . I felt that there wasn't enough details but only hints of Nancy and Andrew's falls . The film comes across as disjointed with people like Hayley , Andrew's wife , and his driver giving a statements along with other Hong Kong wives who were expatriates whose husbands and never came home to the Parkview complex . Nancy's crimes were brought on by a combination of things and a culmination of despair and utter desperation . Nancy was tired of being Robert's wife . Robert tried to buy her happiness but nothing worked . She was miserable in Hong Kong and the only light was a cable guy in New England . The Kissels ' sister spoke about maybe if she didn't meet the cable guy or that there were too many maybes . The tragedy of the Kissel family is well-documented in books . I felt sorry for both Nancy and Andrew who longed for happiness , love , and acceptance . Nancy felt out of place with her in-laws easily .
I am so sick of LuAnn needed to be called by her title . In this episode , there is a humorous moment when she calls to order pizza and says " countess De Lesseps . " Now I don't know if you order pizza in the real world but the pizza place doesn't care about names as much as getting the right address and paid with a tip . LuAnn seems so transparent as if she earned her title . She married for it . Just remember that the French aristocracy were decimated by the French peasants during the Revolution . Regardless of her husband's job , even people with titles don't flaunt it or demand it as much as LuAnn . If she was in England , it would be different because they are used to titled people but not in America . Even people with titles like dame or knighthood after they earned it , don't demand the recognition that Luann seems too . I was surprised to see her actually doing dishes because her housekeeper / nanny Rosie went to visit her family in the Philippines for a month . Still we don't see the housewives do housework . Even her book on manners and etiquette is coming out with her title of course as if it matters in this day and age .
I have to say that I was expecting more from this film . Heath Ledger is great as the devoted priest and Mark Addy has his fellow priest from the same order . The beginning of the film has questions that are never really answered at all . I was not surprised by the fact that they had to bring in a character , Mara Williams , for sexual scenes . Yes even though the film should be about priests and their quests for the cause of their beloved mentor's death . That's what it should have been about but it becomes something else completely . I spent 2 hours watching this on a cable station . I was intrigued by the beginning but then the priest played by Heath Ledger which began fine but he is sidetracked by his lust for Mara which I think ruins the character . These priests are member of a dying order , the Carolinians , and are involved in exorcism supposedly . But yet when Heath's character meets with the Sineater who wants him to take over his job of absolving sins . He is torn which becomes preposterous . I love Mark Addy and he is being wasted and the same for Heath Ledger . There was not much integrity into developing the story of this film .
Mama Harper decides to sue the bank after they refuse to loan her money to fix a household appliance and after she falls on a roll of pennies . The family gets together to make it seem that Mama Harper was worse off than previously thought . All know about the plan except neighbor and best friend , Iola , who sees a lot of her shut-in , ill-stricken mother in Thelma after the fall even though she witnessed it . So the family hires a sleazy lawyer and the bank sends over Miss Small to make a deal with Mama Harper . Of course , things never go according to plan at all . This episode was fine and pointed out that suing a bank or anyone doesn't really go as planned . But nothing in Mama Harper's life has ever gone as planned no matter how hard she tries .
Uma Thurman and Meryl Streep make this film come alive . The story about Rafaela , a 37 year old career divorcée , starts dating a younger Jewish guy , David Bloomberg . It turns out that her Jewish psychotherapist is his mother played by Waspy Meryl Streep . Okay , she's not Jewish and she's older . She details specific of their sexual relationship to his mother . There are some moments but really it's Streep's movie . Uma does her best in scenes with her . I don't get the religious because they are not really a religious family . The scene where David reveals when he introduced his African American girlfriend to his very Jewish grandmother , Bubbe , was quite memorable . There are moments about New York City life . David lives with his maternal grandparents on the Jewish Lower East Side . His maternal grandmother is played by a wonderful New York actress , Doris Belack . Apart from the story , the movie lacks steam and I didn't like the ending .
This show was never meant to be a hit but it was with a stellar cast including a young Rick Shroeder as the spoiled but likable rich kid . Who could forget the train in the house ? His grandfather was played by legendary actor , John Houseman , and his father was well-played by Joel Grey . His stepmother and father's secretary was played by Erin Gray better known for her female role in the short-lived series , Buck Rogers . Everybody knew that they would get together . Anyway the Strattons live in Long Island , we also got to see Jason Bateman before he became famous . I liked Christina Belford who played the mother and former wife , Mrs . Stratton . She left an unforgettable impression on me that I always remembered her name . Well , the series had a nice five year run during the sitcom explosion of the 1980s .
There are organizations in America that have women as Dames . Thelma desperately wants to join this snobbish organization maybe to make her snobby daughter , Ellen , jealous or green with envy . The three dames are expected to stop by Harper house and they are stunned to find out that Bubba is dressed as a woman for fraternity show . While Vinton and Naomi have finally found an affordable home which is a mobile home that needs some cleaning . They have a spot in the mobile home park where they planned to move just as soon as they can but their home isn't running properly and the dames have arrived . Thelma has cooked them a meal from a magazine that the dames complain that they eat too much . Well , Mama lets the dames finally have what they have coming to them anyway .
Vinton and Iola both have inventions . Vinton has a lock family home with a mama lock , papa lock , and baby boy lock in a silly lock house . After all , Vinton is a professional and proud locksmith . When he tries to sell his idea , Mama puts him in his place until a potential investor claims that he can make money off of his invention or stupidity or silliness . But that is before Mama gets involved in helping law enforcement out like a local police cop who is old enough to be her grandson gets her involved to stop the latest swindler in Raytown . I surely remember Vinton's invention as one of the funniest if not most ridiculous things in a long time . IOla has a more practical invention where she developed by helping her bed-ridden mother who we never see .
Mama Harper suspects the psychic played wonderfully by Liz Torres is not who she appears to be so she does a little investigating and comes up with answers of her own . When the psychic visits the Harper House one night , the psychic is in for shock when she gets a taste of her own medicine in part and thanks to Mama Harper . This episode is quite harmless and Liz Torres is truly a gem of a comedic actress . Despite this one-time guest appearance , it was worth watching just for her to play a psychic who might be a con-artist but there is not much excitement or entertainment in Raytown anyway . Not that I don't love Raytown , I do . I would love to visit the real Raytown that inspired this comedy series in the first place .
The Harpers want a VCR ( Video Cassette Recorder ) which was before DVD players and records but they don't have the money . They decide to hold a yard or garage sale and tries to unload some of Iola's handmade awful stuff off while she goes away to a wedding with her parents of town . When she returns unexpectedly early from the wedding , she learns that the Harpers are trying to sell her stuff . What they don't realize is that they place the money in her handmade tissue box cover and she takes it with her . Now the Harpers have to apologize to Iola and not only get their friendship back but the money as well . I felt this episode was quite the usual fare of Mama's Family in syndication .
Ever since the Gods must be crazy premiered ten years earlier , there was a need for a sequel because the film generated a buzz not seen in years . With a native bushman in a starring role in the original , he returns . This time , his two sons go missing or on an adventurous journey through Africa . The cast also includes a female doctor , a white lady , who gets into the same mischief as in the first film . The cast and crew are alright . The story is not much different as African tribal people get introduced to modern society . In the original , the bushman thought it was an animal and not a car . The story is still heartwarming and entertaining as well .
Oscar winner Nicholas Cage is the leading role about a descendant of one of Ben Franklin's closest friends . Cage's character , Gates , is seeking the treasure that his family has been searching for . The movie begins with the wonderful Christopher Plummer ( one of today's finest actors on stage , film or television ) as his grandfather and Oscar winner Jon Voight as his father . Gates believes that there is a conspiracy to steal the original declaration of independence from Washington D . C . by thieves who seek the treasure . He decides to take it before they do . They are hot on his trail and he takes a female love interest and antique document restorer along for the ride with a trusty male sidekick . They uncover one clue which leads to another . I love the location scenery like in Washington D . C . and Philadelphia . It's a great thrill ride to watch but not take literally .
You can survive Surviving Christmas . I thought the television version was a bit edited way down . I like Ben Afleck . He plays Drew Johnson , a family-less adult , who is willing to pay complete strangers . The Valcos starring James Gandolfini and Catherine O'Hara as the parents and Christina Applegate as Lisa Valco , the daughter . Drew is lonely around the holidays because he doesn't have a family of his own so he rents out a family in the Chicago suburbs for a quarter million dollars . Bill Macy who I best remember for playing Maude's husband Arthur is hired to play Duda , the grandfather . When the whole situation comes crashing down , the truth can be painful . The Valcos household is crumbling apart from the Drew situation . Drew's rich girlfriend and her parents make a surprising visit . You can't buy what you wish for ! The acting and writing is mediocre but the first rate cast pulls it through to the final scene .
My Polish is not very good . I picked up this tape at a thrift store . There were no subtitles so it was difficult for me . The story is set in two parts . In 1874 , Krakow which wasn't Poland at the time , the series centered around upper class single women trying to get married and live happily ever after . The beginning is quite slow and reminds me a lot of British period piece dramas where there is a lot of talking than action . When there is action at a silly dance where eligible men arrive , the actions between the men and women are bit peculiar . In taking to an account that this series was filmed in Communist era Poland before martial law , you have to take that this film was done with the idea to entertain and provide a soap opera style . In the second part of the story takes place twelve years later in 1886 Krakow and the mountainous region where the more interesting and clearly established plot line is explained . One of the women at the party who gets married and bears a son . She suffers from an illness and is recommended to spend time in the mountains by her doctor . There she meets another doctor , who she is attracted too .
Before she went into politics or public service , Glenda Jackson was one of Britain's finest film actresses . This film displays her talent despite having a supporting role in a stellar cast that includes Julie Christie as Kitty , the wife of a British Royal Captain who has lost his memory of the last 20 years , and Jenny played by American Ann-Margret in an almost unrecognizable role as the doting sister . Alan Bates plays the captain who suffers from memory loss triggered by the shell shock during World War I . Sir Ian Holm has a smaller role as the doctor treating him . You see familiar faces like Sheila Keith , Patsy Byrne , and Frank Finlay . You can't help but watch Glenda play a dowdy housewife and the first true love of the Captain but they came from different classes . It's not the greatest movie but it's good to see Glenda's amazing talent . She is still a fantastic actress , comedy or drama . She makes Margaret Grey into a likable character and you see why a regal captain fell in love with her .
Okay , this is not one of the best movies ever made nor was it the worst . But the premise of a sham gay marriage or domestic partnership to get health benefits and pension for his two children is done well with starring Kevin James as the widowed father and Adam Sandler as his best friend . He saved his life after all and he asked him for one favor which was to marry him in order to get benefits for his two children , Eric and Tori . Ironically , Eric would rather try out for a musical than little league . Of course , things go wrong because Sandler's character , Chuck Levine , falls head in heels over in love with their lawyer played by Jessica Biel . A great supporting cast includes Ving Rhames as a New York City fireman with a secret , Mary Pat Gleason as Teresa , Larry's housekeeper , Rachel Dratch as the benefits lady with her eyes on Larry , David Spade is there too , Richard Chamberlain as the commissioner , Steve Buscemi as the man who seeks the truth just for kicks . Anyway , they filmed in Brooklyn and New York City . Can't forget Rob Schneider as the Asian minister in Niagara Falls , Ontario , Canada ? There are cameos by Lance Bass too but I didn't recognize him until I saw his name in the credits . Of course , the wonderful Dan Ackroyd plays the fire captain and Nick Turturro of NYPD Blue plays fellow fireman . I won't give away the ending . But I was touched that they mentioned the firefighters from the fire station who perished on September 11 , 2001 in the credits . being a firefighter is not an easy job , the film doesn't take a serious turn but does show them doing jobs of rescuing and saving people in situations .
It's rare than an animated movie like Hoodwinked can entertain both children and adults . The movie is set around the story of Little Miss Riding Hood known as Red voiced by Anne Hathaway . Glenn Close provides the voice of the Granny . There is a story and plot about recipes , evil rabbit , and animals who come to life speaking and a frog . The language and the script itself is smart with jokes to entertain the adults while the children viewers will be glued to the screen for it's first rateanimation . Today's animation makes the past animated classics look like children's work . Technology has come a long away and animators today are computer savvy and smart enough to use it for their own advantages . We'll see a lot more animated films in the future .
Too bad , UPN didn't give this show a chance . I liked it . Richard Grieco is better know for his role on 21 Jump Street but he plays a Jersey born guy who moves to Hawaii and becomes a private investigator . They haven't shown this show in a while so my memory is pretty vague . I would have liked to seen more of it for the scenery in Hawaii and the cast . THey had some good stories but I would have liked to see this show again if given the opportunity but it's been so long anad I would have liked if it showed up in repeats or even on DVD . Marker had a chance but nobody knew about it so I would recommend this show if you liked to see Hawaii . I thought 11 years ago that I would be there by now and come home for visits but I have not been there once but I have visited London 4 times so it's one of my favorite places on earth .
I liked Jack & Bobby . I am not a big fan of the dramatic genre or the melodramatic series like this one but I liked this show . I like Christine Lahti who is always dynamic in whatever role . She should have mantle filled with statues for her acting appearances . I was very impressed with the chances of letting us know what was going to happen into the future about these two young men . Of course , it always best to leave the audience guessing about the outcome of which one anyway . But I liked this show because of the strong characters in Jack , Bobby , & Grace . I don't think it's necessary to have the people in the future reflect until the very end of the series . If this was a mini-series or movie , I could see it but not now . Keep the audience guessing until the very end .
Uncle Tom's Cabin was brought back to life with a stellar cast including Danny Glover , Kate Burton , Phylicia Rashad , Bruce Dern , Paula Kelly , Edward Woodward , and Samuel L . Jackson just to name a few . I don't remember much of the story itself apart from reading it a long time ago . In the 1980s , television movies were a class apart . They were inspired by actual true crime or literature like Uncle Tom's Cabin into a movie with television stars . Anyway , the television movies of the past have long disappeared onto cable stations and PBS programming if possible . The quality of this television movie is worth watching for students . I now remember why television movies stopped being so good . It was because major television networks had the audiences to watch them . It's a lot cheaper to do reality series or program unfortunately . The audiences of the eighties have a lot more choices now . The major networks ruled prime time with the finest quality . Sometimes , quality should not be outnumbered by quantity .
Matt Dillon is brilliant in his role as a guidance counselor who is accused of raping his students or is he . Anyway Kevin Bacon is also brilliant as the police detective in charge of an investigation of murder . Neve Campbell has a strong unusual role as a brilliant but trapped in a blue collar life . Denise Richards who I never saw before is above average in her part . The plot is not easy and you have to watch it to the end to get it but you're left with more questions than answers anyway which is why I am giving it a seven . I love Carrie Snodgress who plays Ruby in this film . I think she is brilliant actress who does a fantastic job with her small part . Of course , I won't reveal anymore regarding the plot because you have to watch it for yourself . It's not an easy plot with lots of twists and turns . In the end , they show the scenes that we don't see and it helps explain what really happens and that does help answer some questions . I can't forget Bill Murray who has a small role in this film as well . Of course , I would like to ask the director lots of questions about this film but that's not going to happen .
Let's face it , Cicely Tyson and Richard Pryor play an unlikely pair . Cicely plays a good-hearted social worker who is determined to transport a school bus-load of abandoned orphans across the country to a farm with animals . She gets Richard Pryor's character who plays an ex-con who redeems himself in this film . Of course , Tyson and Pryor are quite simply marvelous in roles that would have otherwise failed . I know if I wanted somebody that would be Cicely who plays Vivian Perry whose heart and mind are always in the right place . While Pryor's character feels like a failure , she and the kids inspire him as well he inspires them . It's not a wholesome after-school special but it's touching at moments to see the outcasts look and treat upon each other as friends and family because they could have treated this film like silly film but it's a serious film about serious problems and they do it admirably .
Mama Harper develops her mother's concoction to help her family get over an illness like the flu . After her son and bimbo-in-law Naomi who is now expecting their child realized that they can't afford it . They try a get rich scheme which falls on the unmentioned ingredient , alcohol . Mama Harper brings the remedy and potions to her stuffy Church Ladies League and they all end up wasted . It's funny episode especially when Mama Harper doesn't realize that it was the alcohol all along that was the cure . Still , I miss this show and any episode with Anne Haney as Alberta Meacham , the minister's no-nonsense wife , is a joy to watch as always . They'll just have to find another way to make the $180 , 000 to raise the Harper baby .
Sexy Beast is never fully explained . Perhaps it is a nickname for Ben Kingsley's character . Sir Ben is wonderful in this film as complicated bald British burglar . Ian McShane is deliciously evil in his role as the man behind the master plan . Ian is well deserving of an O . B . E . or a C . B . E . Ray Winstone should also get an O . B . E . for his services to acting . The cast is wonderful including Amanda Redman who is best known for playing the older Diana Dors . I hope they don't forget her for a British honour in the same fashion as the late Diana Dors ( she should have been given a C . B . E . ) but nevertheless the plot is fun and filled with four letter words , violence , a little sex , and brief nudity scene . Sexy Beast may not have raked it in at the box office . I don't know why but maybe it should have with all the sex , violence , and nudity for American audiences . Isn't that what they want and they don't go for it ? Maybe it's the British accents that throws them away but whatever it is worth watching at least once without the children .
Anthony Bourdain's No Reservations is a rare show that combines both traveling and restaurants which happen to be two of my favorite things . This travel channel show goes all over the map literally judging by the locations listed here . He was recently in Chicago . Since Bourdain is bred New Yorker but raised in urban Jersey , he doesn't put Chicago down at all . He always praises locations like Chicago . For example , he goes to China and claims that he could spend an eternity trying to show the various , unique cooking styles of the Chinese . He was quite complimentary and enjoyed his visit in China just as he does everywhere . He meets with friends and goes to the off the tourist track to find the restaurants where there are usually local charms . You won't find them to have valet parking or formal attire . Anthony shows the culture and the cuisine in his travels whether it's Jersey , New York , Chicago , China , or elsewhere . I have enjoyed watching him and his friends chow down on a variety of foods .
In Plain Sight is now common among the new cable and even network . They have shortened their season from the usual 22 to 13 episodes . The down side is the longer the wait makes you want to look elsewhere . Mary Shannon and her partner , Marshall , are back in tow . They work well as a team . If Mary Shannon didn't look attractive , would the men tolerate her as much ? Probably not , she's tough and you have to be working in a man's world with men mostly . At home , she is really the masculine authority in her household with her mother , Jinx , played well by Lesley Ann Warren and her troublesome sister , Brandi . No wonder , she prefers her job that allows her to get away with such impossible behavior . Now if I had acted that way , I would be fired immediately but I don't . As a woman , I have to conform and worry that inappropriate behavior won't get me fired especially now . I see Mary McCormack's face everywhere from the train to New York City , the posters on the wall , and the New York Times . I like Mary McCormack and always have . I wish her well in her success and know that it won't go to her head . Despite that she plays a tough talking government agent , she remains feminine in nature with her emotions . She had a tough season last year at home and at work . I'm not one for cop shows anymore . There too many of them and they are all beginning to look alike after awhile . In Plain Sight is a little different because of Mary's tough character who shows she's boss . That's every woman's fantasy in a way in a men's world . She doesn't take being mistreated . For women , it's an hour to escape and allow ourselves to live vicariously through her .
I remember when A & E aired this series on Sunday evenings . Oh how I envied being in London , anyway Stella Gonet and Louise Lombard are both stars of this series as two sisters who operate a fashion business in London , England . A terrific supporting cast like Victoria Alcock , Cathy Murphy , and others help support the leading actresses . Of course , the creators of the show was Dame Eileen Atkins and Jean Marsh better known for Upstairs , Downstairs . Anyway , the story is quite soap opera at times but it is irresistible too . They are true to the time period as possible they can . They opened the doors much like other British series . Sadly , the show only lasted three seasons which is not that unusual in British programming . Unfortunately , a series season ranges from 6-10 episodes a season . Oh my , the British soaps air about four or five times a week .
According to TV Guide , the tribute to the great Ruth Warrick was set for May 13 , 2005 but I only got a lame will reading from this episode . I stopped watching All My Children years ago because it was really the Susan Lucci show . Nowadays , the show is going to the dogs literally . It focuses too much on the young people of Pine Valley . I remember the early eighties when Ruth Warrick and other cast members like Kay Campbell , Louis Edmonds , Julia Barr , David Canary , and Eileen Herlie all had some storyline going now . Those who survive are destined to be placed in the background like Michael Knight . The show is only a shell of what it used to be . I sent several letters and applications for Eileen Herlie to get a British National Honor like Dame but I would have settled for the typical M . B . E . ( Member of the Order of the British Empire ) . I sent several envelopes to cast members with an application inside . I never heard from one cast member or anybody interested in honoring Eileen Herlie from her native country . It angers me because I know from the past that somebody in their eighties like her and Ruth Warrick don't have much time left . I even sent the same applications to soap publications . Still no response from anybody . Does anybody care about somebody like Eileen Herlie ? Before Anna Lee , I made several attempts to get another honor from Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth but it failed because I didn't do it sooner than later . Eileen should have an M . B . E . like Anna Lee who was awarded in 1982 . Eileen has been on just as long as some of the recipients from Coronation Street . Still , I wanted to see Ruth's tribute but for some reason , I didn't . Maybe I wasn't supposed too , maybe this is why I am writing this piece . I will never say the writing was ever excellent . It never held the same appeal as Douglas Marland or William J . Bell's story lines . The acting has always been either wonderful comedic and truly over the top . Still I hope All My Children fans will remember what it was like for those characters like Phoebe Wallingford , Myrtle Fargate , and others that you don't have to be young to have appeal . You have to depth and that comes from years of experience .
When an old friend comes to the Harper house , it turns out that Mama Harper had a possible other suitor in her younger days . William Windom was cast perfectly as the other man . Mama is singing a new tune and gets dressed up for dinner leaving Aunt Fran , Vint and the kids at home . Naomi is not in this episode since she is at a seminar for supermarket cashiers . When Mama and her new boyfriend get to spend a weekend at a cabin like they did when they were younger , she and Woody recalled what separated them apart . Mama and Woody realized the truth about each other . Woody is quite a successful businessman and widower who owned frozen foods and would sell his business to place an investment on something called computers which was still new and fresh at the time .
Naomi is stressed over the fact that she and Vint's sexual life hasn't been as active as normal . When Dr . Joyce Brothers ' plane broke down and lands in Raytown , she gets to make an unexpected appearance on the Eddie Edwards ' local television show . She answers a phone call from Naomi who uses another name and she gives a fake name to Vint but she is so revealing that everybody in town knows who it is including Mama and even Vint and IOla . After ruining Mama's home life , she and the family go to the Raytown Airport to corner Dr . Joyce Brothers regarding whose to blame for Vint and Naomi's problems . Dr . Joyce Brothers offers suggestions to help their relationship and a book for Thelma . She offers sound unforgettable advice to Thelma about her own sex life .
Bubba Higgins enters his grandmother into a beauty contests for Grandmothers with Naomi's picture . When they mistake Naomi for a grandmother at the beauty pageant , Mama speaks up and makes a poor claim that her elbow is in the picture . Most of the episode is centered around the pageant episode . There is a lot of tap-dancing with some of the grandmothers . Don't forget Ken Berry is an accomplished tap dancer and choreographer . Of course , Mama has to answer the question that every woman dreads . Despite the contest , this episode is memorable because of the cast and the guest actresses who play other pageant contestants .
I was devastated when they canceled Mama's Family on network television . About two and half-years later , it resurfaces in Syndication . Of course , there are major changes since Betty White who played snobby Ellen Harper Jackson and Rue McClanahan played Aunt Fran Crowley are no longer with the show . That's because they are on network in Golden Girls . Of course , Frances Crowley is killed off and Ellen is at a bridge game to miss the wedding . Mama Harper and her son , Vinton , and daughter-in-law Naomi remain with them in the house . We don't know about Buzz and Sonia , they are no longer on the show . I would assume the casting downsize might have had to do with the show's new premise . Since the producer Joe Hamilton has divorced Carol Burnett , Eunice is no longer in Raytown . She and Ed have moved to Florida leaving behind their son , Bubba , who is at reformatory school . On the same day as Aunt Fran's funeral , Bubba arrives thinking the food is all for him . Alan Kayser joined the show as Bubba and neighbor and old maid , Iola Boyland , is played by Beverly Archer who is also Mama's best friend . This show is not the show on network but it doesn't matter because I was so glad that Mama and her family came back on the air even in syndication .
Come on , you have to admit that this film has a good cast with Debra Winger , Robert Redford , Daryl Hannah , and others in supporting roles like Christine Baranski . I like the fact that it was shot in New York City and not on location somewhere . No offense , Toronto or Vancouver but the backdrop does a good job . Remembering a time when the twin towers was still alive and kicking downtown . I liked the combination of Winger and Redford even though they disliked each other on the set according to rumors . Daryl Hannah plays Chelsea who seeks her father's art from crooked businessmen . She does an adequate job and proves that she's not just a pretty face . Daryl always plays shy very well but in this case , Chelsea is not shy at all . She is a bit rebellious and a performance artist with a fascination for fire . She teams up with Winger's character and later with Redford in more ways than can be said to prove her innocence and get justice served .
I have to say I admire and love Ron Eldard's performance as Jim Dunbar , the homicide detective who goes blind in a deadly shooting match . He plays him beautifully with such depth and care . Ron Eldard is really an outstanding actor . He brings such charisma , heart , and love to this role . I was impressed with Marisol Nichols as his assigned partner . Women always get the shaft in the working world and are held back particularly in the police field . I was not impressed with Rena Sofer . I think they could have casted somebody better for that role . She does her best with the little lines she had last night . I was impressed and thrilled to see Guiding Light Alumni Frank Grillo played a fellow police detective Marty Russo . He really captures the character . Jim's guide dog Hank deserves to be recognized as an official cast member in the show's credits . Hank is loyal and faithful to Jim no matter what in their relationship . Jim's relationship with Hank is closer than Jim is with his wife who feels out of place in their relationship . I hope this show lasts longer than 13 episodes . I am personally upset that the show is taken place in New York City . Too many crime shows film and take place in New York . It would be nice for a cop show to be filmed elsewhere like Chicago , San Francisco , or Los Angeles . I am grateful for the show's usage of New York City for financial reasons and the opportunities for it's cast and crew . There are just too many shows about cops set in New York City . I can't watch Law & Order anymore and I never watched CSI . I prefer forensic shows like American Justice , City Confidential , and Cold Case Files all on A & E . Blind Justice should be about the relationship of a blind police detective and the people in his life .
Vint and Naomi have never spent a honeymoon together or a night away . When Vint arranges for a night at a motel for both of them to celebrate their first anniversary , Thelma agrees to chaperone a sleepover for Sonja and her friends on the same night . Unfortunately plans changed when Aunt Effie calls in a panic asking for Thelma's help . Thelma takes a ride with Vint and Naomi to Effie's place in Ceciltown while Aunt Fran chaperones the sleepover . When Thelma and Effie have a fight , Thelma heads to the same motel that Vint and Naomi stay at which is also where she and Carl spent their honeymoon night together The place is turned into a pleasure palace with Vint dressed up as a bull and Naomi too . When the inn has no other rooms , they provide a rollaway bed for Mama to spend their romantic night in their room .
I am giving this film an 8 because there were some parts that I didn't like especially how Akeelah made it to the top ten in the regional spelling bee and I won't ruin that for people who haven't seen it . First , there is a terrific cast . Keke Palmer plays Akeelah excellently with a power of older mature actors . Her character Akeelah lives in South Los Angeles with her widowed mother played by the wonderful and beautiful Angela Bassett . Akeelah's siblings are a sister who is a teenage mother , a brother who gets in trouble , and another brother who is in the air force . Akeelah is smart and studies words and how to spell them while other kids are getting in trouble . She has a best friend , Georgia , who is turned off by Akeelah's sudden fame . Her school principal is played by the wonderful Curtis Armstrong and her coach is a black college professor played by the wonderful Lawrence Fishburne . It's like the Karate Kid meets the spelling bee . Anyway , the kids who perform in this film as kids are terrific . What bothered me was the storyline and some unbelievable and unrealistic outcomes that is why I gave it an 8 . I watched this film on an airplane . For all it's worth , Akeelah is the kind of film that should have been shown on television than in the movies as a TV movie of the week . It's a great movie for family , students , and anybody who thinks that they need some inspiration .
Poor Alexa Kenin who played Annie's best friend in the film . She was killed in real life and it's dedicated to her memory . Anyway , I love this film . Of course , it's by John Hughes ( master of teen angst comedies and dramas . ) Again , he picks a great cast like Jon Cryer to play Duckie , James Spader to play the creep , Molly Ringwald to play Annie , Annie Potts to play her strange older friend , Harry Dean Stanton who plays Annie's father , etc . John Hughes always knows how to explain the adolescent psyche . This film is about rich and poor kids living together . There is this shame in the poor students and the rich kids are just spoiled brats . As always , John provides a believable love triangle among Jon Cryer's Duckie , Molly Ringwald's character , and that guy who I forget his name . Anyway , they are all great . I just have one problem and that is the fact we never understand why the mother / wife left the family . Anyway , Gina Gershon has a small part in the film as well . Of course , it's about prom night which is an American ritual to all of us .
The Gods Must Be Crazy is about a bushman played by a real life bushman from Africa . He comes across a Coke bottle which is something that he has never seen before . Paddy Byrne , a Briton or Irishman , narrates the background of the bush tribes in Africa . The story is set in Botswana where a young female teacher comes to teach in an African village . The story of her getting there is an adventure . She is greeted by a driver who is an African biologist and his translator has seven wives which is customary in some African societies . She doesn't believe about the rhino stomping out the fire . The casting is excellent especially that of the bushman who I can't remember his name but he steals the film .
Ramona and Mario have been trying to get Jill in a tennis re-match for whatever reasons . Finally , Jill has a pro-tennis player who gets injured so she gets a replacement , Simon , after Bethenny suggests him . Jill and Simon practice once but Simon's still flu-ridden but still plays okay . The look on Ramona's face is truly priceless as Simon takes the court . It was a well-kept secret until that moment . Ramona and Mario had been had by Jill and they felt cheated . For several episodes now , Mario and Ramona have been goading Jill into a silly rematch . Why not pick the one person that Ramona has a beef with in the first place ? Okay , I won't say who played badly but it was a hollow victory as Jill points out .
Mare Winningham is really one of the great unsung American actresses of our generation . She is exceptionally talented whether she is playing the daughter of a deaf couple who must sign language to communicate with her parents . She is the their ears to the world and often must translate between her parents and the hearing world . One memorable scene is her at the funeral home translating for her parents and the undertaker as a child for her brother's unfortunate death . Winningham's performance is award-winning as is the mother played by deaf actress , Phyllis Frelich . Her character seeks to be independent and hopes that her parents can adjust to the hearing world .
All Peggy wants is a VCR which everybody was getting back in the day but Al refuses to buy one . Marcy has a good idea that Peggy gets a job . To Peggy , that's a bad idea . She gets a job working in the clock department at a large department store with guest star and boss played by Ernie Sabella . It's not a bad episode . The reasoning for Peggy to get a VCR is because she wants to watch Oprah and tape Phil . Peggy was not made to work and that's why she got married to lounge around all day and watch television . It's up to Al and the family to convince Peggy to quit her job or lose it . For Al , he's happy that somebody else is bringing in the income to help cut costs around the house .
Aunt Fran played memorably and unforgettably by Rue McClanahan is tightly wound up since she was nominated for a local award for her article on a crossing guard . She writes for a local paper which her sister regards as a throw away paper since it's free . She begs her to iron her new dress from the evening that she got from Niedermeyer's department store in Raytown . At the same time , Mama is bugged to wash Vint's lucky t-shirt and Ellen has arranged an appointment for her mother at the beauty salon . I loved Betty White as Ellen from the series . In a rush , Mama has destroyed Fran's new dress . Since they know Fran's reaction , they go and replace the dress which is almost exact but not quite . Fran and Thelma have a bonding moment in this episode at the end regarding their relationship and Mama wonders if she's losing it .
This film was the first time that I heard of autism . Dustin Hoffman is brilliant as autistic Raymond Babbitt who was kept away from his younger brother , Charlie , played brilliantly by Tom Cruise . The film is about the brothers who travel to Los Angeles from Ohio and how they bond over the journey despite Raymond's complete need for structure including a schedule including People's Court , The Price is Right , and his genius for numbers which gives his younger brother a better idea . I don't know much about autism so I'm not going to criticize Hoffman's portrayal which has been joked around a bit much like the repetition of his speech . The film won Best Picture at the Academy Awards along with director Barry Levinson and Dustin Hoffman for his second Best Actor Oscar . I still think the film's superior but I'm not crazy about it .
Spanglish was a surprise because the commercials on television made it look so unappealing when it has a first rate cast and maybe a second rate script . The stars include Adam Sandler , Tea Leoni , and the always fabulous Cloris Leachman . The characters in this clash of cultures and classes are about the wealthy Los Angelenos who live in the canyon and the mother and daughter immigrants from Mexico . While the wife played by Leoni tries to help the daughter and treats her as almost as if she was her own is resented by her own mother . The Spanish daughter has gone from translator because her mother doesn't speak English enough to being between two worlds where she excels in a private school on scholarship thanks to Leoni's character and befriends their lonely daughter . She becomes one of the family much to the resentment of her own mother who opts out of the environment . I thought this film was a lot better than the commercials I saw for it . Cloris always shines through in her role .
I remember this movie because I took a junior college course entitled literature and film . One of the books was Saul Bellow's novel , Seize the Day . I don't remember much about the story but I remember the film . It's set in New York City about a poor man played to perfection by the one and only Robin Williams . It's not a laughing matter with him in the starring role as the Jewish salesman . The final scene leaves more questions than answers . I remember the film was faithful to the author's version . After all , Saul Bellow is a Nobel Prize winner for literature . Robin's performance is no laughing matter because his character can never catch a break in New York City . You just realize that he is one of thousands who are more or less suffering from society's neglect . In the end , society can be hell after all .
One of the great things about the X-Files was that the show had two strong leading characters Scully and Mulder played by Gillian Anderson and David ( I forget his last name , sorry ) who should have got together but they wisely played it safe keeping them apart . I loved the relationship in the beginning but the show went off-track with conspiracies and craziness that the show became famous for . The cast is great and I loved the show when it was on location in Vancouver . I think the weather and environment was also a great addition . Then they moved it to Los Angeles , maybe that's when I lost track . The episodes in the beginning were truly high quality and first rate . I think they tried so hard to keep the momentum going that they lost the show somewhere along the years . I know that two stars wanted out to pursue other interests but I didn't think that was wise anyway . Anyway , I still wish them the best and hope to see a reunion film .
This show had legs and an interesting plot . Jon Cryer plays Teddy Z , a guy who doesn't want to work in the family business , a Greek bakery . Instead , he would rather work in show business . he gets a job in the mail room and gets the attention of a film star who wants him as his agent . With little or no experience , Teddy Z gets the most unlikely promotion . I remember Alex Rocco as the old time agent without a heart or conscience who is Teddy's mentor . I remember Jane Sibbett as the cold , ruthless woman working to get to where Teddy is . Teddy got there by being himself and not some determined , egotistical college graduate who start by working in the mailroom and hope to be secretaries with a promotion to agents . Too bad , they cancelled it after a year .
Amy Adams is simply delightful as Giselle , the engaged woman of Prince Edward , in a land called Anadalusia , a land where it lives in Animation . The beginning is a bit slow and typical . Once Giselle is tricked and pushed into the wishing well by a witch who is really Edward's evil stepmother . The cast is first rate with Amy Adams as Giselle , James Marsden as Prince Edward , Timothy Spall OBE as Nathaniel - the queen's henchman , Susan Sarandon as the wicked stepmother , Tony Winner Idina Menzel who won for playing Elfaba on Broadway's Wicked plays Nancy , the girlfriend , of PAtrick Dempsey's character , Robert . Robert takes Giselle in because his six year old motherless daughter , Morgan , insists that she is a princess . Of course , this is a Disney film . I'm sorry that one of the songs didn't win the Academy award for Best Original Song . I think this movie can be adapted into a Broadway musical since Disney pretty much dominates Broadway shows especially musicals .
I don't know much about the Dutch language but the film is based on a young girl who aspires to become a singer much like Britney Spears and Christina Aguilera or others . I don't know . Today's young singers are tomorrow's Tiffanys . I could tell you that it's modern and the story is done beautifully with great acting , writing , and directing . It's a modern fairy tale story with a fairy tale ending . The cast is great but I don't know any of them because I don't know much about Dutch actors and actresses . Anyway , I can see why it was nominated for an Oscar for Best Foreign Film Award and won several awards . It does it's best to show the human involvement and desire to be more than average .
I like this Columbo episode . It features American legend , Dick Van Dyke , as the prime suspect in his wife's abduction and kidnapping . His character is an accomplished photographer . He is fed up with his wife and sets up another man who is a paroled criminal to take the fall . Of course , this is Columbo and he will get his man or woman no matter what it takes . I love how Dick Van Dyke's character reveals his dream and nightmare to his wife who has no idea what she is in for . I love the scene with Joyce Van Patten who plays a nun who mistakes Columbo for a homeless person and wants to provide a better raincoat than the one he is wearing . That's another trademark in Columbo episodes , there is often light-hearted humor and Columbo always manages to use his charm and charisma to get away with looking so grim . Anyway , Columbo treats everybody with a kind of dignity that you wouldn't expect .
Before she was Mildred Pierce , Joan Crawford played the role of Sadie Thompson based on Somerset Maugham's story entitled Rain . She is a prostitute or too loose with the men especially the sailors . When she and others are stranded on Pago Pago in the Samoa , they have to stay there before they can go anywhere else . Walter Huston plays a devout religious hypocritical merciless minister who tries to steer Sadie in the right direction . Anybody else could have made Sadie either laughable or one-dimensional , Crawford shows her talent in keeping us to like and dislike her character . Crawford's first and final appearance is simply impressive . You can't take your eyes off her . She wants to be the star of the film and she is because she has the talent in order to succeed and she does to legendary status . Crawford's knack for being comical , cruel , vulnerable all at once in this role . Beulah Bondi has a supporting role . For one of the first films in the early thirties , it's an entertaining film .
I was saddened to hear that last night's episode of this show was the last of the series . I found the platonic chemistry between Felicity Kendal CBE and Pam Ferris to be very entertaining . Felicity's Rosemary Boxer is more down to earth , sensible , and smart while Pam's Laura Thyme is quite charming to watch as well . They work very well together and it would be a terrible shame to end the series now . Granted , two female gardeners working on grand estates where murders occur is unlikely to happen in reality but it's not real . It's television after all and I hope that they would bring them back together for another series . Last night's episode featured one of my favorites like Anne Lambton as Queenie and the storyline was not magnificent but worth watching . In one hour , they solved a double homicide with twists and turns but also kept me guessing and entertained at the same time . The British love their gardens and murder mysteries now they have combined two hobbies into one for an entertaining show to be shown for years on television .
I think of Peter Falk's Lieutenant Columbo as an old friend . I love watching him in action . Peter Falk is so good at playing him and he obviously enjoys it as well because he keeps coming back to him as well . I know that he kept the trademark raincoat from the series . Columbo Goes to the Guillotine was the first of many Columbo television films that came back after a decade long absence from our homes . We notice that Columbo hasn't changed that much including his raincoat over the last ten or so years that he stopped playing him . He's still the smart , funny , forgetful , and lovable Italian detective that we remember and treasure . I wish there was another episode even now . They're all treasures . I love how he doesn't change with the times but the characters do .
An artist with a wife and two female lovers . First , he's straight or too heterosexual if you ask me . Of course , Shera Danese who plays his wife is the real-life wife of COlumbo himself , Peter Falk . I like Fionnula Flanagan who has a supporting role . Yes , it's the same formula for Columbo . I am always amused by his embarrassment and his ignorance even in this episode . He always seems out of place and fascinated by the situation . Artists have been prime suspects before . He always has a wealthy , prominent , and celebrity prime suspects but he is always at the top of his game and he always catches his man or woman . I just love having him back but this is one of my personal favorites to watch again and again .
This mini-series is one of my personal favorites . It was one of the first to show New Jersey not as gang-related or as urban but suburban Ocean County in Toms River , New Jersey . Joanna Kerns does a beautiful job playing the mother and the late Robert Urich does an equally superb job playing the father . The boys were played exceptionally well in despite of the growing suspicion of the father's involvement and his obvious guilt . He is still on New Jersey's death row and will never get executed in the state . I remember when I first watched this mini-series on television and later I watched it on lifetime . The mini-series depicts the story of a family who should have had it all only to blow up in the face of Mr . Marshall who arranged his wife's murder to collect insurance money . You can't forget Dennis Farina as the prosecutor in the role , Doris Roberts who plays the loving blinded older woman who helps with the boys , and Robin Strasser does a superb job playing the mistress who finally helps bring down Marshall . I am not saying that she wasn't guilty but you know that you can't judge somebody .
If I was a voting member of the academy , I would vote for Frank Langella as Best Actor for his performance as the disgraced president Richard Nixon . I also think Michael Sheen OBE should have been nominated as well but he would easily won in the supporting actor category playing Sir David Frost OBE . Both Frost and his producer , John Birt , were knighted by the Queen . I didn't like the Reston character very much and I have read one of his books on Rev . Jim Jones . Langella and Sheen performed the same roles on Broadway and the West End in London . They did a brilliant job and were both equally brilliant in their roles . I never thought that I would have sympathies for the former disgraced president but I did . I felt Langella brought the role of Nixon from a caricature into a full-fledged multi-dimensional human being . Of course , the President is a human being although they were elected to the highest office in the country . This film is one of the best that I have seen but I would have liked to have seen Nixon's interaction with underused Patty McCormack who plays his devoted and dedicated wife , Patricia .
Burt Lancaster may have an important role but he's not the leading role . THat role goes to Peter Riegert who plays Mac , an American businessman , who goes to a small Scottish community to broker a deal . What he finds there is something he never expected to find , a sense of belonging and a home that he never had in his native America . At home in Houston , Texas , he has a beautiful home and car and a good paying job . Something most of us would crave for but something is missing in his life . When he goes abroad to a small village of 300 inhabitants , he begins to belong with them like the Russian fisherman who comes to fish the waters . I am upset with what happened to the injured rabbit , Trudy , who they bring up there to take care of . That to me was horrible . To me , I love rabbits and Trudy was truly worth watching . They treated the rabbit like a human being . At the village , Mac plays the important role of making the locals to become millionaires . Plans don't go easily when there is an eccentric holdout who wouldn't sell his property - - the beach front for all the money in the world . The end of the film is obscure and I can't make sense of it . Although Burt Lancaster gives a memorable performance of a rich American businessman , it is probably one of his finest later performances in film . Not much goes on that it would need an R rating if it has one . This film reminds me much of the early 1980s films where they were played continuously and repeatedly on new cable stations like HBO and Showtime . This is a very reserved film in the British tradition . They don't make films like this anymore and boy , do I miss the 1980s .
To tell you the truth , I had my hesitations about watching another medical drama but this show surprised me . Hugh Laurie deserves a lot of credit for taking on an American accent and playing it so well . You forget he's British . The casting of Lisa Edelstein is a welcome addition . She carries her character very well . Robert Sean Leonard is playing an Australian . Funny since the show is set in New Jersey and that's where he is from . Omar Epps is touching in a strong role as the neurologist . My favorite episode is starring Leslie Hope in a guest appearance as a homeless woman down on her luck . It is one of the most touching episodes on television lately . I even teared a little . The fact that this show is set in New Jersey is a welcome change for us . Rather than depicting us as fun loving mobsters or crooked politicians , the show provides an interesting location . I will be watching it more . I love Hugh Laurie and hope that his die-hard fans would nominate him for a British honor . He is long overdue for it in my opinion . The casting , writing , and acting is superb . I watched MAD-TV's parody of the show starring Michael McDonald in a perfect performance as Dr . House . HE is so good that you wonder if it is actually Hugh Laurie himself . Great show overall .
Vicki Lawrence performs a dual role of Mama Harper and her rich cousin from Atlanta who visits on her way to a cruise . She sends her letter rather late to inform Mama of her impending stay . She is only staying for a night . Her cousin is wealthy , lonely , prominent , and has socialized with the likes of Truman Capote in Atlanta society . Mama feels second to her cousin's accomplishments . Of course , the gang is there to support Mama and to indulge in her cousin's wealth . Her cousin always says grand as we see in the episode . As Mama says , " I just stepped on dog poo and isn't it just grand ? " in mocking her cousin's language . In the end , we learn about Mama and her cousin's relationships about one who stayed in Raytown and had a family while the cousin moved to Atlanta with a kicking and screaming husband for a better life . Now both widows , her cousin has nobody to go home too .
I have to give this film a 9 because watching Emma Thompson and Dame Geraldine McEwan O . B . E . ( She declined both Damehood in 2002 and an O . B . E . in 1986 ) speaking French was laughable . It was uncomfortable seeing such British actresses speaking French . I know Emma was married to Kenneth BRanagh C . B . E . ( Who turned down that honor down in 1996 ) at the time of this film but still I wished he picked somebody French . There are plenty of qualified French actresses . Other than that , I liked Sir Derek Jacobi C . B . E . as the chorus which gave the film a narrator . Paul Scofield C . B . E . , C . H . ( he turned down knighthood 3 times because he didn't want to be called Sir Paul ) played a small role as the King of France and Emma's father in the film . Dame Judi Dench O . B . E . , C . H . had a small but acted divine in this film even with such a minor part . Her husband Michael Williams was also in there . Richard Briers O . B . E . , C . B . E . , has a great role and is one of Branagh's favorite actors . Branagh's role as Henry V and as director is commendable which earned his nominations for the Oscars as both actor and director . He looked so young and gorgeous in this film . You can't help but fall in love with him . In the same year , that Lord Laurence Olivier died , Kenneth BRanagh proved to be an exceptional successor to Shakespearan roles . I wish Branagh stretched his acting and directing talents to other roles . But still this film is worthy of watching . THe Oscar winning costumes by Phyllis Dalton M . B . E . is also worth mentioning . It was their only Oscar that night . Christian Bale has a small role in the film as well and so does Brian Blessed , another of Kenneth's favorites .
What a cast of actors and actresses in this Columbo episode , beside Peter Falk , you have Julie Newmar , Jeannette Nolan , Martin Landau as twins . Anyway , the old uncle dies mysteriously and it looks like a heart attack on the bicycle discovered by his fiancé , Julie Newmar , who plays the role so deliciously . Jeannette Nolan plays the other woman of the house , the housekeeper who prides herself on her talents and chides Columbo's sloppy and often typical behavior with his cigar . Martin Landau plays identical twins in this one . Each who accuse the other of murdering their uncle for money . Well , you'll just have to watch and see the outcome but I can assure you that it's always worth watching this one for the cast and the crew .
The main reason that I am giving it a is because we never really know what happens to everybody else who survives . It would have been nice to know what happened to Tom and Vincent . I didn't know they were brothers until I read it here . The film opens with silver tongue blonde attractive man who flirts with the people from the wrong side of the tracks . We see another side of Canada , the New Brunswick province . I love Canada too ! This film is well-orchestrated with Peter Outerbridge as evil Everett . Elaine Cassidy is great as Carrie . I didn't know the year until the end of the film . I knew it was about the early 1980s judging from their cars . Madonna and Silver's sibling relationship is complicated and only furthered by Silver's involvement in a tragedy which I won't mention . Anyway , a drug deal sinks off the coast of Prince Edward Island and gone are thousands of possible dollars that the gang otherwise would never get their hands on . There is a lot going on in this sleepy town . I have to say that it was worth buying . I don't get to see much of Canadian cinema in New Jersey that I picked it up at a drug store for a dollar . It is truly one of the better movies I have seen in years .
Dr . Phil McGraw may not be one of my favorite talk show hosts but I do respect him as a serious psychologist who does his best to help his guests and his audience as well . Regardless of how you feel about his mentor , Oprah Winfrey , Dr . Phil has come into his own with this show . He tries to reason and help families dealing with relationships and issues about trust and boundaries . Sometimes , I don't think we set our boundaries or think about trusting our family members . We do relate because we have all had relative abuse our trust and cross the boundaries . Some of his shows have in-laws in battle which can seem fiercer than actual war battles . Dr . Phil spends an hour giving us the television therapy we need in our lives if we choose to watch him . If not , watch something else instead but please , he deserves an Emmy for always performing consistently .
This film is typical of Woody Allen's brilliance . He creates the scene about 1920's New York theater scene with scene stealer Dianne Weist who wins her second academy award again with Woody Allen plays a theater dame with a grandiose presence who takes on John Cusack's character . Of course , the play has problems getting produced . They filmed it at the real Belasco Theater in New York where I saw Jackie with Margaret Colin in 1997 . Of course , that's what makes Woody Allen's films special is that he always films it in New York . I don't recall him as an actor in this film . He was wise enough to pass the role over to Cusack who does a superb job playing Woody's younger self . Anyway , Tilly does a terrific job playing an annoying and terrible actress but girlfriend of a mobster . What she wants is what she usually gets . First rate cast with Chaz Palminteri who was nominated along with Tilly for supporting acting Oscars . I hope Woody Allen will finally be recognized for his genius and get top honors like the National Medal of the Arts and honored by the Kennedy Center finally for his work . Nobody does New York like Woody Allen , of course , we all would like a bit of diversity in his films .
I get nostalgic about television shows like Family Ties . It was based around two parents who graduated University of California at Berkeley in the sixties . It was wise to have their eldest son , Alex P . , to be on the opposite fence of politics . ALex with his tie and pictures of Ronald Reagan and Nixon . His younger sister , Mallory , played well by Justine Bateman cares more about fashion than grades or Alex's politics . It's great watching these two in action . The younger sister , Jennifer , develops from a young girl to an independent adolescent . There were always two story lines going on in every episode . Marc Price's SKippy is priceless for a thankless job . Scott valentine plays Mallory's boyfriend , Nick , a painter who never finished high school . Some of the best moments in this series happens after Nick enters the Keatons lives and his relationship with them . The mixture of great characters with witty dialogue . You can't stop laughing when Mr . Keaton tries to apologize to Nick in a ladies ' shoe store . He comes across as a former gay lover than the father of Mallory but it's full of laughs . Despite the witty dialogues , this was a believable family who introduced Andrew , the youngest and fourth child . What do the children think when they find out . " I was talking about closet space " Mallory says to Alex . Oh , this is truly a family show for everybody . I can't say how I miss a family centered show on such a wonderful family like the Keatons .
Kevin James is a very funny guy . He's the blue collar New York comedian . On screen , he and Leah Remini who plays his wife Carrie does a remarkable job in making us believe that they are couple . For the last decade and without children to jump the shark , Doug and Carrie are the example of today's couple . They are not rich but working class . Carrie is a paralegal in New York City and her husband works for a UPS . He has a friend , Deacon , who is African American . Of course , you can't forget Arthur , Carrie's dad , played by the under-rated and long overdue for Emmy Jerry Stiller . You can't forget Arthur no matter how hard you try . He lives with Carrie and Doug in their modest Queens home . I loved the addition of MAD TV's Nicole Sullivan to the mix as walking Arthur since she plays a professional dog walker . Despite other shows who cave in , not all couples want children to fulfill the marriage . These two have enough without kids in the mix but they sure have plenty of fun . I'll miss them but we'll catch up with them in syndication .
I remember when I first saw this film many years ago on television . I always feel like I'm returning home to those memories after twenty years . I love Julie Walters as Rita / Susan in the film , a hairdresser who aspires to become an intellectual . At first , she is not your typical college student . She is older , married , and not ready to have children with her husband . She seeks better . I remember how she nearly gave up when he invites her to dinner because she thought that she brought an inappropriate bottle of wine or champagne to her teacher's house . Anyway , her performance sparkles with sheer delight and Rita / Susan becomes an endearing character who has not forgotten her roots or her future . Anyway , she leaves the party without even going in afraid of being laughed at by the snobbery bunch of college intellectuals . Anyway , she goes to the bar where her family is and they're singing this ridiculous song " I'm so happy that you're so happy " and she witnesses her own mother crying and saying that they're must be a better song to sing and she decides to come back to class not that she is not met with pleasure by her own husband . He seems content with a home , wife , and child rather than his wife going out and becoming smarter and alive . Julie does a fantastic job at bringing her to life that you just can't imagine another person in this role . Anyway , Sir Michael Caine plays the drunken lost college professor who learns from his student , Rita / Susan as well . Michael Williams also has a role but you might know him better as being the husband to Dame Judi Dench . Anyway , the relationship between student and teacher despite a small age difference could have gone further and I wished it had but the movie does have a satisfying ending which is why I am giving it a 9 and not a ten . Anyway , the chemistry is there . Watching pros like Walters and Caine engage in conversation is worth watching again and again . Rita / Susan becomes who she wanted to be and that is an independent woman .
Carroll O'Connor's character Archie Bunker was so popular that the network could not let him go so easily . Jean Stapleton , Rob Reiner , and Sally Struthers were eager to move away from their television personalities . But let's face it , they were on one of the most popular sitcoms ever and for them , it is both a blessing and curse as well . Archie Bunker's Place had a girl , Danielle Brisebois as the Jewish girl from Edith's side of the family . I remember watching Anne Meara , Liz Torres , and others who try to recreate the magic that was All in the Family but the show is still superior to anything on television today so I'm being a little more liberal because the character of ARchie Bunker became an American icon and part of the fabric of American culture that we would miss him too much . THis show allowed us to slowly move on . We love Archie Bunker and the actor who played him , Carroll O'Connor . For most of us , we'll always think of him as Archie .
I was watching the Goonies again . I wanted to be a Goonie in real life and live in Astoria , Oregon . The film is quirky about a bunch of kids who may be spending the last time together before their homes are torn down and made into a golf course for the country club of Astoria . It had a great cast especially young Sean Astin who really changed from being Mikey to the Frodo's pal in Lord of the Rings Trilogy 15 years later . Who would have thought that Josh Brolin who plays his older brother , Brand , would turn out to be Barbra Streisand's stepson ? Martha Plimpton still acts as well . I don't know what happened to Kerri Green who played her friend . Corey Feldman had a difficult adolescence , his estranged relationship with Michael Jackson , his drug problems , and family problems as well . Jeff Cohen went on to college and I don't know what happened to the kid who played Data . Anne Ramsay has a great role as Mama Fratelli with her two sons , one who just escaped prison , and the other as his accomplice . She has a third son , Sloth , but he is locked up downstairs . The beginning sequence is always worth watching over and over again . The film shows lovely sequences of Astoria , Oregon which I have yet to visit but plan too sometime in my life . Anyway , the film was dedicated to Mama Fratelli and the actress who played her . By the end of Ramsay's life , this film and Throw Momma From the Train finally gave her recognition . Ramsay was battling throat cancer . She had tongue removed between films and she was a beloved character actress . I love this movie . It reminds me of my childhood and I wished that children would have that kind of childhood today and that's why I'm glad that I don't have children because I can't imagine them being in today's environment .
My biggest upset with this film is that I think it's too short . They should have had more in it but it's a great comedy . John Candy stars as the Uncle Buck who comes to the rescue of his brother and his sister-in-law when they have to travel to Indiana for a family emergency . Elaine Bromka is brilliant as the mother . Jean Louisa Kelly from " Yes , Dear " plays the oldest daughter , Tia , with a chip on her shoulder . She doesn't like the move to Chicago and misses her life in Indiana . Laurie Metcalf plays the neighbor who sets her sights on the not so quite bachelor Uncle Buck . I can't forget Amy Madigan as the girl who steals Uncle Buck's heart . Their relationship is no less entangled by Tia's tricks . I think this is one of John Hughes ' best films . Macauley Culkin before Home Alone fame plays the younger brother in the film . Anyway , the cast is always great and the writing is more believable . The film was so successful that they turned it into a failed sitcom . But without John Candy as Uncle Buck , it wouldn't have worked out anyway . He is the heart and soul of the film . John , we miss you down here .
Reefer is the homeless guy played beautifully by Charles Haid I believe . Anyway it's a small role but he does a very good job in making us like this drunk homeless guy who lives across the street from the practice . Anyway , Sean hasn't recovered from his loss . He is devastated when his daughter Annie can't come to Miami for Christmas and begins drinking . He performs surgery intoxicated allowing a woman to experience an orgasm at the drop of a hat . Anyway , Christian's life is getting better with a new home , his son Wilbur , and his new fiancé Michelle . Of course , Michelle has yet to inform him of James ' true profession . You thought prostitution was bad , unfortunately , James befriends Reefer and you can figure out the rest if you know what's going on . There are humorous scenes like Sean playing Santa Claus and depressing the children who sit on his lap . Of course , don't forget his scene with the female dwarf .
I don't know why these aliens with lizard like skin and speak in double tongues return to disturb us humans who had enough of them before . They want our water and food which is humans . In this series , there is a birth of twins between humans and lizards . The boy born has lizard skin and human insides while the girl born and named Elizabeth has lizard insides and human outsides . The humans have found something to repel the lizard aliens out of earth for once and for all until the series . I remember this series quite well as a child and it was quite extraordinary seeing humans of all walks of life unite to save their earth and their mere existence . It would be nice to have that unity in today's world . Of course , Jane Badler's Diana is the most memorable character as the female leader ( rare in television ) of the alien home ship headquartered in Los Angeles . Her performance is not only sensual but terrifying as well .
I don't care much for negative reviews . I have watched soaps most of my life and Bold and the Beatufiul is one of the best soaps on the air . I love Susan Flannery as matriarch , Stephanie Forrester . Of course , the cast is first rate with actors and actresses like Ronn Moss , Darlene Conley , Colleen Dion , etc . This show was Bill and Lee Phillip Bell's second soap and it's one of the most popular soaps on the air today . The style is very similar to it's sister show , THe YOung and the Restless . Sometimes , I don't care for the story lines but I do find the show's history enduring . It came on in 1987 and there is always that rumor that it will be extended to an hour . They never have or intend too in my opinion . The show has a steady cast of players that have been on since day one which is a good sign . The fact that they set it in a major city like Los Angeles and it has succeeded immeasurably shows that major cities can be daytime drama settings . Some have failed like Ryan's Hope which was set in NEw York City . I wish there were more soaps out there in the waiting . I don't want to see American soaps become an endangered species .
Okay , Pixar and animation has a lot more going for it . Besides only needing human voices to make animated movies and television series , the top and first class animated figures are done by computers now than hand-done but it takes a village to make a great animated film . The Incredibles is about a superhero couple who retire to have a normal life as they can . Of course , Craig T . Nelson is wonderful and recognizable as the voice of the father and superhero who can't give up his former profession . His wife is the voice of norm here who wants a normal life for their family . I could see why this film and others have attracted audiences whether young and old , parents , grandparents , and children . Most audiences can relate to the situation and enjoy the Disney film and appreciate how technology has come along way .
I don't know why talented actors like Kenneth Branagh revel in William Shakespeare's works . I am sure there are other writers out there like Ibsen , Chekhov , Pinter , and many others . This film adaptation is a splendid example of bringing American actors like Denzel Washington , Keanu Reeves , Michael Keaton , and Robert Sean Leonard to doing Shakespeare with Kenneth BRanagh , Richard Briers , Emma Thompson and her mother Phyllida Law , KAte Beckinsale , Brian Blessed . This film adaptation is quite lovely to look at in the first place . Everybody is happy and alive in FLorence , Italy . Phyllida and Emma looked tanned and quite happy there . At the time of the film , Emma and Kenneth were married and supposed to be the heirs to Vivien Leigh and Laurence Olivier . Sadly like them , they both split up after the movie . I suppose it has to do with Ken and Emma's egos or whatever . At that time , I guess we all wanted them to be madly in love . Two attractive and cerebral people like Ken and Emma get together . It was not meant to be I guess in real life . The film is worthy to watch because it's William Shakespeare being silly , witty , and comical rather than tragic and sad . I have to say Emma's mother , Phyllida Law , has become one of the busiest actresses of her age since the 1990s . She works more than her two daughters combined . I look at her and I can see her own talent . She comes quite alive and happy in this film version . Maybe Phyllida will get an O . B . E . someday before Emma . I hope so .
I always loved MadTV since it's debut . How did they get their cast ? They went out in a truck and recruited a couple of prostitutes , pimp , a suicidal woman , a homeless veteran , and an overweight crossing guard . They are some fabulous skits like " That's my White Mama ! " with Artie Lange as fat white man who has the soul of a black woman . Ms . Vancome is always vocal about her bigoted opinions . Ms . Swan is a priceless character of sheer irritation . They spoof the President Bush and Clintons needlessly . They even did a good spoof of ER where everybody in the show is getting ready to leave . I thought that made a strong criticism of the show . Finally , sometimes they do things that SNL won't do or forget to do . I love SNL and MadTV . I just wish MadTv would start at 10 : 30pm than 11pm . so I don't have to debate which to tape . I hope MadTv last as long as SNL .
What a combination of great talent in this cast and that includes Oscar nominees Lily Tomlin and Dolly Parton with 2-time Oscar winner Jane Fonda and Dabney Coleman playing their despicable boss . Remember when typewriters were the computers of our time and on every office desktop imaginable . Anyway , I liked Peggy Pope and Marian Mercer as well but you can't top Tomlin as divorced mother of four Viola , Dolly's Doralee happily married to a country singer , and Jane's Judy who is not always goody two shoes . The three women become friends and smoke a joint after their boss played brilliantly by Dabney Coleman . I think the cast just had such a grand old time making this movie that there is still talk of a reunion and the four major cast members reunited last year for Jane's charity benefit in Atlanta , Georgia . I loved the scenes where they imagined giving Hart played by Coleman , a taste of his own medicine . The kidnapping is also worth watching as well . I can't forget Sterling Hayden . This comedy is one of the all-time classic comedies especially about working environments and women's rights . When these three women take charge , they make changes that brought differences to the working place where their employees became better people which means happier employees . I guarantee if you are an employer and you want a productive environment , you have to have a happy working staff regardless of the cost .
Cabaret was far different that the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical films like The Sound of Music or Mary Poppins or Oklahoma . This film was decadent for the time of Berlin before Hitler's rise to power . As the Nazi movement was gaining power , Berlin residents like Sally Bowles played by the one and only Liza Minnelli had relationships with men and lived on her singing at nightclubs until she meets Michael York ( When will he be knighted ? ) anyway he plays the writer . Joel Grey won an Oscar as the Maestro . I loved the movie and won't bother to see the musical whether it's Judi Dench or anybody else playing Sally Bowles . THere was only one person who played Sally Bowles to me and that was the divine Liza with a Z . She totally becomes the character . When you see this film version , any musical whether the West End in London or Broadway in New York City will always be second rate to this cast . Of course , the fact that Bob Fosse directed this gem and changed the musical films forever from light and happy to dark and sad like in Cabaret . It's eerie to think that the people in the Cabaret have no idea of the horror that lies ahead with World War II and that's terrifying in general . I won't give away much but that this is Liza at her finest and best .
I saw this film first on my way home from Paris to Newark aboard Air France in August 1996 . The film itself I believe is quite a masterpiece . It's the kind of film that people should be making . I still think Daniel Auteuil is one of the sexiest actors around . In this French film , he plays a divorced father and businessman who has lost his zest for life until he across a Down Syndrome man who lives in an institution with other Down Syndrome patients . The actors including the actor who actually has Down Syndrome create a believable friendship and relationship between these two unlikely men . Daniel's life and ours changes forever with the Down Syndrome man . He realizes that life is not just work and not play but for the living and loving and that's what life should be all about . The ending is kind of silly though but I still think it's one of my favorite movies . It's enough to bring a tear to your eye .
I love this episode of Columbo . Maybe it's because Ruth Gordon is in it and she is wonderful as successful mystery writer Abigail Mitchell , an American version of Dame Agatha Christie . She is delicious to watch as the perky , lovable author who suffered a terrible loss when her niece died in a drowning accident . She blames her niece's husband , the nephew . She plans to kill him to avenge her death since the police have abandoned her . I would have loved somebody else than Mariette Hartley to play Veronica . I never really like Hartley in anything personally . And of course with Columbo , there are some laughs like when he questions Veronica at a belly-dancing class . Ruth's Abigail is a smart sleuth herself and she matches wits with Columbo always played wonderfully by Peter Falk .
She should have accepted one of England highest honors bestowed upon a woman , Dame Commander of the British Empire in 2002 . She declined to accept maybe just for the same reasons that she declined an O . B . E . ( Officer of the British Empire ) in 1986 . She is very well deserved of any honor . I am going to call her Dame Geraldine anyway because she is truly a great Dame of the British theater , television , and film . I remember watching her performance on Mulberry , a British comedy . Here she is perfectly cast of Jane Marple . She is a Marple for the twenty-first century like Joan Hickson O . B . E . was in the eighties and Dame Margaret Rutherford was in the sixties . Everybody's favorite sleuth is back . I think Dame Agatha Christie would be thrilled to have such a talent like Geraldine McEwan to play this role . The filming is exquisite . The setting is an English country village . The cast is also filled with some of Britain's finest theatrical actors like Sir Derek Jacobi known as the Lord Lawrence Olivier of our time , Janet McTeer , Miriam Margolyes O . B . E . , Jane Asher and others . The costumes are perfectly set to fit in picturesque English village . I loved the countryside in this adaptation . It makes it so inviting for us all to enjoy . The Murder at the Vicarage is entertaining from beginning to end but so much more with Geraldine McEwan as Jane Marple .
Yeardley Smith guest stars as a runaway from the juvenile hall that Bubba was in . She runs to his house after seeing him tee-peeing the neighbors house . Bubba is equally afraid of her since she is considered to be one of the nastiest girls at reform school . Of course , things couldn't get worse since Mama Harper is planning to be the next president of the Church Ladies League and is expecting Reverand Meacham and his uptight wife , Alberta , for dinner . Earl Boen and Anne Haney are always memorable as the Reverand and Alberta , the older couple . Of course , Bubba's unexpected guest is starving and hungry and will do anything to eat or she'll ask the good reverend to pass the potatoes at the dinner table .
I first saw this film in the movie theater . The beginning of the Normandy landing has not left my mind . It is one of the most spectacular introduction to the film . You have a cast that includes Spielberg's favorite actor , Tom Hanks , Matt Damon , Paul Giamati , one of my personal favorites-Rolf Saxon in a non-speaking role . This film is mostly a male-dominated film with little or no romance . SPielberg's best asset is creating a spectacular image and this time , the landing on Normandy was not for the easily sickened . You will see the graphic display of the horror on that day which is what we should see . HE does not shy away from showing us human brutality at its worst but he later shows it at it's best . I didn't care much for the title about them rescuing one soldier to bring home . I wanted Steven Spielberg to know that this is his best film to date about World War II even surpassing Schindler's List which I felt was inferior to this film . The script was superb , the movie is just a breathtaking spectacle to date . It still should be seen in the movie theaters to show the effects and brutality and to remind us about how cruel war is on any level . he won the Oscar for best director but after seeing Shakespeare in Love , there is no doubt in my mind that Saving Private Ryan was robbed of Best Film . Sorry , Shakespeare in Love !
This show is Britain's greatest export since Faulty Towers . Patricia Routledge is truly a great physical comedienne to the like of Lucille Ball . Her character , Hyacinth , is one of a kind creation by Harold Snoad . He deserves all the kudos for creating a show with such intelligent humor about the class and family . Clive Swift compliments Routledge as her long suffering husband who takes orders from his wife . Why ? She doesn't listen to anyone . Her neighbors , Elizabeth , have understood her . Elizabeth is terrified of spilling coffee in her friend's kitchen or living room . She is so nervous of ruining her friend's table . Not that Hyacinth makes a fuss about it . She'll only say " we were thinking of getting another table anyway . " Emmett , Elizabeth's brother who runs the local operatic society and plays the piano . Hyacinth believes her voice is great enough to belong but rather break glass and cause him to hide from her . She believes he has a crush on her . Did I mention her sisters , Daisy , Violet , and Rose . Violet is the wealthiest sister with a cross-dressing husband who shapes ice in the form of naked ladies . Rose has been with almost every married man in town . She wears mini skirts to the disapproval of her big sister , Hyacinth . Daisy is the married sister with a strong sexual drive and a bone idle lazy sloppy husband , Onslow , who prefers to drink beer and watch racing on the tele . They live to the embarrassment of Hyacinth . She says " 50 years after the blitz . . . what do the garbage men know what to take . " Rose , Daisy , Onslow and Daddy all live together with a broken car sitting in front of the yard and a dog living in it . Daddy is senile and a dirty old man . He is picked up by Richard at a department store wearing a spacesuit one day while Hyacinth ditches the Councillor Nugent . Daddy says little but he is always going back to the war . He digs trenches in the yard and the commands the house . He even becomes a naturist or nudist . He goes after women all the time . He likes Mrs . Zbygn , a Polish immigrant who speaks no English . Why ? He says there's something mysterious about her . Hyacinth tells a huge dog that he can't sit in front of her house . " Go . You can't stay here . Go . " Hyacinth experiences with a horse aren't much better . Watch this show ! ! !
When I first saw , Office Space , I couldn't believe how somebody in Hollywood could create a comic masterpiece . I have worked in offices for years and I totally recommend this film to all office employees . I love Ron Livingston's character as the unhappy coworker ready to explode any minute . When he finally changes after being hypnotized , he becomes a happier person . He gets to tick off his boss most of all . I love the beginning where everybody bothers him about the TPS report covers like they are the most important things in the world . When the company begins to screw around with their employees , watch out for Milton , he's brilliantly played by under-appreciated Stephen Root . The monotony of the offices , cubicles , and the life it creates is not what God put us on earth for is exactly what this movie searches for . These characters are more real to me than anything I have seen in the movies or television . I know what it's like to loathe Mondays and wish to be left alone to stare into space for hours at a time . I know slavery didn't end in 1865 . It just took a different form . I am one of the lucky ones because i work for the state . But I feel for those companies that once created family oriented environments . You can sense the desperation . While I enjoy the movie , there are laughs along the way . MAD TV alums Orlando Jones and David Herman also star . Jennifer Aniston plays a waitress who sets Ron Livingston's character on the right path . I loved Gary Cole as the annoying boss .
The casting is first rate although at the time , the actors Paul Giamati and Thomas Haden Church and the actresses Sandra Oh and Virginia Madsen were barely members of the A-list . This film is quite a feast of fun and at times quite sad . Miles played beautifully by Giamati is a school teacher who aspires to be a published writer . His best friend Jack who is engaged to get married a week from the day that they start a journey is beautifully played by Thomas Haden Church whose best known roles for his sitcom characters on Wings and Ned and Stacey . Virginia Madsen plays the waitress and graduate student , Maya , and divorcée . She makes the role her own . Sandra Oh better known for her role on Grey's Anatomy is too brilliant as Stephanie who falls for Jack . Not everything goes according to their plan , it wouldn't be a great film if it did .
One of the funniest shows to come out of England in the nineties , it has a terrific cast of veteran television and stage players . It's funny and timeless comedy with a bit of slapstick humor and a polished verbal English wit . The wonderful relationship between atheist feminist single Diana and the widowed Tom Ballard is fascinating to watch unlike most relationships , they get better when they're together than apart . Tom's boring son , Jeffrey , can bore anyone to death but he is in a marriage to unfaithful , drunk , and pill popper , Marion , who despises and resents Diana as a threat to their inheritance . The cast includes another heterosexual relationship between old maid plain Jane and the Bayview manager , Harvey Nigel Bains . Harvey constantly mistreats the wonderful sweet Jane . He doesn't know what he's got until he almost loses her . Three great love stories and romances in a wonderful sitcom . The wait is over .
This Columbo episode is one of the best episodes of this popular long running series . It is based on a California Senate campaign . I loved to watch this one to see Katey Sagal as the candidate's secretary , years before her Married with Children fame . I enjoy watching Joanna Linville's performance as the drunken candidate's wife . Columbo is at his greatest in these classic episodes . The plot is well written and sensible to understanding the motives and actions of the murder . One of the best scenes is when Columbo goes to an exclusive tailor in Beverly Hills and ask about buying a suit . They recommend Sears or some mainstream department store . After all , Columbo can't afford a tailor made suit on a detective's salary .
Jean Paul Belmondo plays a dual role that should have garnered him awards for his performance as both Valjean and as Henri Fortin who takes in a Jewish girl during World War II . Her parents have been taken by the German Nazis . The girl reads to Henri from Victor Hugo's classic novel , Les Miserables , since I believe Henri himself can't read . Well , he imagines himself in the role as Valjean . The film is dually impressive relating the past to the present day life of France during the French Revolution and World War II during the German occupation of France . The girl is safe in a French convent . Her parents including her French non-Jewish mother who married a French Jew succumbs to becoming prisoner . Her husband survives a shooting and is taken in by French farmers who have their own agenda . Regardless , the ending is not to be missed . It's both about the joy of living during the worst of times and how fortunate we are .
Dame Julie Andrews won an Academy Award for her performance in this film as Mary Poppins , the nanny ever child and adults loves . In this film , the supporting cast includes the wonderfully talented and big television star , Dick Van Dyke ( he deserves to get America's honors such as the Kennedy Center Honors for example ) , as her friend with a 100 jobs , Bert which includes chimney sweeper and sidewalk artist . The wonderful Glynis Johns ( who should also be honored with Damehood like Julie ) is fantastic as Mrs . Banks . The children , Michael and Jane , are also great performers . I can't forget Elsa Lancaster as the last nanny before Mary Poppins . The film is a timeless classic for children and adults . I remember as a child watching it on television before the popularity of DVDs and VHS cassettes . This was a time when we used our memories to remember the brilliant animation , costumes , art direction , and cinematography of the movies as well as the acting and writing and in this movie as well as the singing .
First , Ordinary People should have made AFI top 100 hundreds films of the last century . This film has excellent performances by Timothy Hutton , Mary Tyler Moore , Donald Sutherland , Judd Hirsch , Elizabeth McGovern and Dinah Manoff . The story could have been another movie of the week but it stands out from the rest with subtle brilliant heartwarming performances during a family's difficult time . Timothy Hutton plays the role of the son with such depth and brilliance . Besides the tragedy , the film is about a family who are just ordinary people . Ordinary People who are just as complicated and troubled by life's hand . The fact that Robert Redford directed this film makes it even more worth watching . He does a fabulous job with the actors and actresses in this film . You will forget Judd from his Taxi role and Mary Tyler Moore from her television days . This film is worth watching even on WE .
I haven't seen this film until this past weekend . I know it has been highly rated as an all time classic comedy and I can see why . I love Tony CUrtis and Jack Lemmon as two male band players forced to dress up as women in order to get out of CHicago after the Valentine's Day massacre in 1929 . Tony Curtis deserves a lot of credit for playing the male suitor to Marilyn Monroe's Sugar . Even though Jack Lemmon is hysterical as Daphne , you can't forget how giddy and happy he is when he finds love with a male suitor played wonderfully by Joe E . Brown . I forget who plays the female conductor but she's also wonderful in the film . It's sad that Marilyn Monroe died so young only three years after making this wonderful classic film . She and Tony Curtis appear made for each other in this film . Jack Lemmon was well deserved of his Oscar nomination but I can't imagine why they left out Tony Curtis . Billy Wilder chose wisely to film it in black and white . I love the train ride scenes and once they are down in Florida . I love and miss both Jack Lemmon and Marilyn Monroe . I wish Tony Curtis would talk about it on the Actors Studio since he is still very much alive and well .
I just ordered the DVD edition of this extraordinary documentary about Jonestown and the People's Temple . It's probably one of the most under-written events of our times . We don't know enough to pass judgment or should we on the members of the People's Temple . They all had their reasons for joining and when they got in . It was very difficult to get out . Jim Jones Sr . was a very powerful man both in politics and in the church . He persuaded people to sign over their life savings , their children , their homes , and their lives to him . He sought power , domination , and ultimate control over his members who he feigned to love . He was maniac , madman , religious leader who sent hundreds to their deaths because his reign of terror was finally over after the Congressman's visit . He believed it was all over and in fact he was dying and so was Marcy , his long-suffering wife , who endured humiliation and his infidelities . In the end , Jim Jones was the ultimate coward , afraid of death , so he brought hundreds into his plan . The revolutionary suicide was practiced many times before during the white nights of horror . This time , it was real . It didn't have to be . Our government and the Guyanese should have been more involved . There was a warrant out for his arrest and the custody battle over John Victor Stoen should have been over and he should have been returned to his parents in America who were former members . It should have never happened but it did and we must learn from it or 900 died in vain .
I remember the first time that I saw this film . It still is worth watching . Alex : the life of a child is one of those films that you can't watch without some feeling . The daughter , Alexandra , suffers from cystic fibrosis . During her short life , her father played beautifully and touching by Craig T . Nelson is sports writer and sports commentator Frank DeFord . He chronicles her short life . He and his wife had it all by the time she was born . They had a beautiful home in the suburbs and a healthy son named CHristopher . When Alex came into their lives , she was the first girl in a long time . The young actress who played Alex deserves credit for bringing to life this child . The actress is Gemma James and she deserved an Emmy for a heartbreaking performance . I also have to admire Bonnie Bedelia's performance as the mother . Her role does not go without saying . How can somebody grieve over the loss of a child ? Nobody expects to outlive their child . Since I don't have any children , I can say that I have watched this film and cried a little each time . I keep thinking of what might have been for Alex . Her life was just too short .
I have to say that Louise Brooks is one of those unforgettable actresses from a generation where actresses were trained to be actors . This film is probably the most famous film including Louise Brooks in collaboration with German director Pabst . Anyway , this film is done at a time in Germany before Hitler's rise to power and the second World War . The film itself is always worth viewing because the story of Pandora's Box is about Louise Brooks ' character and the fate that awaits her . I saw this film in college for a Women and film class over ten years ago and I still would love to see it again . Louise Brooks should have been an Academy Award nominee for her performance .
Let's face it , England has Queen Elizabeth II and America has Oprah Winfrey . While she might be only a talk show hostess , she already commands a billion dollar empire which includes her show , magazine , radio station , television channel , etc . She is the first African American woman to be a billionaire but also represents those of us who strive to achieve as well . Oprah's show is expected to run it's course in 2011 and please say it isn't show . Can we imagine life without her show ? Probably not , it wouldn't be same . I knew she was going to be big but as a success story when I first saw her after Color Purple and her academy award nomination . I never imagined her to be so successful beyond her wildest dreams . Oprah's show is always first rate most of the time . You may like her or dislike her but you can't avoid her show's influence and hers as well . Too bad , her film version of Beloved didn't win her an Academy Award because she deserved it . Oprah's book choices become best-sellers even though I disagree with some of her choices as too feminine and emotional . She chooses books that will make us better people . Enjoy her now while you still can because when she retires from her show , television would never be the same .
I remember watching this show both in reruns and on Sunday evening television . This show was pretty much geared for families or anybody who wanted a combination of good drama and comedic moments . Of course , Michael Landon developed and produced a fantastic show from the Laura Ingalls Wilder novels about life in the American West . Who could forget Melissa Gilbert as Laura and Karen Grassle as the matriarch . We all remember evil Nelly who none of us liked as well as the other cast members . Seeing that family on the prairie made us want to read more and be part of the family . I read the books and enjoyed watching the show . Maybe I'll catch it on TV Land in reruns , there were almost 200 episodes which is quite an accomplishment in television history . Little House on the Prairie is for fans of all ages and all kinds of families .
This episode should be submitted for the Emmys and Golden Globe Awards . It is truly one of the best episodes that I have seen of this show and reminds me why I love this show so much . We learn more about Sean's past and we understand him better as to why he wants his son to look normal so much . Dylan Walsh's scenes in this episode are brilliantly portrayed with complex of emotions . Julian McMahon also gives a brilliant performance without showing any of his flesh . If you watch this show regularly , you know that's rare and refreshing . His relationship with one of his patients , Hedda Grubman , is touching and sincere . Hedda is a wealthy widow who cares more about her appearance than anything else who was willing to sacrifice relationships in order to save her vanity . I don't know if it was Burt Bacharach in the show but I wouldn't be surprised . This season has been filled with A list guest stars like Brooke Shields , Larry Hagman , Catherine Denueve , Jacqueline Bissett , Richard Chamberlain , etc . The actress who played Hedda Grubman deserves an Emmy for guest performance in a drama . She was excellent and so was Joely Richardson as the concerned Julia .
