This movie is a pathetic attempt , apparently , to justify the actions of Mary Ann Letourneau . In order to do this , they cast a 19-year-old - well , probably not " in order to do this . " There was no way they could have cast a 12 or 13 year old as the boy because the love scenes would have grossed everyone out ( if they had even been allowed to do them ) - as they should . Mary Ann's boyfriend was my nephew's age , making her a pedophile . Sixth grade , people . The definition of pedophile doesn't have to include many children - all you need is one . I really don't care about her upbringing or her unhappy marriage . She had a responsibility to her students that she did not live up to . The reason given is that she is bipolar , rejected the diagnosis , and refused to take her medication . It's understandable , then , that she was not thinking rationally . One hopes that she now understands her actions . Now that she and Vili are married and have two children together , I pray that she is on her medication and thinking clearly . All that aside , Penelope Ann Miller was totally convincing and perfect casting for the role .
The leggy eldest daughter on " The Nanny , " Nicholle Tom , is all grown up now and " Her Only Child " in this 2008 film also starring Cameron Daddo and Gwynyth Walsh . Tom plays Lily Stanler , unlucky in love , who lives with her suffocating wreck of a mother ( Walsh ) who is terrified of bugs and of her daughter leaving her . She's the type of mom who makes cookies when her daughter is on a diet and wants to see a movie on Saturday night when she knows her daughter has a date that evening . When Lily meets the handsome Larry ( Daddo ) , mom has a knife injury requiring stitches in the middle of one date , and during Lily's romantic weekend with Larry , her dog gets into the garbage back home and is possibly poisoned ( I was nervous about Binky all during the movie ) . Add to that the fact that Lily's past relationships have ended somewhat suddenly , Mom always being there to pick up the pieces takes on new meaning - mom's the one creating the breakage to begin with . Does Lily need a sledgehammer over her head before she figures this out ? Or does Binky or her new beau have to die before she gets a clue ? Tune in and find out ! Walsh is so obviously a whacko that it's impossible to believe her daughter would think she was even semi-normal . Still you can't help but feel sorry for the manipulated Lily character - the beautiful Tom has a sweet presence , and you just want to throttle her to get a life . Daddo , of " F / X " fame is hunky as ever . Very ordinary , very typical Lifetime movie . Lifetime rotates the same three or four plots and changes the cast - and we keep watching . Now who's crazy ?
David Janssen is an ex-U . S . treasury agent who finds himself involved in " The Swiss Conspiracy , " a 1976 film that boasts a large array of old stars and actors : John Ireland , Ray Milland , Elke Sommer , John Saxon and Curt Lowens , plus the beautiful Senta Berger and a European cast . Janssen is David Christopher , who is asked to help a Swiss bank whose clients are being blackmailed with exposure of their numbered accounts . The stakes get higher when two of the victims are killed . Words fail me but I'll go on anyway . First of all , this movie looks like it was transferred to DVD illegally - it even skips at one point with Janssen mouthing non-existent dialogue . The quality of the film is very grainy , and it looks like the movie was cut , too . The film was made 5 years before David Janssen died , and he looks like he's going to succumb either during the film or the day after it wraps . If there was ever a tired , worn out actor , he's it . Ray Milland also looks to be at death's door . Did Bela Lugosi's makeup man do the makeup for this , or did they just go straight to a mortician ? John Saxon turns in one of the worst performances I've ever seen , and that's saying something - I've seen Sonny Tufts in movies . An embarrassment of a New York accent to go with an awful performance . The story isn't bad but by the time the movie is over , you're past caring . The scenery is gorgeous , however . There is one hilarious moment . One of the characters falls off of a huge cliff . Well , obviously , they used a dummy . When it hit the ground it bounced into the air - WAY into the air before landing someplace else . What I like best is that they left it in the movie . It made it almost worth watching . Possibly this was made for television though for what country , I don't know . Maybe they dubbed it and it was shown in Europe . It really looks made on the cheap and like these actors worked for lunch and a cot .
Though an interesting premise , Bittersweet Love is kind of a mess . Lana Turner was a very beautiful woman , and certainly in her younger years had an undeniable charm and lightness , as in " Strictly Dangerous . " By 1976 , that girl is gone . Lana's name is used strictly as a gimmick to get people to watch - she doesn't do much except overact and wear that babushka she often wore with a fur coat . I can't remember if she wore sunglasses , but she usually did in that getup . The story is intriguing if the stuff that soaps are made of . Without realizing it , a half-brother and sister fall in love , get married , and the woman ( Meredith Baxter-Birney ) becomes pregnant . It turns out that Birney was the product of a fling that Turner had with Scott Hylands ' father . Once this is revealed , some tough choices need to be made . Incest is very repulsive to females , so sayeth one of the pundits in the story ; Hylands , however , wants to have the baby and continue the relationship . Celeste Holm and Robert Lansing are also in the cast , playing husband and wife . Bad mismatch . And , alas , not the only thing bad about " Bittersweet Love . "
Stephen Boyd is a ruthless actor vying for " The Oscar " in this 1966 film also starring Tony Bennett , Elke Sommer , Eleanor Parker , Milton Berle , Jill St . John , Ernest Borgnine , Edie Adams and a cast of thousands . This is the kind of film one watches with friends and just howls at . Here's the complete tipoff that this movie is going to be awful : Tony Bennett , who has the map of Italy on his face , plays a character named Hymie Kelly . Now I ask you - the fact that he's even acting in a film is scary enough - no singing required - but this name on top of it , and you know it's over before it begins . The story is about a man , Frankie Fane , who rises from the ranks of introducing a strip show to becoming a big star in Hollywood . On his way to the top , he uses and abuses everyone he meets . And they take it . And they love taking it . The film begins at the Oscar ceremonies . He's been nominated , and his friend , Hymie Kelly , reminisces about Frankie's rise to the top in a voice-over . " You finally made it , Frankie ! Oscar night ! And here you sit , on top of a glass mountain called " success . " You're one of the chosen five , and the whole town's holding its breath to see who won it . It's been quite a climb , hasn't it , Frankie ? Down at the bottom , scuffling for dimes in those smokers , all the way to the top . Magic Hollywood ! Ever think about it ? I do , friend Frankie , I do . . . " Fade to a strip joint . Now , the most recent review of " The Oscar " on IMDb said it best when he or she referenced Tyrone Power and wrote : " He could be a full blooded hero or he was a hero / heel , a likable sort of guy , but one who was ruthless in getting what he wanted . You need someone of Power's ability and charm to play such a part . " I'm not sure it was Stephen Boyd's fault that he was hateful . I sort of blame the script . I have to blame something . Why anyone would have hung around this guy for 5 minutes is beyond me . No charm . Bad manners . Terrible to women . Violent . Stephen Boyd badly overacts , or is it just that the actors around him the most went to an acting school advertised on the back of a matchbook . Jill St . John was more horrific than I could ever have imagined . Beautiful , sexy , but I've heard better line readings from high schoolers . The woman the studio has Frankie escort around town so that he can be seen - when he dumps her Green Goddess salad in her lap , it was a high point . Then there's Tony Bennett's Hymie , a weasel who follows Frankie around like a lap dog and takes orders from him . The big reveal at the end is one of the funniest scenes on record . How Elke Sommer kept a straight face is beyond me . Well , she looked thunderstruck - certainly an appropriate emotion . Milton Berle plays Frankie's agent , Kappy Kapstetter , who takes Frankie on at the request of the delusional Sophie Cantaro ( Eleanor Parker - where are they getting these character names ) . I loved how each sex scene ended with a woman lying on her stomach wrapped in a sheet and sobbing as Frankie walked out the door . The good actors are all wasted , but kudos to the lovely Elke Sommer for quietly holding her own . The ones who did this movie like Merle Oberon and Bob Hope probably did it as a favor to someone - they cheapened themselves . I am sure that the Oscar scene in " In and Out " parodied that scene of Oberon reading those ridiculous movie titles for the nominated actors . Too good to pass up . Naturally with Joseph E . Levine as producer , the production values are top-notch and the gowns are beautiful . Unfortunately there aren't enough big parties so that one can look at the gowns . I can't blame Hollywood for not inviting Frankie Fane to many events .
I have no idea what anyone was thinking when this film was done . I am a huge fan of Tyrone Power but I can't say he was very good in this . I honestly don't think it was his fault . The script was rotten . First of all , the beginning scenes , showing the romance between Katie and Paul , seemed totally like they were from another film and just slapped on at the beginning . Incredibly disjointed . I could never figure Katie out , nor did I want to . People compare the role to Scarlett O'Hara , and I guess there were similarities . I think one of the problems is that we didn't see enough of their characters before they hit South Africa so the love story could really develop for the audience . He kissed her on the staircase . Okay , so what then ? " Was I just some girl you kiss and leave ? " she asks . Is that all he did ? Or did he have sex with her and leave ? Hello , it makes a big difference . It seemed to me that all she did was throw herself at him , and I never got the impression that he loved her . Good case in point was the scene where her neck and shoulders were sore and she was stretching , etc . It took him about an hour to take the hint . Her abuse of the Richard Egan character was ridiculous . One ends up losing respect for both of them . Henry King usually does a great job , and of course , the action scenes are very stirring , but the characters all seemed remote . It's possible Fox did this movie to use blocked funds in Africa . I can't think of any other reason . I read on this board that Victor Mature was supposed to play Kurt . Well , Robert Mitchum was supposed to play Paul , but he wisely never showed up and the studio got Power , who was in a hurry to finish up his contract with that place . Filming had already started . Mitchum would have seemed even less interested in Katie , and Victor Mature would have come off as even more of a fool , so it probably worked out for the best . Well , it did for those actors , anyway .
Gregory Peck , Ava Gardner , Walter Huston , Melvyn Douglas , Ethel Barrymore , and Frank Morgan star in " The Great Sinner " about a writer who gets the gambling bug big-time . Set in the 1860s , the story concerns a writer ( Peck ) who falls for a woman ( Gardner ) whose life , and that of her father's ( Huston ) , is dedicated to gambling . They're waiting for the matriarch of the family ( Barrymore ) to die so that they will no longer be beholden to the owner of a casino ( Douglas ) . He has 200 , 000 ( francs , I think ) of the father's notes , and in return , he wants Gardner . One can hardly blame him - she's so gorgeous in this movie , and her costumes so stunning , she nearly burns up the celluloid . The writer tries his hand at gambling and soon becomes a complete addict . The gambling scenes in this film are quite exciting , as anyone who has tasted the thrill of victory and the agony of defeat a slot machine will attest . Unfortunately , other than that , it's a rather talk-heavy movie without much action and seems to go on too long . Nevertheless , there are some good performances . Was Walter Huston ever anything but great ? Peck is handsome and convincing as the fallen man . Agnes Moorhead has a small part , but she's excellent , as the nasty owner of a pawnshop . Frank Morgan also makes an appearance as an unlucky gambler . Worth seeing for Gardner's looks and gowns alone .
1942's Iceland is a wartime film about a playboy marine , James Murfin ( John Payne ) stationed in Iceland . There he meets Katina ( Henie ) , a lovely young woman in a hurry to get married so that her sister can marry a man who will bring some much-needed cash into the family . As in many cultures , the older girl must marry first . Katina , however , isn't crazy about the man who has proposed something like 36 times ( Sterling Holloway ) , so when she meets Murfin , she says they met a few years earlier and are in love . Before Murfin knows it , he's engaged , the marriage license has been registered , and at one point , the family believes that he's Katina's husband . There's not much of a story here , but some of the music is pleasant enough and well sung by Joan Merrill . Sonja has some great skating sequences . Figure skating was different in those days - much more dance oriented with no big jumps - barrel rolls and singles were about it . Sonja was a dazzling performer who had great speed and a thrilling signature spin that started slowly and went faster and faster , until she resembled a whirling dervish . Her contribution to the world of figure skating is invaluable : She popularized figure skating , invented the skating show , and made white skating boots the thing to wear ! John Payne is handsome and does a good job as Murfin , but he doesn't get to really sing . He had such a nice voice , it's a shame . Felix Bressart plays Katina's father and is a joy as always . Jack Oakie is Murfin's comic buddy , and he's good as well . However , when you're watching a Sonja Henie movie , it's Sonja's skating that's the true star . This isn't her best film , but it's still entertaining .
Fantastic special effects highlight this World War II submarine drama starring Tyrone Power , Dana Andrews , and Anne Baxter - Power's last before going into the Marines . Power is charming as a man who captures the heart of Anne Baxter , who though he doesn't know it , just happens to be the girl of Dana Andrews , Power's new commanding officer . Out on the submarine , there's some exciting action as the sub searches for a secret base set up by the Nazis . One interesting subplot is the friendship of Oliver , a black soldier , with Mac , portrayed by James Gleason . Ben Carter , who played Oliver , does a great job , and his role as a concerned friend and brave soldier is not the usual stereotypical one blacks were often forced to play . The ending , of course , is pure propaganda as Power , supposedly talking to his uncle , talks about the fighting men , subs , PT boats , and the like all doing their job . I'm in no way trying to denigrate it - propaganda is a fascinating part of film history and at that time was deemed important to the war movement . It's all very interesting to view today . And Power is gorgeous .
Despite my summary comment , I did enjoy this film , most especially the performances of the young men , Gosling and Pitt . I also was not familiar with the work of Ben Chaplin . He was very good and reminiscent facially of Montgomery Clift with his somewhat haunted look . This is a Leopold Loeb / Rope type murder which Sandra Bullock sets out to solve . I'm read some negative comments about Bullock in this movie . She plays a woman not as strong as she pretends , a woman haunted by a disturbing past and , because of that , has a strong identification with her victims . If some of this sounds familiar , it's not Bullock's fault ; she does a very good job of portraying this detective . I've seen better ; I've seen worse . It's a derivative story . I did think the scene between Bullock and Gosling was unrealistic bordering on ridiculous . She was , after all , a police detective , and while Gosling may have been arrogant , how stupid can one person be ? And he's supposed to be smart ! Also , for such a narcissistic jerk , how is it that he pegged her emotional problems so easily ? Not a necessary scene .
Richard Greene , David Niven , George Sanders and William Henry are the four men part of " Four Men and a Prayer , " a 1938 John Ford film also starring Loretta Young . Frankly I felt as if I came in at the middle of this film , though I saw the whole thing - but I never actually did figure out the plot . The boys ' father ( C . Aubrey Smith ) has been dishonorably discharged from the army and telegraphs each son that he wants to meet them at the family manse . The discharge was unfair - he was set up - now , I'm guessing here but it had something to do with illegal arms . His sons want to help him , but moments later , he is murdered in his study and his papers stolen . Taking what info they have , they split up and travel to India , South America and Egypt to find the people their father mentioned who can help clear his name . Loretta Young , who plays Greene's madcap girlfriend , chases him shamelessly in a variety of outfits . I still can't decide if there was too little or too much fooling around by the brothers . For me the comic stuff never does come off , Niven being the exception . The acting , however , is good . Richard Greene might have been Tyrone Power's only rival at 20th Century Fox , except that he returned to England in 1940 to enter the service . This was his first film under contract to Fox . He was very handsome with a nice screen persona ; baby boomers may remember him as television's " Robin Hood . " Loretta Young is dazzlingly beautiful - I actually didn't find her annoying as she seemed to fit right into the frenetic energy of the film . Sanders and Niven turned in their usual fine performances . There's a nice turn by Lina Basquette , too , as a foreign woman with information . For those who don't know Lina , well , she was a silent screen star and half-sister of dancer Marge Champion . She was married to Sam Warner ; after his death , the Warners took her child from her and made sure she never worked again . She eventually went to the dogs - literally - by becoming a breeder and judge at the Westminster Dog Show . In a New Yorker Profile done in the 1990s , she claimed to have been propositioned by Hitler and said she had done work as a spy during World War II . She also declared Eric Braeden of " The Young and the Restless " her favorite actor and ended up meeting him . She appeared at Cinecom when she was in her late 80s , and the audience , used to seeing elderly actresses in wheelchairs , was shocked at the end of " The Younger Generation , " one of her early films , when she didn't walk - but ran onto the stage , looking incredible , to answer questions . For me , Lina's appearance as Ahnee is actually the high point of " Four Men and a Prayer , " featuring some very attractive people in a half-comedy / half-drama and a confusing plot . Thankfully , Ford didn't stick with this genre .
Alan Ladd has an " Appointment with Danger " in this 1951 film also starring Phyllis Calvert , Jack Webb , Jan Sterling and Paul Stewart . Ladd is a postal inspector who goes undercover to stop a robbery after his partner is murdered and a nun ( Calvert ) can identify the man leaving the murder scene . It's up to Ladd and the police to see that she's protected while catching the robbers in the act . This is a routine drama , with the handsome Ladd playing a cynical inspector with his usual straightforward delivery . But he seems to walk through this role laconically . The minute I saw Jack Webb and his " Dragnet " partner Henry Morgan together in their pre-TV series days , I wasn't looking for a scintillating script , figuring that one of Webb's cronies had something to do with it . He did . Webb played the criminal in this the way he played Joe Friday , showing us that in Webb's hands anyway , there's no difference what side of the law you're on . Henry Morgan , however , made a sleazy criminal . The best performance comes from Phyllis Calvert , who is just right as the nun and contributes some spark to this film . Jan Sterling contributes some more spark , but her role is a throwaway . " Dragnet " never did a thing for me , and once I see Webb ( the exception being " Sunset Boulevard " ) I can't summon up much enthusiasm . If you're a " Dragnet " and / or Webb fan , you'll enjoy this a bit more than I did .
Major slapstick is the highlight of " A Woman of Distinction , " a 1950 film starring Rosalind Russell , Ray Milland , Edmund Gwenn and Janis Carter . Russell has one of her uptight , cold women roles so often depicted in the ' 40s . You know the one , no room or time for romance until a man melts her down . The melter here is Ray Milland . Russell is the dean of a girls ' school in New England ; Milland plays a visiting British astronomer . Will she succumb to his charms ? Sure , after she beats him with her handbag , and she's sprayed with water , smeared with mud , and falls out of chairs . Wouldn't you ? The laughs are all supposed to come from the slapstick ; in truth , there's not too much of a script , and what's there is predictable and derivative . The cast is likable , and Russell proves she can do just about anything . In the end , it's not much of a movie .
This 1937 " Torchy Blane " film , " Smart Blonde " has Torchy Blane ( Glenda Farrell ) trying to find out who killed an entrepreneur who just purchased a night club and some gambling establishments . Torchy is a witness to the murder . Later on , one of the suspects , the dead man's bodyguard , is also found dead . Torchy and her some time boyfriend , Lt . McBride ( Barton MacLane ) , as usual , are at odds as far as who the killer is . There were quite a few of these films , this being the first , starring character actress Farrell , with MacLane as McBride . The two have great chemistry . These films were always lively and the real story always seemed to be about Torchy and McBride's relationship rather than any actual mystery , though the mysteries certainly were present . Fast-talking , smart Torchy is an independent woman along the lines of Hildy in " His Girl Friday " and the Torchy Blane series was the first ( I think ) to star a woman ; the Maisie series began in 1939 . Always entertaining .
Hallmark Channel is big on recognizable stars and mediocre scripts that move like molasses . " Dear Prudence " had the stars and the mediocre script , but it actually moved a little faster than , say , " Mystery Woman . " Jane Seymour plays a household hints TV lady who goes on vacation at her boss ' mountain place in Montana . Once there , she becomes involved in a murder . Seymour is playing in essence a character role here , one you might see a younger version of Angela Lansbury doing . It's inspired against type casting - Seymour is beautiful and energetic , investing the role with a sense of enthusiasm that's refreshing on Hallmark . The downside is the plot ; the mystery was solved by this viewer in the first 10 minutes or so . However , the script had the household hints going for it , which are great , and the young man playing opposite Seymour was very good . Plus , Jamey Sheridan made a good romantic interest for Seymour . Hallmark is pushing the heck out of this ; Prudence has a special page on the Hallmark site , so I'm wondering if this is intended as a pilot . It would be a lovely series for the " Murder , She Wrote " crowd - I wasn't a member of that demographic when " Murder , She Wrote " started in 1984 ; I am now .
TV producer Chuck Barris has " Confessions of a Dangerous Mind " in this 2002 movie directed by George Clooney and starring Sam Rockwell , Drew Barrymore , Julia Roberts and George Clooney with appearances by Dick Clark , Jaye P . Morgan , Brad Pitt and others . In Barris ' writings , he claims that all the time he was developing and producing shows like " The Newlywed Game , " " The Dating Game , " and " The Gong Show , " he was moonlighting as a CIA hit man . He claims to have killed more than 100 people , though in the film he's credited with only 33 . Done partially as a documentary , Barris ' TV success is chronicled as is his love life with Penny ( Barrymore ) ; things get a little confusing when he gets drafted by the Clooney character and starts killing . Sometimes you're not sure if he's imagining an incident or if it really happened . Which is probably the point - no one knows whether or not these hit-man stories are really true . The film is rather coldly done and is about an unlikable character , and I have to admit I normally don't do well with this kind of film . Sam Rockwell is great as Barris , however , and Barrymore very effective and sweet as Penny . I haven't sufficiently researched this story , but there are some amusing things in it , and I would love to know whether or not they're true . One of the ways Barris claims to have been able to carry out these CIA hits is by sending the Dating Game and Newlywed Game winners to the location where the assassination is to take place - I mean , I would love to know if the show really sent people to West Berlin in winter ! Also , Penny appears to be a fictional character or his real first wife with a fictional name . I wondered about that . After you see " Confessions of a Dangerous Mind , " you'll be doing a lot of wondering .
Donald Woods stars as Perry Mason in " The Case of the Stuttering Bishop , " a 1937 film that also stars Ann Dvorak as a lively Della Street . Frank Faylen is also on hand to pep things up a bit . Both of them are needed , because Donald Woods isn't terribly exciting . Of the men who played Perry Mason in the films , he is perhaps the closest rendering to the actual character . But the book Perry Mason was just that - for books - and it would take Gardner himself to not only choose Raymond Burr ( the original Perry Mason was supposed to be Fred MacMurray until Gardner saw Mason at an audition for Hamilton Burger ) but oversee the scripts to make the translation to the moving image . The story concerns a mysterious bishop who asks Perry to help clear a woman accused of manslaughter many years earlier . From there , the story gets into mistaken identity - is a woman posing as an heiress or isn't she - and the solving of a murder . It's a very complicated plot , so pay attention . And Paul Drake is old . If you can sort it all out , you'll find it interesting . There's a little comedy to be had , which is helpful . I like watching the Perry Mason movies , if only to see the different interpretations of the various roles and the emphasis put into the stories , but in the end , it's best to forget who these characters are supposed to be - because after watching the TV show for years , none of them are . So don't expect much in that department , and you won't be disappointed .
The litmus test is - - if [ big star ] weren't in this film , could it be a TV movie ? Alas , the answer is yes . Though very entertaining with good performances , how Six Days Seven Nights made it to the big screen eludes me . It is not original and doesn't have the kind of script one demands of a feature film . I was just glad I didn't pay $8 . 50 or more to see it in the theater - but it will do well in video , where it should have gone directly in the first place .
A very young Ginger Rogers stars in " The Thirteenth Guest , " a 1932 film also starring Lyle Talbot . Thirteen years earlier , a dinner party took place in an old house , but the 13th guest never appeared . Now the owner of the house is dead and left his estate to this 13th guest . Someone is murdering the original party guests and putting each dead body in his or her original seat at the table . Rogers plays Marie Morgan , whom we think has been murdered early on . It turns out that it was someone else whose face was altered to look like hers . Detective Phil Winston ( Talbot ) investigates the situation . This is a good haunted house mystery , but unfortunately suffers from a terrible print and bad sound . Nevertheless it's fun to see Ginger and Talbot , both of whom are very good . If you can tolerate the print , you'll enjoy it .
Now it's Edmund Lowe as Philo Vance as he tackles " The Garden Murder Case . " It's a neat story concerning murder by hypnosis - which , as other posters point out , is a fairly obvious one , although the murder is not . The denouement makes for an exciting last minutes of the movie . Virginia Bruce costars and serves as a love interest for Vance . Lowe is certainly very attractive and extremely likable as Philo . It's a good fit , and to me , better than either Paul Lukas or Basil Rathbone . I haven't read the books , so I am just going by the films and the fact that the definitive Philo seems to have been William Powell . " The Bishop Murder Case " features a good performance by Rathbone , but it is an early talkie and the actors are still making the transition , so the film is rather awkward . Lukas was enjoyable and certainly embraced his character but his accent got in the way . This is an enjoyable entry in the exploits of a character who certainly served Hollywood well .
Constance Bennett is a disillusioned socialite in " Our Betters , " based on Somerset Maugham's play . Bennett plays a beautiful woman ( in absolutely knockout gowns ) who , on her wedding day , discovers that her husband has a mistress , a Charles-Diana-Camilla thing . Bennett's got the cash , and the girlfriend's poor . Constance , who plays Lady Pearl , throws herself into the London social scene , where nobody behaves . Her husband is always off with his girlfriend , and she has a lover who keeps her since her husband went through her money . And everyone else behaves the same way . The only thing that matters is knowing the right people , having money , getting invited to the right parties , and marrying titles . When Pearl's sister arrives from America , she's dazzled by the life and brushes off an old beau , played by Charles Starrett , who is the moral voice of the movie . This was the world of Elliot Templeton in " The Razor's Edge " and it's visited here fully with a brittle humor but not a great deal of energy . Bennett is perfect in her role . There are some scenes between Violet Kemble , who plays Minnie , and her much younger gigolo boyfriend , Gilbert Roland , where he manipulates her , that are overly long but quite funny . The final scene , with the dancing Ernest , is the best in the film .
Decked out in gowns and outfits designed by Irene , Joan Crawford plays the French version of Scarlett O'Hara with her " Oh , war , war , war " grumbling until she has to duck a bomb while on vacation . Returning to Paris , she finds her house commandeered by the Nazis . She gets only one room for herself and those gowns . In the meantime , her boyfriend , played by Philip Dorn , seems to have gone over to the dark side and is living high . Once she realizes that , she refuses to have anything to do with him . Her patriotism for her country comes to the surface when she helps an RAF pilot on the run , played by John Wayne . Despite some of the other comments on the film , I rather enjoy the handsome Wayne out of his spurs and boots . Because of Wayne , Crawford has to make it look like she's reuniting with her old beau , who has the power to arrange to get him out of the country . Very entertaining .
Each " Phantom of the Opera " deviates somewhat from the Leroux novel - with the original silent film with Lon Chaney perhaps being the exception . In the ' 40s Nelson Eddy version , the police chief and an operatic baritone are Christine's suitors instead of Raoul ( though the baritone is named Raoul ) and it's hinted that the Phantom is her father . His acid in the face was the result of a misunderstanding at the music publisher's . In this particular " Phantom , " from Hammer Studios , the Phantom ( Herbert Lom ) has an Igor-type assistant , and here Christine's suitor is the manager of the opera house ( Edward de Souza ) . There is also a real villain , a plagiarist in the form of Lord d'Arcy ( Michael Gough ) . Most notably , it has a production of " Joan of Arc " with music written by Edwin T . Astley that is actually very pretty and beautifully sung . Everyone does a terrific job in this - Gough is hateful as the supposed composer of the opera ; de Souza is a hunk and a good romantic interest for Christine ; and Heather Sears as Christine is very sweet and , like all Christines , lacking the diva quality her rival has . In this film , the rival singer is a very minor role . The dubbing of the voices is wonderful . Herbert Lom , normally a comic character in the " Pink Panther " series , is a great phantom , performed at a time when the Phantom didn't have to be better-looking than the ingénue . The Phantom is not a huge role in this film , but an effective and highly sympathetic one . He seems a little less nuts than some of them , though he's clearly not completely there . The final scene of this film is very exciting , and the final picture very powerful and sad . This is a really excellent version with not much emphasis on the horror aspects of the Chaney film . It has good production values and is very well directed .
After swooning for quite some time on his radio show about Madeline Carroll , the actress , enjoying the publicity , approached him about being a guest on his show . Hope suggested that instead , they do a film together . The result is the delightful " My Favorite Blonde " about a British spy , Carroll , trying to deliver a coded message to Los Angeles . Attempting to escape German agents , she barges into a theater dressing room inhabited by Hope , who is performing as straight man to a penguin . Hope is a riot , with the wisecracks coming quickly throughout the film , and Carroll is a good leading lady for him - classy , serious , and the character she plays is game for anything to reach her goal . Gale Sondergaard has precious little to do - one wonders if her role was cut ; Dooley Wilson has an unspoken bit on the train ; and Bing Crosby directs Hope to a bus in one scene . Hope starts to walk away from him , stops , takes a beat and says to himself , " No . It couldn't be . " There are other in jokes as well - Hope turns the radio to his own show and turns it off , commenting , " I can't stand that guy . " As someone who was a young adult in the ' 60s , it wasn't kosher to like Bob Hope because of his politics , but I've always enjoyed his film performances . " My Favorite Blonde " is one of his best .
" Terror by Night " was made in 1946 and is a modern-day Sherlock Holmes film starring Basil Rathbone and Nigel Bruce . Since it's 1946 , there's no need for the usual war propaganda , which was the actual reason for this series . In this adventure , Holmes is on a fast-moving train to protect the famous " Star of Rhodesia " ( pronounced in that delightfully British way , " Rhodezia " ) . Almost immediately , murder and suspects abound when the Star is stolen . " Terror by Night " moves as quickly as the train , which we often see in shots as it races along the track . The problem that I have with this series is the character of Watson as portrayed by Bruce . He's portrayed as a dimwit and the object of derision . When Holmes pretends to be taking him seriously , it's the worst , and it makes Holmes look bad . It's not that way in the books , and it certainly isn't that way in the superior Jeremy Brett series , where Watason is played by an attractive man a good deal younger-appearing than Bruce whom one can believe is a doctor and a writer . Watson is especially dumb in this one , and the script has built into it a comic scene between him and a train passenger he comes up against . What these films always had going for them was atmosphere , interesting acting , and of course , Rathbone , whose age is starting to show in this one . He makes a wonderful Holmes , right up there with Brett , whose Holmes was given sumptuous productions and color . Rathbone makes it work on a small budget in black and white . Always enjoyable .
There were undoubtedly many people working on some of our most important inventions around the time they became prominent . William Friese-Greene spent his life working on the motion picture camera , and though he isn't the official inventor , he is someone who contributed his work to what became the final product . His story is told by an all-star cast ( even in tiny roles ) in 1951's " The Magic Box " starring Robert Donat and Maria Schell . Greene held the first patent on a motion picture camera , and financial problems , by which he was beset his entire life , caused him to sell his patent for 500 pounds . He also created a " Biocolor " system which won in a lawsuit against a system called Kinemacolor . This early color process was too expensive for commercial use , however . From what I can gather , Greene had good ideas that weren't very practical , and the film is basically about how he went from a highly successful photographer to a bankrupt inventor , and how his obsession with film and color controlled his life . Not mentioned is the fact that his son Claude Friese-Greene became a cinematographer and was very prolific in British films until his death in 1943 . He continued to develop his father's color process and produced a series of travelogues in the 1920s using this system . Robert Donat is excellent , but the film is not very interesting except to spot all of the huge British stars in minor roles , such as Laurence Olivier as a bobby . Some people are fairly dismissive of Friese-Greene , and his place in the creation of the moving picture is controversial . There's no question that today he is considered an early pioneer in moving pictures and in working with color . He was in touch with Edison regarding his work , and just because the credit goes to the individual who makes a product commercial is no reason to ignore the work of others . If this film makes people aware that a credited inventor isn't always the only inventor , so be it .
" I Dream Too Much , " nicknamed " I Scream Too Much , " is a 1935 film starring opera singer Lily Pons and Henry Fonda , who at this point in his life resembled Jane Fonda in a man's haircut . He was really at the height of his most adorable-ness . Fonda plays a composer named Johnny Street who marries a young woman , Annette , only to discover that she has an operatic voice . In attempting to push his opera , she sings some of it for the head of the opera company in Paris . He makes her a huge star and Johnny is stuck on the sidelines . When he finds out that she is paying for a production of his opera , he leaves her . This is a slight story no doubt prompted by the success of Jeanette MacDonald and Grace Moore that relies on the voice and personality of Lily Pons and the cuteness of Fonda . Eric Blore plays a neighbor who has a trained seal ; he's there for comic relief , and he was always funny . Pons was a huge opera star who actually sang for the last time in 1972 , when she was 74 years of age ! She was tiny at a time when opera stars ran very big , she was very glamorous , and her timing was impeccable - she arrived in America during the Depression and saved the Metropolitan Opera from bankruptcy . Her signature aria was the Bell Song from Lakme , an opera done infrequently today if at all . In it , she wore a bare midriff costume and showed off her F above high C and her coloratura technique . She was an ideal Rosina , Gilda , Lucia , Linda di Chamonix , etc . Women singers in those days were trained a little differently than they are today , with back placement of the high notes . Pons ' middle voice and extension above high C were lovely , but the notes from F to high C had a shrillness to them , at least in recording . Her speaking voice records shrilly as well . This is actually a sweet film that the actors make enjoyable . I could have done without the long , dragging number at the end , but it's a chance to see one of opera's legends and a very young Fonda .
Ann Sothern again plays Maisie in " Maisie Gets Her Man , " a 1942 film featuring Red Skelton , Leo Gorcey , Allen Jenkins , Donald Meek and Lloyd Corrigan . Maisie's hired by a comedian , Hap Hixby ( Skelton ) who gets horrible stage fright , so her job is gone before she even gets to do it . However , the building owner ( Jenkins ) is impressed with Hap and gives him a job managing the building , and Maisie becomes his assistant . Hap and Maisie fall in love , but when Hap's fiancée shows up , Hap can't tell her the truth . Maisie leaves and gets a job in a show . But when she finds out Hap is in trouble , she decides she has to do something . This is a lively movie , in part because of Jenkins and Gorcey , who are very funny . I can't say I've ever been a Red Skelton fan , but MGM stuck him in every B movie as they attempted to build him up . Here he's nice-looking and plays it straight except when he's on stage . Sothern of course is a delight as the fast-thinking Maisie . Like most serials , the quality varies from film to film . This was one of the better ones , with a little more plot and a strong supporting cast .
John Barrymore , George Murphy and Joan Davis star in " Hold that Coed , " a 1938 film about politics and football . Murphy plays a football star turned coach of a state university , which has no funding and no equipment for its football players . Governor Gabby Harrigan ( John Barrymore ) is running for a Senate seat and has slashed the school's funding even further . The students , led by the coach , head for his office to protest . Harrigan refuses to see them ; a horrendous fight breaks out when the police arrive . The governor's secretary ( Marjorie Blake ) and his advisors warn him that his decision to cut funding and refusal to meet the students is going to cost him votes . He decides to do a switch - to pour money into the school and build a huge stadium which will also serve as a place to champion his election to the Senate . Of course , the school has to play only the biggest college teams . Just one problem - this team is a big loser . So a female ( Davis ) who is an amazing kicker is drafted , and two professional wrestlers who quit school are given government positions and put on the team . " Hold that Coed " is a funny satire with the kind of wild performance by John Barrymore that one expects by 1938 when he was well in his cups . Like his fellow politico , Ronald Reagan , George Murphy was an attractive , light leading man , but he could also sing and dance . Though the music in this movie isn't much , it's pleasant , as is Murphy , who never tried to move out of his range or go over the top . Joan Davis is funny as the tomboyish kicker - before she kicks , she does mincing type movements . Someone complained about the finale , which includes problems with strong winds ; I didn't mind it . The film , of course , belongs to Barrymore . You can never take your eyes off of him , and even when he hams it up , he's great . I never thought he was a hammy actor unless it was called for - and as the governor , he could be nothing else . Certainly his performances in " Bill of Divorcement , " " The Great Man Votes " and dozens of his other films prove his brilliance as an actor . Recommended ; very enjoyable .
" G-Men " is a 1935 film that was reissued in 1949 . At that time , the FBI was 25 years old , and a scene was added where David Brian , as an FBI head honcho , tells his rookies that they are about to see an early film about the FBI . He then starts the movie . " G-Men " is directed by William Keighley and stars James Cagney as Brick Davis , an attorney whose college friend Eddie ( Regis Toomey ) is murdered by a mobster ( Barton MacLane ) while working for the Department of Justice . Brick quits lawyering and joins the FBI . When the fact that he was close friends with a mobster ( who put him through law school ) turns up , Brick is able to supply a lot of information to the bureau . The action in this film is non-stop , with car chases , kidnappings , lots of shooting , and scenes at a lodge , reminiscent of a well-known real-life happening in Wisconsin . Cagney is excellent as usual , and Barton MacLane gives a strong performance as the enemy . Lloyd Nolan , as a fellow recruit , makes his film debut . The supporting actors are all good . Warner Brothers again proves why they were King of the Crime Flicks with this film . If you like Cagney and action , don't miss this one .
Ann Sheridan is a nightclub singer who gets involved with a straitlaced , married doctor in " Nora Prentiss " - and the consequences are interesting indeed . The doctor is played by Kent Smith , well-remembered by yours truly as the husband of Simone Simon in " Cat People . " Though he never reached big movie stardom , Smith enjoyed a 40 + year career in film , on radio , and TV . In this , he's regimented and by the book , partly helped by his equally disciplined wife , played by another favorite of mine , Rosemary DeCamp , a wonderful actress . One night , Prentiss ends up in his office with a mild injury , and from then on , the good doctor can't imagine life without her and what he's been missing . Conflicted about asking his wife for a divorce , one day , an opportunity drops into his office , and nothing is the same again . This is an intriguing film , but it takes a little bit too long to get to the point . The ending by ' 40s standards took me by surprise . Though Sheridan is nothing like Kay Francis , they both are women associated with a certain era - you can't think of Francis without thinking of her in those flowing ' 30s gowns and outfits - and you can't think of Sheridan without tailored suits and shoulder pads . They went along well with her earthy quality and low speaking voice . The overall effect was of someone who had been around the block but still had her dignity and self-respect . Photographed by James Wong Howe in this film , she looks marvelous . Though IMDb doesn't state if she did her own singing in " Nora Prentiss , " if she didn't , the voice matched her speaking voice perfectly and sounded great . Kent Smith is very good as the pent-up , frustrated doctor . One criticism would be that most of the times , doctors look at bodies clinically and aren't usually embarrassed by the site of a woman's knee , as Smith is in one of the opening scenes . However , he's very effective , as are Robert Alda and the always reliable Bruce Bennett in smaller roles . This film apparently did a lot for Sheridan's career , which is understandable . Very good movie .
Grace Moore stars in " One Night of Love , " a 1934 movie also starring Tullio Carminati and Lyle Talbot . Carminati plays a renowned vocal teacher , Giulio Monteverdi , who takes a young aspiring opera singer , Maria Barrett , under his wing . Still scarred from a disastrous love affair with a former student , Monteverdi makes it clear that the word love must never be mentioned . Maria isn't worried ; she believes she's in love with another ( Lyle Talbot ) . Nevertheless , the two fall in love but don't admit it . When Monteverdi's old student reappears , Maria becomes jealous and turns into an uberdiva . This delightful musical was a huge success - the operatic selections are wonderful , as is the title song , which was a big recording success for Moore . Moore's voice is absolutely beautiful . Female singers were trained a little differently in those days , often backing off of their high notes . Moore does a little of that but has a glorious extension above high C . Her best singing is in her rendition of " One Night of Love " ; unfortunately , the opera selections sung by " Maria Barrett " were vocally wrong for this charming lyric coloratura . Moore herself has a nice warm presence on screen , though I read once that she had an unfortunate resemblance to the comedienne Joan Davis . From certain angles , that is true , but she was photographed carefully and looks lovely throughout the movie , slender and beautiful . Due to marrying a Frenchman and living part-time in France , working at her opera career , concertizing and eventually entertaining the troops , Moore only made 9 films . She died in a plane crash in 1947 at 49 years of age . The opera selections were , as always , on the strange side . Only in Hollywood would a lyric coloratura with a weak lower register and no chest voice sing Carmen ! From the sound , female singers also were not taught to do a mix on the lower notes . The role for Moore in Carmen is Micaela , which is indeed the role she played . Surprisingly , she also in real life did Tosca and Butterfly , which must have been total disasters . Her Butterfly , the finale of the film , is not good , particularly at the end . Her voice just isn't powerful enough , nor should it be - she wasn't a spinto or dramatic soprano or even a big lyric ! The voice suffers , occasionally falling out of placement in the middle range . " Sempre Libera " was a series of wrong and skipped notes . And she scooped like crazy . This is nitpicking , but I would have preferred to hear some " La Boheme , " Mimi being her Metropolitan Opera debut , or the Jewel Song from Faust , or Micaela's aria , all of which suited her voice perfectly , and all of which she sang during her career . If you love opera , you'll love " One Night of Love " for its glorious music and the elegantly-voiced Grace Moore .
" Callaway Went Thataway " is a slight comedy enlivened by some fine performances by Dorothy McGuire , Fred MacMurray , Howard Keel and Jesse White . As television was threatening to take over the film industry , MGM produced this send-up of the TV western hero craze . Smoky Callaway's old movies are being run on TV and are such a hit with kids that an enormous licensing potential develops for Smoky products and endorsements , plus the making of more Smoky movies . One small problem - Smoky done left the corral 10 years earlier and no one - including his agent ( White ) knows where he went . The ad agency partners ( McGuire and MacMurray ) find a lookalike , Stretch Barnes , a simple man with simple needs , and convince him to take Smoky's place , claiming that Smoky is dead . All goes well until Smoky's agent finds the real Callaway , a womanizing boozer , and brings him back . This is a fun film for baby boomers who grew up with Gabby Hayes , Roy Rogers , The Cisco Kid , The Lone Ranger , Roy Rogers etc . etc . and who used all the products that carried their hero's face : the cereals , the lunch boxes , the toys . Howard Keel is terrific in the dual role of sweet , sensitive , aw shucks ma'm Stretch and the hard-drinking slob Smoky . McGuire is lovely in her role , and MacMurray does well as her less conscience-stricken partner . MGM takes the opportunity to plug its stars - there are cameos of Esther Williams , Elizabeth Taylor , and Clark Gable , and there are lots of future TV stars as well . Besides Jesse White , there's Stan Frieberg , Natalie Schaeffer , and in an uncredited role , Hugh Beaumont . Fun viewing .
Unlike other posters , I found this film delightful and entertaining . But what was most fun was seeing all these stars as incredibly young people : Lana Turner , Paulette Goddard , Virginia Grey , Hans Conried . Luise Rainer was at her luminescent best with her big , soulful eyes , gorgeous bone structure , and beautiful speaking voice . The story takes place in France , with those dissolves that translate French into English right away . It concerns a young dramatic school student whose fantasies become real due to a series of happy accidents . The end is particularly delightful . I don't understand the backlash against Luise Rainer . She was a beautiful , principled actress who was discovered by Max Reinhardt , escaped Hitler , and came afoul of another dictator , Louis B . Mayer , who would not give her roles befitting the status of an actress who had won two Oscars . After an unhappy marriage to Clifford Odets , she found happiness in a marriage and left the U . S . She's still alive and works occasionally . You can't say that about many people born in 1910 or anyone in this film , including Ann Rutherford , who is still with us .
In reading the comments , I notice there is quite a bit written about " Too Young to be a Dad " that focus on the fact that at 15 , the young boy in the film didn't feel ready to continue having sex with the more experienced young woman , who becomes pregnant . I'm not sure why that detail was included in the script , except it was probably meant to convey that he was a little more fine-tuned than other kids his age , and therefore would make the decisions he made later on in the film . But " Too Young to be a Dad " isn't about whether or not this kid wanted to have sex and whether or not this makes him gay or strange . It's about the reactions of two families , notably the boy's , to his getting a girl pregnant and its ramifications . Two of the finest actors around , Kathy Baker and Bruce Davison , play the boy's parents , because the story is about them as well . In this film , the boy takes full responsibility for his part in the pregnancy , and the focus is on him rather than the girl , which is a different take , and also why this , as well as " Unwed Father " was shown on Father's Day . His actions are commendable , and the point is well made , though there are some script elements that are bothersome . First of all , what kind of a place did these people live in ? The committee members the mom deals with , the kids on the bus , etc . , all act as if the girl was impregnated by an alien , and they'd never heard of such a thing . Hello , teen pregnancy is QUITE common . Secondly , unlike the harsh realities of " Unwed Father , " this boy is able to make his decision knowing he has tons of support from his parents and his sister - which makes it a lot easier . Nevertheless , the movie is well-acted with some lovely scenes , particularly the one between Davison and Baker when she brings him his coffee after he loses his temper . Pregnancy has consequences , something often lost in the fantasy of wanting a baby . The young girl in this film had no such fantasy , but many young girls do . It's good to have a few movies around that focus on adoption , parent reactions , and decisions that need to be made .
Joan Bennett runs out on her wedding day and takes up with fashion designer Warner Baxter in " Vogues of 1938 " which is a combination of musical numbers and fashion shows with a little plot in between . And it's in Technicolor ! Bennett has reddish-blonde hair here and resembles Lucille Ball a little but her voice is similar to her sister Constance . I'm so used to her as a beautiful brunette that the change took some getting used to - it has to be shortly after that she did a screen test for " Gone With the Wind , " and by then , she had dark hair . In this story , after she abandons her wedding , she falls for the married Baxter ( who designed and made her gown ) and becomes a model in his fashion house . Baxter's wife is an ambitious performer who persuades him to back a show she's in - and it nearly breaks him . There are some great scenes - I have to admit , I thought the roller skaters were spectacular . There was a wonderful scene at the Cotton Club , another at El Morocco , and the entire finale is a fashion show done as a musical . The gowns and suits are gorgeous . Precious little plot here but plenty of shots of the New York of the ' 30s , some good music , dancing , gowns - and oh , those roller skaters !
" Springtime in the Rockies " is another delightful 20th Century Fox musical , this time starring Betty Grable , John Payne , Carmen Miranda , Charlotte Greenwood , Edward Everett Horton , Cesar Romero , and Harry James . All of them are wonderful , but Grable really sparkled in this as Vicky Lane , a Broadway actress whose heart is broken by Dan ( John Payne ) . She quits the show they're doing and teams up for a song and dance act with handsome Victor Prince ( Romero ) . The show's producer ( Jackie Gleason ) is in need of backing for his next show , finds Dan in a bar , and insists that he get Vicky back to New York . She's currently performing at Lake Louise . Payne is drunk out of his mind , so the bartender ( Horton ) escorts him to the Canadian resort . Grable looks fantastic and dances with Romero beautifully . Romero was tall , handsome , a beautiful dancer , and could do drama ( Captain from Castile ) as well as comedy ( Julia Misbehaves ) . He enjoyed a wonderful career but had he not been Cuban , his film work would probably not been limited to supporting roles . Payne is handsome and delightful , and Carmen Miranda as Rosita Murphy is very funny . The scenery is gorgeous , the music upbeat with lots of great trumpet-playing by Harry James , and the actors marvelous . " Springtime in the Rockies " is a real treat .
Joseph Cotten stars in " Walk Softly , Stranger , " a 1950 film also starring Valli , Paul Stewart and Spring Byington . Cotten plays Chris Hale , a con man who takes up residence in a small town under his new name . He has a sweet landlady ( Byington ) who loves him , a decent job and is enjoying a flirtation with the boss ' wheelchair-bound daughter ( Valli ) . However , he just can't resist one more opportunity to make a huge haul by stealing a gambler's money with a partner ( Stewart ) . After they split the money , the two go their separate ways , but Stewart panics and tracks down Chris . Chris is afraid he's led the gambler's men right to his door . This is a small , engrossing film with an excellent performance from Cotten . Someone on the board compared him here to Uncle Charle in " Shadow of a Doubt , " but Charlie was a murderer , which Chris is not , and also a psychotic , again , which Chris is not . Cotten is extremely likable as Chris , a basically good man who has a fatal flaw of liking fast , easy money . Valli is okay as the boss ' daughter - she's not quite as beautiful as she was in " The Paradine Case , " but she's still soulful with that aura of misery . That quality made many think she could be a new Garbo . Despite doing some good , high profile films , she returned to Italy shortly after this film and worked steadily until a few years before her death . To say she seems out of place in this small town is an understatement . You really pull for Chris all the way through the film . Maybe the ending was a bit of a stretch , but I was satisfied with it . Is it a noir or a romance ? This movie really doesn't know , but it's a good watch .
Using the formula that worked so well in " That Midnight Kiss , " Mario Lanza , this time one Pepe Duvalle , is again discovered by someone with connections to the opera world while he's singing his heart out doing his normal job . Here he's a bayou fisherman , but after the loss of their boat , Pepe and his Uncle Nicky ( J . Carrol Naish ) head to New Orleans to look up the opera director ( David Niven ) who offered Pepe an opportunity after hearing him in the village when Pepe joins his prima donna ( Grayson ) in song . Pepe finds himself in love with the somewhat cold diva , who is being pursued by Niven . Lanza is in fine form as a crude , loud , uneducated man who , in order to fit into New Orleans society and the opera world , has to learn manners , as well as how to dance and dress . A natural actor , he makes his complete transformation believable . He sings Jose's aria from " Carmen " beautifully , and this film introduces his hit , " Be My Love " to audiences , which he sings with Grayson . With the diminutive soprano , he also does " Libiamo " from " La Traviata . " In the days in which this story is set , a singer like Grayson would have sung " Traviata , " though audiences aren't used to hearing a fluttery coloratura sing it any longer . The two perform the love duet from " Madama Butterfly " as well - an absolutely horrid choice for Grayson , calling for a much weightier voice . Obviously the repertoire was chosen with Lanza in mind . Had MGM not used " Lucia " in " That Midnight Kiss , " they could have perhaps used it here . Grayson gets to use her high extension in " Je suis Titania , " but the rest of the aria suffers from pitch difficulties . Lanza really helped to commercialize opera in the United States , but he did it without the help of MGM . Is it necessary for Niven to give the wrong explanation for the duet " La ci darem la mano ? " And why , during the Butterfly duet , which is total foreplay , does Grayson constantly try to get away from Lanza ? No matter her personal feelings , she was on stage playing a role . Grayson looks lovely in an assortment of magnificent gowns and hats , and if her voice doesn't match Lanza's , it doesn't mean she could not have sung opera , which is often the criticism . There is definitely a place for coloratura sopranos in the opera world - just not singing with spinto tenors . J . Carrol Naish plays an embarrassing , annoying stereotype as Uncle Nicky ; Niven is wonderful , if underused , and his perfect voice and smooth manners are in great juxtaposition to Lanza's bumbling Pepe . James Mitchell , known to soap opera audiences now as Palmer Courtland on " All My Children " has a good featured part as a friend of Pepe's from the bayou , and he and a very young Rita Moreno , who's in love with Pepe , do a spirited dance number . Lanza's reign at MGM was disappointingly short , and yo-yo dieting and drinking would claim his life nine years after this film . But what years , in which he gifted the world with his fresh , passionate , Italianate sound and thrilled millions of people all over the world .
It is , after all , 1943 , so you've got to expect a little propaganda from a film , even if it is a comedy called " Princess O'Rourke , " starring Olivia de Havilland , Robert Cummings , Jack Carson , and Jane Wyman . DeHavilland is a princess visiting in New York , en route by plane to San Francisco to escape from boredom . Before she leaves , she gets a sleeping pill from her uncle's secretary ( Gladys Cooper ) but when it doesn't work immediately , she gets another one from the flight attendant , one from the copilot ( Jack Carson ) , and finally , two from the pilot , Eddie ( Robert Cummings ) . Then she can sleep . Unfortunately , the plane has to turn around and return to New York and the princess can't be awakened . Eddie takes her to his place to sleep it off - all very chaste , of course - and the two fall in love . Olivia de Havilland is very beautiful and was one of the best actresses in Hollywood . Alas , she didn't always get a chance to show it . But she is certainly lovely as a young woman torn between loyalty and love . Her sleeping pill scene and the scene where her uncle discusses a possible American suitor with her are wonderful and demonstrate her impeccable timing . Jack Carson and Jane Wyman are delightful as Eddie's friends , and Cummings gives an energetic performance as Eddie . In the film Eddie's birth date is given as 1914 ; Cummings was actually born in 1908 and was around 33 when the movie was made ( though released in 1943 , the film was made over a year earlier ) . He retained his youthful appearance well past the 1950s , during which time he played a swinging bachelor in his television series . Charles Coburn provides excellent support , and Gladys Cooper is totally wasted in a role that she must have been assigned for some contractual reason . " Princess O'Rourke " enters the realm of whimsy when the President and his " little dog Fala , " as Roosevelt referred to his buddy , take a hand in the romance . The dog playing Fala is excellent ! One interesting bit of trivia : It's rare to see a film released 63 years ago in which two of the stars are still alive ( in fact , it's rare to see a film released 63 years ago in which even one star is alive ) , but at this writing , both de Havilland and Wyman are still with us . So is " Princess O'Rourke . " It's light and enjoyable .
I give " Firewall " a lot of credit for attempting to make an exciting film about computer fraud . It can't be easy to do something concerning the digital age and computers , with its sedentary activity and focus on monitors , and yet given our lifestyles and the technology age , it has to be addressed in films set in the present . " Firewall " tries and , though the story is old , it partially succeeds . It's the story of a family held hostage - nothing new there - because the crooks need something from dad . Nothing new there either . The family as usual is fairly idyllic - a pretty wife , successful dad , a sweet boy , a teenaged brat daughter going on 40 . The crooks are typical too - there's the ruthless , evil one , the one who's more sympathetic , and the idiot . However , there are some tense moments to be had in " Firewall " and it is in its way good old-fashioned entertainment as security specialist Harrison Ford attempts to outsmart the villains who want him to transfer huge amounts of a bank's money into a special account . The good cast helps : 24's perfect everywoman , Mary Lynn Rajskub , is on hand as Ford's assistant , the excellent Paul Bettany is the nasty kidnapper , and the cast is rounded out by Robert Patrick and Alan Arkin . Two comeback kids are in the cast as well : Robert Forster as Harry and Virginia Madsen as Ford's wife . Imagine - she's 45 , so for a change , the wife was not 20-something or 30-something . Although Forster is completely wasted in his role ( as is Arkin ) , it's great to see him in A pictures again . Thanks , Quentin Tarantino , for rediscovering this fine actor . I'm a huge fan of Harrison Ford's . To me , he's a adventure hero right out of the ' 40s and a classic movie star . But at 63 ( at the time of filming ) he's too old for this kind of thing and looks it . It's time he stepped into roles such as Robert Redford's in " The Clearing . " We get rid of the female stars as romantic leads a lot sooner . Somehow , Hollywood lets actors like Ford , Connery , Eastwood , etc . do these action films until they're ready to drop . Ford has a screen presence that is good in a variety of roles . No reason he can't retire this particular genre . All in all , this is a very good rental .
Steve Martin is a producer with what he considers a great script - - " Chubby Rain " - in " Bowfinger , " a 1999 film also starring Eddie Murphy , Heather Graham , Terrence Stamp and Christine Baranski . Martin , who wrote the screenplay , is Bobby Bowfinger , a producer who is convinced that he has a hot sci fi property and wants Kit Ramsey ( Murphy ) , a huge action star , to be his lead . ( The script , by the way , sounds awful . ) He has no way of getting to Kit , but he tries - and fails . Then he decides to make the film starring Kit anyway , except that Kit won't know it . He has a cast that has been on hold for months , and he rounds it out by holding auditions for $25 each ( no checks ) . Here he finds his leading lady ( Graham ) and his - and everybody else in the cast and on the crew's - future girlfriend . His parking attendant friend can steal fancy cars for him , and he has another friend who can steal cameras and sound equipment . And he can get a top crew by going out in a van and picking up illegals trying to cross the border . He's set . Bobby tells his cast that Kit won't meet anyone and doesn't want to see the camera , and then stakes out Kit's house , finds out where he's having lunch , etc . , and has his actors walking up to Kit and saying lines about aliens , screaming at him or chasing his car . Little do they know , Kit is a little paranoid when it comes to extraterrestrials . He's a member of a mind cult , run by Terrence Stamp , who keeps having him repeat that there are no aliens . As the filming continues and Kit is continually approached by aliens , Stamp sends him on an enforced vacation . That's when Bobby hires a Kit lookalike named Jiff ( also Eddie Murphy ) . This is a preposterous story that's done well enough so that you can believe it could work , and it's a great premise . I may be a sap , but I found the end when everyone is watching the final film very touching . There are some hilarious moments and lots of satire from a very funny cast . Very enjoyable .
Ironically , " Biography : Darryl F . Zanuck : 20th Century Filmmaker " tells us more about the man than the mogul . Many details of his unusual career are left out due to time constraints , and more emphasis is put on his role as a husband , father , his work during World War II , and his love affairs . Most notable of the affairs was his liaison with Bella Darvi , a discovery of not only Zanuck's , but Mrs . Zanuck's . The couple took the young woman ( who bears a strong resemblance to Tyrone Power's second wife , Linda Christian ) under their wing , put her up in their home , and encouraged her to become an actress . She was like a sister to Mrs . Zanuck but to Mr . Zanuck , she was no daughter . When Virginia found out , she kicked both of them out of the house . Nineteen years later , when an old and sick Zanuck wanted to return home , Virginia was there waiting . The documentary spends time on Zanuck's chaotic childhood and early escapades and his ending up in Hollywood writing for Rin Tin-Tin . While he was still in his twenties , he became a Hollywood mogul and went on to produce films such as " The Grapes of Wrath , " " Gentlemens Agreement , " " Pinky , " and " The Robe " before resigning and going to Europe . He returned to take over the company again during the " Cleopatra " debacle to keep the studio from closing its doors . I could have used a little more of his work at 20th Century Fox - but you can only do so much in 40-odd minutes . Certainly this episode of " Biography " tells us more than we ever knew about Zanuck , the man .
" The Unfinished Dance " is a color MGM film made in 1947 that depends on the star power and dancing ability of little Margaret O'Brien . Here she plays Meg , a nine-year-old ballet student enamored of the gorgeous prima ballerina , played by Cyd Charisse in a very early role . When the company brings in " La Darina " ( Karin Booth ) to do some performances , O'Brien is determined that she not succeed . In order for the dancer to be humiliated , she plans , with the help of a friend ( Elinor Donahue ) , to douse the lights during her ballet . It all plays out , except that a trap door opens by mistake , and La Darina's career is over . When La Darina turns to teaching and takes a big interest in Meg's dancing , Meg's guilt becomes unbearable . The ballet segments are beautiful , and while the intensity of O'Brien's performance may not be for everyone , she is excellent . I confess that she's always been a favorite of mine . Danny Thomas , in a role written for Danny Kaye , makes his debut in this film . It's a somewhat saccharine role , but he appoints himself well . Charisse is good as a shallow , ambitious dancer who really isn't worthy of Meg's adoration , and Karin Booth is lovely as La Darina , and she's absolutely stunning to boot . Not to everyone's taste , but a nice niche film from MGM .
In her final theatrical film ( there would be a TV movie in 1972 ) , Rosalind Russell plays novelist Dorothy Gilman's Mrs . Pollifax in " Mrs . Pollifax , Spy . " This 1971 film also stars Darren McGavin , Nehemiah Piersoff , Albert Paulson , Harold Gould , John Beck and Dana Elcar . The script is written by Russell under a pseudonym . Mrs . Pollifax is an elderly woman who after being widowed volunteers to be a spy for the CIA . Since she looks so un-spylike , one of the people at the CIA ( Elcar ) decides to try her out on a mission . She is to go to Mexico , head for a bookstore , watch for The Tale of Two Cities in the window , enter the bookstore when she sees the book has been placed in the window , exchange some code sentences with the owner , get the book and leave . Except it doesn't go that way . Before Mrs . Pollifax knows what hit her , she's en route to an Albanian fortress with a man , John Sebastian Farrell ( McGavin ) . They share a cell . Mrs . Pollifax goes to work plotting their escape as Farrell recovers from a bullet wound . The Mrs . Pollifax books make for light , fun reading , and this pleasant story is along the same benign lines . Some of the elements of the books are disregarded - for instance , Mrs . Pollifax's children never were told she was a spy as they are here . Rosalind Russell does an excellent job , and she looks wonderful , particularly when one remembers how blown up the poor woman was from steroids due to her rheumatoid arthritis later on . She was such a striking woman with a strong presence in the films she made over her career . Darren McGavin isn't Gilman's Farrell , but his dry humor is effective just the same - another actor who , like Russell , is sorely missed . This movie doesn't move very quickly ; in fact , it's slow in parts , but there are some good scenes , particularly the Christmas party that Mrs . Pollifax talks her jailers into throwing . You can really admire her charm and cleverness . " Mrs . Pollifax , Spy " is one of those comfortable movies where one sees a lot of familiar faces and an okay story . You'll see worse , you'll see better - but seeing Russell and McGavin more than makes up for the script's shortcomings .
Andrew Lloyd Webber's long-running Broadway show , " The Phantom of the Opera " has been brought to the screen in a sumptuous , lush production . There have been many versions of this tale , dating back to Lon Chaney's scary performance in silent film . In the Claude Rains version , the Phantom seems to have been Christine's father and the victim of a terrible misunderstanding . The reasons for the Phantom's problems always vary , but the bottom line is - this guy is one sandwich short of a picnic due to his face being deformed . He hides away in the sewers of the Paris Opera . In this version , as the " Angel of Music " he has been coaching the beautiful dancer / singer Christine for the day when she will make her opera debut - probably by the Phantom clunking a diva over the head , which is the way it's been done in past films . Minnie Driver is the unfortunate Carlotta , but her life is spared in Webber's Phantom . Driver is hilarious as the temperamental , Italian opera star , and she's perhaps the best thing in the film . You know there's a problem when the Phantom is better looking than Christine's boyfriend , Raoul , which is the case here . Gerard Butler is plenty handsome for a deformed man - he sings in an appropriately rough , desperate manner , and his scenes with Christine are hot . Broadway star Patrick Wilson is a very good Raoul , tender and loving . Emily Rossum is beautiful as Christine . She has a sweet voice , but Webber insists upon these very light , small voices singing Christine ; thus , we lose some of the glorious music - not to mention the words - in the lower registers . Also , it was interesting how her gowns went from demure to Victoria's Secret slutty whenever she wound up with the Phantom . She looked great in everything . The music in Phantom is its best feature , and it's not compromised in this production . For the most part , the score is well sung . The usual problem is that someone with Christine's voice is not an appropriate replacement for a diva with Carlotta's voice - in fact , she's not really appropriate for much opera . It wasn't an issue in this version , as Christine replaces Carlotta singing a simple song , but it usually is . People had a lot of problems with this film , but I didn't see " Phantom " in the theater ; perhaps it played better on television . What I liked the best was the clarification at the end of something that happens in the beginning of the show , which I had always wondered about . This is a popular " Beauty and the Beast " type story which holds a lot of classic appeal . Added to Webber's best score , you really can't beat it . It's about the timelessness and power of love , and there's no argument with a message like that .
Lee J . Cobb is a psychiatrist who works to discover " The Dark Past " of convict William Holden in this 1948 drama that also stars Nina Foch and Adele Jurgens . Two of Hollywood's favorite subject matters are part of the film plot : The post-war obsession with psychiatry and a hostage situation , of which there have been many in films over the years . Like Bogart in " The Desperate Hours , " Holden's an escaped convict with a gang that holes up in someone's home while waiting for a ride that doesn't arrive when it's supposed to . And , like the later " Desperate Hours , " the couple has a child that tries to escape . In " The Desperate Hours , " you wanted to kill the kid ; at least here , he doesn't cause as much trouble . Psychiatry in America was really just being explored in film , and it was as a result of the trauma soldiers suffered in World War II and the problems they had when they came home . The script is simplistic and dated , but the performances are good . Holden is terrific as the on-the-edge convict tortured by partial hand paralysis and a recurring nightmare from an incident in his childhood ; young , pretty Nina Foch is his girlfriend who loves him but is terribly hurt by his actions . When I was growing up , the striking Foch was in her forties and a constant presence in television , usually playing a neurotic mess . She still acts and is a very prominent drama teacher in Los Angeles . It was wonderful to see her in these early days - she made a fine ingénue . Cobb is convincing as a psychiatrist who keeps his cool as he tries to help the young man . After William Holden's big splash at the age of 21 in " Golden Boy " in 1939 , his career settled into a series of light leading man roles that took him nowhere . Superstardom didn't hit until 1950's Sunset Boulevard . One of the comments on IMDb remarked that in " Golden Boy , " he looked like Tom Hanks , which stuck in my mind as I was watching " The Dark Past . " Well , it's the strangest version of separated at birth that I've ever seen , but there is the oddest resemblance between these two stars . Here , with his hairline exposed , you can really see the similarity in the shape of Holden's face to Hanks ' , and there's even a similarity in profile and around the eyes . You'd never catch it unless someone mentioned it to you or you've seen " Golden Boy " where Holden is nearly unrecognizable - and then once you pick it up , it's totally distracting . The other odd thing about this film which says something about our society today is that these people were getting together for a casual evening in a country home and they were all dressed to the nines - even the criminals were wearing suits and ties ! Times sure have changed . Despite this and other dated elements of " The Dark Past , " William Holden , a tremendous star , is always worth a look .
Gregory Peck and Sophia Loren star in " Arabesque , " directed by Stanley Donen , who gave us " Charade . " This isn't " Charade " - nothing could be - but this derivative film has its roots in Hitchcock and " Charade . " Gregory Peck is the common man - in this case , a professor - who is more or less kidnapped to translate a cipher . While he's doing so at the home of his slimy host , he meets Sophia Loren , who tips him off that once he's deciphered this piece of paper , he's going to be eliminated . With her cooperation , he takes her as a hostage and the two start running throughout London . Along the way , the cipher is hidden , goes missing , someone picks it up - etc . The big question , what side is Loren on , and how much of whatever story she's currently telling is true ? The main interest in this film is Loren , whose beauty is staggering , as is her amazing wardrobe . She's the absolute height of chic . All eyes are on her whenever she appears in a scene - she's probably at her height as a goddess in this , no question . Peck does his usual great job as a likable , confused man . There are some fantastic scenes , including one at a construction site , and a neat twist the audience won't see coming . Peck was 50 when he made this film . It's fascinating to see these classic middle aged-plus male stars with today's eyes . I say males because women past 40 , with a few exceptions , are by that age no longer stars of yesterday's movies . We're so used to seeing eye lifts , brow lifts , and chemical peels on our male stars that men like Peck , Taylor , Holden , Power , Cooper etc . , look tired and past it to us when in fact , they were often still young . Somehow , though there have now been great advances in plastic surgery , I'll take Peck , his generation , and the one before him , any time .
Tyrone Power stars as a courier put in an awkward situation by the U . S . government in " Diplomatic Courier , " which also stars Patricia Neal and Hildegarde Knef . Neal has a small but showy role as a society widow who chases Power around Europe . The film was shot on location in Europe , possibly using post-war blocked funds that caused so many films to be made there in the ' 50s and beyond . I first saw this film on TV as a kid , and like one of the other posters , it stuck in my mind , possibly because even back then , I was a Tyrone Power fan . The early ' 50s were a transition time for him . Unlike some actors - Bogart , Mitchum , Gable , to name a few - Power changed dramatically over the years . By the time this film was made , he had lost the last vestige of his boyishness and was thoroughly disillusioned with movies and undoubtedly the master he had served since 1936 , 20th Century Fox . In the few years he had left , he would turn more and more to theater and form his own movie production company . Some of his best work lay ahead of him . Power is supported in the film with a vigorous performance by Karl Malden and from newcomer Hildegarde Knef . Talented and beautiful , Knef , like many other European actresses who came to Hollywood after the war , never found a niche in Hollywood . She went on to great success on Broadway , however , with " Silk Stockings , " the musical version of " Ninotchka , " costarring Don Ameche , and remained friends with Power . Patricia Neal plays a widow that Power meets on an airplane . He keeps standing her up when they're supposed to get together but the story takes it a little further . Neal was an ardent fan of Power's and when they met , she asked him why it was that he hadn't answered her fan letter . Diplomatic Courier is a fast-moving , atmospheric film where you can't tell the good guys from the bad , and it holds interest . Watch for a Lee Marvin in a small role and an uncredited moment by Charles Bronson .
It's very hard to say just what was going on with " The Lady from Shanghai " and what the film could have been without studio interference . Orson Welles ' prime interest in film at this point was to raise money for his theater ; indeed , funding his own projects is what drove him to seek out acting jobs . He made " Lady from Shanghai " for his soon to be ex-wife , Rita Hayworth . Harry Cohn was fearful for Rita's image and held back the release of this movie for one year . The plot concerns an Irish sailor , Michael O'Hara , who falls in love with Else ( Hayworth , stunning with short blond hair ) . Her husband is a well known criminal attorney Arthur Bannister ( Everett Sloane ) who is as crippled on the inside as he is out . He hires O'Hara to work on his yacht , and there O'Hara is drawn deeper and deeper into a web of murder and deceit . " The Lady from Shanghai " moves at a snail's pace , though I agree with one of the posters that films today are criticized for taking time to build a plot . Still , this movie drags . The scene in the fun house is fantastic - Welles wanted it without music , though , and I believe the studio cut it down . It's a shame . The photography throughout is stunning , atmospheric , bold , and very stylish . Welles was an excellent actor , handsome in his youth , charismatic and possessing a magnificent voice and technique , but in many films , it's almost as if he doesn't trust himself or doesn't take the time to develop a character . Instead he relies on externals such as accents and fake noses . One of the only times he didn't do this was " Tomorrow is Forever , " where the director gets an excellent , deeply felt performance out of him . Contrast that with " Compulsion " where he shows he is a master of pure technical acting as he phones in his performance . Here Welles is doing quadruple duty - as director , star , co-writer and narrator . Sporting a completely unnecessary accent and looking intense was a fast way to a characterization . Nevertheless , he is always compelling . The supporting players are excellent , including Sloan and Glenn Anders . Hayworth , gorgeous and soft-voiced ( her singing was again dubbed by Anita Ellis ) is as usual a complete goddess and one of the great screen presences . What a sad life for such a vibrant beauty . Any film that Orson Welles directed is worth seeing , and " The Lady from Shanghai " is no exception . But this one leaves the viewer frustrated , as does " The Magnificent Ambersons " - as does any work that Welles did within the studio system . He was a great artist who should have been given a freer reign ; he wasn't . He was a strange dichotomy - he needed more freedom , but as is evidenced by some of his later work , he needed the structure of the studio . Alas , he couldn't have both .
" Double Wedding " is an enjoyable , albeit dizzying comedy starring William Powell and Myrna Loy . It's really a tribute to the cast that they were able to carry on in such a wacky movie despite being shut down for a time due to Jean Harlow's untimely death . Both Powell , who was involved with Harlow , and Loy , who was a friend of hers , took her death very hard . Powell and Loy play polar opposites in this film . She is a complete control freak who has her life , her sister's life , and the life of her sister's fiancé , planned down to the millisecond . Along comes Powell , who lives in a trailer and hocks items when he needs money . Once he's in their lives , all bets are off , and chaos reigns supreme . The cast is great but the whole thing kind of veers off focus from time to time . The writing isn't as strong as in some of the other screwball comedies of the era . But Powell is a treasure and teamed with Loy , even more so .
" Things to do in Denver When You're Dead " is a 1995 film starring Andy Garcia , Christopher Walken , Christopher Lloyd , Steve Buscemi , Bill Nunn , Treat Williams , Jack Warden , Gabrielle Anwar and Fairuza Balk . Garcia is Jimmy the Saint , an ex-mobster who now runs a company called Afterlife Advice , where he tapes the words of dying people so that their relatives can come in after they're gone and listen to them . He's called in by a paralyzed mobster ( Walken ) who wants a favor . Jimmy has no choice but to do it , because he owes money and the mobster owns his notes . On the surface and by mob standards , the favor is pretty benign . The Walken character has a child molester in the making son who is in love with a woman he dated for years . She left him and is now engaged to someone else . Her fiancé is due in town , and the Walken character wants him frightened out of seeing her anymore . Jimmy gets a crew together , two men to pose as cops and some guys to sit nearby and do the scaring once the cops bring him over . Unfortunately , due to a ridiculous decision by Jimmy ( and THE major plot hole ) , a loose canon known as Critical Bill ( Williams ) is allowed to be one of the police ) . Unbeknownst to the men , the young woman is asleep in the back seat , her fiancé realizes the guys aren't cops , Critical Bill becomes critical , and both she and her fiancé wind up dead . The Walken character puts out buckwheat hits on everyone , meaning that they don't die instantly . He gives Jimmy 48 hours to get out of town . Jimmy spends it trying to help the others disappear , helping a young hooker ( Balk ) and dealing with his love for a young woman ( Anwar ) . In his own way , Jimmy the Saint brings things full circle in a way that makes sense for his own life . Violent , sad and depressing , " Things to do in Denver When You're Dead " has some brilliant performances and some very likable characters . Everyone is a standout , most especially Garcia , Lloyd and Williams . The film is punctuated with the advice from the elderly on tape , which gives the film a bittersweet flavor . Very well directed by Gary Fleder , with a somewhat derivative but good script by Scott Rosenberg .
Brian Donlevy is " The Great McGinty " in this 1940 film written and directed by Preston Sturges . The film also stars two men who would become part of the Sturges group of actors , Akim Tamiroff and William Demarest . Muriel Angelus plays McGinty's wife . Sturges always had interesting beginnings - or ends - to his films . This one begins : One man was always evil and had a moment of honesty ; another man was always good and had a moment of evil . They both had to leave the country ( paraphrasing ) . In a foreign country , a bartender tells his story to a suicidal man , an embezzler whom he has just saved , and a woman who works at the establishment . His story is a wild one - he was once governor of a state . As the story unfolds , McGinty - that's the man's name - was a hobo when he was paid $2 to vote to get a man into office . He voted 37 times and attracted the attention of a crooked political boss ( Tamiroff ) who gets him elected as alderman , mayor , and finally puts him up for governor . Along the way , he marries his secretary ( Angelus ) in order to have the appearance of a stable , good man . It's a marriage of convenience - she has two children and a dachshund . But he falls in love with all of them , and with her encouragement , decides to turn his back on the graft and the stealing and start thinking of the people . That's when he gets into trouble . " The Great McGinty " isn't a crazy comedy like " The Miracle of Morgan's Creek " or " The Palm Beach Story . " The humor comes out of the fact that this bum rises to the office of mayor and locks horns with the big boss . The best scenes are between Tamiroff and Donlevy , who work beautifully together , particularly when they're trying to kill one another . Though one of the last scenes is a sad one , Sturges gives us our smiles back with the last moments of the film . Brian Donlevy , who is usually in a supporting role , does a terrific job as McGinty - tough and belligerent , but with a kind side even he didn't know he had . Donlevy repeated his role of McGinty in " The Miracle of Morgan's Creek " in a cameo . Muriel Angelus , a British leading lady who retired to raise a family in 1946 , is lovely as Mrs . McGinty , who never wanted to get married again and then falls in love with her husband . Tamiroff makes a powerful " Boss " who has a volatile relationship with his puppet , who sometimes gets out of his strings . An excellent movie that pokes fun at political machinery and behind the scenes plotting . It also shows us what can happen when a little love comes into our lives .
Dick Powell gets himself in a trouble with tomorrow's newspaper in " It Happened Tomorrow , " a 1944 film also starring Linda Darnell and Jack Oakie . Powell plays Larry Stevens , an ambitious reporter who is given the next day's newspaper by an old man , Pop Benson , who works at the paper . Benson , and Powell have a discussion about knowing the news in advance , and Pop shows up the next day with an advanced newspaper issue showing what is going to happen . Larry is able to write a robbery story in advance and have it ready to go as soon as the event occurs , which puts him under suspicion with the police . Then he reads about his own death . Interesting premise that will sound familiar to those who watched the TV series " Early Edition . " The beautiful Linda Darnell , Stevens ' love interest , plays half of a mind-reading act , the other half being her uncle ( Jack Oakie ) . Rene Clair was an odd duck who was attracted to this type of story . It isn't paced well , but Powell's performance manages to hold the thing together . The film begins with a couple celebrating their 50th wedding anniversary , and the husband wanting to tell the guests a story of something that happened to him . You won't have any trouble figuring out who they are . The plot sounds serious , but it's delivered with a light touch .
" Strange Cargo " is a 1940 film starring Joan Crawford and Clark Gable that leaves the usual story lines behind - romantic comedy , kept woman , rags to riches - as it weaves an allegorical tale of escaping prisoners and a Christ-like figure who accompanies them . Gable is Andre Verne , a prisoner on Devil's Island who escapes with several other prisoners ( Paul Lukas , Albert Dekker , Eduardo Ciannelli , J . Edward Bromberg and John Arledge ) . During the evening count , he's almost found missing but another man , Cambreau ( Ian Hunter ) replaces him in line . He then boards the boat to the mainland with them and Julie ( Crawford ) , probably a prostitute , who is escaping also from a lecherous bounty hunter ( Peter Lorre ) . The prisoners fall on hard times as they escape through the woods and also while at sea when their water becomes tainted . Cambreau gives each prisoner comfort and helps them to confront the evil that brought them to Devil's Island , helping to bring them peace at last . This is not lost on Julie who sees a chance for redemption . Verne , however , isn't interested . This is a very simple story beautifully directed by Borzage . The atmosphere of the film is dark and haunting . There is no preachiness . The sheer power of Cambreau and his sense of faith is what brings the prisoners solace . Hunter is majestic in the role . Gable is appropriately tough , and Crawford brings depth to Julie , who thought she knew what she wanted . The rest of the cast is top-notch . " Strange Cargo " seems like a film that was made in the early ' 30s with its Christian parable . This was the last film that Crawford and Gable made together . Its powerful message makes this a fitting ending for a fine MGM team .
When you tune in a film that stars George Raft , Humphrey Bogart , Ann Sheridan , Ida Lupino , and Alan Hale Jr . - well , you expect to see a Warners Brother film starring Humphrey Bogart . Guess again . And that's the first twist " They Drive By Night " has for the viewer - George Raft has top billing . This movie was made before Bogie became a hot property , so the iconic film star is fourth on the cast list . After turning down " Casablanca , " " High Sierra , " " The Maltese Falcon " and " Double Idemnity " and a few other gems - well , there's not much more to be said . Raft and Bogart play the Fabrini brothers who work in the tough trucking business , where it's hard to make a decent living , get any sleep , or maintain any kind of family life . One of the more generous fleet owners ( Hale ) gives Raft a tip on going into business for himself . Hale's wife is the precursor to Glenn Close in " Fatal Attraction " - she's obsessed with Raft and horrible to her adoring husband . Raft , however , is in love with Cassie ( Sheridan ) . After a devastating accident takes Bogart out of commission and destroys their truck , Raft goes to work in-house for Hale . Time for twist # 2 - and it's a doozy that leads to murder and revenge . This is a highly entertaining film with some good performances , and it shows what the common man has to go through to make a decent living - and that remains true today . Bogart is very good in his supporting role , and Sheridan has a nice , earthy quality . Raft , an effective film tough guy , can't give a nuanced performance , but he's okay . Where the movie goes off is in the characters played by Lupino and Hale . Hale is a loud , highly successful businessman who comes off as being incredibly stupid , and the Lupino character has not one redeeming quality . Her big scene at the end is completely over the top and comes from nowhere . Lupino is capable of much better acting than this , but the character is badly written and she was not well directed . Nevertheless , this is vintage ' 30s and vintage Warners - dark , workmanlike , and worth seeing for its stars , though some aren't at their best .
" The Heroes of Telemark " is a 1965 film telling the story of the great bravery of people in the Norwegian resistance during World War II as they attempt to keep material for the atom bomb out of the hands of the Nazis . It stars Kirk Douglas , Richard Harris , Michael Redgrave and Ulla Jacobsen . This is a strange film for several reasons . It has some tremendous people in it yet they aren't really used effectively , i . e . , Michael Redgrave and Ulla Jacobsen as examples , gorgeous scenery and skiing sequences that aren't particularly well photographed ; and a story that includes inaccuracies rather than the true facts . Certainly one can understand the need to combine characters or cut out segments of a story , but when the actual event is as thrilling as the real story of Telemark , why change it ? Several people have commented , as usual , about actors having no accents , most especially Kirk Douglas as a Norwegian scientist . In films , it's more difficult to keep to the theatrical convention , but nevertheless , it is correct : When a film takes place in another country and characters from and in that country are speaking , they ARE NOT SPEAKING English . They are speaking German , Norwegian , whatever . So the convention is - NO ACCENT . Why would Norwegians be in Norway speaking to other Norwegians in English ? Why would they be speaking English to Germans ? They wouldn't be . A good example is the film " The Mortal Storm . " It takes place in Germany , and Margaret Sullavan , James Stewart , and Robert Young speak with no accents . CORRECT . The problem in Hollywood is that they cast some people who are American and some people who are from other countries , making the accent situation difficult . Be that as it may , Kirk Douglas did not need an accent and it was correct that he did not have one . And he can't slip in and out of one - speak with an accent when in England , for instance , because that would be ridiculous . Despite the fact that this film has its drawbacks , it is nevertheless good , with some exciting sequences . It just wasn't very well directed by Anthony Mann , who makes the pace too leisurely . It would have been a better film with more attention to the true facts , a little more characterization , and a faster pace .
Annette Bening has title role in " Being Julia , " a story about an actress who oftentimes doesn't know where she leaves off and her stage character begins . Though this is really a one-woman show , Bening is surrounded by a marvelous cast including Jeremy Irons as her impresario husband , Michael Gambon as her acting coach , who , though dead for 15 years , is coaching her through life , Shaun Evans as her young , ambitious beau , and Lucy Punch as her rival . Kudos to Bruce Greenwood , who plays a suitor of Julia's - it looked like Bruce Greenwood but didn't sound like Bruce Greenwood , so I had to look at the cast list . Julia Lambert is a 1930s stage star who , as far as she's concerned , will be playing women in her thirties for a long time . Though she depends on her husband , who owns a theater and guides her career , they lead separate lives ( he's under the impression that she hasn't been interested in sex since she gave birth to their son ) . She takes a young lover ( Evans ) who soon falls in love with blonde Avice ( Punch ) and asks Julia to let her audition for a role in her new play . Julia is most generous to her rival , encouraging her husband to cast her as the ingénue in the new play , giving Avice the stage in her key scene , and even wearing a colorless costume so as not to distract from Avice's moment . The viewer isn't fooled ; we sit there waiting for Julia's next move . Julia's own son Roger is never sure when she's acting or being real , especially since she once told him something and that night , repeated the identical thing on stage . Let's just say when something works , she keeps it . When she begs her young lover not to leave her , she says the same speech , word for word , she gave to another boyfriend . Bening is fabulous in this tour de force , and she looks beautiful and elegant in the gorgeous costumes . Someone commented that she bravely let Szabo photograph her in " unforgiving closeup , " but I'm sure there are plenty of 46 year-olds who wouldn't mind looking like Bening . This is a slight story but a highly entertaining one . My only complaint is the casting of Evans , and I do not understand how it is that casting people always , always get this wrong . When Linda Grey had a young boyfriend on " Dallas , " it was Christopher Atkins , which ruined the plot . I could go on , but these roles are often given to men who , first of all , are too young and look it , and secondly are too vapid . Someone on this site suggested Heath Ledger or Billy Crudup - uh , now you're talking . This kind of a role demands someone hot and of the type we older women would appreciate , not someone we want to pat on the head . Definitely worth seeing for Bening's performance and the great period atmosphere evoked in the film . Also , it's a film targeted to the over 40 demographic for a change .
It's rare to see a movie made with such tender loving care . Director Hallstrom gathered the best cast and crew he could find for this film . The cinematography is glorious - I can't believe Oliver Stapleton isn't up for every award in the world . Kevin Spacey turns in the best performance of his career as a brutalized man , Cate Blanchett is her usual chameleon self as his trashy girlfriend , Julianne Moore is perfection as the woman who helps him heal , and Judi Dench is funny and touching as his aunt . Hers is a role without a huge amount of lines but tons of substance . Only a master could have given the character such depth . The Shipping News has poignancy , humor and a great deal of beauty . What it has above all else is atmosphere - Hallstrom's feel for the Newfoundland shipping village , the simple lives led there and the friendships made is truly awe-inspiring .
" Dr . Kildare Goes Home , " made in 1940 , is a particularly interesting entry into the series . Kildare , made a staff doctor , realizes that his dad ( Samuel S . Hinds ) is exhausted from keeping up with his practice and wants to help him . He takes some doctors who can't find jobs and they start a clinic in one of Kildare Sr . ' s practice area . The idea behind it is that everyone pays ten cents a week for medical care . This will keep the salaries paid and support the work needed on the ill people . Also , the emphasis of the clinic is on prevention and staying healthy . This is health insurance today , which wants everyone to stay healthy and not need medical facilities . Instead of a dime , though , it's thousands per year . I did find that whole subject matter in 1940 fascinating . The next fascinating thing is that Dr . Gillespie goes to watch a rare operation done by a brilliant black doctor ( Jack Carr ) . Carr , a very well spoken actor , is uncredited in the film . This is a different kind of depiction of blacks than one is used to seeing in these old movies , and it's similar to " Crash Dive , " where a black member of the submarine unit is the same as everyone else . These things make " Dr . Kildare Goes Home " a cut above , and the story moves along with Kildare and Mary setting the date . I love the scenes between Mary Boyd ( Alma Kruger ) and Dr . Gillespie ( Lionel Barrymore ) the best . When he compliments her appearance , he says , " You must have lost 15 pounds . " She says , " I've gained eight . What do you want me to do that's illegal ? " Highly entertaining .
With just a bare bones plot , 2008's Mamma Mia manages to light up the screen , thanks to a great cast , great energy , great music , and great scenery . The Abba musical has been running on Broadway and touring for years . Meryl Streep plays Donna Sheridan , the owner of a hotel on a Greek Island . She's preparing for her 20-year-old daughter Sophie's ( Amanda Seyfried ) wedding . Unbeknownst to her , her daughter has invited the three men ( Pierce Brosnan , Colin Firth , and Stellan Skarsgård ) , one of whom could be her father , to her wedding , hoping to figure out which one it is and have him walk her down the aisle . When Donna sees them , it rocks her world . The stellar cast also includes Christine Baranski and Julie Walters as Donna's best friends , who sang with her back in the day . My only problems with this film were - first , it's been a hit show for so long that the ages of the women no longer work unless you state upfront that it takes place in 1998 or thereabouts , as the women are supposed to be 50 year-old ex-hippies , placing them and their bell-bottoms in the ' 60s and early ' 70s , not the late ' 70s and ' 80s . My second problem , which I'm sure many people have commented on , is the godawful singing of Pierce Brosnan . Surely they could have done some mixing in the sound studio instead of inflicting that on a paying audience . Other than that , wonderful entertainment .
A woman and an amnesiac fall in love in " Random Harvest , " based on the novel by James Hilton . Hilton is also famous for his novel " Lost Horizon , " which was made into a very successful film - well , the first time around anyway . Greer Garson is a beautiful young music hall performer who saves an escapee from a mental asylum , " Smithy , " played by Ronald Colman , who suffered trauma as a World War I soldier . The two fall in love , get married , and have a child . En route to a job interview in Liverpool , Smithy is hit by a car and regains his memory - and doesn't know what has happened to him in the last three years . He returns home to his wealthy family and a young woman ( Susan Peters ) who is in love with him , with no idea that he has a wife and child somewhere . This is old-fashioned romance and heartache at its very best . Colman is too old for the role but he and Garson make a great couple . Garson has rarely been more beautiful . This is a very sweet story that really touches the heart . Susan Peters plays the young girl in love with Rainier - the Colman character's real name . She's very spunky , but because of Colman's age , this doesn't seem like much of a match . However , she received an Oscar nomination and was really on her way with MGM . Unfortunately , she was shot during a hunting accident three years later . MGM kept her going by having her write an interview column for one of the fan magazines . She worked occasionally from a wheelchair after her injury in film and on stage , but died in 1952 , in her early thirties . A real tragedy . " Random Harvest " is an opportunity to see this truly lovely young woman during the all too short height of her career .
An excellent performance by Spencer Tracy in " The People Against O'Hara " lifts this all too familiar plot line to a different level . Tracy is an alcoholic who , for the sake of his health and sobriety , becomes a civil attorney , only to be drawn back into criminal work when neighborhood friends need him to defend their son . The son is played by a pre-Gunsmoke , blond James Arness , and it was a pleasure to see him do something besides the one-note Matt Dillon . Diana Lynn does an excellent job as Tracy's protective daughter , and a pathetically young Richard Anderson is her patient fiancé . Tracy's performance drives the film , which is really just an excuse for a character study , and who better to essay it . He beautifully shows the man's torment and loss of abilities . The ending is tense and suspenseful . There is a fine cast , including the above , Pat O'Brien John Hodiak , Eduardo Cianelli , and William Campbell ( who in real life was for a time married to Judith Exner , the woman who went public with her affair with JFK ) . I think Spencer Tracy is always worth watching , and this film is no exception .
Another great Tom Wilkinson performance punctuates " Separate Lies , " a 2005 film also starring Emily Watson , Linda Bassett and Rupert Everett . Directed by Julian Fellowes , it's the story of a married couple , James and Ann Manning where the husband ( Wilkinson ) believes he and his wife ( Watson ) are happy together . An accident near their house on the night they have a party brings the police around . It is a hit and run that killed their maid Maggie's Bassett ) husband . James becomes suspicious of a neighbor , Bill Bule ( Everett ) when he sees some damage on his car . He confronts Bule , who admits he did it and promises to go to the police the next day . When James arrives home , Ann is angry that he is making such a big deal out of it and states that she was driving the car . Of course , James then isn't so eager to rush to the police . She suggests that they call Bule and tell him their decision . " Oh , f _ _ _ Bule , " James says . " Well , that's just it , " Ann says . " I am f _ _ _ ing Bule . " James ' devastation is just the beginning in this well-crafted drama . Without giving the plot away , this is a good example of how gender switching changes a story . Example of what I mean : Susan Smith drives her car into a lake and her children drown . She gets life in prison . What if the father had done it ? The chair . You'd be surprised how often the outcome would be different . The same is true here - if it had been James having the affair and doing the subsequent activities , viewers might feel differently about the story . If Ann were in James ' place , it would be shattering . As it is , it's tremendously sad . Tom Wilkinson is heartbreaking as a man blindsided by the woman he adores , and Emily Watson does a beautiful job as Ann , who , once she frees herself from her lies - her involvement in the accident and the happy marriage - knows what she has to do . Rupert Everett as Bule is very effective - indolent , uppity and ultimately in need . Everyone here is very civilized in their dealings with one another , and no one is all good or all bad . There are separate lies - James that his marriage is happy , Ann's as listed above - and there is one uniting lie - the accident , about which all parties keep quiet . It's enough for Ann that Maggie knows . In the end , all must deal with the separate lies that the single lie uncovered . Brilliant film .
" The Mating Season " is a 1951 film that stars Gene Tierney , Thelma Ritter , John Lund , Jan Sterling , Miriam Hopkins and Larry Keating . Tierney and Lund play newlyweds Maggie and Val McNulty - she's a blue blood but broke , and he's up and coming in the corporate world . Val's mom Ellen ( Ritter ) owns a hamburger place but loses it and comes to see her son , only to find out he's getting married . Ellen makes her excuses and works until she has enough money for a new outfit . Then she calls on her new daughter-in-law - only to be mistaken as a maid hired to help with a party the couple is throwing . Ellen is a big hit , and , swearing her son to secrecy , stays on in the house . Then Maggie's arrogant , spoiled mother ( Miriam Hopkins ) comes to town to stay with Maggie and Val . Four becomes a crowd . This is a very sweet , funny film with wonderful ensemble acting and great characters . Tierney has her familiar hairdo ( which around this time she didn't always have ) and looks gorgeous . She's totally charming as Maggie . Lund does a good job as her harried husband , who wants to make good and has just a touch - a slight touch - of being a jerk . It's a weakness that we forgive him for later on . Of course , Ritter steals the show as Ellen , doing a role very familiar to her - a mouthy servant . Hopkins is bigger than life as Maggie's totally obnoxious mother , and Larry Keating is a delight as Val's boss ' father , who has better values than his son will ever have . Jan Sterling has a small part as Val's former girlfriend . As usual , she looks cheap and acts cheaper . Lots of fun - don't miss it .
Robert Redford , Sidney Poitier , Dan Ackroyd , Ben Kingsley , River Phoenix , David Strathairn , and Mary McDonnell star in " Sneakers , " a film about security guys who get involved in a scheme to steal for the government . Or so they think . Redford plays Martin Bishop , who has been on the run from the law since 1969 , when his friend Cosmos was caught hacking into some large bank accounts - like the Republican Party's , Richard Nixon's , etc . Bishop ( whose name back then was Brice ) was outside the building at the time and has been wanted ever since . Fast forward 20 + years and he's a securities expert in partnership with ex-CIA agent Poitier , Ackroyd , the blind Strathairn , and River Phoenix . The government wants them to get a black box invention from a Russian mathematician , promising to wipe Bishop's record clean . Except they turn out not to be the government . And the black box ? A decoder that can get into power plants , the Federal Reserve , and every other important place . This is a fast-paced , entertaining movie that has both funny and highly suspenseful moments . The story is way out there , the technical equipment is interesting and lots of it probably still holds up 16 years later , and the cast is great . I realize some of the comments are quite negative - I find " Sneakers " very enjoyable with great ensemble work and an intricate plot . Realistic ? Is Mission : Impossible ? If I wanted reality , I wouldn't be watching a movie .
" I Want You " is a 1951 film starring Dana Andrews , Dorothy McGuire , Farley Granger , Peggy Dow , Mildred Dunnock , and Martin Milner . The character that Dana Andrews plays , Martin Greer , is perhaps an extension of his character in " The Best Years of Our Lives " four years later . It's post-World War II , the men have returned , purchased homes , started families , and built businesses . Then troops begin to be sent to Korea and the draft letters start coming . The movie deals with the effect on a small-town family and the emotional exhaustion and recent memories of World War II . How difficult it must have been to go to war again , yet many did . Martin refuses to write a letter asking that one of his employees , whose father also works for him , be exempt due to being necessary to his business ; he begins an exemption letter for his brother at his mother's request , but he can't do it . In love with the daughter of a member of the draft board , Martin's brother Jack ( Granger ) believes that he is being drafted to put a distance between himself and his girlfriend ( Dow ) . " We both know the reason why my knee was exempt three months ago and isn't now , " he says to her father ( Ray Collins ) . When he suggests at dinner that rather than have people go into battle , the Army should just drop bombs , his sister-in-law ( McGuire ) throws him out of the house , causing bad blood between her and her in-laws . And it begins a domino effect : Jack and Martin's mother ( Dunnock ) goes home and trashes her living room , filled with war memorabilia supposedly brought back from battle by her husband ( Robert Keith ) but in truth purchased in pawn shops ; he spent the war as a general's orderly in a Paris hotel . What is fascinating is that some of the conversation sounds either like what one heard during the Vietnam days or hears today - one push of a button and we'll all be blown to bits and the desperation to get a deferment . Other parts are strictly Dark Ages : Jack's upper class girlfriend Carrie doesn't want to get married until she's 25 . She wants to travel , learn Japanese , and " maybe even get a job , " all of these things apparently not doable once she's married , the ultimate career goal . Most of the performances are excellent . McGuire gives a striking performance as a woman who lived as an army wife , and for whom the thought of her husband perhaps being asked to serve again brings up a lot of anger . " We've lived in this house two years , " she says . " Two years . Is that all the happiness people are allowed today ? . . . I don't want to be left alone anymore . " Dunnock's character is more restrained by equally effective in her disappointment in having to constantly say goodbye to her sons as they go to war . Matinée idol Granger , at the time under contract to the producer of the film , Sam Goldwyn , always had a youthful and likable screen personality , though he was never much of an actor . Dow is fairly one-note as his girlfriend ; she doesn't bring enough warmth to the role . Dana Andrews brings heart to the part of Martin , a man who tries to live by his own conscience and with honesty . He's really the anchor of the film . Though Andrews had a limited range , what he could do was always very good and with a solid presence . The end of the film is extremely touching , in large part due to him . I was not bored by this movie . I found it very interesting . We've changed in this country and yet we have some of the same concerns . A good deal of the rhetoric sounded quite familiar . Recommended .
Frederic March , Martha Scott , Humphrey Bogart and Arthur Kennedy are just a few of the people who endure " The Desperate Hours , " a 1955 film , based on the stage play and directed by William Wyler . On Broadway , the play was directed by Robert Montgomery and starred Karl Malden in the Bogart role and Paul Newman played his brother , here played by Dewey Martin . The film also stars Gig Young , Mary Murphy , Richard Eyer , and Robert Middleton . Having just seen Bogart in the 1936 " The Petrified Forest , " it was interesting to see him still taking hostages 19 years later - and in fact , looking like he'd spent the last 19 years on the run from the law . He was clearly ill during the making of this film . Though Dewey Martin looked 30 years younger than Bogie , he was in fact only 20 , making the fact that they were brothers a tiny bit more plausible . I also had recently seen " The Star Witness , " a 1931 Warner Brothers film with a similar plot , which won an Oscar for best original screenplay . By 1955 , it wasn't original any longer , but the execution of the story is compelling . Martha Scott is a housewife , Ellie Hilliard , alone in her suburban home when three escaped criminals ( Bogart , Martin and Middleton ) take over the place . Glenn Griffin ( Bogart ) wants to murder the Deputy Sheriff ( Arthur Kennedy ) who put him in prison , and he needs to wait for the delivery of some money to make good his escape . Dan Hilliard ( March ) and his daughter Cynthia ( Murphy ) walk into the situation , followed later by the Hilliard's little boy ( Eyer ) . You'll be wondering why the son isn't knocked off - by his parents - given the trouble he causes . The money is delayed , and of course , the police have no idea where the gang is , as Griffin has put his car in the Hilliard garage . So the hours turn into overnight . Although March and Cynthia are allowed to leave the house for work , and Cynthia has to keep a date with her boyfriend ( Young ) , they're too terrified to say anything for fear the mother and boy will be killed . Basically the gang as well and the family become prisoners as the hours drag on . Wyler gives us lots of frightening and suspenseful moments as the tension builds in the house , and he never lets the pace drag . Supposedly he made March and Scott do a goodbye scene for take after take because he thought March was " acting " and wanted to tire him out . An accomplished stage actor of the old school , March consistently had a great presence but didn't always emotionally connect with his characters - he does here . March and Bogart make powerful adversaries , March hitting just the right note as an angry father afraid for his family , but not afraid to talk back to Griffin . Bogart's Griffin is shrewd and admires brains and bravery in others ; the family impresses him with their guts . Bogart is marvelous in the role - though tired out , his character is determined to keep the gang together and free ; he's resentful of the middle classness of the family and how out of place he and his gang are in a nice home . Unlike his Duke Mantee in " The Petrified Forest " , Bogart's Griffin doesn't seem to have a sense of the hopelessness of his situation until the very end ; also unlike Duke Mantee , he has a vulnerability that he demonstrates at the end . Robert Middleton gives a scary performance as a witless member of the gang , and Martin , as Hal , displays Hal's disillusionment with the situation , his attraction to Cynthia , and the realization that he can never have someone like her if he continues down his brother's road . Gig Young is somewhat wasted as Cythia's boyfriend - it's unnecessary star casting . Martha Scott does a terrific job as the harried wife and mother . The wonderful Arthur Kennedy gives another good performance as the sheriff determined to catch Griffin . Highly recommended for its suspenseful story , fine direction , and top performances .
Ben Affleck is a lawyer and Samuel L . Jackson is a man trying to do the right thing in " Changing Lanes , " a 2002 film also starring Toni Collette , Sydney Pollak and Kim Staunton . Affleck is attorney Gavin Banek , late for court , when he has a car accident involving Doyle Gipson ( Jackson ) , who is also on his way to court to protest his wife taking his children to live way across the country . Not wanting to mess around with insurance companies , Banek offers to write Gipson a check . Gipson , however , is a recovering alcoholic and has made a commitment to do everything in a " clean " way . He wants to trade insurance cards . Banek can't be bothered and gets into his car , leaving Gipson standing on the highway in torrential rain , although he asked Banek for a lift . When Banek gets to court , he finds he does not have the power of authority necessary to prove that an elderly man knew what he was doing when he fired his board and assigned the law firm to administer his trust . He realizes that he left the folder at the scene . Gipson arrives to court too late to speak on his behalf and finds the Judge has made a decision against him . Banek is desperate to find Gipson and get his document back , since he has only until the end of the day to file it with the court . And Gipson ? Well , he just isn't in the mood to return it . Thus begins a war with each man having the goal of total destruction of the other . Despite other comments on this board , I truly enjoyed this film and found the hard lessons learned by both men as the result of a random accident very interesting . Banek is encouraged by an ex-girlfriend ( Collette ) to question the power of authority and the role of the law firm in administering the trust ; Jackson comes up against his own acting-out behavior , rage , and as his ex-wife says , addiction to drama . " Changing Lanes " is about changing one's path in life from a crooked road to a straight one . It's about values , and it may not be to everyone's taste . The acting was excellent , the film had a fresh feel to it , and I found it thought-provoking . Recommended .
Tyrone Power is one hot Castilian as the " Captain from Castile " which costars Jean Peters , John Sutton , Cesar Romero , Thomas Gomez , Jay Silverheels , and Lee J . Cobb . Power is at his swashbuckling , heroic best as a man who flees with his family during the Spanish Inquisition to the new land , Mexico , along with Cobb and Peters . She's in love with Power . Tough acting assignment . The villain , whom Power believes he has killed , is played by John Sutton , an instrument of the Inquisition who winds up in Mexico as well after killing Power's young sister . The entire cast is great - and the scenery ! A live volcano , no less ! The music ! Sensational . A first-class production all the way . Power really didn't like doing these roles , but the public demanded them of him , and he is dashing and romantic throughout . Romero makes a fantastic Cortez . It's really difficult to single anyone out because they're all so good . John Sutton was beyond evil . Jean Peters had an interesting career at Fox . Here she is quite young and effective . Even when she was moved into second rate films , it seems as if she was always given the heavy acting role , so it's obvious that her talent was recognized by the studio . I believe that during the period in which the film was made , Power was involved with Lana Turner . Lucky woman , even if she did lose him to Linda Christian later on .
" The Day the Earth Stood Still " is a timely , fun science fiction film from 1951 directed by Robert Wise . It has a great cast : Michael Rennie , Patricia Neal , Hugh Marlowe , Billy Gray , Sam Jaffe , Lock Martin , and Frances Bavier . It concerns the aliens Klaatu and Gort ( a 7'7 " actor discovered working as a doorman at Graumann's Chinese Theater ) who come to earth to talk to world leaders about their acquisition of atomic power and what it may mean to other planets . Klaatu is met with violence and distrust , but eludes his captors . He is helped by a woman ( Patricia Neal ) and her young son ( Billy Gray ) who live in the rooming house where Klaatu is hiding under the name of Mr . Carpenter . This classic movie has few special effects - certainly nothing like we would see today . It's a very simple story told in a straightforward way , but it remains timely as countries perceived as our enemies acquire not atomic power but nuclear power . Klaatu wants the world to live in peace and respect . Though it hasn't happened and probably isn't going to , it's still a worthwhile goal and is why the film remains on favorite lists . Klaatu barada nikto !
Laurence Harvey stars as a win at all costs chess champion in " The Most Dangerous Match , " one of the original Columbo episodes . Harvey , number one at the game only because of the illness of the Russian champion ( Jack Kruschen ) the year before , panics when he plays a practice match with Kruschen and realizes that this year , he will lose his title . He then plots to get rid of his opponent , only to run afoul of the sloppy lieutenant on the case , Columbo . Harvey is wonderful in the role , a perfect villain for Columbo because he is so opposite - - arrogant , beautifully spoken , and immaculately dressed . He's also brilliant , but he doesn't recognize brilliance in someone posing a greater threat to him than the deceased chess champion - Columbo . Very entertaining .
I saw this film many years ago and remembered nearly all of it . It was a real treat to see it again . Dorothy McGuire recreates her stage role in a wonderful screen debut as Claudia , the guileless child bride of Robert Young . Her naiveté gets her into some difficulty with an amorous neighbor ( Reginald Gardiner ) and her attachment to her ailing mother ( Ina Claire ) is a concern to her husband . McGuire and Young make a charming screen couple - she is all energy and he is more deadpan - it's a nice contrast , and the two characters are obviously very much in love . Ina Claire turns in a warm and touching performance as Claudia's mother . McGuire sparkles in this role , particularly in the transition when Claudia is forced to grow up almost overnight . Of course , she went on to have a great career that spanned nearly 50 years in film . It's easy to see why when you watch " Claudia . " This was followed by a sequel , " Claudia and David . "
Arthur Kennedy is Larry , a man blinded in WW II battle in " Bright Victory , " a 1951 film that also stars Peggy Dow , Julia Adams , James Edwards , Will Geer , Jim Backus , and Larry Keating . Kennedy plays a southern racist whose life plan of marrying his high school sweetheart ( Adams ) and joining her wealthy father's business comes into doubt when he is shot and his optic nerve shattered during combat . The film takes the viewer through Larry's training with other blind soldiers as he learns to adjust to a sightless life . One of the men , Joe ( Edwards ) is black and is his best buddy until Larry makes a bigoted remark ( and uses the n word for extra emphasis ) . A fellow soldier points out to him that from now on , he probably won't want to ask someone's race and religion before deciding if they pass muster . This sets Larry thinking . He meets a sympathetic young woman , Judy ( Dow ) , who falls for him but has to let him go home to the life he has there . But when Larry returns to his family , he finds that because he's changed , the world around him has changed , too . This looks to be a B movie but Kennedy received an Oscar nomination for Best Actor , and the acting in the film is A quality , as is the script and direction . Kennedy is excellent and does one thing , I believe intentionally , that is remarkable . At least to these ears , he has no southern accent in the beginning of the film . When he returns home , you start to hear a southern accent in his voice . Now , some might say that Kennedy's southern accent was in and out - I don't believe that was the case . He did what a lot of people with an ' acute ear ' do - he picked up the accent of those around him . As a blind man , of course , his ear would even be more acute , and in several scenes , he is shown to have a unique " radar " ability for " feeling " when he is near a building , which is considered by the Army to be a unique gift not shared by many . It would then be in character for him to easily fall in and speak with the same intonation as the accents around him . Kennedy , of course , went on to have a strong career as a character actor ( and receive more Oscar nominations ) while one of the bit players in the film , Rock Hudson , who is fairly bad even with a couple of lines , hit the superstardom jackpot . Fortunately , Hudson improved greatly before being handed leads . Julia Adams is lovely ( and strongly resembles actress Connie Selleca ) as Larry's frustrated girlfriend , and Dow is sympathetic as the girl left behind . After a few more movies , the very pretty Dow quit her film career to marry and subsequently raised five children . Will Geer , Larry Keating , and Jim Backus , three strong character actors , appear in this film as well . " Bright Victory " is an excellent movie and well worth watching , particularly for the complicated personality created by Arthur Kennedy .
Jodie Foster searches for her missing daughter on board a flight from Berlin to America in " Flightplan , " a 2005 film also starring Sean Bean , Peter Sarsgaard and Greta Scacchi . Foster plays Kyle Pratt ( the name kept though the character in the original script was a man ) , an aviation engineer who is bringing her husband's body back to the U . S . after he fell off of a building . When she awakens from a nap , her daughter is gone . After a search and a check of the flight manifest , the crew breaks it to her that her daughter was never on the plane , and in fact , died with her husband . Kyle's anxiousness soon leads to hysteria , and it's beginning to affect the other passengers . An even-tempered air marshall , Carson ( Sarsgaard ) is put in charge of her , but Kyle becomes increasingly out of control . She breaks away from him and , using her abilities , she sends the oxygen masks into the cabins and kills the power so she can continue to search the plane . The plot is not particularly new - in " So Long at the Fair , " Jean Simmons loses her brother , only to be told he did not accompany her ; in " Dangerous Crossing , " Jeanne Crain is a newlywed with a husband nobody saw . And this film brings Foster's " Panic Room " to mind - a woman and her daughter in bad circumstances . And , like " Panic Room , " " Flightplan " has some plot holes so large , it makes Swiss cheese look like solid rock . However , like " Panic Room , " as entertainment goes , it's first rate if you just go along with it and don't think about it too much . It's better than " Panic Room " in that this time , the plot takes place on a two-story 474 aircraft that is gynormous and spectacular . The suspense and tension is non-stop , plus it has a ferocious performance by Foster . She captures perfectly the various stages of such a traumatic situation . First she looks around the plane casually , then more thoroughly . She talks to the crew , she becomes nervous , then frantic , then aggressive - and then she just about goes out of her mind . Who wouldn't . Foster likes these girl power roles ; she does a great job with them and on top of it , always comes off as super-intelligent . Many actresses who play attorneys , doctors , scientists , yada yada - sometimes come off a little too dumb for their professions . Not Foster . She is ably surrounded by Sean Bean as the captain who fights to keep his temper once Kyle has lost hers , Greta Scacchi as a gentle psychiatrist who tries to help Kyle ; and Sarsgaard , who , though his face betrays nothing , you can read his mind . I was surprised to see the talented actress Stephanie Feracy , who has been around for years , playing a flight attendant . There has to be one helluva portrait in her closet . She looks amazing . You can analyze movies like this , " Panic Room , " " Oceans Eleven , " " Mr . and Mrs . Smith " and absolutely hate them because of the liberties and loose ends and stupidities - or you can get into the emotions of the characters and the excitement . I usually choose the latter ; it saves a lot of angst . I leave that to the characters .
Dana Andrews stands " Where the Sidewalk Ends " in this 1950 film that also stars Gene Tierney , Gary Merrill , Karl Malden and Neville Brand . Andrews plays New York City Detective Sgt . Mark Dixon , a cop with a bad temper who has gotten into trouble in the past for beating suspects . When a man is murdered at a gambling club owned by a mobster , Scalise ( Merrill ) , Dixon and his partner go to investigate . Scalise blames the murder on Ken Paine ( Stevens ) , who has now left the club after fighting not only with his wife , Morgan ( Tierney ) but the victim . Dixon thinks the victim won a lot of money and was killed as a result by the mobster's men . He goes to see Paine and , not realizing he has a plate in his head from the war , knocks him to the floor and inadvertently kills him . Now he must cover up the murder . As a further complication , he falls for Morgan ; her father ( Ken Tully ) , who went to Paine's apartment after he saw that Paine had hit his daughter , is arrested for the crime . This is a really terrific , gritty noir with some good performances . The ruggedly handsome and weathered Andrews is convincing as a tough yet nervous detective who has to stay one step ahead of his colleagues . The movie reunites him with his fabulous " Laura " costar , Gene Tierney , and she looks lovely as a model with bad taste in men who apparently is used to being roughed up . Little does she know , she's got another one on her hands . Ken Tully does a terrific job as her father , who protests his innocence despite some damning evidence . Karl Malden is very tough as Dixon's boss . My only problem with this well-directed , fast-moving and absorbing film is the ending . Pure Hollywood and , putting myself in Tierney's place , I doubt I would react the same way . A minor criticism for a film written by Ben Hecht and directed by Otto Preminger . I didn't find it as awe-inspiring as " Laura , " but few things in this world are . If you like film noir , this is a must-see .
Kate Hudson is a home care worker helping out an elderly couple in " The Skeleton Key , " an intriguing horror film also starring John Hurt and Peter Sarsgaard . Not being a horror fan myself , I was fascinated , scared , and intrigued by this movie . Under the direction of Ian Softley , the story moves fast and keeps you interested . Hudson plays a young woman who goes to a secluded old New Orleans home to help Gena Rowlands care for her ailing husband , played by Hurt . If this hadn't been a movie , she would have gotten out of there immediately , but since it was , she stayed . She discovers an attic room that is hiding some disturbing secrets and starts to investigate the history of the house and some of the voodoo / hoodoo paraphernalia she finds . If you like this kind of thing , you'll love " The Skeleton Key . " If you don't , you'll probably still like it . It's not a slasher film , but a solid story with an excellent cast . Heartily recommended - but I wouldn't watch it alone .
Tyrone Power is a man with a secret when he falls in love with upper class Joan Fontaine in " This Above All , " a 1942 film that also stars Thomas Mitchell and Gladys Cooper . Fontaine plays Prudence , a young woman from a wealthy British family who joins the WAFs . One night , a fellow WAF asks her to double date with her and her soon to be fiancée , and there , in the darkness of a blackout , she meets Clive Briggs ( Power ) , a very complicated young man who's not in uniform . The two fall in love and go on holiday together , and it is while vacationing that Prudence realizes that Clive has seen battle . She finally wrenches his secret out of him . This is a really lovely , dark film based on the book of the same name . Unlike the movie , the book is filled with sex so there , it disappoints . Thanks to the code , the couple have adjoining rooms , and Prudence tells her father , " We've done nothing to be ashamed of . " It's somewhat frustrating - I mean , it's Tyrone Power in the next room , and you're not sleeping with him ? Despite this , the performances are wonderful . Fontaine , with her soft , elegant beauty , is totally believable as both a compassionate and a passionate woman . Power's almost ridiculous beauty of the 1930s , that ethereal perfection that outshone his female costars , has been replaced by 1942 with the wonderful handsomeness that would carry him through the ' 50s . His looks - and the roles given him by his studio - caused him to be underrated as an actor . Here , however , he's the Larry Darrell of " The Razor's Edge " gone over to the dark side - troubled , pensive , sometimes cold , with moods that change abruptly - and he's excellent in what is a very different kind of role for him . One never loses what's Clive's about . For instance , Clive resents and hates the upper class . When he walks into the office of the commanding officer he begged to see and hears him making social plans on the telephone , his face changes , and you realize that this is the type of person that he detests . If only Mr . Zanuck hadn't been so enamored of Power's voice that he discouraged him from doing accents . There's no doubt , if his fooling around in " Rose of Washington Square " and suggestion of an accent in " Lloyds of London " are any indication , that he could have done a British accent without any problem were it demanded of him . But according to " Memo from Darryl F . Zanuck , " the studio head had very rigid ideas about his most important star . One poster thought this would have been a good role for Olivier - I disagree . Olivier would not have been as convincing as a common man as Power was . This is a propaganda film , of course , so Fontaine has a big monologue about England and what it means . It's a little melodramatic but appropriate given the times and the subject matter . This is a minor point in a film rich with characterization and atmosphere . When Clive and Prudence first meet , they catch a glimpse of one another while a cigarette is being lit - it's terribly romantic and sweet , as is the entire film . Highly recommended .
Robert Mitchum seeks revenge against a witness who helped put him in prison in " Cape Fear , " a 1962 film starring Gregory Peck , Polly Bergen , Martin Balsam , Telly Savalas , Lori Martin and Barrie Chase . Mitchum , in probably his best role , plays the psychotic Max Cady , a man with an easy smile and laid back attitude who is pure evil . He is determined that Sam Bowden ( Peck ) , whose testimony in an assault case sent him up the river for 8 years , will pay for what he did via his family - his wife , Peggy , and his young daughter Nancy . Bowden is a distinguished attorney and gets some help from a police chief ( Balsam ) , but apparently during his time in stir , Cady studied the law . He goes so far and no further by being a menacing presence who does nothing . When Bowden takes the advice of a detective ( Savalas ) and has Cady beat up by some thugs , Cady gets the law on his side , and Bowden faces disbarment . His only hope is to catch Cady in the act . He comes with an elaborate plot to catch Cady before Nancy and Peggy are hurt . This is an excellent drama with a pivotal performance from Mitchum , who is fantastic as the disgusting Cady . Peck is very good , though perhaps too measured , as Bowden , and Polly Bergen lets out all the stops , particularly in her final scene with Cady , some of which was improvised by Mitchum . My only complaint is the predictability of Cady killing the family dog . Every time there's an animal in this type of film , you know it's doomed , and it gets tiresome . Someday perhaps a writer will be able to come up with something to replace this tired cliché . The beautiful Barrie Chase , the sensational dancer who performed with Fred Astaire on his television shows , has a nice role here as Cady's pick-up ; Lori Martin , who resembles Elizabeth Taylor and played her role in the TV series " National Velvet " is the daughter here . She is a mix of good looks , innocence , and youth which makes her particularly attractive to Cady . All in all , a tense , well-paced film with some genuinely terrifying moments and a genuinely terrifying performance by Robert Mitchum , which really makes the movie .
" Twenty five years ago , my career ended before it had even really started , " Eddie Felson tells Vince , a young pool shark . No longer the cocky man he was in " The Hustler , " Eddie ( Paul Newman ) in 1986 is retired from pool and a successful investor . When he spots hot-shot Vince ( Tom Cruise ) , he decides to invest in him and take him on the road , with the goal of Vince winning a big pool tournament in Atlantic City . Along the way , Eddie confronts what he was and is no more and looks at the dreams he let die . When Vince is too foolish and strong-willed to take his advice , Eddie makes an important decision . Though not as strong a film as " The Hustler , " " The Color of Money " is still an excellent film with a great cast led by Newman , at the peak of his " older man " good looks and the brilliant acting he's always had . And , as usual , he tells you everything you need to know about a character . It's clear that he was content with his life and his attractive girlfriend ( Helen Shaver ) until he saw Vince . Then the old restlessness and competitiveness came creeping back into his blood . Seeing Tom Cruise in 1986 is startling since today , the lower half of his face has changed drastically due to plastic surgery . Here he conveys the raw , youthful energy that helped make him a star . Like many successful movie actors , he has a wonderful physical agility . His pompadoured Vince is a short-tempered , jealous , talented ingrate who can't help showing off . Cruise is very effective , as is Mary Elizabeth Mastroantonio as his sultry , beautiful girlfriend in another role she made memorable in the ' 80s . Beautifully directed by Scorcese , " The Color of Money " shows that it's never too late to follow your dreams and , with the right actors and the right script , you can do a good sequel even 25 years after the original .
I have to admit , I have always found Ralph Meeker sexy , and he is hot as all get-out as Mike Hammer in " Kiss Me Deadly . " He's very Brandoesque , and in fact , followed Brando as Stanley Kowalski in Streetcar on Broadway . He makes a tough Mike Hammer in a tough movie that doesn't let up on the violence or the sexual innuendo . I was never sold on Spillane himself as Hammer and I actively hated Stacy Keach in the TV series , which seemed a little too macho and chauvinistic for the times . In the black and white ' 50s , it feels just right , if a little more brass knuckles than other films in the genre . Hammer spends the movie trying to find out the secret that a hitchhiker ( Cloris Leachman ) was killed for , and all she's left him is a clue , " Remember Me . " As people die to the left and right of him , Hammer can only hope he's left standing by the end of the movie . The ending was very tense and exciting , although I don't believe it was very realistic . At that point , it almost takes on the ambiance of a horror film . Robert Aldrich gives the film a very fast-paced direction and wonderful atmosphere . Leachman is " introduced " in this film , and she's recognizable immediately . Gaby Rodgers as Lily gives what can only be described as a bizarre performance . Leachman is really the only likable , sympathetic character in the film . Of note is the early version of an answering machine , which I either saw in one other film , or I saw this movie before - but it's great , an old reel to reel tape recorder mounted on a wall . One thing I wondered about - when Hammer is being followed at night , the clock says 2 : 15 , so one assumes it's 2 : 15 a . m . But it seems like everyone is awake - when he gets to the apartment house , the landlord is cleaning the room out and an old man is bringing in a trunk . The clock is in several shots - it says 2 : 20 also , I believe - so it's not a mistake . Hmmm . Perhaps I missed something , so distracted was I by steamy Ralph Meeker .
This wonderful documentary gives some great insight into the life , career , and film technique of Steve McQueen . It left me feeling very sad as I heard the different people in the program discussing him , particularly his first wife , Neilie Adams , and his third wife , Barbara Minty . Despite being a tough guy on the screen , McQueen was a generous man , a loyal friend , a good father , and , despite their problems , his ex-wife seems genuinely fond of him . I think my favorite story was the one Suzanne Pleshette told , of him ordering two steaks in a restaurant in case he wanted another one . She said , " Why don't you just eat one and order another one if you want one ? " He answered , " What if there isn't another one ? " The film clips show his evolution as an actor and star but also his ups and downs as a human being . He fought very hard to live . It's really a shame he didn't .
" Girl with a Pearl Earring " is a 2003 film based on a novel by Tracy Chevalier which invents the story behind Johannes Vermeer's famous painting of the same name . It stars Scarlett Johansson , Colin Firth , Tom Wilkinson and Judy Parfitt . Johannson plays Griet , a maid who comes to work in Vermeer's ( Firth ) household and soon becomes fascinated by both the artist and his work . Soon Vermeer is teaching her a few things about art and having her mix paints . Suspected of being the philandering artist's lover , Griet is hated by the family and disapproved of by the rest of the staff . Finally Vermeer has her pose in secret for him , wearing one of his wife's pearl earrings . There is an unspoken , unconsummated love between them , complicated by Vermeer's lustful patron , Pieter Van Ruijven ( Wilkinson ) who wants Griet for himself . There isn't a lot of dialogue in this film but there are emotions and breathtakingly beautiful scenes , each one recreating a painting of a Dutch master . Emotions and thoughts are conveyed by facial expressions , by body language , and by silences . This is a magnificent film to look at . Scarlett Johansson does a beautiful job as Griet , a humble servant who , although she can't read ( as Vermeer's wife points out ) has an appreciation for Vermeer's work that his wife can never have . It's a performance stripped of Johansson's usual sexiness but the sensuality remains . Colin Firth makes a romantic and complicated Vermeer , and Wilkinson is excellent as the loathsome Van Ruijven , who has tremendous power over the artist . Judy Parfitt is very effective as Vermeer's insecure wife . A gorgeous film , cinematically nearly perfect ; the script perhaps doesn't live up to the glorious cinematography but " Girl with a Pearl Earring " is a treat just the same .
The dead victims of a London bombing and two suicides are on a ship headed - well , they're not sure - in " Between Two Worlds , " a 1944 film starring John Garfield , Sydney Greenstret , Paul Henried , Eleanor Parker , Edmund Gwenn , Faye Emerson and George Coulouris . The suicides , a married couple played by Henried and Parker , are the only ones at first who realize they're dead , but the others find out soon enough . Then they learn that " The Examiner " will be coming on board to evaluate them and decide their final destination . The film employs a stark set for the ship , and it works beautifully as the tense passengers wait to learn their individual fates . The acting is marvelous all around . Eleanor Parker reminded me very much of Gene Tierney - at first , I didn't recognize her until I heard her voice . She and Henried are excellent as the only two people who have chosen their destinies . Parker's role especially is written almost melodramatically so at times , she seems over the top , but the story seems to call for it . Greenstreet , with his powerful presence , makes a good examiner . Faye Emerson is lovely as an actress who made a lot of wrong choices , and John Garfield is strong as a belligerent no-good whose life didn't add up to much . During World War II , it's not surprising that people were giving a lot of thought to the afterlife . After World War II , there were all kinds of films about people come back to earth and angels walking among us . The view of " Between Two Worlds " is that each of us makes our own heaven and hell on earth , that in the end , we sow what we reap , and that love is stronger than any other force . I loved it .
Greer Garson is again teamed up with Walter Pidgeon in the delightful comedy , " Julia Misbehaves , " which also stars 16-year-old Elizabeth Taylor and a very adorable Peter Lawford . Taylor and Lawford are a subplot in this film , which mainly concerns Garson as Julia , an entertainer , showing up to attend the wedding of the daughter she hasn't seen since infancy . Because of the breakup of her marriage and her transient lifestyle , she left the child with her husband's family . This is a fun movie with some great scenes , the best of which is an acrobatic act featuring Julia . It is hilarious . Cesar Romero makes a game attempt at a Cockney accent , and is very good as Nicky , the head of the act who is interested in marrying Julia . Nigel Bruce is a man conned out of 6950 francs by Julia , and Lucile Watson is Julia's disapproving mother-in-law . Pidgeon plays Julia's husband , who hasn't seen her in years , but on encountering her again , realizes what he's been missing . Wedding plans don't go as expected once Julia is in the house . A very pretty Elizabeth Taylor gets her first screen kiss from Lawford , and they make a charming couple . But this isn't their film , it's Garson's , in a different type of role for her . She is up to the task . Over the years , perhaps due to some of the sentimental movies she made and being raked over the coals by Pauline Kael , Garson's reputation has suffered . However , she is terrific in " Julia Misbehaves , " and this entertaining film is well worth seeing .
In a unique bit of casting , Bette Davis and Robert Montgomery star in " June Bride , " which also stars Fay Bainter , Mary Wickes , Tom Tully , and Barbara Bates . Davis and Montgomery haven't seen each other since he ran from their relationship three years ago , and now he is going to be working for her on the woman's magazine she heads . The two of them , plus Davis ' staff , travel to Indiana to cover a wedding . With Montgomery on the story , however , things take a drastic turn . There are some wonderful scenes in the movie , including Montgomery's hilarious drunk scene and a conversation about a bust which totally confuses the man of the house , played by Tom Tuly . And there's great banter between two pros , Davis and Montgomery . If recollection serves , Davis did not enjoy working with him . The rest of the cast is terrific . Davis didn't do many comedies , and in a way , it's a shame , because she was always good in them : in " It's Love I'm After , " " The Bride Came C . O . D . , " and this film , she proved that she was as at home in comedy as she was in drama . Here she looks sophisticated and more glamorous than in many of her later films and expertly underplays the role of a steely professional - a jab instead of a stab , quiet forcefulness rather than shouting . In the ' 30s , ' 40s , and ' 50s , older working women were always portrayed as unmarried , tough , devoted to their careers , and loveless . This dates the film , as does its ending , not revealed in this comment . A saving grace is that the Davis character enjoys male companionship occasionally . Robert Montgomery is , as usual , excellent , and very funny in the offhanded , smooth way he had . He and Davis play off of one another very well . Although this is a marvelous film , its message is similar to many - a man should wear the pants and the woman belongs in the kitchen . Sadly , it brings " June Bride " down a few notches in this writer's estimation , but it's still worth seeing .
Bob Hope made some wonderful , fun movies in the ' 40s , and " The Ghost Breakers " costarring Paulette Goddard , Paul Lukas , Willie Best , and Richard Carlson is a prime example . Anthony Quinn has two small double roles in an early appearance for him . Hope is a radio gossip who talks about the mob and sometimes upsets them ; Goddard is a woman who has just inherited a castle in Cuba . The two intersect at a hotel after a shooting which Hope thinks he committed . He ends up in her trunk and therefore , in Cuba with her , along with Lukas , Best , and Carlson , an old friend of Goddard's . The castle is supposedly haunted , and some mighty strange things occur while Hope and Best investigate . This is a great haunted house mystery with Hope letting the zingers fly at a rapid pace . There was something about the younger Hope that is terribly appealing . He brings a boyishness and an energy to these ' 40s roles that was lost later on . Goddard is beautiful and lively , Lukas excellent as the mysterious Parada . Though there is some political incorrectness , Willie Best and Hope spar as equals . The film keeps a strong atmosphere , with the scenes of thunder and lightning in the beginning especially effective . And that haunted castle - yikes . Call a ghost breaker !
Paul Newman is " Nobody's Fool " in this 1994 film also starring Jessica Tandy , Bruce Willis , Melanie Griffith , Dylan Walsh and Philip Seymour Hoffman . Newman magnificently portrays Sully , a 60-year-old man living in a small town in upstate New York . He has a bad knee ; he's suing his boss , the hard living Carl Roebuck ( Bruce Willis ) for back wages ; he flirts with the boss ' wife Toby ( Melanie Griffith ) ; he rents from his old school teacher Beryl Peoples ( Jessica Tandy ) who depends on him ; he plays poker and drinks at the local bar ; and he plays the Trifecta every day . When his son Peter ( Dylan Walsh ) comes to town , Sully has to come face to face with the man he abandoned as a child , as well as his ex-wife . ( The scene where he sneaks out of her house as everyone screams at each other is a riot . ) He gets to know his little grandson , bonding with him as he never did the boy's father . Sully , who in his own way has been taking care of a lot of people in town - and driving some other ones crazy - learns the importance of a family connection and what it entails . A marvelous script , a marvelous cast , great direction by Robert Benton - " Nobody's Fool " is a small movie with a big message about life . Newman portrays Sully with all of his complexities . He's more a son to Beryl than her own son . He takes care of his workmate Grub ( Pruitt Taylor Vance ) as he never did his own son . He is there for Toby as she talks about Carl's infidelities , but he was never there for his own wife . What's most wonderful about the script is how character-driven it is and how all its messages come out of the characters . The audience is not beaten over the head with them . When Sully speaks bitterly about his late father , he turns to Peter and says , " That's what you'll say about me when I'm gone . " " You were gone , dad , " Peter says . " I've already said it . " Yet the two men try , without ever verbalizing that they are trying . He's there for Tandy , without a sentimental scene . Tandy is excellent as a woman who fears the loss of her independence , and fans of Nip / Tuck will get a kick out of seeing Dylan Walsh as he was 14 years ago with his mop of hair . He does very well in his role . Bruce Willis is amazing - relaxed , funny , cheating with a smile . Philip Seymour Hoffman , before stardom hit , has a hilarious role as a policeman trying to nail Sully and not having much luck . You can't really call what Newman does acting because you won't catch him doing it - he just IS Sully . He creates an unforgettable character in this must-see film .
And who , might you ask , is Clara Wieck ? Well , if she hadn't married Schumann , she might have been much more famous than he . Her pianist abilities were thought to be equal to or greater than those of Franz Liszt . I had the privilege of seeing this film in New York City in a small theater , subtitled . A friend of mine rented it and , unlike one of the posters , his film was dubbed in English . I am glad I got to see the German version . This is a beautiful film with a feminist bend to it , being the story of a brilliantly talented young woman exploited by her father and Schumann , who becomes her husband . Kinski is absolutely wonderful and beautiful . Also , her piano fingerings are great . There is an interesting line at the end , where Wieck says , talking about her home with Schumann , " I hope there will be room for two pianos . " Of course there weren't , and she was forever known as Clara Schumann . The film doesn't go into the fact that Clara Schumann did have a career after marriage , however , and a good part of her relationship with her husband revolved around their mutual passion for music . She had 8 children but managed to compose and do concert tours , often with her husband , until he was institutionalized . After Schumann's death , with the help of Brahms , she continued to do concerts though plagued by various ailments . Try to see this film in German with subtitles if at all possible .
I basically checked out " Gabriel Over the White House " because of Walter Huston , an actor I have always considered one of the greats . He doesn't disappoint as the President of the United States in this bizarre fantasy , produced by William Randolph Hearst and promoting his ideas of fascism . I gave this film a high mark ( 8 ) not because I loved it but because it is a fascinating film from a historical point of view . Newly-elected President Hammond ( Huston ) pays lip service to the needs of the depression-ridden people by uttering platitudes , and meanwhile , is content to do what the party tells him . Meanwhile , he brings his girlfriend on as his personal assistant . He pays no attention to the head of a group of unemployed men who plan to march on Washington , though it isn't made clear why his party isn't interested in doing anything to stop the depression . One day , while driving his car at breakneck speed ( as if all Presidents are encouraged to do this ) , he crashes and slips into a coma . When he comes to , he hears a horn playing a passage from Brahms Symphony 1 in C Minor , Opus 68 and has a change of heart . This supposedly is the angel Gabriel checking in . After that , he becomes a dictator of sorts , usurping the system of checks and balances . He forms a WPA of sorts for the unemployed , has executions of gangsters , and forms the Washington covenant to reduce arms buildup from countries around the world . Supposedly there was an assassination attempt that takes place in the film that was cut after an attempt was made on Roosevelt's life . Supposedly this film was shelved by a nervous Louis B . Mayer until after FDR was elected . It's surprising he released it at all . There is supposedly an alternate version that acknowledges the dangers of fascism . Whatever version you see , this is a film very much of its time as far as the political climate and the thinking of a powerful man like Hearst , and as such makes for remarkable viewing .
" House Hunters " is a great show on HGTV with a simple concept - house hunters look at three homes and choose one , discussing the pros and cons in between . Hosted by the lovely Suzanne Wong , there is something very involving about this show and some other HGTV offerings , such as Designed to Sell , Buy Me , and How Much is My House Worth . I think it's the couch potato aspect combined with fantasy that works well for this show and others on the network . We can pick our own favorite house and then say things like , " I knew they'd pick that one , " or " They're idiots " when they choose , and we can also discuss how much money we think they have while asking the age-old question , " What is the big deal with hardwood floors and granite countertops ? " ( Without them , your house may as well go into foreclosure . ) And we can listen to them carp about the color of the rooms - as if they aren't willing to paint . When the home owners are revisited in the new place later , we are able to analyze their taste . This all easily replaces looking out the window while the new neighbors are moving in . The house hunters themselves are usually delightful people with whom the audience identifies , though not only . Many of them have pets , and if they don't , they usually acquire them once they move . So one can ooh and ah over babies and puppies . HGTV is onto a good thing .
I have always loved " Holiday Inn , " and will say up front that my favorite dance is the one Fred Astaire does with the firecrackers ! This film will always put you in the holiday spirit with its great cast , music , and dancing . Fred Astaire and Bing Crosby make a fantastic team , with Fred playing a bit of a cad . Walter Abel is right on as the agent , Danny Reed , and blond Marjorie Reynolds ( that's Peg in " Life of Riley " for us baby boomers ) is lovely as the second woman Astaire attempts to get away from Crosby , the first being Astaire's partner , played by Virginia Dale . The sticking point in this marvelous film is " Abraham , " which bothers a lot of people , but when it's cut on AMC , nobody likes that either . It's on my video of the film , and when I mentioned it to my sister , she told me that while in England in 1978 , there was a minstrel show on television . She couldn't believe what she was looking at and stopped dead in her tracks , jaw dropped . The blackface is one thing ; the look sported by Ms . Reynolds and the verse done by Louise Beavers are quite another . I admit that I find the number offensive , but I also think it serves as a reminder of what was ( unfortunately ) acceptable back then . I love " Holiday Inn , " I love Bing's singing and Fred's dancing . This is an energetic film , very much of its time with the propagandist " Song of Freedom " and its attendant movie clips thrown in . Enjoy it for what it is , and don't ask for a modern sensibility in 1942 .
Leonardo DiCaprio is the nemesis of an FBI agent , and vice versa , in " Catch Me If You Can , " a 2002 film starring Tom Hanks and directed by Steven Spielberg . Based on a true story , DiCaprio is the young Frank Abagnale , a great impostor who teaches school , becomes a pilot , a doctor , and a lawyer as he floats bad checks all over the country and seems to be impossible to capture . The film is beautifully paced by Spielberg and absolutely fascinating as you wait and see what Abagnale is going to do next . When his father gets in trouble with the IRS , the family lifestyle changes , and Frank has to go to a public high school . He insists on wearing his private school jacket on his first day . He promptly takes over a French class as the substitute teacher and dismisses the real one , saying there must be a mistake . When he's discovered , his parents are called in . " Frank has been teaching French for the past week , " the principal tells them . " Today he scheduled a field trip to a French bread-making factory . You see my problem . " His father ( Christopher Walken ) admires his son's chicanery but refuses to take advantage of it , even as his financial state worsens . Tom Hanks is Hanratty , the FBI agent who chases Abagnale all over the world . He is fabulous as a lonely , hard-working , insightful man who gets a call in his office from Frank every Christmas . " I know why you called me , " he says to Frank . " You don't have anyone else to call . " The two develop a strange bond . The baby-faced DiCaprio does a magnificent job as Frank . He's totally magnetic , charming , and also sad , exhibiting Frank's pain over his parents ' divorce and his father's downfall . His goal is to get " everything back again " but then it becomes a game he can't quit . As his father , Walken is excellent as a proud man faced with the loss of his property , income , and family . A well-cast , expertly directed film all the more intriguing since it's based on a true story . The opening scene is Frank Abagnale's appearance on " To Tell the Truth . " We don't get to see if he fooled the audience , but he probably did - telling the truth is something Frank , while on the run , never did particularly well .
Sean Penn plays Sam Bicke who decides to kill President Nixon in " The Assassination of Richard Nixon , " a 2004 film brilliantly directed by Niels Muller , who co-wrote the excellent script with Kevin Kennedy . The film is actually based on a true story and stars Sean Penn , Naomi Watts and Don Cheadle . The story begins with Sam Bicke ( Penn ) writing a letter to Leonard Bernstein which is read throughout the film . Sam Bicke is a man separated from his wife ( Watts ) and two daughters but hoping for a reconciliation . At the beginning of the film , we know he worked once for his successful brother but now is working as a furniture salesman for a blowhard ( Jack Thompson ) who is constantly lecturing him , playing mind games with him , and handing him books by Dale Carnegie while his son ( Brad Henke ) reports everything Sam does to his father . Sam applies for an SBA loan in the hopes of going into the tire business with a friend ( Cheadle ) , similar to what his brother does . It's clear Sam's life is going nowhere , but he retains some illusions ; we watch him unravel as he realizes what the audience has known all along . His wife is soon to be his ex-wife and wants nothing to do with him , and she's seeing somebody else ; his job isn't long for this world ; and he's not going to get the loan . He feels more and more isolated and even tries to join the Black Panthers at one point . Finally he has the psychotic break that's been coming for the whole film . Though Sam does terrible things , his story is so heartbreaking that it's impossible to hate him . In fact , I found myself loathing his wife for her uncaring and unfeeling attitude , though conversely , I understood his brother's rage . And his boss - only a desperate man would have put up with him for five minutes . It seems like Sam is just someone who has fallen through society's cracks , someone no one cares about , no one realizes or cares is damaged and needs help . Unfortunately , there are probably millions of Sam Bickes in this world . He can live only in his own twisted mind , which twists further and further until it explodes . There isn't any question that Sean Penn is one of our greatest American actors . It's fine for people to praise Johnny Depp , who is fantastic and more versatile , but no one can do this kind of heavy drama like Penn can . His characterization is staggering : heartfelt , full of suppressed rage and real agony , desperation and alienation . It is another in his resume of stunning portrayals . There's nothing subtle about Penn's gifts - when he was a kid on Broadway in a flop play , Heartland , it was obvious to audiences that he was going to be a star . As for the rest of the cast , Watts is brilliant and unrecognizable as Bicke's estranged wife , and Jack Thompson is utterly believable as his boss . This is one of those movies that you'll see and won't be able to get out of your head . It breaks your heart .
Both Steven Spielberg and Jonathan Demme cut their teeth on Columbo . This is a particularly good episode that sports not only Demme directing but an excellent script by Robert Van Scoyck , an award winning writer who wrote episodes for Columbo , Ellery Queen , Banacek , and other shows . Louis Jourdan is the murderer du jour in this one , playing a blackmailing restaurant reviewer who collects big time from some of the local establishments , owned by France Nuyen , Michael Gazzo , and others , in return for good TV reviews . Shera Danese , Falk's then new wife , plays Jourdan's associate , who's in love with him but isn't getting very far . One of the restaurant owners has had enough and threatens to expose Jourdan , so he poisons him over dinner . Columbo pegs Jourdan within minutes of getting to the scene . At this writing , the dialogue at the end of the show is on the home page for this episode , and I hope it's removed . We all know who did it , but learning how Columbo reached his conclusion is a lot of the fun . It's a strange thing about these shows . When you see them as often as I have , you realize that a lot of the shows are based on the same formula : successful man using a woman accomplice with the promise of love unlimited , and yet the shows are presented in such an interesting way that they're not tired . This is a particularly good one , and you'll love Columbo eating his way through restaurant after restaurant while questioning people , and his conversation in Italian with an employee . Basta !
This is another underrated film , probably due to the fact that in those days , the studios just churned them out . It's a shame that today , with fewer films being made , more can't be " churned out " like this one . A top-notch cast , including Robert Taylor , Nazimova , Conrad Veidt and Norma Shearer do justice to a very good script which at times has you on the edge of your seat . Robert Taylor plays an American who comes to Germany looking for his mother , a well-known German actress , who married an American and returns to Germany to sell her house . One can really feel his frustration as he frantically tries to find information on her whereabouts . Finally , he learns that she is in a concentration camp awaiting execution . Along the way , he has met Shearer , an American , who continued to live in Germany after she was widowed and is now seeing a German officer . The film is heavy on propaganda , as Taylor comes up against citizens afraid to talk and nasty , uncaring Nazis . Even Shearer refuses to help him initially , and an old family friend pretends not to know him . Taylor does an excellent job as both a desperate man and a loving , tender son . Without giving the story away , he has one magnificent nonverbal moment where it literally looks like the blood has drained from his face . Shearer is lovely , and Veidt is alternately charming and scary . Nazimova plays Taylor's mother in a strong performance . Though she went outside the studio to get Tyrone Power to costar with her in " Marie Antoinette " rather than use Taylor , both Shearer and Taylor were under contract to MGM and would meet again for Shearer's final film , " Her Cardboard Lover . " Some of the final scenes of " Escape " are very intense . Highly recommended .
Fabulous film that demands a second , third and fourth viewing because of its structure . A concept that is brilliantly executed . It manages to scare and yet have realistic , warm characters the audience identifies with and cares about .
As much as I have always appreciated Woody Allen comedies , I admit to liking more the dramas where he asks the tough questions . The brilliant " Match Point , " like " Crimes and Misdemeanors " is one of those , and it's his best . Loosely based on " A Place in the Sun , " Allen's tough question is , " Would you rather be good or lucky ? " " Is there such a thing as luck ? " Many believe that people " make their own luck . " But Allen's premise is that , when it's all over , luck plays a huge part in all of our lives . He uses the analogy of a tennis ball - when you serve a ball and it lands on the net , it can topple over to the other side , and you win , or fall on the same side , and you lose . What a perfect analogy to tell the story of Chris ( Jonathan Rhys Meyers ) , a former professional tennis player . He becomes the tennis teacher at a British club and meets Tom Hewett , a young man from a filthy rich family . Chris is embraced by Hewett's family and begins dating Tom's sister Chloe . Then he sees Tom's fiancé , Nola , played by Scarlett Johannson , and becomes obsessed with her . This is an amazing film - absolutely nothing happens for a while , and yet everything happens . The story is punctuated with old , scratchy Caruso records and operatic selections from " Macbeth , " " Otello , " and others . We watch the characters living their lives , including their work , romantic entanglements , and marital problems . We watch them evolve , grow happy or unhappy , contented or restless , all leading up to the point where something does happen . When it does , it's ferocious . The ending will knock your socks off . It goes nowhere you think it's going . The film manages to keep you constantly off-balance and misinterpreting what you think you're seeing . The last time I saw Jonathan Rhys Meyers , he was giving a marvelous portrayal of Elvis Presley , despite the fact that his height and frame are somewhat slighter than the King's . A beautiful young man , he has an interior dialogue going throughout the film . We don't hear it ; we see it on his face . Scarlet Johannson is gorgeous and sexy as Nola , a cool blond in the Lana Turner tradition who is the object of his desire . Of all the characters in the film , her character goes through the most change , and she's very effective . There are no easy answers to the questions Allen asks in " Crimes and Misdemeanors , " " Stardust Memories , " " Bullets over Broadway , " and " Match Point . " Allen leaves open what will happen emotionally as a result of the events of this film . But the verse of " Una Furtiva Lagrima , " ( A secret tear ) played several times during the film despite a bad skip in the recording means " For just one moment the beating Of her hot pulse could be felt ! With her sighing confounding Momentarily my sighs ! Oh God , I shall expire ; I can't ask for more . " Significantly , it is heard at the beginning of the film and at the end . Just remember - the record skips .
An ill President wants his nominee for Secretary of State confirmed in " Advise and Consent , " a 1962 film based on the Pulitzer Prize winning novel by Alan Drury and directed by Otto Preminger . It was the first film in seven years for Gene Tierney and the last for Charles Laughton . Tierney couldn't have chosen a better comeback and Laughton a more fitting farewell . It's up to the majority leader , Bob Munson ( Walter Pidgeon ) to get the President's ( Franchot Tone ) nominee for Secretary of State ( Henry Fonda ) confirmed , but it's not going to be easy . Senator Cooley from South Carolina ( Laughton ) believes that Robert Leffingwell once had Communist ties and doesn't want him confirmed , even if it means digging up marginal people ( Burgess Meredith ) who claim to have known Comrade Leffingwell . An ambitious , aggressive young senator ( George Grizzard ) loudly wants Leffingwell approved , and he will do anything to make it happen - even if it means blackmailing the chairman of the hearing , Brig Anderson ( Don Murray ) . There is pressure on the President to withdraw Leffingwell , and he refuses ; the President puts pressure on Anderson to get him confirmed , and , sticking to his own principles , Brig , despite a tremendous threat to his home and political position , refuses to reconvene the hearing . Meanwhile , if Leffingwell stays in and there's a tie , it will be up to the Vice President ( Lew Ayres ) as the President of the Senate , to break it . This is a brilliantly done film that has you glued from the first moment to the last . It not only gives a vivid portrait of politics and how the Senate works but keeps the viewer in suspense for the entire movie . The acting is magnificent . Franchot Tone gives a sturdy performance as a President running out of time ; Lew Ayres underplays and makes sympathetic the role of the compromise Vice President ; Walter Pidgeon is elegant and authoritative as the majority leader ; Henry Fonda gives a straightforward , honest portrayal of a man who wants to serve his country but has to go against some of his own beliefs in order to do it . There isn't a wrong note throughout , even down to a very young and pretty Betty White who has a tiny role as a Senator and Peter Lawford as a Jack Kennedy type . Inga Swenson is the insecure Mrs . Anderson and gives a heartbreaking performance as a loving wife who feels she has failed her husband in some fundamental way . Laughton is great , but he is given some very florid dialogue , and he rises to the occasion by hamming it up . It was an appropriate choice given the script . Gene Tierney , as a wealthy widow / hostess who sees Pidgeon on the side , looks beautiful and gives a charming performance . The end of this movie is incredibly powerful , and the scene with the President , Vice President and Senate Majority leader Munson is one of my favorites for a special reason . In the book , the Vice President , who is terribly worried about the President's health , has an encounter with the President and then goes back to his office and expresses some emotion about the meeting . Though the scene isn't in the film , Lew Ayres obviously read the book and has the same emotional reaction , but unspoken , on the Destroyer . Unless you've read the book , you won't pick it up , but it's an even greater scene if you have . IMDb members have posted that nothing has changed today . In politics , I'm sure that is true . In films , unfortunately , things have changed . A character-driven film rich in dialogue like " Advise and Consent " is hard to come by . See it and revel in the film-making past and shake your head at the timeliness of the story .
Though the above summary comment was a request that Rita made of the press , the life of one of the world's most charismatic and glorious looking stars comes off as being just that - sad . For all the joy she gave the world and continues to give it , there should have been a lot more personal joy in the story of Rita Hayworth . This is a wonderful documentary because it incorporates the memories of Rita's family as well as friends and coworkers . She was obviously a warm and loving person but probably someone who would have been content as a wife and mother . Certainly her children brought her great happiness . The biographical film emphasizes her attraction to manipulative , controlling men , attributing this to her being her father's dance partner and his dance student from a young age . Though not mentioned , it has been brought up elsewhere that Rita and her father often registered as husband and wife when they toured as dancers and shared a bed . If this is so , the root of her problems can be traced to this abusive relationship . Rita , however , remained a devoted daughter to both of her parents as well as a loving sister to her two brothers . She was unable to have a happy marriage , though she certainly fell in love with both Orson Welles and Prince Aly Kahn before moving on to loser Dick Haymes , who almost cost her her children , and James Hill , who , like Haymes , was apparently abusive . Her first husband , Edward Judson , viewed her as an investment only , and according to publicist Henry Rogers , was furious when she had an affair with Anthony Quinn during the filming of " Blood and Sand " - not because she was having an affair , but because she was having an affair with someone who wasn't in a position to do anything for her career . The first signs of Alzheimer's began to show in the early ' 60s , and when she died in 1987 , she was bedridden and knew no one . So this is a great documentary if only to show that great beauty and talent do not confer a great life , and that what you see on the screen very often is real , honest-to-goodness acting . Because no doubt about it , through life's unhappiness , Rita Hayworth was a true goddess . With that face , voice , body , smile , hair , her magnificent and vivacious dancing , her charm , the sexiness she exuded as well as the vulnerability , she was a true angel who walked among us . She left the world greater for not only her screen presence , but for bringing to the fore a horrific disease . Quite a legacy . Quite a lady .
