aaaaahhhhh , the golden era of British comedy . guest house paradiso , the boys in blue , on the buses , carry on columbus , sex lives of the potato men . . . and now this . ant and dec are perfectly cast as two very unlikable people who make ( not ) a lot of money by conning millions of people . sort of life imitating art watching this . what were the writers thinking casting ant @ dec as the main characters . reeves and mortimer would have been much better as they have panache . has anyone seen their alien autopsy skit ten years ago with charles bronson sitting in the corner drinking a pint of beer ? that is ten times funnier than this ! they would have made the film more surreal and enjoyable . bill pullman just looks bemused and embarrassed . please stick to t . v lads you are good on that . the big screen deserves better , a lot better
At the end of the Ice Age , The Machine came from the outer space with the purpose to change men into mutants . However , a hero defeated the device and a great seal was laid over The Machine . In 2707 , the depleted world is ruled by four Corporations : Mishima , Bauhaus , Capitol and Imperial that are in constant war . During a battle between Capitol and Bauhaus , the great seal is broken and The Machine works again transforming soldiers and civilians in hordes of mutants . A small part of the population escapes to Mars , leaving millions of people behind . The man of faith and leader of an ancient brotherhood Brother Samuel is a believer of God and the Chronicles , a bible about the mutants . With the city under siege of the mutants , he visits the Corporations ' leader Constantine asking for an aircraft and twenty men for a suicide mission to destroy The Machine , planting a bomb and a detonator following the knowledge of the Chronicles . He recruits the tough Major ' Mitch ' Hunter ; the Bauhaus Lieutenant Maximillian von Steiner ; the keeper of the Chronicles Severian that is under a vow of silence ; the gorgeous and lethal Corporal Valerie Duval ; Corporal Juba Kim Wu ; Captain John McGuire ; and Corporal Jesus ' El Jesus ' de Barrera . Together they become the last hope of Earth against the evil mutants . . . a movie that is a hybrid of Saving Private Ryan , Doom , Pitch Black , All Quiet On The Western Front , Starship Troopers and The Descent , is an abysmal attempt to make an action sci-fi hybrid that will quench the thirst of video game fans . it fails on all accounts . everybody involved just looks lost in the proceedings and the effects have that Sky Captain feel to it . it's gory and there are a lot of set pieces , but none of them actually get the adrenaline rushing . Perlmans Oirish accent is a debacle and it plods along with a really silly narrative . it's as if the makers of the film wanted the audiences to be happy with the body count . avoid at all costs
Having been promised the ' trip ' of a lifetime by their Irish friend and mushroom expert Jake , a group of American teenagers arrives in Ireland , keen for adventure . Despite Jake's warnings about the ' shrooms they shouldn't eat , things start to go horribly wrong and the teenagers suffer horrific visions . The panicked friends are attacked by ghostly creatures , never sure whether they are experiencing gruesome reality or startling hallucinations . As the group is bloodily whittled down to one , it is soon clear that , whether or not these apparitions are real , the carnage they leave behind certainly is . . . so another horror film gets made with no media coverage , no ads on the television , just random posters on the sides of buses . this never forbodes well for a movie . and here is no exception . the ' fun ' really starts after one of the gang tells a story about a catholic house where the residents were abused horribly and blah blah blah . one of the girls takes a forbidden mushroom that enables her foresight , and obviously she starts to see her friends get killed one by one . none of the characters are particularly likable and this has been compared to the Blair Witch project on acid , please don't believe this hype , this is a very mundane horror with absolutely no scares whatsoever , and boring story . imagine deliverance and southern comfort without the entertainment factor and then add a little bit of the st . francesville experiment , and your almost there . the ending is a joke and ruined what was already a bad film . but at least it's got a talking cow in it .
Doomed by a double-crossing sorceress to spend eternity in suspended animation , China's ruthless Dragon Emperor and his 10 , 000 warriors have lain forgotten for eons , entombed in clay as a vast , silent terra cotta army . But when dashing adventurer Alex O'Connell is tricked into awakening the ruler from eternal slumber , the reckless young archaeologist must seek the help of the only people who know more than he does about taking down the undead : his parents . As the monarch roars back to life , our heroes find his quest for world domination has only intensified over the millennia . Striding the Far East with unimaginable supernatural powers , the Emperor Mummy will rouse his legion as an unstoppable , otherworldly force . . . unless the O'Connells can stop him first . . . Frasers Foray back into a-list stardom continues here , and then crashes and burns in a spectacular way . Okay the first two films in the franchise were not classics , but at the time , the film and the effects were kind of groundbreaking and the films had charm by the bucketload . this time Rick ' ricochet , ahas been pushed back in favour of his son , who unfortunately is devoid of any charm or acting skills . instead he opts for doing his best Fraser impersonation and it grates , from the very second he appears on screen . the film borrows heavily from a franchise featuring a one Dr . Jones , but really there isn't one exciting scene in the whole movie . Li is wasted in a thankless role , and heaven knows why he chose to fight fairly in the climax , when in the opening prologue he was a bit of a rogue ( maybr it was to do with the lack of facial hair . all in all the script is poor , and one feels that this film was horribly rushed for a summer release . and don't even get me started on ' thespian ' john hannah . i'll take circus over this anyday . poor .
In Welville , at Battle Creek , eccentric rich Dr . John Harvey Kellogg runs a stylish health farm for the wealthy , an idea ahead of his time , based on extreme vegetarianism , neither sex , masturbation or even sensual stimulation , but laughing therapy and purging the ' polluted ' body , mainly by exercises , often in open air , vicious diet , his invention corn flakes , laxatives , anal yogurt cure , enemas and brutal mechanical cleansing . Eleanor Lightbody drags her sickly , incredulous husband Will along to the therapy ; the couple is almost immediately separated and getting horny for more available members of the opposite sex . Kelloggs stubbornly wilful adopted son ( among over 30 kids ) George is a filthy embarrassment , paid off just to stay away . Charles Ossining panics when arriving in Battle Creek he finds his aunt's fortune made him partner in the empty shell - health food company Per-fo , not the planned corn-flakes factory ; however with a former Welville-employee and George's name they hope to get rich from their own cornflakes brand . When an electric therapy goes fatally wrong and several other patients die , Will's incredulous reluctance turns to panic . . . this film tries hard to be a comedy , but ends up a smutty mess in the vain of the carry on films ( and not the good ones either ) . almost everyone is totally mis-cast , and Hopkins plays the second most hammiest doctor of his career . the film reminded me of other ' sex farces ' such as exit to eden , in the sense that that movie didn't raise a smile either . the main cast look thoroughly embarrassed to be part of the film , and the narrative just doesn't make sense , it's more of an excuse to see people fart and to see fat people run around naked . a really bad film in all senses , Mr . Parker , what were you thinking ? ?
bride wars is a disaster . not a disaster in epic or date movie aspects , but i was expecting so much more from the two leads , who can really put in a good performance when they want to . the premise sounds enjoyable enough . best friends since childhood , the two characters fall out when they cannot have their dream wedding date , so they plot against each other to get the date they want with ' hilarious ' consequences . it's been done before , much better than this , and the out come is as predictable as the gags . blue hair , blood orange skin , and a dance off are among the ' fiendish ' tricks that they play on one another . it's that simple , it should have been so simple to execute , it should have been a bright and breezy fun date movie , but it's not . it's filled with pretentious characters , most of whom are one dimensional and could have been plucked from any recent ' rom-com ' . Hudson and Hathaway should erase this from their C . V's , especially Hudson , who is in danger of becoming a victim of her own role choices . by reading this , your probably wondering , why not one star ? simply because , Hathaway is a good dancer , end of . see this , and then find another date , because this has the potential from putting you off getting married for life .
Jason Biggs stars as a soldier who has been mistakingly been shipped to Greenland where people think he is someone else , and the camp is lead by an out and out wacko , played by Jeremy Northam . but is the film supposed to be a witty parody , a thriller , or a drama . the film goes from funny in one instance , into seriousness the nest and loses all sense of the plot in between . it's not that the cast are bad , they are all convincing in their respective roles , and the inclusion of Micheal Ironside as the titular character just adds to the confusion . the fact that the DVD cover advertises this as an intelligent comedy is misleading , as the film is neither intelligent , nor funny . it teeters on the kookiness of Wes Anderson , but is nowhere near as funny or as intelligent as even one of his movies trailers . i felt just like the characters in the movie , lost , with nowhere to go . maybe i am missing the point of the film , maybe it is supposed to be a satirical stab at the military ala ' catch 22 or M . A . S . H , but the overall effect is disappointing . not recommended .
Dan Dark is hospitalised with crippling psoriasis , and starts to believe that the world that he has invented in his novel ' the singing detective ' is alive and present in his world . suffering from acute psychosis , Dan starts to believe that his estranged wife is plotting against him . medical staff at the hospital become increasingly concerned for his mental health , so they enlist Dr . Gibbons on his case to try and help him . . rarely do mini series translate well to the big screen . at least for a mini series you have the chance to spread your story over a certain amount of time , so that there is enough room for narrative to become understandable . these are the main problems of this 109 minute film . the narrative and story are very sluggish and the film does miss important parts of the series that would have made the film easier to understand , but without these the movie becomes very confusing and this is its downfall . the cast are fine and Downey Jr and Wright Penn really shine through an eclectic cast . there is also a very oddball cameo from Mel Gibson which makes him almost unrecognisable . with several references to child mental abuse and pulp novels of the forties , there is a lot to be said in this movie . a lot is , but none of the really important stuff . at the ending i was still baffled by the movie but was treated to Downey Jr's singing . stick to Potters mini series .
It is the mid-1980s . From out of the sky , Soviet & Cuban troops begin landing on the football field of a Colorado high school . In seconds , the paratroops have attacked the school & sent a group of teenagers fleeing into the mountains . Armed only with hunting rifles , pistols & bows and arrows , the teens struggles to survive the bitter winter & Soviet KGB patrols hunting for them . Eventually trouble arises when they kill a group of Soviet soldiers on patrol in the highlands . Soon , they will wage their own guerrilla warfare against the invading Soviet troops . . . any film that stars Sheen and Swayze as brothers fighting against the Russians in world war 3 should be a fun thrilling action movie , but instead , we get a mundane action movies , that isn't stupid in the commando way , it's stupid on the verge of boring . it's totally unbelievable , where do the guys get unlimited supplies of ammunition from , and where do they get their clothes from , and lets not mention the way they stay clean shaven throughout the movie . the film is very patriotic and it does raise a few smiles when you realise that the gang learn how to fire rocket launchers with ease , and the soundtrack ( not dissimilar to air force one ) whenever they ' rise ' against the Russians . powers Boothe shows up for a while , rolls of some monologues , and then gets fed up and dies . this isn't in the same league as other eighties movies that are still remembered fondly of today , it's just a very average movie .
Set just after the first film and between two countries . Karen's sister , Audrey , been affected by the supernatural curse , and trying to find the origin of it in order to find a way to free herself . But what has this quest got to do with the families who are living in Chicago , a photojournalist from Hong Kong , and the three schoolgirls from Tokyo's International High School ? . . those of you expecting a great story and a very eerie setting just like the first movie , will be very very disappointed . the problem is that the film has a very difficult story to follow , and it probably would help to watch a second time , as the first time viewed , you will realise just toward the end , at how confusing the makers have made this film for the audience . until the end , you do not know that the narration in the different countries are not at the time , and ruin the flow of the story . this really irritates you at the end of the movie , because you were hoping for some sort of revelation with the part set in the USA . instead , at the end of the movie you are saying under your breath ' oh , so the part set in Japan was set before the part in the USA , oh . . . ' , and then you realise just how clever the film could have been if the director hadn't tried to be clever , or make a different back story for the curse , and just go for plain old terror that made the originals so good and entertaining . but the cast do well with the material given and there are some eerie moments , but the film just goes for the jumpy moments with the same old screechy soundtrack out of every other horror film released since the ring in 2002 . it's a shame really because this had so much potential and such a following , that they had to make such a mess . OK for a few scares , but ruins the franchise .
Nacho is a young man who was raised in a monastery in Mexico and now works there as the cook . Fueled by his passion for wrestling , he dons a mask and cape and picks up a partner to compete in a local Lucha Libre tournament to try for the $200 prize so he can buy better food for the kids and achieve respect . When a new nun , Sister Encarnacion , arrives at the monastery , he tries to win her adoration as well while attempting to prove that being a Luchador isn't a sin and win the grand prize at a battle royal tournament so he can buy a bus for the kids . . . with Jack Balck and the director of Napoleon Dynamite , you'd think you'd be sitting on a winner . unfortunately because expectations were so high for this movie , it leaves you feeling rather redundant after watching it . Black is at his most restraint in his role as Nacho , as he was quite annoying in School of Rock , but really puts in a good performance as the titular character and even has some tenacious D style random singing toward the end ( you'd almost expect Kyle Glass to walk in playing guitar ) . the support though is weak and with most comedies , the funniest scenes are shown in the trailer or rely on fat people or pratfalls , which in this day and age doesn't constitute an good comedy , just 90 minutes of forgettable trash .
Barbarella is an earthling who is sent on a mission by the president of earth to fine Duran Duran and recover a weapon he has invented . on her way to finding him she meets a different array of people and cultures and learns about sexual awakening and also teaches sexual awakening . in the 1960's this must have been such a psychedelic experience to watch , as i believe that the type of people who would have watched this were bohemian types who were under the influence of certain substances , so they would have understood it better than me . apart from the very bad plot and narrative , this is soft-core porn hiding in a very camp science fiction movie . basically the film sets up for different sequences of Barbarellas sexual awakening . and Fonda is very beautiful and at times the film is highly erotically charged . but that's as far as my compliments go . Fonda is wasted in her role and she is good but only because she is attractive . Hemmings is wasted in his small role and the only saving grace is Law as Pygor . still if you haven't seen the film it is worth watching for obvious reasons and you will be confused . maybe next time i will try certain substances , maybe i will understand it then ! !
Santa's got problems : it's a few days before Christmas and production lags , Mrs . Claus is about to give birth and wants family time , and Jack Frost is on probation under Santa's supervision . Santa tries to support his wife by bringing her parents to the North Pole ( to preserve the secret of Santa , they must think it's Canada ) . Santa also brings his ex , her husband , and their daughter Lucy . Inside the toy factory , Jack makes mischief and hatches a plan to become Santa . With Santa juggling that many snow globes , something is bound to go wrong . But if things get too difficult , Santa can always exercise his option to invoke the Escape Clause . Will he ? from the upstart , you can really tell that the franchise is rapidly running out of steam , with the addition of Short , i thought this would be something a little different , but instead we get the Mr . Freeze of the franchise . with embarrassing one liners and hamming it up like bacon in a butchers , Short must have been strapped for cash . Allen as always is his laid back self and plays Santa well , and somewhere in the movie there is a message about not forgetting the true meaning of Christmas , but it all goes too sickly sweet toward the end . but it's for the kids , and no doubt if i was still seven , i would have lapped it up and got even more excited about the holiday .
never trying to be anything else than your average b-movie horror , see no evil succeeds on many levels , and fails on many too . the story is complete b-movie garbage , your average tale of religion being used as an excuse to commit extreme violence , and obviously a back story about a boy who was abused by his mother . the set designs are wonderful to look at and are very well imagined , but the sets alone do not make a good film . the script is very poor and gives no sort of history to anybody apart from Jacob Goodnight . the lighting is also very poor in some places and it is clear that the makers of the film were thinking of Wes Cravens ' ' People Under the Stairs ' when filming this . but the kills are every gory and in some places are imaginative and the presence of Kane as the killer is a genius move by the makers as he is very intimidating with his handsomely ugly looks . even though the slim running time goes in the films favour , it fails due to the performances of the other actors involved . to be fair on them , the material they are given isn't of high standards , and the characters they are playing are not likable enough to care for . if you like straight to video horrors circa early nineties with no story and plenty of gore , then this will be right up your street . otherwise , this is forgettable stuff .
This epic depiction of thirty years of Chicano gang life in Los Angeles focuses on a teen named Santana who , with his friends Mundo and the Caucasian-but-acting-Hispanic J . D . , form their own gang and are soon arrested for a break-in . Santana gets into trouble again and goes straight from reform school to prison , spending eighteen year there , and becoming leader of a powerful gang , both inside and outside the prison , while there . When he is finally released , he tries to make sense of the violence in his life , in a world much changed from when last he was in it . . . another real life apparently true story based on someone or others life , but it does seem like a vanity project for James Olmos . but thats not saying that it is a bad film . it is very strong in the first act when it all happens behind bars , you cannot take your eyes off the screen . the problem is with this film is that it loses its way during the second act , and tries to get all ' Goodfellas ' on the audience , but just adding a few more ' Ese ' s ? ' into the script . three of the main problems i found with this film were . 1 ) the over use of the word ' Ese''2 ) wondering what what the film would have been like with Al Pacino in the lead3 ) laughing every time the narration set in , because it sounded like fat tony from the Simpson's . . but its not a bad drama , just Olmos loses the plot a little toward the end .
Infamous vigilante , anti-hero Frank Castle is six years into his vengeance driven zeal as the Punisher when he brutally assaults a " beat the rap " party for notorious mob boss Gaitano Cesare . During the course of the massacre , he hideously disfigures overeager gangster Billy Russoti and murders a mafia lackey who turns out to be an undercover FBI agent . Agent Paul Budiansky , the ex-partner of the undercover Fed , joins the NYPD's " Punisher Task Force " to help bring Castle to justice , once and for all . A facially mutilated Russoti recovers from his run-in with the Punisher with revenge on his mind and recruits a massive army of psychotic killers , gang-bangers , and mobsters under his new alias " Jigsaw . " Distraught that he has now become the very evil he swore to battle , Castle is content to hang up his guns and quit the justice business for good . However , plans quickly change once he learns that Jigsaw has kidnapped the surviving wife and child of the dead federal agent . Forced back into the war , the Punisher now has to face off against Jigsaw's formidable army in order to save the lives of an innocent family his actions put on firing line . . . . after reading the reviews of this on this site , i was looking forward to a hark back to the eighties , a good old fashioned action movie which would be exciting and stupid . well it was stupid , but never exciting , Stevenson had to be one of the worse choices to play the titular character , he has absolutely nothing about him and wastes the character . another thing that bugged me was how much the transformation of Jigsaw reminded me of Nicholsons transformation into the Joker from Burtons Batman . West was good as Jigsaw , didn't overact too much and bought a bit of fun to the role . all in all , this is the disappointment i was expecting when i heard Jane was not going to be in this sequel .
Micheal Jennings is an engineer who works for a company and uses their rivals ' technology , alters it slightly , and has his memory wiped after each job . When he is offered a job by James Rethrick , he is told that the job will take three years and his mind will be wiped afterwards . Against the advice of his friend Shorty , he takes the job . When his mind is wiped , he heads to the bank to collect his multimillion fee where it turns out that he , during the erased three years , signed the money away and exchanged it for a group of nineteen seemingly worthless items . we then follow his efforts to uncover the secret of just what he was working on , what the items are for , evading arrest , and exploring his relationship with Rachel Porter , a bioscientist , who is a vital part of triggering what is left of the scraps of memory left to him . . . Paycheck , or how Ben , Uma and Paul look different to anyone else in the future , is a throwaway sci-fi romp from the genius mind of Dick and the sometimes genius mind of helmer Woo . for the latter of the two , the genius is missing somewhat in this project . first of all the script is unintentionally laugh out loud , not only because it is so crass and predictable , but the cast really deliver the lines so deadpan , that this could be classed as farce . Affleck proves that he isn't really the action man after the fluke that was Daredevil , but tries to remind us of that movie a little by doing a little martial arts with a staff . he just stands out too much in his role . surely someone who had their mind erased for a living would be a plain looking person , not a perma-tanned boy next door with a cheeky grin . Woo puts in some references to North by Northwest , and i'm sure he intended the suit to reference Roger Thornhill , but Affleck looks more like Johnny Nmemonic , than Cary Grant . Thurman , mid Kill Bill , looks extremely bored as the love interest . rather than just standing there occasionally caving some random extra head in , she looks like she really wants to jump into the brides shoes and whup some ass . and the rest of the cast look like they are heavily constipated , apart from Giamatti , who just acts ' zany ' in the few scenes he is in . for a John woo movie , this is very action-lite . we really don't see his trademark action until twenty minutes before the end , and for those who have seen face / off and the killer , it's a long time coming . even the biggest set piece of the movie , the bike chase , is ruined by a cheesy soundtrack , and even cheesier dialogue . but the film is bright and fun enough to be enjoyable , and will not ruin any brain cells by watching it . just don't bet on remembering anything about it a couple of weeks down the line . not a case of paycheck , more check please !
in another underwhelming buddy cop action comedy , Sam Jackson is teamed up with Eugene Levy after he is mistaken for someone else . this then leads to Levys ' character having to help Jackson uncover the whereabouts of some stolen guns and a few murders that are a little too close to agent Vann . this is very predictable fare with an impressive cast . the film is not funny or amusing , but Jackson and Levy just about manage to salvage the film from four star status thanks to their great chemistry . Levy just may as well be playing Jims ' dad from the American pie series , but he is good at doing the anally retentive role , and everybody likes Jackson in his shouty sweary role . it's just at times the humour is verging on the racial side . sometimes you feel it is written by a stand up comedian whose favourite joke is . . white people drive like this ( does a geeky action ) , and black people drive like this ( does a cool action ) . but you cannot help but enjoy the film to an extent . there is a little homage to Jacksons role in pulp fiction when he says the line ' it's a tasty burger ' you can almost see Jules on the screen . direction is flat and so is the story , and Mayfield just about throws every buddy comedy cliché into the mix and you can see them coming from a mile away . but at just over 75 minutes , it's harmless fun that won't damage your brain cells and will raise a smile or two .
a bereaved woman and her child are flying from Brelin to New York to bury their husband / father . when the mother awakes from a three hour sleep , she cannot locate her daughter . she begins to search the plane , panic becoming more and more evident in her face . she alerts the stewards , who inform the captain , and they begin a search of all sections of the plane . but the flightplan states that the woman was travelling on her own and nobody on the flight can remember seeing the little girl . is this just a figment of the woman's imagination , or are there more sinister things afoot ? from the beginning this movie has Hitchcock / The lady vanishes written all over it and in some parts it does work very well , but there are some gaping plot holes . 1 . just who are the two men staring at Foster in the beginning scenes . 2 . how did ' they ' get her daughter , drug her , and hide her without being noticed ? 3 . and how did no one on the flight not see her daughter . at all ? the problem with this film is the incidental music . whenever their are villains in the scene ( before the ' twist ' ) the incidental music starts to shriek . Foster is good in her limited role and does use the material to her credit , but in the advent of all films with a twist ending , this has to be one of the weakest going . Kudos to Sean Bean too who does very well in the film and give it an extra point . if the plot holes were not so big and the writers did keep with their original choice ( Sean Penn ) then this would have been a major thriller . but it only manages to be another grieving mother in peril movie with stupid references ( almost racist ) to the tragic September 11th events . watch it for curiosity , but please do not do what i did , and read a summary of the movie before seeing it . disappointing
A serial killer brutally slays and dismembers several gay men in New York's S & M and leather districts . The young police officer Steve Burns is sent undercover onto the streets as decoy for the murderer . Working almost completely isolated from his department , he has to learn and practice the complex rules and signals of this little society . While barely seeing his girlfriend Nancy anymore , the work starts changing him . a typical Friedkin movie . there are no heroes in this movie , and the content , whilst explicit in some scenes , can evoke rage due to the subliminal images seen in the film so celebrated with his most famous film to date ' the exorcist ' . the film does start off promising , and you can see from the offset , how many films this picture has influenced . Pacino is good in his role , but as the film carries on , it appears that Pacino goes into autopilot , and this affecys the picture to a high extent . De Palma wanted to make this picture , and for me , as a big fan of his , sort of taints the proceedings . in some scenes the editing is decidedly dodgy as you can really tell when the film has been ' seamlessly ' edited . for a fim that was deemed very controversial at the time , it's very hard to understand why . at times , the film is unintentionally funny , for instance when Pacino is questioned whilst undercover , a guy just walks in and slaps him around the face . with no rationale for this , it does induce laughs to a high extent , which makes the rest of the film a little weak . i was waiting for this film to be released uncut for some time , and after seeing it , i was a bit ' meh ' . a good thriller , but no way does the film live up to it's notoriety .
Eighteen-year-old Ian Lafferty sets out on a cross country drive with his best friends Lance and Felicia in order to lose his virginity to a red-hot babe he met on the Internet . But the journey , filled with hilarious misadventures and raunchy escapades , teaches all three more than they expected about life and love . Randy , raucous and unexpectedly romantic , Sex Drive follows three friends on the road trip of a lifetime ! Ian can't seem to catch a break . He's taunted by his cocksure older brother Rex , shown up in the romance department by his 14-year-old younger brother and humiliated by his job at a mall do-nut shop . But Ian's biggest problem is that he's about to start college as a virgin ! Getting nowhere with the girl of his dreams and longtime best friend Felicia , Ian resorts to the Internet for dates . He soon hooks up with Ms . Tasty , a flaming hot blonde who can't wait to get busy . The only catch : Ian has to drive 500 miles from Chicago to Knoxville to consummate the deal . . . . it's been done a thousand times before , a lot better and a lot worse , but the film works , thanks to the performances from the three leads , and a couple of good cameos . taking pieces of American Pie , Road Trip and numerous other innuendo filled teen-aimed comedies , it's highly predictable stuff , where the trio get into situations and get out of them with their pride a little bit dented each time . my only Problem with this film is Marsden , even though he is good , he just plays Stifler , through and through , right down to his put downs on his brother through to his personality . it offers nothing new , nothing original , but it's funny because you know exactly what to expect from this film . the final third throws all logic out of the window , but if you just want to spend 2 hours watching people talk about sex and swear a lot , this is passable stuff . an above average teen comedy .
the film starts with the tragic murder of James Crays ' wife , in a hit and run killing . James saw everything and went after the killer and crippled him for life . after spending three years in prison , James is still on the trail of his wife's killer , Fargo , as he keeps sending James newspaper clippings of his most recent killings . the film starts proper five years after the events mentioned above , and we meet Molly , she is on her way home from practice , when she becomes the next intended victim of Fargo . Fargo kills her friend and goes after her , but is interrupted by a vehicle . later on Fargo again tries to kill Molly but this time she is rescued by James , and a deadly game of cat and mouse ensues . . . as soon as the movie starts , you can see that this movie has been inspired from other , better movies such as ' the hitcher ' and ' mad max ' . the movie is set in the present , but it does have a little of an apocalyptic feel to it , when it is set on the highway . but the story is very bland and uninvolving . it's a basic revenge / road movie , which was done many a time in the late eighties / early nineties . Caviezel is very bland in his role and does not show the emotion one would expect from somebody who saw their wife killed . also in some scenes , the editing is really poor and done amateurish . the rest of the cast are quite good , especially Nitra who plays the damsel in distress down to a tee . Frankie Faison though is just pure filler , and whilst he does a good job with the material , his character serves no real purpose and is probably in the movie for his last line . and on the subject of the last line , this destroys any credibility that the film had up until this point . believe me it is as bad as the ending to ' pay it forward ' . with lots of plot holes throughout the movie and some very unbelievable set pieces , this is a film that once seen , will be forgotten . quite boring , but just about worth a look
New York police are bemused by a spate of reports of a giant flying lizard that has been spotted around the rooftops of New York , which they assume to be bogus until the lizard starts to eat people . An out-of-work , ex-con piano player is the only person who knows the location of the monster's nest and is determined to turn the knowledge to his advantage , but will his gamble pay off or will he end up as lizard food ? . . not just your typical b-movie horror with dodgy effects and some even dodgier performances , but obviously a poke on becoming celebrity in one of the most sought after places in the world . the script is corny , but one cannot find the whole she-bang quite endearing as Jimmy Quinn will do anything for some quick cash and get his face on the cover of magazines , even if it means that David Carradine doesn't get a haircut for the entire movie . the final third of the movie is where it's at though as the middle sags with all the silly plot development , over acting and not enough dodgy special effects . if you enjoyed the old harryhausen films of the fifties and the sixties , you will be disappointed , this is just a total poke at culture and society , with a big winged serpent ! . . . .
Brian and Charlie ( B & C ) work for a gangster . When the boss learns they want to " leave " , he sets them up to be killed , after they help rob the local Triads of their drug dealing profits . B & C decide to steal the money for themselves , but when their escape doesn't go to plan , they have to seek refuge in a Nuns ' teacher training school . Disguised as nuns , B & C have to avoid their boss , Triads , police and Brian's girlfriend . There's also the problem of them being men disguised as nuns in an all women institution . . . take this for what it is , it's a one joke movie . two men dressed as nuns , thats it plain and simple . it's predictable , yet the performances from Idle and Coltrane , shift this movie from the mundane to the endearing . it's just easy viewing , with plenty of jokes and funny set pieces and the two leads work really well together . 18 years on it does seem a little dated , but this is a handmade film , and they certainly knew how to pull in the crowds . a laid back comedy , with plenty of laughs , but as i've already said , it's a one joke movie .
first things first . the major talking point of this movie is cages hair . yes , it's hilarious , but hair does not make a movie . . . . cage plays a lonely assassin who has had enough of his life in the shadows ( is there any other type of assassin ? ) and falls in lust with a mute pharmacist , while training up a young whipper-snapper called Kong , who cage would usually kill after he has finished his business time . a re-make of the 99 film of the same name ( which i have not seen , so cannot express an opinion ) , this feels just like other cage films that are a huge disappointment . . . see Windtalkers , the wicker man , captain Corellis mandolin , and guarding Tess , in that it ; s just an average 99 minute movie , which offers nothing new and has Cage ( even though the guy produced it ) on auto pilot for the whole duration . none of the other characters are explored , and there is no back story to Joe , who it appears , just turns up to burn some photos and do some shooting . still , it's flashily edited , with some John Woo-lite set pieces , but in the advent of films such as Collaterall , it falls way short of the mark . you end up not caring for Cage's character , which in turn , makes you care less for anyone involved with him . it starts off really promising , but as soon as we enter the titular city , it loses it's pace and focus . plus it doesn't help when it features the most lethargic boat / bike chase this year , and with a decidedly un-sympathetic ending . it does have some redeeming factors though , the mugging scene , which is the most effective part of the film , and it is quite funny when Cage is eating spicy food , but i wonder if Cage was method acting for this part . not a disaster as everyone says it is , but highly average in all respects . more Bangkok tedious , than dangerous , i'm afraid to say
this comedy grew on me because of the predictability of the story had me guessing the outcome of each scenario , so instead of enduring another gross out comedy , we turned it into a game instead . Ed works in advertising and has just been dumped by his girlfriend . flash forward to a year later and he hasn't been with another woman since and it is affecting his job . given one last chance on his birthday ha plans to spend the weekend trying to get his work back on line . but his elder brother Cooper has other plans . from the word go this has ' american pie ' humour written all over it . but instead of going for the traditional gross out gags ( though it does have plenty ) , the film shows what is going on in Ed's head ( via the use of you've been framed style camcorder mishaps ) . this is pivotal to the film as in the opening credits , narration explains that in his junior years , Ed spent a lot of time filming everyday life . the viewer can guess the outcome from the out-start , but thanks to the two leads and the reasonably short running time , it can be quite fun to watch . though the director has threw every gross out cliché there is . . . such asfarting . evacuating of bowels being caught with a prostitute wrongful arrest girlfriend being caught with best friend being fired and finally everything coming up trumps for the pivotal character . it does raise a few smiles , and it is better produced than your average straight to DVD release , but then again this would have been a massive failure at the box office . not bad .
The next day after the events from the prior one , Jason goes to a roadside store where he gets a new set of clothes , and stalks a married couple . Meanwhile , Chris and her friends make their way to her family cabin , Higgins Haven . But , this time Jason , with his new famous hockey mask that got from one he murdered , will not let the teenagers have fun . Once again he starts in a killing spree . . . watching this in 2-D does bring some unintentional laughs into this entry of the ever popular series . the clothes prop pointing to the audience , the popcorn , the yo-yo , the snake , Jason's arms , the list is endless . other than that , there's not a lot more to say about the characters or the story , it's the same old thing , but Miner knows what the audience want and delivers it in droves . you could bets on who will die first , and if your a die hard horror fan , you could come up trumps . it doesn't take itself serious and the killings are as inventive as ever . if you are a fan of the series ( which you are , because your reading this ) then you will be pleased with the amount deaths and gore . a nice entry into the series . . .
Soul mates Chris and Annie couldn't be happier , having married each other and had two wonderful children . Unforutnately , tragedy strikes when they lose them both in a car accident , and then again for Annie many years later when Chris is killed in another accident . What Chris finds is a Paradise unlike anything he ever imagined , where he is guided by Albert , the first doctor he interned under and is helped to see his children once again . Unfortunately , when Annie takes her life in despair , she does not venture to the same plane of existence . Taking it upon himself to rescue her , Chris ventures into the pit of Hell with Albert and a Tracker to save his wife from the damnation she doesn't even know she is forcing on herself . i don't know whether this film is trying to define the meaning of life , but it can sometimes be an awkward film with clunky dialogue and some very strange casting choices . with a topic so huge as in life after death , it just doesn't seem to give the audience enough to chew on . but the film is a dream to watch . it's a visceral journey through someones depiction of heaven and hell , and no expense has been spared on the effects . sometimes the film is so beautiful to look at , you completely get lost with the cinematography and lose track of the story . maybe if this was in the hands of a more surreal director such as Gilliam , then it would be a gem , instead we get an average film which is stunning to watch , then forgettable . but worth watching for curiosity value
Michael J . Fox continues his run of seriousness after bright Lights , Big City , with this wartime thriller , about a soldier who unwisely disagrees with Sean Penn , after he and a few other soldiers kidnap a young Vietnamese girl and submit her to torture and rape before finally killing her . the idea was good and Sean Penn was at the Height of his ' bad boy in Hollywood ' role , but the film doesn't feel quite right in De Palmas hands , and the incidental music ans J . Fox are woefully miscast in this flick . it all feels rather cheap compared to other films such as Platoon , and i was expecting a lot more considering it was made by one of my favourite directors , the camera work is there and so is the mise en scene , but the narration fails to compel the audience and you never feel empathy for Fox and his struggle , you find yourself shouting at the screen ' stand up for yourself , you over actor you'he doesn't convince as a soldier in this , even though he did as a drug addict in the afore mentioned film , Casualties of war feels redundant whenever Penn isn't on scree , he surely is the soul of this picture , his insanity and pure evil shown on screen in full . the film is quite quick with the courtroom sequence and the sentences are a little random , but De Palma does do the film justice by not letting the audience hear what Penn says to Fox at the end , something that stays with the audience long after anything else previously shown . disappointing
a remake of the first fifteen minutes of the 1979 film of the same name . a babysitter is terrorised by menacing phonecalls asking her if the ' children are safe ' . the calls carry on throughout the night and increasingly scare the sitter . the police cannot do anything as the calls are not threatening , but they would like the sitter to try and keep the caller on the phone for at least a minute to ba able to trace them . when the call is traced , they are coming from within the house . at first i thought this film was going to be very bad , because of the reviews , and secondly because the original movie had this scene last for just over fifteen minutes and was very very tense . so how could they make this as tense extending it to just over eighty minutes ? ? Simon West does an adequate job and i have always liked him since he directed 1997 ' Con Air ' and made one of the best action films of the nineties . what ruins this film slightly is the dreaded pg-13 rating and the predictable shock-jump moments with screeching soundtrack . the house is great to look at though and the design of the film has good production value . but we learn nothing of the killer and really not much about the sitter ( apart from the fact she is having boyfriend trouble and her best friend kissed him blah blah blah ) . not as bad as the critics made it out to be as the original was very poor after the initial opening scene , and it does add a little gravitas that the phones are portable , so the killer could be any where . few plot holes aside , this is worth a watch , even if it is just for trying to spot Lance Henriksens voice .
An older , reclusive man's best friend and inspiration for living is his 14-year-old dog named " Red " . When three troublesome teens kill the dog for no good reason , the grieving man sets out for justice and redemption by whatever means available to him . this is the canine death wish , plain and simple . there is a lot more to this film than a man on a quest to get revenge on the kids that killed red though , as during the film we learn why the dog meant so much to him . it's great while Cox is trying to get justice the legal way , but then it goes a little bit too far when buildings start burning down and Tom Sizemore dyes his hair . But the performance from Cox is stunning , all mean and broody from the upstart , sizemore is just a pointless inclusion to the film , and the ending lets it down a little . but it's still worth watching for Cox alone .
obviously this film come mockumentary , is heavily inspired by 1999's Blair witch project , and 2002's 28 days later . the premise is more or less the same as Boyles thriller , where an unknown virus infects the nation , and only a handful of people get to survive off the land ( they always have a spare farm to live in in these films don't they ? ) and conveniently have camcorders at hand . what we get to see is the footage that was salvaged by an unknown source . . the film is split into different diaries , one depicting when the virus starts , and the others depicting what happens after the initial infection . shot on a very small budget , the DVD cover is very deceptive as it does imply that the film is of a high calibre , but the overall product , is somewhat different . the acting is very poor to say the least , but passable in this movie , and there are very few ' zombies ' in the whole movie , what we get instead are people walking around fields slowly towards the camera and occasional shots being fired and the ' infected ' falling down dead . but there are some original moments to be had during the movie , such as the assumption of ' zombie ' rape , and ' zombie ' torture , plus the obligatory twist during the films finale , that does leave a nasty after taste once the credits roll . it does not justify the credit it receives on the DVD , but again it doesn't justify the pounding it has received by a few people on this site . not destined for cult status or anything else really , it's just one of those films thats worth watching once , it's passable enough and original enough for that .
Bronsons last collaboration with the Cannon group is probably one of his best films of the eighties , and it is a very sleazy film with very in-pc characters which owes a little bit of a debt to Eastwoods 1984 thriller tightrope . Bronson stars as another carbon copy of his character Paul Kersey , a cop who bends the law a little to get his man . and the ' man ' in this particular film is duke a pimp who kidnaps minors and rents them to wealthy businessmen . irking Bronson as he has a daughter around the same age , he spends the majority of the movie bullying duke and talking really angrily toward his superiors . he sets fire to Dukes car and even makes him swallow his own watch , and defending his 67 year old body against a tyraid of bad guys . in the mix somewhere there are subplots involving Bronson's daughter getting touched up on the bus by a Japanese business man , and the same business man having his daughter kidnapped by duke , but these sub-plots are side lined by the silly set pieces and one of the most funniest scripts ever written . the film hasn't aged well and is very racist in some respects due to way Bronson treats the minorities ( his rant outside of a hotel is pretty shocking and would have him shot today ) , but this is Bronson after all , and as one of his daughters friends state ' boy , he IS extreme'if you are a fan of the cannon films of the eighties or a Bronson fan , this is a great movie to watch , a great cheesy soundtrack and full of disposable bad guys , and a great ending that is a little bit different for once .
two determined students at a West Coast University , Arian and Ernest , follow the inspiration of their idealistic professor , Dr . Malley , and attempt to do something important with their lives . But when the two make the bold decision to join the battle in Afghanistan , Malley is both moved and distraught . Now , as Arian and Ernest fight for survival in the field , they become the string that binds together two disparate stories on opposite sides of America . In California , an anguished Dr . Malley attempts to reach a privileged but disaffected student who is the very opposite of Arian and Ernest . Meanwhile , in Washington D . C . the charismatic Presidential hopeful , Senator Jasper Irving , is about to give a bombshell story to a probing TV journalist that may affect Arian and Ernest's fates . . . with all the movies good intentions about covering up war ( as seen in the final reel ) the film does sidestep a few major issues , and the one thing that prevents this film to be as important as it makes out to be , is the fact that the Arian and Ernest segment of the film is unemotional and not very interesting . but the rest of the film is very good , Streep battles well with Cruises slimy senator ( which hopefully will bag him a best actor nomination come awards season ) , their scenes together are very involving and you can almost chew the tension between them , no matter how ' friendly ' Irving appears to be . but the reason to watch this is Redford . his character is enthralling and the film is fantastic whenever he is in it ( maybe something to do with the fact he directed it ! ) the narrative is good and for a film with so much talking and political agenda going on , it goes through its 90 minute duration quite quickly . an underrated movie
New York Zoo animals , Alex the Lion , Marty the Zebra , Melman the Giraffe and Gloria the Hippo , still stranded on Madagascar , start to leave the island . All of a sudden , they land in the wilderness of Africa , where Alex meets the rest of his family , but has trouble communicating with them after spending so much time at the Central Park Zoo . . . not being a fan of the first movie , i wasn't expecting a lot from this sequel , other than ' cash-in ' . i was very surprised to find that this usurped the original way possible , and was a lot of fun also , even though Julien was still very annoying whenever he popped up . the voice acting is very well done , and the pop-culture references are very funny and quite intelligent , something that dreamworks have been doing now for a while to the adults from being bored . if anything , this could be ' the lion kings ' idiotic cousin , as there are references sprawled along this movie to the Disney classic ( son gets lost , a bad lion wants to take control as the alpha lion , but with less trauma of course ) there are a lot of life lessons as always in films like this , but they are subtle and short . the penguins almost steal the show again , but the granny takes credit for this , as she is probably the nastiest animated non-villain ever . a good sequel .
Two young couples holidaying in Papua New Guinea , come up with a plan to find missing heir Michael Rockerfeller , the son of the US vice president who mysteriously went missing there in 1960 . Rockerfeller is naturally presumed dead , perhaps eaten by cannibals , but the foursome argue that finding him would be worth at least a million dollars to the press or his family , if they found him alive . A sighting by local pilot of a white man in his 70's deep in the jungle , convinces them their plan has some foundation . They hire a minibus and head off deep into the jungle , where they are shot at by would be hijackers and have their lives threatened by some unscrupulous border guards . Finally in the mountainous region they want to be , they continue despite a serious falling out between the two couples , one couple is serious about their investigation the other is there for some fun , fun that sees them defile a native burial ground . . . . if this was made a decade ago , it would have been something else , it would have been classed as innovative , original , and taut . now , after the aftermath of a certain witch , moviegoers are used to this sort of ' guerrila ' film making . thats not to say the film is bad , the cast are okay with what they are given , and there are a few uneasy scenes in the film , the standout scenes are the ones with the natives just watching the couples while they are drifting on their home made rafts . there isn't anything original about though , which is a shame , but there is a lot of fun to be had , because you know what will happen to the quartet and the final 15 minutes are quite spectacular . it's been slated by a lot of users on this site , but if you haven't already seen this , put yourself in the characters shoes , you will see the film in a different light . worth watching
Frankie Wilde is one of the most successful British D . J . s of all time . he has the biggest selling single ever released by a D . J . and Pacha the nightclub on Ibiza is always full when he is doing a set there . but with all jobs come hazards , and Frankie takes to many recreational drugs and drinks too much alcohol , to try and keep up with his unsociable job . slowly , while recording an album , he starts to lose his hearing , and though at first he denies this , the problem becomes more rapid and he cannot do his job anymore due to his loss . so Frankie becomes a recluse , locking himself up in a soundproof room , hoping that the silence will cure his hearing . but bigger things are in store for Frankie . i'm sure if this movie was released ten years ago it would have been huge . Ibiza has become a bit of a parody now . the thing is the place is so famous for it's music and clubs that it can attract the wrong sort of people , people who listen to the music but don't feel it . this film is about feeling . but people go back to Ibiza year after year , for pointless binge drinking and drug taking . but hat isn't the essence of Ibiza . the essence is to feel love and to be at one with yourself . to have FEELING . Frankie Wilde is played to perfection by Paul Kaye , who can do this sort of thing in his sleep . the music is gorgeous and it sometimes it does play as a docu-drama with all the D . Js we all know and love making cameo interviews to the cameras . symbols is evident in the form of the badger as this represents Frankies coke addiction and the deafness most probably represents losing the one thing you love the most . if you are reading this , you love movies , right ? imagine having to come to terms with losing your sight . imagine how Frankie feels , but his hearing is crucial to his job . although you would think by the trailer that this film is a comedy , but it is very dark and gritty . when Frankie seems to have lost everything , the weather in Ibiza gradually goes from being very Sunny and welcoming , to looking cold and desolate . a good film with some good morals , which is well worth seeing .
a dying firefighter reminisces about the initial start of his firefighting career , from being a rookie , the highs , the lows , meeting the woman of his life , and losing close friends , all whilst trapped in a burning building . a film with very good intentions , portraying emergency services and giving them credit that they finally deserve , the film does the fire service justice , portraying them as a team , a group and a family . it's just a shame that the narrative is so poor . if you get my drift , the movie really begins at the end , so you know that Pheonixs ' character is really in no peril when in fires building up to the fateful one . instead it plays out like a ' disaster ' movie , maybe in the same vein as the ' towering inferno ' eg . the audience are guessing which member of the fire crew dies next . we know that Travolta and Patrick are safe as they are in the final act , so we are guessing which of the supporting cast ' gets ' it . another problem is that the flashbacks are so clichéd . from the initial rookie ' initiation ' where Pheonix goes to confession , you can kind of guess that he will make good friends , lose them , and have an argument or too . the cliché's carry on , from meeting his Wife , to the marriage and so on and so on . it's a good job that all the cast are very good and do a very good job of portraying the fire service . the fire scenes are spectacular and are on a par with Howard's ' ' backdraft ' and are quite intense , but as i have already said before , lose a little bit of intensity due to the opening . but it's a fitting tribute to the emergency services and it goes to show the pain and anguish they go through on a day to day basis . well worth a look .
Sidney Young is a disillusioned intellectual who both adores and despises the world of celebrity , fame and glamour . His alternative magazine , Post Modern Review , pokes fun at the media obsessed stars and bucks trends , and so when Young is offered a job at the diametrically opposed conservative New York based Sharps magazine its something of a shock ! It seems Sharps editor Clayton Harding is amused by Young's disruption of a post-BAFTA party with a pig posing as Babe . Thus begins Sidney's descent into success - his gradual move from derided outsider to confidante of starlet Sophie Maes - and a love affair with colleague Alison Olsen , that will either make him or break him . . . having not read the book , i didn't know what to expect from the film , but being a firm fan of Pegg , i just had to see it . it's a pretty restrained movie , one that reminds you of programmes such as ugly Betty , with the fish out of water scenario . it's all pretty predictable stuff , but with Pegg in the lead role , it really works as Sidney is a quite endearing character ( at times ) . there is fantastic support from Bridges , Dunst and Huston , but Fox and Anderson slightly let the side down . it's not laugh out loud stuff , but it's humorous all the same and there are some great cameos in it . the narrative is good and there is some fantastic editing in some scenes , but the ' silly ' humour involving pratfalls and half naked transvestites does seem a little out of place in this . it won't win Pegg any new fans , but it won't lose him any either . worth checking out , if you love the fact that ' celebdom ' exists .
A mysterious gentleman's club sets the scene for this mystery as two brothers discover an underground world of danger and intrigue . Silvio and Victor are a tight-knit pair teetering on the verge of adulthood , and when Silvio takes his younger brother to Don Pascual's strip club , a new world of opportunity opens up when the feared and respected club owner offers the elder sibling a job . As Silvio accepts and Victor is initiated into adulthood , the pair are instantly mesmerised by alluring club girl Gracia . Everything is not what it appears to be in Don Pascual's risqué club though , and by the time Silvio and Victor realise the truth behind their surprising stroke of luck , it may be too late to turn back . . . this film is told from three different perspectives , firstly from Victor , then Silvio , and finally from Gracia , both with different takes from previous scenes . this works very well and the narrative makes good sense for the duration of the movie , but as the three perspectives are finally told , the film goes into Tarantino mode , with ' mexican stand-offs ' et al . not a bad debut , with some colourful characters and explicit scenes . it's just these films are so common now that that become too predictable .
Youngsters from different countries , races , and social background are forced to integrate when they all enrol in Columbus University . They all have their own problems , such as finance , harassment , personal safety , and self doubt . Additionally , campus life seems to be causing a problem for everyone : racism . Students , already under pressure to perform in the classroom , on the track , or in front of their friends , are strained to the breaking point by prejudice , inexperience , and misunderstanding . . Singletons second film after the phenomenal ' Boyz n the hood ' is still quite an achievement , but gives its anti-race message as subtle as a sledge hammer . the stereo types here are rife , as Cubes character Fudge points out in the first act . the Nazis in this film are proper evil people as one would expect , and the Agrican Americans portrayed are pretty much the same people you would bump into in Singletons debut . but the film holds itself together due to the fantastic cast and the cinematography . but again one of it's main flaws is that there are too many characters that get you involved . Fishburne is way underused and is just there really to justify why we should ' work for ourself and not someone else ' as does Fudge but with a little more ' attitude ' . Swansons character is also underused , as is her story , as it remains one of the most interesting in the whole movie . an interesting movie , but it does have its flaws .
When an explosion blocks New York's Hudson Tunnel at both ends , ex Emergency Medical Services Chief Kit Latura is the only one with the know-how and experience to save the day . Risking his life to join the survivors in the tunnel ; he finds a feisty writer , an elderly couple , a famous action-man , a quarrelling family , some young hoodlums , a security guard and even a Weimaraner dog . Can he put his own past tragedies behind him and bring this disparate group to safety ? after the flops Judge Dredd and Assassins , Stallone goes back to old fashion disaster , with this nineties spin on films such as the Poseidon adventure , and the towering inferno . though the film is nowhere near either of their league , there still is fun to be had with this exciting yarn . Stallone has possibly the funniest name in film history , playing an ex fire chief with a tragic past , who just happens to be in the right place at the right time . the rest of the cast are what you expect , and you can see which ones will come to a watery and and which ones will survive , but it's a produced , if sometimes poorly acted movie . the set pieces are fun and some of the movie is quite unbelievable , but it's Stallone in a disaster film with a cool name , what do you expect ? a good old fashioned disaster film , with a massive budget . worth seeing with some mates and a few beers .
Bickering step-siblings together quietly control much of the social lives of the students in an affluent NY prep school . Sebastian sees himself as a kind of Don Juan , who always gets his woman , while Katherine would rather enact revenge on ex-flames and corrupt incoming freshmen . One day , Kathryn and Sebastian , driven by a mutual lust for each other and a love of messing with innocent young people's lives , hatch a nefarious plan , and place a kind of bet . Sebastian is to woo and bed the daughter of the new headmaster ( a very adamant virgin with plans to only " wait until marriage " ) , and if he is able to accomplish this seemingly impossible task , he can have his way with Kathryn - the one woman whom he KNOWS he can not have . If he is unable to seduce the ice queen , however , Katherine gets his classic car . . . . it's a guilty pleasure this film is . a virtual re-hash of ' Dangerous Liasons ' this features the best looking cast of it's time and the director plays on it all the way through . it's quite a shallow affair , but it's a fun ride while it lasts . the casting is odd too , but in a good way . Blair , probably the oldest out of the main cast , plays the young innocent involved in the game , and plays it very well . the film is full of innuendo and some of it is funny , other stuff is cringeworthy . Phillipe plays the lead role with so much slime and bitterness , he's ironically impossible not to like , but when he and Gellar are together , the chemistry fades , and when you see them standing in the lift lobby holding a letter in shades , you may as well be watching the matrix , as they are very autonomous throughout . it's throwaway stuff , but it's worth watching for the glamour .
Eddie finds himself being forced at a gunpoint , by an unseen assailant , on a dark and brutal journey through the harsh terrain of the Mojave desert . His nemesis is Jimmy , a man with an aberrant agenda ; armed with a rifle , a scope , walkie - talkies and a truck , he has organised a series of ambushes and mantraps designed to push Eddie to the limits of his humanity and beyond . . . . from the very upstart , you know that there is something suspicious about Goss's character , as soon as he leaves the diner , you know things will not bode well for him . anyone who watches movies will know by about six minutes in Eddie has done something to upset Jimmy , and boy , does he do some torture . the film is very claustrophobic and sometimes makes the viewer feel arrid , but there is also a sense of Deja vu ' throughout . Henriksen is great as jimmy , but one cannot help but feel he is reprising his roles from Hard Target and Near Dark respectively , but Goss does play his role well , even if it is just to walk around the desert spluttering mundane lines to Henriksen via walkie talkie . there is a pointless subplot involving drug runners , which has no point whatsoever , but it is still worth a watch . imagine a cross between Hard Target , Seraphim Falls , with a little bit of the Hitcher thrown in for good measure , and your almost there . my only other gripe with the movie is that you are just waiting for the inevitable twist , which is no surprise . still worth a watch though for the scenery and the two leads .
In Manhattan , Detective Frank Keller is an efficient and veteran cop with twenty years on the force , who is lonely and misses his ex-wife Denise . She left him to live with his colleague from the same precinct Gruber . When a killer kills his victim with a shot on the neck and leaves a single playing " Sea of Love " , Frank is in charge of the investigation . Detective Sherman , from a district outside Manhattan , joins Frank when a second victim is killed in the same MO . They find that both victims have written poetry in the lonely hearts column of the single magazine " New York Weekly " . When there is a third case , Frank convinces his chief to write for the magazine and work undercover investigating the women that reply the advertisement . Frank falls in love for the prime suspect , the manager of a shoe store Helen Cruger , jeopardising his investigation . a return to form for Pacino after a four year absence from the big screen . the film is a by the numbers thriller , but due to the performances from the central characters and the good narrative , it's a little bit more enjoyable . the story is nothing to write home about and the revelation of the killer is quite obvious , but Pacino proves in his hey day , he could make a film work , if he put his all into it . with good support from Barkin and Goodman , it won't go down in history as the best thriller out there , but it's worth watching .
The famous French detective , Inspector Jacques Clouseau , investigates the murder of a man at a country house . The owner of the house always seems to know more than he should , and although the evidence continually suggests that the maid Maria committed the crime . Clouseau always does the opposite expected of him , much to the disgruntlement of his superior , Dreyfus . . . . another great British comedian showing how comedy should be done properly . a lot of people nowadays will claim that this is pure slapstick trash , but this is a wonderful movie , full of hilarious sight gags , timing and a legendary central performance . but as the series carried on , it became as bizarre as Clouseau became more accident prone , and here although he does fall out of windows etc . , he is still quite restraint . there are some great set pieces , for instance , the nudist camp sequence is laugh out loud funny , and when Dreyfus is trying to kill Clouseau and keeps failing , is a work of genius . this has to be one of Edwards finest movies and never gets boring when seen more than once
why do so many people say that this was arnies comeback movie ? only two years prior to this he was in batman and robin , which by no means was a typical arnie film still made over 100 million at the us box office alone and a year earlier he made eraser which also made just over 100 million at the box office . So in theory he was never gone , but hey thats only me . Anyway arnie plays jericho cane , a sort of martin riggs light ( Both of these characters more or less have an identical scene at the beginning of their respective movies ) , who is a burnt out alcoholic ex cop who is still coping with the loss of his dead family and also the loss of electricity and the ability to tidy his apartment . The plot is very simple , basically Satan has until midnight new years eve to conceive with " the chosen one " . ( arnie even sends up the plot with the line " midnight , is that eastern time ? " ) . Gabriel byrne was an excellent choice to play Satan and the scenes between him and cane are sensational . Only a couple of quibbles , the ending is very cringeworthy and is reminiscent of the crow , and also the " vatican city assassins " look like cypress hill ! Very good movie but also suffers from the fact that it dated hugely when 1999 came to an end ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !
Lucas gets so fed up with being bullied , he takes out his frustration on ants in his backyard in hilarious ways , like squirting them with his garden hose or stamping on the ant hill . The ants are understandably fed up with this and Zoc the ant wizard uses a potion to shrink him down to ant size . Lucas is sentenced to hard labour in the ruins and learns to be more compassionate to ants . He becomes an ant friend , then must become an ant hero when Stan Beals , the local pest control guy , who's an even bigger bully , comes to wipe out the entire colony . An " ants vs pest control " battle ensues and Zoc reluctantly accepts that Lucas may be the ants ' only chance of survival . . . another animated movie with another humanistic message hits our screens , and after the meagre box office , i wasn't expecting great things . it's not Toy Story , or Finding Nemo , but it's still above a lot of the animated films to be released last year . heavily inspired by a bugs life , the message is clearly ' be nice to everybody , even those who are wimps ' , and while the kids will lap this up , there is still fun to be had or adults . Nicolas Cage is good in his voice role , but sometimes he sounds like he is trying to be a little too much like Tom Hanks as Woody . but the movie belongs to Bruce Campbell , who is in full on self deprecating mode here , and gains all the smile the film delivers . the animation is good but nothing special , and one set piece reminds the viewer slightly of Verhoevans Starship Troopers . a good kids film , but nothing spectacular .
OK so to begin with it's just your average thriller . girl goes to look after an elderly man for an obscene amount of money per week ( for a carer anyway ) , and almost immediately senses that something is not quite right . so far , so predictable . . . . . . the film continues with by the numbers horror / supernatural thriller , woman of the house explains the past of the house ( with the token black and white flashback ) whilst five minutes later , a voodoo priestess ( is that right ? ) explains the history of the house from a slightly different angle . then you get your obligatory rain storms , power cuts , dream sequences and jump shocks . this is when i started to tire of ' the skeleton key ' . i thought i knew the twist from the upstart , but what Ehren Kruger has done has thrown so many red herrings into the pot that i actually went totally the wrong way about the narrative . the only bad thing about films like this is that when tabloids and magazines review this type of film , they always mention the twist . thank you M . Night Shyalaman ! ! ! if you really want to enjoy a film like this , ignore the reviews , do not read them and sit back and enjoy . contradicting the above statement , the twist is above par and is really disturbing . Hudson and Rowlands work really well together and the story is quite original . it's just a shame that Softley did not use an original approach to this type of movie and delve into the history of voodoo , and leave the weather forecast to the weathermen .
as the previous two movies start , we find several different stereotypes at a fair ground and are given a brief introduction to them all . the set up as usual is fantastic and your palms will be sweating . Wendy has a premonition about the roller-coaster that they are about to ride has a malfunction , and one by one they are killed . when Wendy wakes up , she freaks out and a select few leave the ride cheating death . what happens next is that the order of the people who die on the roller-coaster are killed in gruesome sadistic ways . this is one franchise that i will never grow tired of . and if the writers keep coming up with new ways to kill the cast , it will keep going and going . my only niggle with this film is that apart from Wendy none of the cast are very likable . we have the muscular jock , who likes to use profanity whilst working out . the ' clueless ' girls , who know the price of everything and the value of nothing . we also have the goth and the ' bitchy ' sister . but the kills are the main thing that people see this movie for and the tense build up . Wong uses the build up to the kills to great effect and with tension comes the great payoff when the deaths happen . as usual with this film , we have the gross , and the shocking ' make you jump ' ones . the story is the same as the previous two and there are a couple of good twists , but in parts you do start to realise that the writers are just copying from the previous two . but as i said , the premise is simple enough and people know the story , but the trick to this franchise is that no one in this movie is safe and that's what makes the film so much fun to watch . so prepare to have sweaty palms and also prepare to think twice about ever going on a roller-coaster , or using a sun bed again . mindless fun .
in this better than average thriller , Nathon Fillion , fills the ghostly shoes of Micheal Keaton , in a film which surprisingly entertains more than the first installment . after seeing his family murdered by cockney actor Craig Fairbrass , Fillion decides to kill himself , but alas he fails and is brought back to life , but just has enough time to see ' the light ' . soon after , he starts to see auras around people , but it turns out that these people are soon to expire . not liking this much , Fillion decides to save the people from impending doom , but there are consequences , for on the third day , the people who he saves decide to go nuts and kill as many people as possible , hence why the cheeky cockney killed his family . so should he decide to go in the same route as the cockney , or sort something out . . . for a film where its predecessor was ratrher mundane and Sixth Sense lite , this movie has a lot to owe Shyalamans other movie with Willis ' unbreakable ' as Fillions characters traits do bear a resemblance to David Dunn . the movie does come with it's obligatory scares and these do start to become tiresome toward the end , but the story is interesting enough to keep you watching until the final reel . surprisingly good .
Young friends Whitney , Mike , Richie , Amanda , and Wade end up missing in the woods near the abandoned Camp Crystal Lake , after allowing their curiosity to get the better of them and visiting the site where a psychopathic killer resides . Six weeks later , Trent invites friends Jenna , Bree , Chewie , Chelsea , Lawrence , and Nolan to his father's cabin on Crystal Lake for a weekend of sex , booze , pot smoking , and water skiing . However their seemingly fun weekend soon escalates into a nightmare after lone traveller Clay shows up looking for his missing sister Whitney . The police have searched with no luck , and Clay is now searching alone . Local citizens have advised Clay not to go into those woods , because anyone who shows up missing is already dead , and he is wasting his time . During his search , one of the students , Jenna , decides to help Clay find his sister , and they go into the woods . They find the abandoned Camp Crystal Lake and search the dilapidated camp house for any signs of his sister . it's not just a remake of the first chapter of the huge franchise , it also has factors of part 2 and 3 involved in it . we see Jason , wearing the pillow case with the one eye hole , and then later we see him discover the iconic hockey mask . for a remake of a horror movie , it has one of the longest pre credit sequences ever seen , and it is a blessing , because that sequence is the worse part of the movie . the acting is terrible and the score is totally from another movie . after this , we have a surprisingly interesting sub-plot , but stereotypical characters that you will find in numerous other horror movies . it's decidedly gory in parts , and it sticks to the rules that if you have sex , take drugs or are being cheated on , you will get killed . . . no doubt about it . Nispel does a good job with the script and the settings , and there are some great camera angles during the film . but it didn't need to be remade , it won't win the franchise any new fans , but it won't destroy the icon . it's a novel idea for it to be released on the titular date , but this is forgetful stuff , and will soon be forgotten , like a lot of other horror remakes . not a bad remake , with the standards that other remakes have set , buy it's just pointless stuff , good , but pointless .
A gang of neo-fascist thugs , led by the self-proclaimed ' Night Slasher ' , are breaking into people's homes & cars , then killing them at random . When of of these thugs holds up a food store & takes hostages , Lt . Marian Cobretti - an intense , take-no-prisoners cop , is brought onto the scene to end the hostage-taking . Ranting bizarrely about a ' New World ' , the man levels a sawed-off shotgun at Cobretti , who hits him with a knife , then guns him down when the man refuses to put down his weapon . Later that night , another murder occurs , attributed to the Night Slasher - and the next day , another one . This one is witnessed by a young woman , Ingrid Knutsen . She drives away before the thugs can kill her , but it isn't long before some creepy-looking people start making attempts on her life - and Cobretti's . Cobretti plans to move the only witness to the blood spree upstate , but with inside information , the thugs follow them . And a battle for survival rages between Cobretti and the thugs . . . after rocky IV and Rambo II , it appeared that Stallone could touch any material and turn it into gold . this is a typical eighties actioner , with the main main wearing tight denim jeans , cool shades , chewing on a match and eating minuscule slices of pizza after putting his newspaper in the BBQ . very violent and very scary in places , what makes this movie such fun to watch is one Brian Thompson , who looks quite uncannily like Lundgren and Schwarzennegar , so makes a good adversary for Stallone . car chases ensue , one liners are spat out , and there is a terrific shootout between Stallone and at least 936 villains on motorbikes , who Stallone guns down with no problem . made 10 years later as ' fair game ' with Billy Baldwin and acting magnet Cindy Crawford ( both movies are based on the same novel ) , this could have been ' Beverly hills cop ' if Stallone had made that instead of ' Rhinestone ' . but this was made in the Reagan eras of the eighties , so anything goes and it does , and it is a fantastical film , almost science fiction in some parts , and the final act is played out in some factory straight out of ' T2 ' . not the best film on the planet , but a great one to accompany a six pack with .
Örn's daughter is dead because of a rare genetic disease . By this time Erlendur has to find Holdeberg's killer . He has to find out what happened 30 years ago and to connect it with his case and he has another problem . . . His relationships with his daughter . . despite the subject content about rape , and in a subliminal way , child pornography , this cold , very moody film , has some excellent dark humour , that keeps the depressing moments at bay . the film is shot very bleakly , and the viewer does actually feel the cold during some of the scenes , but the narrative is strong throughout , and the plot never gets convoluted . the cast are fantastic , and heaven knows why it took nearly two years to get an official release in england . at points , one feels that there is no connection between the sub-plots but in the end , all the ties are crossed and we are treated to a great thriller , with some bleak scenery and even bleaker characters . recommended
This stylish Brian DePalma thriller plays off the theme of the unsuspecting witness who discovers a crime and is thereby put in grave danger , but with a novel twist . Jack is a sound-man who works on " Grade-B " horror movies . Late one evening , he is " sampling " sounds for use on his movies , when he hears something unexpected through his sound equipment and records it . Curiosity gets the better of him when the media become involved , and he begins to unravel the pieces of a nefarious conspiracy . As he struggles to survive against his shadowy enemies and expose the truth , he doesn't know who he can trust . . . DePalma scores another hit with this visually amazing movie that involves the connotations of sound as one of the main points of the film . if it wasn't for the sound or the usual amazing camera-work from De Palma , this would be just you average thriller . As the cast ( apart from Lithgow ) really don't put their all into the movie , and the story can sometimes be your average conspiracy thriller that can be found on any cable channel nowadays . but there is something very tense about the visuals and the sound that hold the audience captivated for the very first act of the film . not one of De Palmas best films , but for a visual and aural experience , check this out .
Two Arkansas firemen , Vince and Don , get hold of a map that leads to a cache of stolen gold in an abandoned factory in East St . Louis . What they don't know is that the factory is in the turf of a local gang , who come by to execute one of their enemies . Vince sees the shooting , the gang spots Vince , and extended mayhem ensues . As Vince and Don try to escape , gang leader King James argues with his subordinate Savon about how to get rid of the trespassers . worth watching if only because ice cube and the other ice steal the film from everybody else . the story is simple , but i think Hill has tried to make it more accessible for the hip hop generation . the action is noisy and some of the set pieces are quite exciting , but i had a sense of deja vu , seeing this after ' judgment night ' . the cast all seem to be having fun , and relish their lines , with a few plot holes remaining , this is nothing but a 90 minute romp . worth seeing for the original use of profanity .
Anderson is a man whose fiancée ' dies straight after he proposes to her . a year goes past and he still has not got over her and has made himself virtually a recluse . then one day while he is having breakfast in a diner , he sees Katie across the crowded diner , and when she comes over to him , he just proposes to her on the spot and she accepts , despite being proposed to the night before . ignore all the media hype and the advertising , this isn't another American Pie cast off despite the trailer or the ad campaign , yes it has gross out moments ( what comedy doesn't ) , but they are few and far between and are genuinely funny when they happen . the bottom line of this film is trying to show us that love at first sight is a reality and you can find your soul mate without trying hard at all . Biggs and Fischer make a fantastic couple on screen , and have some great chemistry together . but with films like this , it's the supporting cast who get all the big laughs , especially Andersons highly sexed parents , who are really funny and not overused in this film , they probably have no more than five scenes on screen . Pantoliano is good in his role , but i feel it's a role that did not need to be in a film like this , but he's fun never the less . it's light hearted and very romantic , showing that Hollywood can still make comedies without the use of human excrement .
New York cop John McClane is in the wrong place at the wrong time - this time he's waiting for his wife's plane to arrive at Washington's Dulles Airport when he uncovers a plot to sabotage the airport's landing system . The criminals wish to free a drug baron being extradited to America for trial by holding the airport to ransom until they all safely escape on another plane . However , if they'd known that Holly McClane was on a flight home to the very airport they were hijacking , they would have picked another day . . . . the second in the die hard movies has all the elements that made the first film work so well . a perilous situation , the jobsworth cop who won't help the hero , Al Powell , the wife in danger , and of course John McClane and a barrel of one liners . the only thing that this movie is missing is a decent villain . okay , Stuart , is ruthless and can give McClane a run for his money , but after the fantastic turn by Rickman in the original , Stuart doesn't hold a candle to him . but the set pieces are there , and there are some really standout moments in the film . the snow-ski chasethe final fight on the wing of the planeMcClane ejecting himself from an exploding plane . but it just all feels a little bit empty . Willis again is amazing as McClane all jokes and guns blazing , and is supported well by Atherton , Bedelia , Amos , Nero , Franz , and of course the mighty Atherton returns as Thornburg , who adds a little light relief . it is also fun to spot the up and coming stars such as Patrick , Leguizamo and Meaney among others . the direction is a little lame and considering that it was helmed by Harlin , it's easy to understand . but it's still a great movie and a great entry into the franchise . well worth seeing .
Bolt , an American White Shepherd , has lived his whole life on the set of his action TV show , where he believes he has superpowers . When separated from the studio by accident , he meets a female alley cat named Mittens and a hamster named Rhino . Along the way , he learns that he doesn't have superpowers and that the show is not real . . . a great idea for a movie , which is made very well , and for once fun for all the family as it features a lovable dog , good voice work from all those concerned , and some very exciting moments in the film , particularly the opener . never got to see this in 3-D though , but i don't think it would really add anything new to the film , and 2-D is excellent , as is the animation . it's not laugh out loud funny , and the whole affair is pretty predictable , but it's a fun flick , without many life lessons thrown at your face , and not too much of a sickly sweet ending . worth watching
Frank Leone is nearing the end of his prison term for a relatively minor crime . Just before he is paroled , however , Warden Drumgoole takes charge . Drumgoole was assigned to a hell-hole prison after his administration was publicly humiliated by Leone , and has now arrived on the scene to ensure that Leone never sees the light of day . . . . . after his action overload of the eighties , Stallone goes for a dark thriller in this excellent movie . he is great as the lead and Sutherland gives a very ruthless performance as the warden . the film style is gritty , the soundtrack by Conti is remarkable , and the story goes along nicely . the only other thing that could have gave this movie a little more gravitas , was to include more time for the back story between Leone and the warden . Sonny Landham is really here to play the token bad guy and isn't really in it for long , but if you like films like an innocent man or in hell , then you will enjoy this movie .
Freddy Krueger , known as the Springwood Slasher , murdered several children with a glove outfitted with straight razor blades attached to the fingers . When a foolish decision by a judge sets him free , Krueger is burned alive in the boiler room where he worked by an angry mob of the parents whose children he terrorised & murdered . Years after his death , the children whose parents were responsible for Krueger's death , including Nancy Thompson , daughter of the police officer who arrested Krueger , are experiencing terrifying nightmares involving a burned man wearing a glove with razor blades on the fingers . The ghost of Freddy Krueger is haunting their dreams , and when Nancy's best friend Tina dies in her sleep violently during a dream confrontation with Krueger , Nancy realises she must find a way to stop the evil psychopath's reign of terror , or never sleep again . . . one of the most famous horror movies from the eighties , gave us probably the most iconic horror villain this side of Jason Voorhees , but the film has aged very badly , but the still shocks and manages to stay with you after . Craven has crafted a marvellous horror , with a good cast and a terrific story . This was when Freddy was genuinely scary , Before he went all pantomime and spouted out one liners and cheesy poses . best watched with the lights off , but if you are used to the more gore inspired horrors of today , you may be disappointed . but most of todays horror wouldn't exist without this movie and Craven . watch this and forget about parts 2 , 4 , and 5 .
40-year-old Andy Stitzer has done quite a few things in his life . He's got a cushy job stamping invoices at an electronics superstore , a nice apartment with a proud collection of action figures and comic books , good friends , a nice attitude . But there's just one little thing he hasn't quite gotten around to doing yet - - something most people have done by his age . Done a lot . Andy's never , ever , ever had sex - - not even by accident . So is that such a big deal ? Well , for Andy's buds at the store , it sure is . Although they think he's a bit of an oddball , there's certainly a planet full of stranger ( and homelier ) guys who've at least had one go at having a go . They consider it their duty to help Andy out of his dire situation and go to great lengths to help him . But nothing proves effective enough to lure their friend out of lifelong chastity until he meets Trish ( Catherine Keener ) , a 40-year-old mother of three . Andy's friends are psyched by the possibility that " it " may finally happen . . . until they hear that Andy and Trish have begun their relationship based on a mutual no-sex policy . . . even though this film has laugh out loud moments and is really disgusting in places , it's a really sentimental pure romantic comedy when it all boils down . Carrell is absolutely wonderful in the titular role and is ably supported by some of the funniest supporting characters put into a comedy . set piece after set piece becomes more cringe worthy , because you have to empathise with Carrell , because he's such a nice guy , and deserves to get laid . the narrative throughout the film is smooth and never gets too vulgar or sickly sweet , so it stays on the right wavelength for both sexes . could have done without the musical number at the end though . . . tragic .
An ageing Hollywood star , Joe Scott , lives a life of narcissistic hedonism , observed by his laconic personal assistant , Ophelia . The death of his childhood best friend , Boots , takes our protagonist , and the movie , into an extended flashback to a sea-side town in 1970's Britain . Hollywood star Joe is now a teenage boy in a tentative relationship with a school-girl called Ruth . Further , his mother's friend , Evelyn , is attempting to seduce him . Engulfed by guilt at the unintended , tragic consequences of his subterfuge , he leaves home . The movie then switches back to contemporary Hollywood . Joe confronts his fear and returns to England for a difficult meeting with Ruth , who had gone on to marry Boots and has been a left a poor widow . . . . . another great movie overlooked in cinemas when released , this is Craigs pet project , and he has sacrificed a lot of screen time , to make a really interesting movie about life growing up and the mistakes that you make when you are young and impressionable . the cinematography is delightful , and during the first act , it shows Craig with everything , but the house he lives in is somewhat desolate , indicating that he has a big hole in his life that is missing something . the flashbacks are reminiscent to Todd Haynes movie ' Velvet Goldmine ' , in the fact that the young friends are finding their ' sexual feet ' , and the music has a very sexual feel to it too . sometimes the film feels heavily cut , and it would have been beneficial to the film if we learnt more about Joe and Boots friendship , but this is just a minor gripe . the performances are flawless , and although Craig sounds a little too much like Simon Cowell , he is self deprecating enough not to make this a vanity project .
In a small town in California , chief of police Jeff Talley is facing relationship problems with his teenage daughter . One year earlier , he was the prime police negotiator in Los Angeles , but after an unsuccessful negotiation , he gave-up his position and decided to move with his family to a calmer life . When three punks invade the house of Walter Smith , a wealthy accountant , and jeopardise his family , holding them hostage , Jeff's family is abducted by powerful criminals to force him to retrieve a DVD with bank accountings ' information kept in Walter's office . . . cruelly overlooked at the box-office , Willis is on top form in this very dark thriller . taking his age into consideration , Willis restrains his role and doesn't come over all invincible , his character is very human and vulnerable throughout the movie . the main premise is very simple , bur well executed . and it just goes to show how easy it is for teenagers to take things one step too far . Foster is way too convincing as Mars , and his role in this proves he is one actor to keep an eye on . he barely utters aline in the first half of the movie , but his eyes do all the talking , and he is the sole reason the tension keeps the level it does throughout . Willis can do this sort of stuff with his eyes shut and really does a good job as the haunted officer whose worst nightmare comes true . Siri does a fantastic job with the sets and the camera-work , the cinematography is hauntingly beautiful during the house siege set piece . the ending is predictable , yet satisfying . one of the better thrillers to be released in 2005 , plus a strong contender for the best opening credits ever . a good movie from start to finish . it's such a shame that Pollack doesn't do a lot during the movie .
John Cena is called John in this film , for maybe two reasons . one , maybe he is too stupid to answer to any other name or two , maybe it's a little nod to the ' John Rambos and the John matrix's ' of our time . if this film is anything other than completely over the top , it's a learning curve for being a Marine . you can jump unbelievably high into the air and then perform a perfect dive whilst a building explodes behind you . you can survive being blasted backward several times through windows and get up and run , run , run . you can hang on the side of a truck , get hit by several buildings , get up and run , run , run . and the African-Americans in the movie have massive chips on their shoulder , exclaiming every couple of minutes ' why does it have to be the black man ? ' the story ( what there is of it ) is about a diamond heist and John being in the wrong place at the wrong time , thus , his wife is kidnapped , and he goes all , Commando in the jungle equipped with nothing but a tight t-shirt and the most exaggerated bowie knife ever ( phallic references inserted here ) . the whole thing is absolutely over the top , with a silly script , daft unbelievable set pieces with very bad acting and an extremely hammy Robert Patrick , but you cannot help but love the movie . it's short , never get's boring and is very colourful . if you are a fan of the eighties over the top action movies ( think Invasion USA , Commando , Cobra ) then this is definitely for you . plus for all Matt Damon fans , Cena looks how Damon would , if he were a lot more buff .
Chein is a city boy who moves with his cousins to work at a ice factory . He does this with a family promise never to get involved in any fight . However , when members of his family begin disappearing after meeting the management of the factor , the resulting mystery and pressures forces him to break that vow and take on the villainy of the Big Boss . Lee once again rules the martial art movie world , with this very serious and very violent movie about dope smuggling and family loss . with Films like way of the dragon , and even fist of fury , there was a little element of fun and humour to be had , but while this film does steer toward this in the first few scenes , it really does surprise the viewer with the brutality that this film contains . no character is really safe in this film , and characters you expect to survive in the film , meet very grisly ends . the fight scenes are stuff of legend again , as Lee proves yet again , why he was hailed as the screens greatest martial artist . the fight scenes are long and brutal , and given one silly effect ( think of someone being kicked through a wall and leaving their outline ) pretty realistic . the blood isn't very realistic , and the soundtrack does reminisce euro-porn every now and again , but this is classic good guy versus bad guy stuff , and if you are expecting something different , refer back to the title of the film .
to all you snobs out there that rate this film badly , why do you bother / you claim to watch films such as rashomon and citizen Kane , do not rate them but feel that you have to award this one star because of your hatred for van damme . this is one of the most successful video game tie ins ever and compared to recent fare such as doom and silent hill , this was actually fun animated and a lot more enjoyable than the said two . we all know the story . van damme plays guile who is at war with bison played by an outstanding Raul Julia ( rip ) . Steven desouzas script crackles with good dialogue , and though the direction leaves a lot to be desired , this was great . everyone seems to be having a ball , and to get people such as callow , minogue , Julia and studi , it can't be all bad can it . some funny moments in the film . . . . van damme with the knife thinking that bison's army have surrendered due to him . Simon callows cameo bison's maniacal look throughout ( constipation ? ) studi as sagat ( miscast but still great ) and van damme just swaggering about knowing that he is making a truly cool movie . watch it again all you people who voted it one and enjoy the pleasure of pure popcorn entertainment . ' bison , your off the air ! ! '
As with Hot Fuzz last year , this is a satire on action films , and when egos collide whilst making a movie . borrowing heavily from the three amigos , tropic thunder puts five actors in a real war scenario without them knowing , and hilarity ensues . what i loved about this film , is that it wasn't scared to go for the r-rated profane route , which a lot of films tend to do these days . part of the fun of the film is the profanity and the violence , and one feels that the film would not be as good as it is if it was aimed at a more family orientated demographic . the film does suffer during the second act a little , and loses it's aim for about twenty minutes , but when the film is in the hands of Downey Jr . or a certain Hollywood A-list star , the film shines . Kudos to Stiller for not wanting to have the best lines or the best part , and he does tend to step back and let the other stars take full rein of the script . Downey Jr . really chews scenery when he is on screen , and some of the lines he spurts out are so funny , you just cannot help but laugh whenever he utters a syllable . the same can't be said for Jack Black though . his role is thankless , and he is given very little to do apart from his usual schtick of screaming and being quite annoying . the rest of the cast are great in their limited roles and really put their all in the film . it is funny , really funny , but it's not the best film that Stiller has made . it's not as surreal as Zoolander or as daft as Dodgeball , but it does really hit home when the jokes work . well worth taking a trip to the cinema for .
some silly silly gangsters have gone and murdered Seagals son . i mean in the law of averages , this is probably the worst thing someone can do in the history of man , who would want to mess with Seagal , when he spends the majority of the film in a long coat and even when we first meet him , he is skulking in the back ground in his shades and black suit . so he decides to take vengeance ( obviously ) against the people who killed his son . . . but in reality , this is a great return to form from Seagal , after the diabolical Attack Force and the average Flight of fury , this is the Seagal we remember from almost sixteen years ago when he was starring in top form in films such as out for justice and marked for death . he's not in shape for the film , which is a little bit of a shame , but it appears he has taken a lot of the fans advice , and decided to put more fighting scenes in , a rare performance which features no voice coverage , and a decidedly dodgy car chase . if this was to be compared to any of his other movies , it would be an out for justice / hard to kill lite thriller , with some good support from an extremely over the top Eddie Griffin and a cool cameo from Trejo . if you have been disappointed by Seagals movie for the past five or so years ( like me ) it is great to see someone who was once classed as a legend in the action genre finally recognising his game and the potential he has . heres hoping it's not just a one off .
a high school comedy with a difference , the leads are not good looking bronze gods ala ' every other teen comedy that has been released , this is a real comedy with everyday teens with everyday troubles , and what makes this comedy work so well is that it has been written from obvious experience , and the viewer can relate to certain parts of the film ( eg . worrying about the first time , will he / she like me ? ) the story is simple , the geekiest guy on the planet gets fake ID the same time his friends are invited to a party by the girls of their dreams , the girls ask them to buy the alcohol for the party , plain and simple narration . but the story is way beyond this , with the predicaments the trio get themselves into , the set pieces are very funny and very , very crude , believe me if you were offended by American Pie , stay well clear of this , there is a lot of profanity , and it might even make you think twice about bumpin ' and grinding with a random female ( my favourite part of the film ) . the film usurps other movies in the same sub-genre because it has a humanistic edge to it , we actually empathise with the characters as they are so real , these are the type of people who sat next to us in class , their different from the kids we saw in Clueless , Mean Girls and even American Pie , thats what makes the film so refreshing and laugh out loud funny . . . you care for the characters . the writers can make you laugh out loud one minute , and give you a lump in the throat the next , the characters are well written and by the time the movie is over , you realise the film wasn't about a quest to get laid or get some alcohol , it's about three normal guys getting ready to face the world apart from each other , and having to come to terms with responsibility , thats probably why the two cops have that monologue at the end , they were where the main characters are in the film , and their chance went begging . a great comedy , stupid , yet clever and a very poignant ending .
After the WWI Armistice Lloyd Hart goes back to practice law , former saloon keeper George Hally turns to bootlegging , and out-of-work Eddie Bartlett becomes a cab driver . Eddie builds a fleet of cabs through delivery of bootleg liquor and hires Lloyd as his lawyer . George becomes Eddie's partner and the rackets flourish until love and rivalry interfere . a great story of rags to riches and then back to rags as Cagney puts in a great performance as Bartlett , a man who lets passion and rivalry get the better of him and cause him his demise . the story is excellent and keeps the film moving at a steady pace , and it's nice to see Bogart not chewing scenery for once and playing against type as the bad guy . but this film depicts the end of Hollywoods interest of the gangster , which is why the ending is so poignant . but a great movie nevertheless .
Phillip Sauvage is a desert storm veteran who keeps having flashbacks of war torn ' eyerack ' every time he hears loud music , fireworks or on a shooting range . Wayne Barclay is ex heavy weight champion of the world , who has invested a lot of his money into buildings and other business deals . a big time rapper who Barclay helped put away is released for good behaviour and is intent on getting revenge on Barclay . Sauvage is put in charge of his security and starts to fall for Barclay's sister , which could lead Barclay and Sauvage ( or Phil to his friends ) having a punch up . after the average , but watchable second in command , Van damme returns on top form in a film , that is very cheaply made , poorly acted and with a very horrible soundtrack . but then again this a the world of Van Damme , and as i have said before in previous reviews , i will watch anything with him in . the story is amiable and easy to understand , with very subtle references to movies such as ' in the line of fire ' and ' the bodyguard ' . with Van Damme movies there are always a few minor niggles , such as characters are very under developed , but at least the back story between Barclay and Tyrell is explained . van Damme does get his legs kicking again , and few scenes do get your adrenaline pumping . Lettich has done it again for Van Damme , mercifully keeping his dialogue to a minimum and keeping the action at a steady pace . if Van Dammes keep getting as good as this , he may reach the heights he did 13 years ago with classics such as ' timecop ' and ' sudden death ' . a must for Van damme fans .
safe in their picturesque château behind the front lines , the french general staff passes down a direct order to colonel Dax : take the ant hill at any cost . a suicide mission , the attack is doomed to failure . covering up their fatal blunder , the generals order the arrest of three innocent soldiers . charging them with cowardice and mutiny . Dax , a lawyer in civilian life , rises to the mens defence , but soon realises that unless he can prove that the generals were to blame , nothing will save his soldiers from the firing squad . . . a film that dehumanises war , Kubricks daring film is a very tense viewing experience and has one of the most melancholy endings ever seen in a movie . the movie shows the fact that wars are meant to be won , and that the soldiers that participate , do not matter , in fact they can even be sacrificed to save face of superiors . a fantastic performance from Douglas ( the apology scene show just what a great actor he is ) and flawless direction from Kubrick , give you one of the best anti-war movies made .
A woman named Grace retires with her two children to a mansion on Jersey , towards the end of the Second World War , where she's waiting for her husband to come back from battle . The children have a disease which means they cannot be touched by direct sunlight without being hurt in some way . They will live alone there with oppressive , strange and almost religious rules , until she needs to hire a group of servants for them . Their arrival will accidentally begin to break the rules with unexpected consequences . . a very eerie movie , which suffers from the fact that after the first viewing , it will lose much of it's tension and mythos , due to the fantastic twist at the end . Kidman is fantastic in her role as the troubled mother , as are the two child actors , who are as sinister as the house itself . not relying heavily on jump scares or incidental music , the house and the surroundings are the most scary element of the film . there are some particularly tense and uneasy moments , especially when the husband returns from the war . it's hard to describe , without giving too much away , but Eccleston is fantastic in his small role , and after he leaves , the film becomes even more uneasy . the editing , cinematography and lighting is top notch and the narrative never loses it's grip throughout . but the ending is what the film is all about , it's quite difficult to spot , but is forfilling nevertheless . an excellent thriller , that reminds one of the old fashioned horror movies .
Stu Shepard is a fast talking New York City publicist who gets out of trouble and lies with his clever charm , connections , and charisma . Stu's greatest lie is to his wife Kelly , who he is cheating on with his girlfriend , Pam . Upon answering a call in a phone booth in belief it is Pam , Stu is on the line with a dangerous yet intelligent psychopath with a sniper rifle . When realising it is not a joke , Stu is placed in a powerful mind game of wits and corruption . The New York City Police eventually arrive thereafter and demand Stu comes out of the phone booth , but how can he when if he hangs up or leaves the booth he will die ? at only eighty minutes long , this is a fast paced thriller that is well made as it is high concept . obviously the majority of the film is set in the titular location , and thus makes the film very claustrophobic and tense throughout . the camera work is exceptional and the integrated shots ( ala 24 ) add gravitas . Farrell does well in his role , making a sympathetic character out of someone highly unlikeable , but the credit for the film has to go to Sutherland , who uses only his voice to the majority of the film , but makes a terrifying adversary to Stu , and is fantastic in his role . any longer than the running time , then the film would have started to become tiresome , but for the length of the film , it works just right , even though some of the events are a little over the top . but a very well written and directed drama
A political thriller : the real-life story of a South African hero's journey to freedom . In the country's turbulent and divided times in the 1980s , Patrick Chamusso is an oil refinery foreman and soccer coach who is apolitical - until he and his wife Precious are jailed . Patrick is stunned into action against the country's oppressive reigning system , even as police Colonel Nic Vos further insinuates himself into the Chamussos ' lives . Noyce knows how to direct a good political thriller / drama , and has made no exception here . what starts off as genuinely intriguing moving picture about one mans innocence , turns into a nightmarish journey for Patrick , as he loses everything he had good in he life just to prove a point . whilst watching the film , you show great empathy for both the leads , thinking that Robbins character is actually a caring person toward these people , but in the end he is just doing his job and to find answers . he doesn't care about these people or their plight , he just wants accolade , which in turn , makes him a bitter man . on hindsight , when there are the family scenes , they are quite haunting , because there is no happiness there , unlikes Patrick's community . overall the film is thrilling , and very difficult to watch at times , but the story is laid out well and the production value , cinematography and performances are outstanding .
Kyle LeBlanc is an American working overseas in Russia . When he hears his wife being attacked over the phone , Kyle rushes home to find that he's too late . The man who killed his wife is found not guilty on lack of evidence . So Kyle takes the law into his own hands , and kills the man to avenge his wife's death . He is sentenced to life in prison without parole . The Russian prison he is sent to is tough , and the warden amuses himself by putting on fights where he fills his pockets with money by betting on the fights . Kyle begins to break and go crazy , so he is forced into these fights because the warden knows he is a sure thing . Kyle's cell-mate 451 begins to make him think what he fighting for . . . with this movie , Van Damme took a very different rout to his previous films , which some deemed a huge risk . out where his trademark fighting moves , splits and one liners . he doesn't say much in the movie , in fact 50 % of his dialogue is in the first 10 minutes of the movie . this is more of a drama film for Van Damme , and the risk paid off well . it is predictable in places , the inmates of the prison are typical of other movies in the genre , the gangs , the rapist , the young inmate that is bullied , the guy that can get you anything , and so on . their characters are not developed much , but this is a minor quibble for such a good movie . their are references to Christ , but in my opinion , Van Damme is reborn as an ' anti-chridt . the time he spends in the ' hole ' , more or less a waste unit , he spends his time attempting suicide , having visions , training himself , and finally growing a comedy beard . the fight seems are very gritty indeed , no showmanship here , no cuts for multiple viewings from different angles of the same punch , just raw street fighting . the plot is simple and very accessible , editing is fine , and Van Dammes performance , could be one of his best . a great movie all in all , a step up from derailed , and one of his better entries from his direct to DVD catalogue .
Vaughns second film as a director is so different from Layer Cake , and owes a lot to terry Gilliam and in respects Reiners ' The Princess Bride'the story surrounds a young boys quest to win the heart of a girl in his village . he promises her to find the star that has fallen whilst they are sharing a bottle of wine . he goes off on his quest but in the mean time , a trio of witches need the star to regain their youth and their looks . also somewhere in this wild quest , two princes need the same star to recover a piece of jewellery which will crown them king . . . like most fantasy movies , the film has a lot of wonderful characters ( maybe too many ) but it takes a while to get going . Charlie Cox is well cast as Tristan and he and Danes have ' sparkling ' chemistry . but the film doesn't really get going until we meet De Niros Camp pirate , but this is when the fun really starts . the first hour is all about the build up of the story and the introduction of the characters and this is where its downfall is , because there are so many characters , it makes this first hour become quite tedious , like watching the end of ' the return of the king ' in reverse . but after that we are treated to a spectacle that can easily rival a lot of the sumer blockbusters easily with visual Panache and screenplay . the film is solely about finding your true love , and this has to be one of the best fantasy films made since the lord of the rings trilogy . not that childish for adults , but maybe a little too dark for the little ones . but its all feelgood fun come the end .
family man Wade Porter is living the American Dream with his girlfriend Laura and their son Michael : they have a nice house , he has just raised a loan to make his company grow and they are going to get married . However their dream becomes a nightmare when Wade unintentionally kills a burglar that had broken into their house in the middle of the night on his lawn . He is sent to trial and accepts a deal proposed by the prosecutor , being sentenced to three years in prison . During the transportation , there is an incident in the bus and Wade is framed and sent to the maximum security wing under the command of the corrupt Lieutenant Jackson . His cell-mate John Smith that was sentenced to life revenging the death of his family befriends Wade and gives helpful advices and hope to Wade to return to his family . . what a really good movie this is ! i honestly was not expecting much while reading the credits ' And Val Kilmer ' it doesn't really get your pulse pumping ( no offence Val ) but i was surprised at the excellent writing , performances from Kilmer , Dorff and Perrin . . . that bloke from Matrix reloaded , and the taut running time , that made this film gripping and exciting , until the very end . it never gets boring and there are some great lines of dialogue spoken by Kilmer , who is the baddest of the bad , because he wears glasses , has a beard , and gets visited by Sam Shepard a lot . the ending is a little predictable but the best performance comes from perrinaeu ( really don't know how to spell his name ) who is sadistic , and genuinely nasty throughout , watching the prisoners in glee as they beat the crap out of each other , and then being nice as pie to his colleagues out of work . all in all if you see this in the rental store and are in two minds , trust me , it's worth the risk .
This picks up where the last one left off ; with Doc Brown and Marty going into the future to help Marty's future offspring . They discover that while in the future , Marty's nemesis , Biff Tannen got the sports book that Marty bought so that he could know the results of sports events and make a fortune , but Doc Brown foiled his plans , but Tannen who overheard their conversation , got the book and the time machine and went back into the past and gave the book to himself , who has not only amassed a fortune but also extremely powerful . So Doc and Marty have to go back to when Biff got the book and get it away from him . And it seems that it was in 1955 on the night of the dance that Biff got the book . So not only must they get the book but they must also avoid the other versions of themselves . . . oh my god , it would help to have a degree to understand this movie , but beneath the layers of story , sub-plots and going backwards and forwards in time , this film does work , and in my opinion it ranks as the best of the series . the special effects are not so special now , but the ideas of the hover boards and the flying cars are sound as are other little subtle things such as the eighties café ' and clothing lines . but the story is the main thing about this film . you really need to watch the movie from beginning to end to really understand what is going on and watch it twice more to confirm this . for a family film , it doesn't really matter for young children about the story , as they will be in awe of the special effect , future designs and seeing Fox and Wilson in multiple roles . but this is still one hell of a movie and by the end of it all of the loose ends are ( nearly ) tied up and Zemeckis has great fun in doing this . repeating set pieces from the original in different time zones and also re-creating footage from the first movie . a major feat in its time , BTTF part 2 has stacks of story and an easy narrative to follow with plenty of red herrings thrown into the mixture . it's just a shame that the cliffhanger developed into such a lacklustre sequel . inspired viewing
In the future , the Earth is engulfed with water when the polar ice caps melts , leaving the lands and civilisation beneath the sea . In " Waterworld " drifters sail across the waters of the world on their man-made ships , trading for supplies and salvaging what is left of civilisation , communities of survivors lives in towns called " Atolls " and a force of evil pirates " The Smokers " travel across Waterworld in search of a mythical island called " Dryland " . Arriving at a Atoll , a mysterious drifter without a name called The Mariner is sentenced to death when the community discover he is a mutant . When the Atoll is attacked by The Smokers led by their evil leader Deacon , a woman named Helen and her adopted daughter Enola bribes The Mariner to take them to Dryland , believing The Mariner has been there . But the Mariner , Helen and Enola are pursued by Deacon and the Smokers , when The Mariner learns the tattoo on Enola's back is in reality a map that will lead them to Dryland . . . also known as ' Fishtar ' and ' Kevins Gate ' , Waterworld is one of those movies that people love to hate without seeing the finishing product . problems were abound on the production with sets sinking and other problems , but the finished result is a marvellous production , made in the grand style with some stunning cinematography and astonishing set pieces . those of you thinking this is a vanity project for Costner are way off target ( see the postman for vanity ) , of course he gets to look good and and indestructible during the film , he is a mutant and his journey is to help a little girl . he is the hero so he needs to look good ( so does this mean that all of Schwarzeneggers films are vanity projects ? ) . Hopper steals the movie though as the Deacon and has all the best lines and after ' Speed ' is the second greatest screen villain after Alan Rickman . if there ever was a problem with the budget , it doesn't show on screen , it was one of the most exciting and satisfying summer movies of 1995 , and although it has delusions of grandeur in some places , it really is fun to watch .
Seth Brundle is a scientist who has been working hard to make the dream of teleportation a reality for several years . he has been doing this alone , by getting fellow scientist's / technician's to build parts of the teleportation system unaware of what the parts are for . up until now , Brundle has been only able to teleport inanimate objects , as the computer that gathers the information does not understand the complexity of living tissue . Brundle starts to teach the computer about the complexities of living tissue and successfully teleports a baboon . along his journey he meets Veronica , a journalist who is interested with Brundles work and starts a relationship of sorts with him and starts to log his work progress , and form a bond with him that maybe Brundle hasn't had for a long time . Brundle wants to be the first human guinea pig in the teleportation device , but is aware that the test results for the baboon will not be available for another few weeks , so he waits . one evening in drunken state of jealousy he decides he cannot wait and successfully teleports himself form one pod to another . what Brundle didn't know is that a fly was sharing a pod with him and now their genes have started to fuse together . at first Brundle is a lot more athletic and erotically charged , but as the weeks progress he starts to undergo a body image alteration and becomes more and more paranoid about what he can become and who else he can make ' feel great ' . as psychological horrors go , the fly is one of the best in the last twenty years . Cronenberg has really hit pay-dirt with Goldblum , who portrays Brundle as a likable person and somebody you care for . at times in the movie when Brundle is changing , he does seem the most human character in the narrative . Brundle appears to be the only character who has any passion for anything really . we could argue that Veronica has passion , but at he beginning of the movie , she doesn't seen overly excited about Brundles invention . the story itself concerns itself on the characters , their emotions , and what they sometimes strive for . eg Brundle , for the perfect being after the teleportation , he becomes more obsessed with finding somebody who will join him . Borans obsession with Veronica , somebody who he is deeply in love with , and becomes obsessed with Brundle after Veronica becomes involved . all in all at the end of the movie , most of the main characters are defeated by the circumstances that they find themselves in and their obsessions . this film is also about obsession and how obsession can affect ones life and ultimately render them as loners , which Brundle is at the beginning and conclusion of the movie . all in all a great exploration about one's concepts of humanity and the infinite fight between mind and body ( as mentioned above already ) . a very emotional film too , not only are all main characters damaged physically , they are all emotionally damaged through their experiences and learning . one of the best scenes in the film is where Brundle is begging Veronica not to destroy the baby and not ' to kill him ' . a career best turn from Goldblum and some ground breaking effects , this is easily Cronenbergs most audience friendly movie to date .
an epic story of a young Genghis Khan and how events in his early life lead him to become a legendary conqueror . The 9-year-old Temüjin is taken on a trip by his father to select a girl as his future wife . He meets Börte , who says she would like to be chosen , which he does . He promises to return after five years to marry her . Temüjin's father is poisoned on the trip , and dies . As a boy Temüjin passes through starvation , humiliations and even slavery , but later with the help of Börte he overcomes all of his childhood hardships to become one of the greatest conquerors the world has ever known . . . this is the film that Alexander , Troy , and Kingdom of Heaven wanted and should have been . instead of relying on pure spectacle for the audience , this movie dares to delve into the psyche of Khan , and what motivated him to be the man the history books depicted . he's not a vicious person , he just sticks by his rules , and that makes him fair . his only vex is to get his loved one back , which he dedicates his life too . so strangely enough , Ghengis Khan is depicted as a very cool and calm individual . the battles though are phenomenal , barely using cgi , they are very close to the knuckle , and as realistic as one would expect , despite the lack of budget this film had compared to the other aforementioned movies . it goes along a a beautiful pace , and the cinematography is beautiful , even more so on blu-ray . narration is good , and holds the viewer captivated , rather than having them waiting for the next battle . excellent film-making .
David Dunn's marriage is crumbling , and he's thinking of moving to New York . Then when he's coming home from a job interview , his train derails and he is the only survivor . More than that , he doesn't have a scratch on him . David is contacted by Elijah Price , who runs a comic book art gallery and suffers from a genetic condition that makes his bones very easy to break . Elijah has been a comic book fan all his life , and has developed a theory that they are what remains of an ancient system of storytelling , and the superheroes they are about are based on real people . Elijah believes David may be one of these people . He has hardly ever been injured or sick , and he has tremendous strength , plus an uncanny ability to tell if someone is about to or has done something bad . David doesn't know what to think about the theory , or Elijah himself . However , events soon conspire to convince him he may be a superhero after all . what shayalaman has done with the comic book movie is given it a terrific spin , so the film does actually seem plausible . it's a film that really makes you think and talk about people being at each end of the spectrum completely plausible , and this is what makes it one of his most interesting films . of course it's not got the terrific twist ending of the sixth sense or the humour of signs , but after you have seen the former film , it loses it's grasp a little , because you know the outcome . this film is probably the one film he has made that will make you appreciate more , because David is finding out more about himself ( and his relationship with his son ) as the film progresses . so yes , to look at the film it's a superhero movie , but it's also a deep meaningful tale about family and trying your hardest to keep everything together . Elijah's mother did it through the medium of comic books , and Elijah gives a kind of gift to David and his son as they now have something to relate to . all the connotations of the superhero are here , the main character with the same initials , wearing the same colour throughout , with supposedly superhuman strength , but with a weakness . and then you have the arch villain , with the larger than life eyes and head , leading the eccentric / maniacal life . the cast are superb , and this has to be one of Willis's finest moments . really worth watching .
a criminal plot is in place to take down the entire computer and technological structure that supports the economy of the United States ( and the world ) it's up to a decidedly " old school " hero , police detective John McClane , to take down the conspiracy , aided by a young hacker and a lot of wisecracks . . . lots of speculation surrounding this movie . it's been twelve years since the last movie ( with a vengeance ) and this had a lot to live up to , seeing that at the last minute , the studios got cold feet and decided to edit it so a wider audience could see it ( ironic considering the plot ) . but ' Live free or die hard ' ( or Die Hard 4 . 0 as it's called here in Blighty ) does not disappoint in the slightest . when we first see McClane , he is giving his daughter a hard time ( an exact reflection and reference to the argument with John and Holly in the first movie ) and the years have weathered Willis , which got me a little bit worried . 10 minutes later , we are treated to our first set piece , and it never lets up until the final credits ( the final set piece with the Mig outdoes true lies ) . yes , the movie is totally unbelievable , yes the story could be your average direct to DVD movie , but i don't care , Willis is back as McClane , his most famous character , and Willis knows this , so gives the movie his all . this in my opinion is the second best of the four , inferior on many counts to the original , on a par with the third , far superior to Harlins effort in 1990 . the script is laugh out loud funny in places and McClane is given some cracking lines , but he is ably supported by some great characters ( warlock almost steals the show ) and great support by Long , Q , Curtis , and Olyphant . Gabriel mat not be the most memorable baddie of all time but is McClanes most personal adversary . the editing is very poor , and on occasion you can actually see where they cut the profanity out , and yes , it is sacrilege to leave the last word of his famous line muffled by a gunshot , but these are minor quibbles for such a great movie . with lots of references to the original ( agent Johnson , lift shafts and broken glass to name but a few ) Due Hard 4 . 0 is one of the satisfying blockbusters this summer , and could maybe pave the way action movies are made in the future , with less CGI . a triumph
Sam ' Ace ' Rothstein , a mob-connected casino operator in Las Vegas , attempts a civilised lifestyle with his money-conditional wife , Ginger . Nicky Santoro , a boyhood friend of Ace and now a Made-Man of the Mafia , arrives in town with an ambitious agenda of his own that soon disrupts Ace's life . Before long , Ginger and her long-time leeching lover Lester , along with Nicky's mistakes , start causing problems . . . . . another excellent ( if a little too long ) masterpiece from one of the best directors in the business , with a highly prolific cast , that put in some of there best performances . but one cannot help but compare this to Scorceses other masterpiece of the nineties , Goodfellas . and it's not a fair comparison , but it's only because it's got the slick narration like the former , and Pesci in psychotic mode again . De Niro plays it cooler than cool in his performance , which was his third best of the nineties after Goodfellas and Heat . Stone is excellent as Ace's cheating gold digging wife , and puts in such an incredible performance , you really do feel for Ace as she starts to turn against him . the sets and cinematography are amazing , and like Goodfellas , Scorcese has made such a good move with the soundtrack that it really takes you in the movie . a greatly edited movie , but a little long , but at the same time unmissable
Nick is a student with issues who is a little bit cocky , and tries to help his friend out by offering money to someone he owes , Annie . she refuses and a fight starts in the school kitchen . Later that night , Annie steals a lot of jewellery from a store , and after an argument , her boyfriend tells the police what she did . after her arrest Annie blames Nicks best friend for framing her , but he blames Nick , thinking he will be safe as he is going to London . but ironically Nick decides to stay , and feels the wraith of Annie , after a brutal beating and thinking him dead , they hide the body , but Nick is stuck in purgatory and knows that he is still alive . . . . just . only Annie is the key to Nicks survival , but the question is , will she give everything up for the man she thinks framed her ? similarities to Ghost and The sixth sense are rife through this cleverly made thriller , but the film is original and cast very well . it references the sixth sense , purely because of him being in purgatory , so it's not stealing from that film . and it nods towards ghost because Nick is in the same position as Sam Wheat was seventeen years ago . but the characters are well written , and sometimes it is very hard for the viewer to sympathise with , as sometimes Annie can come across a s ruthless , but other times very vulnerable . it's not horror , it's just a fantasy film that really works well . worth seeing .
Brooklyn cop Gino Felino is about to go outside and play catch with his son Tony when he receives a phone call alerting him that his best friend Bobby Lupo has been shot dead in broad daylight on 18th Avenue , in front of his wife Laurie Lupo and his two kids , by drug kingpin Richie Madano , who has been Gino and Bobby's enemy since childhood . As Gino is hunting Madano down , Gino discovers the motive behind Bobby's murder . This is when Gino's hunt for Madano leads to the showdown of a lifetime . . . . after three great films , Seagal came and added a fourth to his impressive resume ' . as Felino , Seagal shows off his mighty fighting skills coming up against his most psychotic screen adversary ( a great William Forsythe ) . the story is a little lame though ( his partner slept with Richie's girlfriend and this is why bobby was killed ) , but if you read between the lines , this is a film about honour and respect people deserve . we see Gino mixing with the mob , and reminiscing in several scenes about his childhood ( which shows Gino could have chosen the wrong path to go down very easily ) . the set pieces are terrific , especially the bar fight and the butcher shop fight . my only gripe is that some of the editing is very random , and makes the film look like it's turned into a different genre . but still , this is one of seagals best , and a million miles away from some of his direct to DVD stuff he does now . if you are one of the people who wonder why people love seagal , even though he makes pap now , then check this out . you will realise he was one of the best action stars of the late eighties / early nineties .
Michael " Jay " Cochran has just left the Navy after 12 years . He's not quite sure what he's going to do , except that he knows he wants a holiday . He decides to visit Tiburon Mendez , a powerful but shady Mexican businessman who he once flew to Alaska for a hunting trip . Arriving at the Mendez mansion in Mexico , he is immediately surprised by the beauty and youth of Mendez ' wife Miryea . Their attraction to each other is undeniable , but Cochran is aware that Mendez is a powerful , vindictive , and very possessive man who does not tolerate betrayal . . . this the review of the ' directors cut ' which is twenty minutes shorter than Costners vision . but what we have is just not a movie of the titular mode , this is a story of betrayal , lust and quest . it's fair to point out that Quinns character is justified in his actions toward Costner and Stowe , but the film really changes when Costner recovers from a brutal beating . we meet random characters , who are intricate to Costners journey , and make the film well worth watching . this is one of Cstners and Scotts most underrated movies and it's not very easy to see why . Costner is fantastic , as are the rest of the cast , and Scott has calmed down a little with the flashy editing , but makes the viewer feel very arid throughout the movie . although the movie is violent in places it's more of a drama t han action , and the solemn ending makes it more powerful . worth seeing .
a loner at high school , Brenden Frye knows all the angles , but has chosen to stay on the outside . when his former girlfriend , Emily , turns up dead , he is determined to find out the truth and who is responsible . using help from his only real friend , the Brain , Brendan falls head first into the dark and dangerous world of rich girl Laura , hired hand Tug and the mysterious mastermind , the Pin . by gaining acceptance into the Pins ' gang , Brendan will uncover the painful truth about himself , what happened to Emily , and the people he is getting closer . by putting the slang heavy film-noir of the 40's ( the Maltese falcon , key largo ) , and putting them in a high school setting , Brick crosses two genres . in one instance the movie feels postmodern , and in the next instant , the film feels retro to the core . the good thing about this film is that it doesn't get weighed down by all it's film references and nods to the genre it seems to love the most , but almost compliment the genre . characters are almost familiar when watching , the Sam Spade character we see in Brendan , the femme fatale in laura , the heavy in Tug , and so on and so on . for someone who has not seen the noir films of the forties , this could be deemed very difficult to watch , as the plot has many red herrings , and also an almost ' twin peaks ' feel to the whole package . the cast are very goo especially Gorden-Levitt , who excels himself even more than he did in ' mysterious skin ' . Camera work is suitably dreamy and fits in well with the narrative and the soundtrack is great . an amazing piece of independent cinema , that belongs in the same sentence as ' donnie darko ' and ' elephant ' . essential
one of the most beautiful films i have ever seen . to say the cliché ' if i could put this movie in frame and hang it on my wall if i could ' is an understatement . but most the characters are all very ugly on the inside apart from heidi , who i will get to in a moment . this film is the anti-amelie if there was to be such a thing . where amelie changed peoples lives for the better and made them appreciate it , heidi effects them in many a different way a lolita type subject without herself knowing ( in some ways ) . the film had me asking questions such as was a very innocent girl who came across some nasty people , or is heidi a clever licitly girl with a plan . is she amelie or a catherine trammell like character ? maybe i am looking into this too far but i could not help it . there are hints of lynch in the movie ( the man in the car staring at heidi reminds me of mulholland drive ) and it boasts a soundtrack cameron crowe would be proud of . all in all a very intense film about taboo passion and what can happen if you take a bite from the forbidden fruit . if you fu ck with heidi you get fu cked up . excellent .
After a young boy witnesses his parents ' murder on the streets of Gotham City , he grows up to become the Batman , a mysterious figure in the eyes of Gotham's citizens , who takes crime-fighting into his own hands . He first emerges out of the shadows when the Joker appears , a horribly disfigured individual who is out for revenge on his former employer and generally likes to have a good time . but the identity of the ' bat ' is unknown . on paper this would never had a chance , Keaton as batman ? now seventeen years later , he still reigns as the best batman ever to grace the big screen . Keaton has the mystery and the painful expression , that would inflict somebody who saw there parents murdered . story wise , this film has none whatsoever , but what we are looking for is pure spectacle , and Burton delivers it in droves . from the fantastical sets , to the set-pieces , to the Elfman score , the film high fives the fans until they can take no more . but the star of the show is obviously Nicholson , who has a ball as the Joker . his transformation is something of legend , and he has never been this fabulous on screen since ' the shining ' . Burton respects the comics by focusing on the history of Wayne and how he became ' the Bat ' and also does the same for Napier . all of the cast do well in their respective roles and add gravitas to the immense production . only bettered by ' returns ' the film sails past it's two hour running time so briskly , you will wonder where the time went . standing the test of time , this will please fans and newcomers alike , and just show us how masterful Hollywood can be when they treat a franchise with respect . one of the best comic book movies ever .
Jerry is a junkyard worker who attempts to sabotage a power plant he suspects of causing his headaches . But he inadvertently causes his brain to become magnetised , leading to the unintentional destruction of all the movies in his friend's store . In order to keep the store's one loyal customer , an elderly lady with a tenuous grasp on reality , the pair re-create a long line of films including The Lion King , Rush Hour , Ghostbusters , When We Were Kings , Back to the Future , Driving Miss Daisy , and Robocop , putting themselves and their townspeople into it . They become the biggest stars in their neighbourhood . it's true that this is a really funny film in the second act , when they are remaking the aforementioned movies . Def and Black gel really well on screen and at times , political correctness is thrown out of the window for laughs ( eg . the Rush hour 2 remake ) . but it's not all about a video store trying to make money , the films that the two are making , are bringing a pretty crumby community together , and regaining trust and friendship on the street . the ' movie ' screening in the end is fantastic and it really makes foe one of the first feelgood films of the year . Black doesn't go over the top like he does in most of his film , and makes him more endearing , but Gondry has made an amazing film , giving people the wrong impression of what the film perceives to be , and what you actually see when you watch the movie . a real pleasant surprise , and hilarious in places .
William foster is a man who has had a lot of bad luck in recent years . he has lost his job , but is too proud to admit this to family , so spends the day wandering around aimlessly reflecting on his life . also , he is estranged from his wife , and today is his daughters ' birthday . Martin Prendergrast is on his last day before retirement . he too has been dealt a bad hand by god . he has recently lost his daughter and his wife is suffering from a breakdown . all this is happening on one of the hottest days of the year , now William ' D-Fens ' foster has had enough of life and feels he has something to say . . . Micheal Douglas does know how to pick controversial roles , and at the time this was one hot potatoes in Hollywood . a sort of vigilante for the nineties , d-fens will stop at nothing to get to his daughters birthday and the scum of the earth will all try to stop his progress . after such a high profile job is lost , d-fens feels that he has to prove himself of his importance so his character can be quite racist and homophobic at times , and in the same instance , you want to cheer for the man as he is standing up for consumer rights and the right of the ' middle man'this is a very un p . c movie due to the different cultures and creeds he runs into . the shop owner : irks d-fens by selling a can of soda too pricey and not speaking proper Englishthe gay Nazi : irks d-fens for being totally offencive and inhumanthis film must have been inspired by the Rodney king riots of 1992 and you can feel the tension build up to the explosive climax , and you start to feel the same way that d-fens must be feeling in the heat . Douglas is at career best form here and has never surpassed this triumph Duvall plays his role Cooley . but when he snaps , it really hits home . Schumacher proves that he was once a force to be reckoned with in Hollywood and makes the film flow very very smoothly and the editing is second to none . the film can sometimes fall into the western genre at times . like the man with no name , d - fens wanders anonymously from set piece to set piece laying down the law , like a lone gunman , before the climatic gun duel between the two leads at the end . this movie has aged very well and will be a film that will be remembered for some powerful roles a great anti hero and some never bettered roles . see it now .
The film revolves around Park Hee-bong , a man in his late 60s . Park runs a small snack bar on the banks of the Seoul's Han River and lives with his two sons , one daughter and one granddaughter . The Parks seem to lead a quite ordinary and peaceful life , or maybe a tad bit poorer than the average Seoulite . Hee-bong's elder son Gang-du is an immature and incompetent man in his 40s , whose wife left home long ago . Nam-il is the youngest son and daughter Nam-joo is an archery medallist and member of the national team . One day , an unidentified mutant suddenly appears from the depths of the Han River and spreads panic and death , and Gang-du's daughter Hyun-seo is carried off by the monster and disappears . All the family members are in a great agony as they have lost someone dearest to them . But as they find out she is still alive , they resolve to save her . . . at first look at the movie poster and the trailer , one could be forgiven that this is in celebration of the Japenese Godzilla series . but when viewed , ' The Host ' is a very different movie indeed . What we have is a drama about a humble family coming to terms with loss and how small they are compared to the government and politics . to the government , they are just numbers , but obviously to the family , they are the most important thing happening at the moment . the family become desperate , knowing that no one is listening to them , indicating that the military have made their minds up about their plans and will do them regardless of their public . it's not a monster movie , it's about the medias ability to influence the public into a stat of panic and paranoia , and then leaving them to get on with it . with references to the SARS virus and other political hot potatoes , the host is an exceptional movie about thee human psyche and reaching ones goal . the effects are marvellous and the story and cinematography is fantastic , and also having great performances from the cast . with stark imagery from the upstart , ' The Host ' ends with a chilling picture of the future , two human beings all alone in a shack in the middle of a ( nuclear ) winter . impressive .
a misunderstood young boy is driven into a life of petty crime and rebellion , simply because he isn't stimulated enough . he tries hard to do well at school and impress his parents , but every time he thinks he has achieved something , another obstacle comes in his way . so the young boy decides to take the easy way out , and rebel . one of the true new wave films of the late fifties / early sixties , Truffauts masterpiece is way ahead of it's time and shows the constant struggle of being an adolescent or ' the adult knows best ' . in this world the child has no opinion , isn't entitled to one and has a different authority figure at every corner . with marvellous camera work and great actors , the film is a piece of beautiful art . it becomes more enjoyable as the film carries on and the final act in facility is pure movie heaven , Antoine is given the chance to describe how he feels , and opens up to the unseen psychiatrist , and at this point in the movie , we realise that Antoine is the most mature character in the movie . but this could be to do with the fact that the character of Antoine is loosely based on Truffaut himself . the final reel sees Antoine running away from authority , running away from life , running away from himself ? it's not clearly pointed out , but once reaching the ocean and the camera freezing on Antoines melancholy face , he realises that he cannot escape authority , life or himself .
peter lafleur owns the not very profitable average Joe's gym , but he is in trouble as he has not been paying his bills or collecting his membership money . white Goodman is an egotistical fanatic who co-owns globogym , one of the most successful gyms on the planet . when peter discovers he has less than thirty days to pay 50 , 000 dollars , he decides to give everything up , until one of his devoted gym members , comes up with the idea that they should enter the national dodgeball championships in las Vegas . the only problem is that they have never played dodgeball before , and White Goodman has a formidable team . this movie is like the live action version of the simpsons , with all the educational videos , stupid one liners and pratfalls , it's almost a carbon copy . but somehow this film actually works . and it works really well . Vaughn is very likable and his group of gym members are ' average Joe's ' they aspire to nothing and you really want them to win . but the movie is all about Stiller . his white Goodman is one of the greatest creations ever to grace the screen this decade , a sad lonely paranoid man , whose only real friend is ' michelle ' you cannot help but like the guy . he looks like a cross between Colin Farrell in Miami vice and various other eighties stereotypes fused together . the film really kicks off when the tournament begins . with hilarious turns from Jason bateman and Gary Cole , and the film also boasts some of the best cameos i have ever seen . David hasselhoff , William shatner and praise be , chuck Norris . never boring , always funny and with some great quotable lines , this will be remembered as THE frat pack comedy .
Over 20 years after this was first released , this is still absolutely hilarious stuff from start to finish , no matter how many times you watch it . Finally released on DVD in Britain , the jokes never fail to raise a smile , from the cookout story , to Uncle Gus , and his drunk father talking about his house , it's still funny . but also it's one of the most politically incorrect shows i've ever seen , and the opening of Eddies performance and him talking about ' faggots ' may raise a few gasps or tuts now . but because it's wrong to laugh at this sort of stuff now , because you'd end up in court , makes it even more funnier now , than it was . much better than ' Raw ' this is Murphy at his prime , and after Beverly Hills Cop , his career peaked and it was all downhill from there . stop making kiddie friendly films Eddie , we love you saying FK ! ! ! !
The narrator suffers from a lack of sleep . He tries different ways to cure this , but he does not succeed . He does get some sleep , but his conditions rebounds back into it's original state when he meets a lovely young woman , whose name is Marla . He finds out that she and he both have a lot in common and they spend a lot of time together . While touring , he meets an enigmatic young man named Tyler and after a short conversation both become fast friends . Both like to relieve their inner tensions by hitting each other . Soon word gets around about their fights , and lots of young people also get interested . Then a club is formed , which the narrator and Tyler call ' Fight Club ' . . . . . . what is there to say about this film that hasn't already been said ? this film has the potential to mock every living thing on the planet , and it does so with relish . Fincher has made an absolute assault on the senses with this movie , proving that most of the people on this planet are shallow , false and buy clothes and other paraphernalia to try and define themselves , trying to make themselves stand out from other people . watching the film for the second time proves just what a genius Fincher is . splicing subliminal images of Durden in to the film when the narrator is suffering from insomnia , indicating that schizophrenia is just around the corner . and When we finally meet Tyler , his dress sense and his personality stand out from the rest of the characters so much , there is a sense of irony to the whole movie . the narration is subtle but powerful , and it gives you the gist that a lot of older people now ( mainly in their fifties ) are a bunch of hypocrites , because they were the people who were shouting all about free love in the sixties , but obviously most now , hold high powered corporate jobs . Pitt has never been better and the sets and the effects are stunning . Norton too , puts in a career best performance as the Narrator , his struggles with ' finding himself ' all too familiar with most people today . it's endlessly quotable with some brilliant characters , and a film that stays fresh and offers something new each time you go back to it . fight club not only defines a generation of people , it defines a society today , that is so keen on vanity , and so keen on image , it's actually become a facade , and instead of progressing , in a matter of fact we are taking a step back . you are certainly not a unique snowflake , and the film is trying to say , once you realise this , maybe you will realise that life is too short to worry about what other people think about you . one of the greatest movies ever made .
The town of Big Whisky is full of normal people trying to lead quiet lives . Cowboys try to make a living . Sheriff ' Little Bill ' tries to build a house and keep a heavy-handed order . The town whores just try to get by . Then a couple of cowboys cut up a whore . Unsatisfied with Bill's justice , the prostitutes put a bounty on the cowboys . The bounty attracts a young gun billing himself as ' The Schofield Kid ' , and ageing killer William Munny . Munny reformed for his young wife , and has been raising crops and two children in peace . But his wife is gone . Farm life is hard . And Munny is no good at it . So he calls his old partner Ned , saddles his ornery nag , and rides off to kill one more time , blurring the lines between heroism and villainy , man and mythone of Eastwoods finest acting and directing collaborations to date , ' Unforgiven ' is a movie about the dark side of a reformed character and how they can turn in the blink of an eye ( as referenced in the schofield kids short sightedness ) . from the beginning , Munny just seems like a normal person who just wants to get on with his life and try to make an earnest living , believing that Karma took his wife away ( not on screen just my opinion as perceived by the narrative ) , he decides to partake in the execution of the offenders . all of the main characters have big opportunities to expand their story on screen , and the three veteran leads are astounding on screen , and have wonderful dialogue . lighting is a main part of this film , especially in the final third , when Eastwood films his mini version of ' high plains drifter ' , where Munny becomes the devil and wreaks havoc on the town . even though some of the dialogue in this sequence is funny , it's one of the most tense sequences ever committed to a western . Eastwood has made what some can argue as the last great western , but it's a great story , with a great script , and a fantastic director at the helm . a must see .
