This movie is recommended only for insomniacs : it will relieve them by putting them to sleep . Five-year-olds might also enjoy it . But for anyone else ( including fans of the genre ) , what a bore ! The " ancient " plot is reminiscent of " Return Of The Dragon " , and this film is just as inept , but Nero is no Bruce Lee , so " Enter the Ninja " is an even worse film . Until now , this is the second ( the offensive " comedy " " Bachelor Party " was the first ) film I gave to .
" Dark Waters " is the kind of movie that wears out your patience in the first 5 minutes . Every ridiculous horror cliche ( all the nights are rainy ; all the supporting characters are wackos ; old people know " more than they're telling " ; there are candles everywhere ; there are strange burp-like sounds on the soundtrack ; etc . ) gets a workout in this nonsensical mumbo-jumbo-filled ( " the one who was but now isn't and yet is " ) muddle . This comment can't possibly do justice to how bad this movie really is ; it's so bad it's bad ; it's the worst Italian horror film since " The Sect " from 1991 . 0 . 5 out 4 .
" Tales from the Crapper " is gory , disgusting , tasteless , offensive , lowbrow and scatological . But that's OK , I was prepared for all that from my previous Troma experiences . What I WASN'T prepared for is that it's also witless , unfunny and boring . Very little of the genuine anarchic spirit of films like " Class of Nuke'em High " has remained intact ; in its place , we get ENDLESS fart jokes ( to the point where you start wondering if Lloyd Kaufman is going senile , thinking that adults find loud farting so darn hilarious ! ) and a cynical , shameless exploitation of the viewer , who is essentially investing time and money to see a " film " that even Kaufman himself seems to know should never have been released in the first place . Oh yes , there is plenty of female nudity on display , but let's face it : the average porn film probably offers a better storyline , higher production values , funnier humor , and above all more RESPECT for its intended viewer than this atrocity . P . S : Kelly Powers AKA Suzi Lorraine ( the blonde lesbian student in the " How to make your own movie " segment ) is one of the most beautiful women I have ever seen .
" Escape from Hell " is not made with enough artistry to disguise what it is : crass exploitation . The direction and writing are both sloppy : for example , the camera-work during the fight between Cintia Lodetti and Ajita Wilson is so bad that you can barely make out what's happening ; also , if the alcoholic-but-kind-hearted doctor hadn't killed the warden , the guards would never have followed him and the girls after their escape - the " fake plague " plan had worked fine until then but he just had to ruin it . I would have given this film a ( the sweaty lesbian scene is not bad and Christina Lai has an amazingly beautiful face and body ) , but a particularly disgusting scene of abuse forced me to cut 2 more points . Of course some sickos will take that as a recommendation . After all , one thing even more disturbing than this film is that some people actually gave it positive reviews !
OK , this is confusing . In 1984 , the Italian director Anthony Dawson ( AKA Antonio Margheriti ) made " Codename : Wildgeese " , an action film about a commando squad that goes to Southeast Asia to attack a drug lord's stronghold . It starred Lewis Collins , Lee Van Cleef , Klaus Kinski and Ernest Borgnine . In 1988 , he made " The Commander " , an action film about a commando squad that goes to Southeast Asia to attack a drug lord's stronghold . It starred Collins and Van Cleef again , but no Kinski and Borgnine this time ; in their place , there was Donald Pleasence . To further confuse matters , the version of " The Commander " I saw was actually titled " Commando : Wildgeese " ! It took me about 10 minutes to realize that I wasn't watching the 1984 film ! Anyway , all you need to remember is that " The Commander " / " Commando : Wildgeese " is a low-grade action film , to be avoided at all costs . A low point in the careers of Van Cleef and Pleasence ; all the others involved never had much of a career to begin with . The only character who piqued my interest was a beautiful female fighter , but she didn't get to do much . ( )
" Billion Dollar Brain " is an unbelievably , inexplicably bad movie . It's so bad that the Harry Palmer series didn't survive it . I can't realize ( after two viewings ) what exactly is wrong with it , but it seems to fail on every level : plot , action , satire . Even Caine looks passive and unable to save it . A real curiosity .
The main problem with this movie is that its premise is quintessentially , thoroughly unscary . It's no coincidence that the only two even remotely scary scenes ( suffocation by gas and a very hot shower ) are not even directly linked to electricity ! And how IS the evil circuit able to control doors and windows ? ? This picture has some decent acting at least , but you should only see it if you're desperate and have run out of good horror flicks to watch . ( )
The miscasting is almost fatal ( Richard Grieco as a police commissioner ? ? ? Whose bright idea was that ? ) , and the storyline is painfully obvious ( we are forever waiting for the thickheaded heroine to figure out what is in clear view ) . Those two factors alone make the movie a waste of time ( and a warning to Angie Everhart fanatics : don't come here looking for nudity ) . Even if you happen to catch this on TV , viewing it will offer you nothing ; renting is simply out of the question . ( )
A low-grade , junky slasher pic , both predictable and preposterous . There are two nice things one can say about it : the music score is atmospheric and there is one pretty surprising ( if irrelevant to the plot ) moment at the end . But it's still not worth your time .
Although this is a Belgian production , it shares a common flaw with some French fantasy / action / thriller movies : it's not satisfied with just being a good genre picture , no ; it has to be " ART " too . Therefore , we get moments of nonsensical character behavior and downright stupidity to rival any American B-movie , mixed with a tedious pretentiousness that has the characters speaking slowly and saying things like " I met her up north . . . . or was it up north ? " ( I don't know buddy , keep a note next time , alright ? ) and " I feel like a climber with an abyss below me " . The result of the mix is not pretty at all . The only redeeming features of " The Praying Mantis " are the attractive woodsy locations , and the mysterious , ethereal beauty of the female lead , Lou Broclain ( and she must be quite brave , too : at one point , she lets a real live tarantula walk all over her ! ) . Sadly , this movie appears to have killed her career before it really had a chance to flower . ( )
Shoddy , crudely filmed biker movie with interesting role-reversal concepts , which it completely misuses ( like so many other movies ) . It reminded me a bit of " Faster Pussycat ! Kill ! Kill ! " , but it is much worse . About half the dialogue is literally impossible to understand . The decapitation scene is so bad it must be seen to be believed ; thank God someone at least remembered to put the glasses back on the severed head after it had fallen on the ground . ( )
Fred Williamson , one of the two or three top blaxploitation stars . Cynthia Rothrock , one of the two or three top American female action stars . Imagine a film with these two together for the first time ! Now imagine THE WORST film that could possibly be made with these two together for the first time . Welcome to " Night Vision " . Of course , this movie was made in 1997 and they were both past their prime , but that doesn't mean they didn't have what it takes anymore - they just needed the help of good writing and direction . They got neither here . Rothrock does get to throw a couple of kicks near the end , but this film is so atrocious that you probably won't be awake to see them . ( )
This isn't really a sequel to the first " Leprechaun " , it's more of a " Nightmare on Elm Street " wannabe , as the title character appears to possess magical powers that far exceed those he had in the original . It's a meaner and gorier film , but at the same time an even more boneheaded one ; there are some insultingly stupid moments ( particularly the two " red herrings " , which may make you stop watching it right then and there ) . Overall , even bad-movie lovers may have some trouble with this one . ( )
Mostly dry and boring horror film , with shoddy special effects - yet quite creepy if you let your imagination do the film's work for you . It all seems quite disturbing on paper ( mutated man-plants , sideshow " freaks " , etc . ) , but the film's only real merit is another good performance by the ever-reliable Donald Pleasence . For a genuinely engrossing and dramatic " mutation picture " , I recommend the original " Fly " ( 1958 ) . ( )
" Blue Rita " is more or less what you'd expect from a Jess Franco film : very explicit - very kinky - very strange - very incoherent - very bad . The plot , as far as I could say , is about some Parisian strippers who double as secret agents : they kidnap enemy ( whose enemy ? Never mind ) spies and use sexual torture methods to make them " talk " . To give Franco credit , the production design is colorful and the cinematography is often striking . But the editing is incompetent and the pace is deadly . What puzzles me is how Franco convinced so many young women in his films to bare everything and be treated as pieces of meat by the camera , but I guess the men don't come off much better either . Still , if you just want to stare at naked women on the screen " Blue Rita " will do the job . . . . but so will many other AND better films . ( )
" The Naked Cage " is a textbook anthology of " Women-In-Prison Drama " cliches ( innocent heroine , sadistic warden , lesbianism , catfights , stabbings , riots , etc . ) . Watching it , you feel as if you're wallowing in a cesspool , and the fact that leading actress Shari Shattuck is not believable for a minute certainly doesn't help matters . At least Christina Whitaker is spirited and fun as the " wild " Rita . ( )
Beautiful , smart , dangerous , ruthless , tai-chi practicing Sophia Shinas is pretty much the only bright spot of this dud . For the story to have any chance of being less than absolutely ludicrous , we have to believe that the male lead can clearly see that the right thing to do is run away from this woman , but he is unable to do so because she is simply irresistible . And thanks to Shinas ' presence , we believe it . The rest of the movie though . . . . C . Thomas Howell is bland until maybe the last 5 minutes , and the plot couldn't be any more predictable . And don't be deceived by some famous names mentioned on the video box ( Kiefer Sutherland , Timothy Bottoms , Lou Diamond Phillips ) , they all have essentially cameos . ( )
The " possession by a vengeful ghost " storyline had probably gotten to be old and hokey already by 1976 , yet a good movie that can make you feel the emotional drive of revenge could still have made such a story seem new and fresh . Here , the possessed hero seems more concerned with raping and insulting his girlfriend than with taking his revenge . This results in a rather plodding pace . I don't even know why I'm bothering to think about this film any longer ; it's doubtful whether you should bother watching it . ( )
You know where you stand with " Mannequin 2 " early on , when you find out that the unfunniest character of the original has returned - and he has a bigger role to boot ! The " romance " part of the film is still kind of sweet , but Ragsdale is no Andrew McCarthy , and Kristy Swanson , unlike Kim Cattrall , doesn't bring any personality to her character ; she's beautiful but bland . In fact , that's the word that most accurately sums up the movie : bland . Its comic invention extends to " funny " accents , homosexual gags and chases in toy cars . If you like this sort of thing , go for it . ( )
The best thing about my DVD version of " Caged Fury " is the tagline : " Alone they are dangerous . . . . together they are deadly " . If only the movie lived up to it ! ( by the way , the picture quality on the DVD is on par with a poor VHS tape ) . The movie starts as a standard WIC ( Women-In-Camp ) drama , with a plot element of brainwashed assassins triggered by a voice on the phone that reminded me of the Charles Bronson flick " Telefon " . But that plot thread is forgotten somewhere along the way , as we focus on the heroine's escape attempts , first along with a male guard , later along with her fellow prisoners as they overtake a train . On the whole , the female action elements are disappointingly brief in duration , and the action scenes in general are unexciting . Unless you MUST see everything that Cirio H . Santiago ever made , " Caged Fury " can be skipped . ( )
Simply put , there's nothing to be gained from watching " Homebodies " . It's not funny , it's not believable for a minute , it's not entertaining , and it moves ( fittingly perhaps ? ) at the pace of a funeral . The blind guy is creepy , though . ( )
Unremarkable and unmemorable remake of an old , celebrated English film . Although it may be overly maligned as a total disaster ( which it is not ) , it never builds any tension and betrays its TV origins . Richard Burton sleepwalks through his role , and Sophia Loren's closed ( in this movie ) face doesn't display much passion , either . ( )
" Pieces " is a slasher flick that does nothing to differentiate itself from the other slasher flicks . As it usually happens in this genre , there is no plot , no progression , it's simply one killing after another . At least the gore effects are rather crafty , and the liberal gushing of blood was a " nice " touch . But the director seems interested in those set-pieces only ; the " dialogue scenes " couldn't have been more drably staged ( or acted ) . And the dialogue itself is not only badly dubbed , it is stilted and unnatural as well ( people say things like " I seem to have done rather a lot of talking " ) . On the positive side , Paul Smith is fine as the " most obvious suspect " , and there is a good , minimalist score - a score deserving of a better movie . ( )
The premise is good , but the movie isn't . It's excessively talky and fatally overlong . For Christ's sake , man , this thing goes on for what seems like four centuries and never really gets anywhere . The segment about the dead body that has to be removed takes up most of the movie , and it's tiresome ( many movies have done this sort of thing better ) , though it does give Beineix the opportunity to stage some nice Hitchcockian scenes ( like one involving a blind man in an elevator ) . Overall , if you're looking for a good contemporary French thriller , stick with " With A Friend Like Harry " . ( )
" The Eliminator " is a slightly more professional effort than Bas Rutten's following movie , " The Vault " , but that isn't saying much : it's still not very good . The fights ( the No . 1 reason for anyone watching this ) are few ( maybe 4 in total ) , brief , blurry , and gimmicked-up ( slow motion , fast motion , etc . ) . The script is not only blatantly derivative ( of the films I mentioned above , and many others ) , but sloppy as well , especially in the last 20 minutes ( one character practically disappears without a trace ) . There is surprisingly little action overall , and too much wandering around the island . I liked the professional stuntwoman Danielle Burgio - although she is not conventionally beautiful , I found her gorgeous in her own way - but she is largely wasted in this role . ( )
The filmmakers apparently had enough money to be able to afford decent makeup effects , but not enough for a creature that would move around and attack convincingly . We never get a chance to see the " monster " move from one place to another - whenever that happens ( supposedly ) , the camera focuses on the " terrified " reactions of the humans that are nearby . And when a man is attacked by it , he simply seems to be holding an inanimate object against himself so that it won't fall to the ground . This is still not the worst " Alien " rip-off around ( the two " Xtro " films are even worse , for example ) ; it's actually sufficiently entertaining if you've got 68 ( ! ! ) minutes to spare . ( )
I don't know if this exceptionally dull movie was intended as an unofficial sequel to ' The French Connection " , but it does have many of the same drawbacks : the script is so confusing that the viewer remains uninvolved and feels left out of the picture , and the direction is so cold , so lacking in energy , that even the great chase sequence can't liven things up . ( )
" Illicit Dreams " is not the first film to feature the premise of a woman who has recurring nightmares ( remember " Still of the Night " ? ) , and it certainly isn't the best , either . But this being an erotic thriller that fails both with the eroticism and with the thrills , we have to content ourselves with whatever interest the plot holds . And it does hold some , mainly due to the metaphysical angle ( psychokinetic connection , or something like that , bonds the two leads ) that's rare for a Shannon Tweed flick . Andrew Stevens directs , and he gives an unusually bright , richly colored look to the film . But he can't do anything about the ludicrous , hard-to-swallow final " twist " . ( )
What's the point of this film ? What does it have to say ? And why does Dyan Cannon disappear so early on ? You'll have all those questions running through your mind while you're watching " Doctor's Wives " , but this vapid , pointless , soap-opera-level film provides no answers . A very superficial treatment of potentially strong subjects . A great cast that is thoroughly wasted . And a heart-surgery scene that is not for the squeamish . ( )
Shannon Tweed spends much of this movie bikini-clad , and if there is a 40-year-old actress out there with a better body than hers ( except maybe for Ursula Andress ) , I can't remember her right now . She also looks spectacular firing two guns simultaneously , and her fighting moves are quick and graceful - you don't expect a woman who made a name for herself by starring in countless soft-core erotic thrillers to be a convincing fighter , but somehow Tweed is . Of course this is first and foremost a Hulk HOGan film , and of course he HOGs the spotlight : his delivery is totally flat , but I have to admit that his climactic fight with Billy Blanks is pretty good . Carl Weathers and Martin Kove are both past their prime , but hell , they can still have a go at the action genre if they really want to . Production values are better than expected and there are lots of explosions , but Tweed is basically the only reason I'm giving this film a rating ( could have been higher if she fought more ) .
This is a fairly dull , yet still moderately engaging police procedural . Stephen Baldwin plays the detective who tries to stop a serial killer by finding the clue to his motives in his sordid childhood . The detective has also lost his son recently , a side-plot which adds nothing to the main plot whatsoever , except perhaps that it gives Baldwin the opportunity to be brooding and soulful throughout the film , making the already grim atmosphere ( although there is almost no on-screen violence ) even more gloomy . The biggest shock of the film comes at the very end , in the credits , when it is revealed that the female psychologist-police consultant is played by Tyne Daly ! I wouldn't have recognized her in a million years ! ( )
This movie does offer a couple of good shocks , and Ben Chaplin is impressive as the-man-destined-to-be-Satan ( he gives a new meaning to the phrase " Sympathy for the Devil " ) , but the story is tired - just another " Omen " / " The Exorcist " knockoff ( and if you're an atheist , very close to being mindless hokum ) . The ( intentionally ) underlit cinematography is more unattractive than atmospheric ; however , I did like the strangely downbeat ending . ( )
This is a great-looking film , filmed in rich colors and beautiful New Orleans locations . But dramatically it doesn't fare so well ; it's mostly a monotonous series of heavy-breathing sequences , interrupted by dialogue passages that seem to exist only because a film can't be made ONLY with sex scenes . We also get lots of gratuitous nudity from the statuesque Erika Anderson , who's married to Judge Reinhold ( fairly good , but not good enough to be taken absolutely seriously as a dramatic actor yet ) and pursued by Nicolas Cage ( in a smug performance he would probably like to forget today ) . Overall , not a horrible film , but not outstanding , either . ( )
Can a comedy be likable and dismal at the same time ? If your answer is " no " , you obviously haven't seen " Dead Man On Campus " yet . On the one hand , this is a blatantly insensitive and tasteless film , with some moralizing thrown in at the end , as if the filmmakers want to convince you that yes , deep down inside , they know that suicide and depression are serious matters . On the other hand , there are some laughs , courtesy mostly of the much-mentioned " Cliff " guy , and some accurate observations about college life . On the whole this premise seems better suited to a thriller than to a comedy . . . I'll have to check out " Dead Man's Curve " sometime soon . ( )
When a movie pairs Alain Delon and Jean-Paul Belmondo , casting them as initially small-time crooks who work their way up the underworld ladder in 30's France , I think we have a right to expect something better than this . Pedestrian direction and a script that manages to be both dull and rushed make for a pretty unexciting movie . The stars are as charismatic as ever , but that isn't enough . ( )
Moderately interesting mystery tale , but hampered by some unclear plot points and wooden performances by the three main leads ( Robert Mitchum , in a supporting role , towers above them all ) . Bo Derek is in great shape for a woman in her late thirties , but she's totally expressionless ; still , it's the smug Steven Bauer that ranks at the top of the bad-acting list . Sex-wise , there is really only one scene worth mentioning ( on a motorcycle ) , but at least it's a memorably bold one . ( )
Yes , it's another ( belated ) slasher film , and not the worst of its type , actually . It has at least SOME believable characters ( though a few are poorly played ) , and for a while it's fun just trying to predict who's gonna die first and who will be the ultimate survivor ( s ) . The resolution is dumb , though , and the ending is even dumber . Devoted slasher fans may want to check it out , but just wait until it's shown on TV , don't rush out for it . ( )
This is a good film for kids and a pleasant diversion for the whole family . But it's just SO utterly predictable ! It suffers from lethargic pacing , which makes the predictability even more apparent . If a " classic " is a film you can watch over and over , then this is no classic : if you're an adult and you've seen it at least twice , try it one more time : it may put you to sleep !
" Don't Look In The Basement " is an ineptly directed cheapie that will no doubt be considered indifferent and trashy by most viewers . While it is by no means a good film , I found it surprisingly effective BECAUSE of its ineptitude , which gives it a strange authenticity . The performances , probably by amateur actors , are convincing and add to the authenticity . But the film has its share of stupidity , too : those who complained about the " under-staffed " hospital in " Halloween II " haven't seen anything yet !
Decidedly unpredictable but overly eccentric ( you could say " overly British " , but apparently the film was as much a failure there as everywhere else ) black comedy , that strains to be whimsical at the expense of everything else ( including laughs ) . The best thing in the picture is by far the bright young actress Lena Headey ( wonderful also in " Gossip " ) , who lights up the screen every time she appears . Her sardonic smiles and the occasional gleams of dirty fun in her eyes are priceless ; I don't think there's any other actress who can pronounce the phrase " how horrid ! " ( and mean exactly the opposite ) quite like she does . ( )
Personally I hated the original " Story of O " with a passion , and I only saw this in-name-only " sequel " by accident . Thankfully , the treatment of the subjects is a little more tasteful this time . Not that there aren't some unpleasant scenes here , but at least some of the women ( especially " O " ) are allowed to have a more balanced , sometimes even dominant role . And when the film seems to go into inexcusable territory near the end , it pulls the rug out from under your feet . It's a strange , interesting but confused and largely pointless film . Why pointless ? Because most people looking for an examination of money , power , sex and politics will choose to watch something else , and those looking for a 100 % erotic film won't be very satisfied either . ( )
This movie has its share of flaws : heavy doses of graphic gore , that almost degrade a series which began with a gore-less film , and moments that simply don't make sense - why does Myers kill his " collaborators " at the end ? Still , I found the attempts to explain his origin mostly fascinating . It's the easiest , the laziest and the greediest thing to present a killer without a motive and to keep bringing him back for more sequels even though he should be dead . Why do people say that this series never contained supernatural elements ? When Myers is shot six times in " Halloween " and nevertheless lives , was that " natural " ? Script and direction were a bit muddled , but not TOO muddled : I've never seen " Halloween 5 " , yet the plot made sense to me , even if some details didn't . The classic music score has been unfortunately altered , but as a whole this sixth entry seems to be somewhat underrated - " Halloween II " is much more boring . Fair acting , too .
Although this movie is loosely based on real events , it seems artificial at times ; some of the dialogue sounds scripted , instead of spoken by real people , and not all of the situations are believable . But the one big situation is still enough to keep you riveted to the screen , and the performances are good all around , with a particularly unsentimental portrait of the criminal by Raymond J . Barry . ( )
If you want to see fit , athletic young men and women in skimpy clothing doing martial arts poses and hand-to-hand combat for about an hour , " The Ultimate Game " is right up your alley . The first 30-40 minutes are slow and stilted , and the sound is sometimes out-of-synch , making the film look as if it had been dubbed . But when we get to the martial arts tournament , held in an exotic island somewhere off the coast of Japan ( I think ) , the movie starts delivering the goods for genre fans . If you can say a negative thing about the fight scenes , it's that sometimes they seem a bit too " rehearsed " ; on the other hand , there are LOTS of them , they are shot in broad daylight so you can clearly see them , and the hits look realistic . And it is an equal-opportunity film : women will go crazy over J . D . Rifkin's abs , while men will want to see more of that blonde fighter who , at one point , smiles wickedly and then drops her leg on her opponent's stomach with such force that the other woman probably had a belly ache for several hours afterwards . ( )
" The Ipcress File " was a genuinely intriguing spy thriller , a refreshing viewing choice for the mature viewers that were tired of the typical Bond films . Unfortunately , this sequel doesn't turn out to be a worthy one . Caine is still superb as Harry Palmer , of course , and he still has his dry cynicism ( when a woman likes him , he suspects that she's hiding something since he knows that he isn't that irresistible ) , but there are major problems with the pacing and the plot . This film is slow and flabby , and the story - after a relatively easy-to-follow first hour - becomes awfully confusing , a mistake that the original never made . " Funeral In Berlin " is still much better than the terrible third Harry Palmer film ( " Billion Dollar Brain " ) , and it has a memorable music theme , but take my advice : watch only " The Ipcress File " and skip the other two parts of the trilogy .
A funky , campy horror-comedy , in which the " horror " and the " comedy " parts don't combine ; they collide . You get some decent makeup effects and some straight brain-munching gore , then you get a silly scene ( the zombies staring admiringly at a female gymnast on TV ) than undermines the whole film . The acting is pretty bad , too ( except for the kid and the all-too-cool doctor , the cast showcases only one acting style : unending hysteria ) . Overall , I'd recommend this film only to zombie-movie completists , although it's far less unpleasant to watch than the next chapter of this series . ( )
This movie offers several spectacular shots ( free-falling , swimming against the sunset , scuba-diving , car flip / crash , etc ) , locations ( France , Switzerland , Morocco , Spain ) and means of transportation ( cars , boats , subway trains , planes , helicopters ) . The production values are certainly very polished . But the director takes an overly detailed approach to storytelling - there are quite a few scenes that go on longer than necessary . The thrills are limited : a car chase ends almost as soon as it begins , and a fight between Cassel and a Spanish female assassin ( Najwa Nimri ) is shot in such tight close-ups that you literally can't see any of the moves . As for the insights into the spy business ( " We're not asking her to collaborate with us ; we're asking her to obey our orders " ) , they're not exactly groundbreaking stuff . The intense Cassel and the dazzling Bellucci are interesting people to look at , but for the most part this spy thriller is too dry - and the ending is poor . ( )
If you take this as a fantasy , you'll probably be disappointed : it's as second-grade as they come , with a total blank for a hero and plenty of chaotically staged swordfights . But if you take it as a soft-porn film , you may be more pleased ; there is a stimulating ( if brief ) sex scene midway through , and abundant nudity throughout , though only the beautiful Lana Clarkson escapes the film's depraved attitude toward women . Anyway , the film certainly isn't as bad as the two Ferrigno " Hercules " movies . . . . . ( )
Inferior , if not uninteresting , sequel to one of Arnold's best movies . While the original began as a Rambo-type actioner and then turned into a claustrophobic thriller , this one emphasizes action , shootouts and mayhem throughout . Extremely loud film , it is not recommended for people with " sensitive " ears . The one thing the filmmakers didn't compromise was the superiority of the Predator : humans are still defenseless against him , and there is no " happy ending " .
This is a somewhat atypical role for Fred Williamson ; usually he plays a cop , or a bounty hunter , or just a general all-around badass who is always on top of every situation , but here he is a homeless , jobless Vietnam veteran who almost has to resort to eating out of garbage cans , is exploited by other people and , finally , forced to remember the killer instincts that got him a silver star in the army , when he gets involved in a war between two Mafia families ( those are rather typical ) . Despite a plodding first half , the film is mildly interesting . I mean , at least it keeps your attention until the downbeat ending - and the unbelievable , in every sense of the word , last-second " twist " . Fred , however , should NEVER do fight scenes , he just looks really clumsy in them . The cast also includes the cutie Jenny Sherman , Roddy McDowall sporting in one scene the fakest fake leg in the history of cinema , and Elliott Gould - for about 2 minutes . ( )
Van Damme and Roger Moore together ? Talk about an unlikely and mismatched team ! Roger actually looks bored most of the time , which is very uncharacteristic of him . Van Damme made his directorial debut here and I think he did an OK job in that department , but it's the script that dooms this film . We have to wait an ungodly amount of time for the real action to begin , and while in the last 20 minutes there's plenty of it ( and it's dynamically staged ) , it follows the same pattern that we have learned from so many other Van Damme movies : first he gets beaten to a pulp , then he makes a miraculous comeback , etc . ) ( )
The opening is intriguing : a mysterious woman invades the office of a book editor and forces him , at gunpoint , to read her manuscript aloud . Why is this so crucially important to her ? The manuscript itself , as we see it playing out on screen , is a surreal erotic fantasy about a young woman who checks into a bizarre , labyrinthine hotel where all the guests and personnel are strange and lustful . As this modern-day Alice-In-Erotic-Wonderland , Clio Goldsmith has a good body but a thoroughly unattractive face - from certain angles , she positively looks like a man in drag . Back at the editor's office , Catherine Spaak and Fernardo Rey are much better - especially Rey , who has a way of making a movie seem better that it is simply because he appears in it . But all through this movie , you're waiting for some kind of revelation , some kind of connection between the " real " and the " fictional " world ; it never comes . The ending of " Honey " provokes only a " say what ? " / " so what ? " reaction , and the whole " reading the manuscript " business turns out to be little more than a pretentious device . Lovely score by Riz Ortolani . ( )
In my opinion , this film doesn't really deserve to be called " a classic " , because it really shows its age : it may be technically excellent , but the obvious script and Boyer's overacting ( he seems to have " I am BAD " written all over his face ) are unforgivable by today's standards . " Gaslight " has a few effective moments , but , as a whole , it doesn't quite click .
" Wrongfully Accused " has more movie parodies than you can shake a stick at ( the jab at " The Usual Suspects " is a particularly nice bit ) , but overall there are more lame jokes here than clever ones . Like several people have said , the spoof fad has definitely run its course . Besides , Leslie Nielsen is starting to get really old for this kind of stuff . ( )
This is your ordinary mid-70s low-grade action-adventure with a female heroine , but it has two distinguishing features : the lead , Cheri Caffaro , is very sexy in an aggressive sort of way , and the director eroticizes the violence ( Caffaro is virtually turned on by pain and death ) . That is quite a daring thing for a movie to do , and the people here deserve some credit for even attempting it . And the climax of the film is surprisingly suspenseful . Now , if only they had picked a more talented leading man and a better editor . . . . . ( )
This one is a genuine oddity . Apparently , it confused professional and non-professional reviewers , who don't know how to respond to it . So , they have either trashed it or praised it enthusiastically . I think that those responses are both somewhat extreme , and the movie doesn't deserve either one . While it's far from a successful movie , it does have some interesting elements and its message , although obvious , at least seems heartfelt . It's a visually impressive picture , but the final battle sequence , is badly conceived . As for Williams , he is fairly funny , not hilarious .
Three comic skits set in Milan . The first is lame , worth seeing only for a few glimpses of Edwige Fenech's body ( I doubt that many Japanese women - she plays one here - wear what she wears after taking a shower ) . The second is the best : Michele Placido is by far the best comic actor in the film - he doesn't push for laughs , so he gets some . The third is pointless , and unfortunately the longest ; an example of its idea of humor is the overdrawn homosexual caricature of Celentano's right-hand man . Final recommendation : fast-forward through the first skit to get to the " good " Fenech bits , watch the second in its entirety and skip the third altogether . ( )
This outrageous comic-book style film crosses two genres : the buddy comedy with the zombie horror film . You'll get some undemanding fun from it , but there should be more . It has a fast pace and some good special effects ( the disintegration of a woman , etc ) , but too many repetitive puns about the dead cop's condition ( OK . We get it . He's a walking corpse . Anything else ? ) ( )
Look at the cast we have here ! Cynthia Rothrock , Chuck Jeffreys , Robin Shou , John Miller : all of them real-life martial artists . And then there is Donna Jason , who has probably had some martial arts training , and even though she's not at the level of the others , she gets extra points for hotness ( great smile ! ) . In theory , " Honor and Glory " should have been a non-stop fighting fest , but it didn't quite work out that way . The film devotes too much time to its plot , which is scattered all over the place and never seems to really get started , and the actual fight scenes are only average in quality - not bad , but definitely not top-grade either . The film does have its moments ( including Cynthia's scorpion kick and Donna's workout routine ) , but with this cast , we should be excused for expecting more . ( )
Atmospheric direction , wonderfully " foggy " and detailed production design and a first-rate cast would almost seem to guarantee a success here , but " Murder By Decree " is a stiff , disappointing film . With its annoyingly pretentious dialogue and the affected performances by the main leads ( Sutherland and Gielgud , on the other hand , are very good ) , the picture never really comes to life ; from beginning to end it feels just like an ambitious , polished " project " . ( )
It's already been said : the idea of replacing Peter Sellers with Alan Arkin in the role of Inspector Clouseau did not work at all . Arkin tries valiantly , but mostly he seems like a serious actor trapped in a comic role , and his efforts come off as forced . But regardless of who's playing Clouseau , this is a flat , long comedy with a story that makes little sense and apparently ends without being fully resolved , and only a handful of funny moments along the way . Catch " Pink Panther Strikes Again " instead ! ( )
Extremely predictable and full of stereotypical characters and tired jokes , " Revenge Of The Nerds " can be best viewed today as a time capsule . Definitely an 80's film that shows its age . A few funny moments and some ( brief ) nudity provide a measure of fun . ( )
" Burn , Hollywood , Burn " is not an altogether successful satire . It's shapeless , it's talky , it's self-conscious , it has essentially no plot and it wastes Eric Idle's talents badly . However , giving it " zero stars " or labeling it " one of the worst movies ever made " , as so many reviewers have done , suggests that there is nothing worthwhile to be found here at all , which is pretty inaccurate . There are , in fact , some big laughs in this movie , especially when Stallone ( explaining why the " Rocky " pictures are deeply religious ) and Jackie Chan ( demonstrating how he feels about any director who tries to " control " him ) are parodying their screen images . There are also some biting satirical remarks about the role of the director in a big Hollywood blockbuster and the marketing strategies the studios are prepared to use to get the audiences where they want them . At one point , a producer says : " We don't have a movie . So what ? We have a 30-second trailer . We can release that to theaters and charge full price ! " How far do you suppose this way of thinking is removed from reality ? ( )
" Topaz " is at its best when Alfred Hitchcock lets the camera tell the story : there are several small but brilliant moments in this film . But while his direction is still masterful , his pacing certainly isn't - the film often feels talky and plodding . The abrupt ending is another problem - one of the alternative endings , the airport one , sounds much better ( unfortunately I haven't had the chance to see it yet ) . Frederick Stafford is no Cary Grant or even Rod Taylor , but he does the job ; so do the rest of the actors , with Phillipe Noiret a standout in a brief role and Karin Dor adding a touch of sensuality to the proceedings . On the whole , " Topaz " is not even among Hitchcock's Top 10 pictures , but his fans will still have fun spotting his touches here and there . His cameo - a wheelchair-bound man who suddenly gets up and starts walking ( ! ) - is just one of them . ( ) EDIT : I finally did see the airport ending : it is undeniably better than the present one , but still a bit too abrupt .
It takes quite some effort to get used to the grainy visuals and the ( initially ) confusing storytelling of this movie , but Geraldine Page's performance eventually puts it across : it's ( the performance , not the movie , unfortunately ) scary , uncompromising and totally convincing . Some suspenseful scenes here , but nothing terribly memorable . . . . ( )
Probably not one of Abbott and Costello's shining moments . It's funny in spots ( " Go ahead , back up " ) , but it lacks comic momentum . 5 musical numbers are simply too many for an 80-minute comedy . The numbers are interesting in their own right , but not well-integrated into the story , and not as catchy as some of those in another A & C film of the same period , " In The Navy " . And although I have absolutely nothing against Black & White films , the tropical island setting of this one might have benefited from being shot in luscious Technicolor . On the plus side , the special effects are very impressive for their age , and as Luana , the island tribe chief's daughter , Nan Wynn is a dazzling exotic beauty - without exaggeration , one of the most beautiful women I have EVER seen . ( )
I didn't much like this movie . It's odd and unusual enough to keep you off-balance , but the plot has some gaps and unexplained parts . . . . . ( SPOILERS FOLLOW ) Early on , we see a man committing a most brutal murder , but ultimately it is revealed that the " Ripper " is someone else . The whole behavior of the first man strikes me as inexplicable . Perhaps there is a curious kind of connection , a bond between the two killers , but it is never made clear . This script looks like a part of a greater whole that we don't get to see . ( )
" Legacy of Rage " proves that Brandon Lee had enough talent to become an action star in his own right , without counting only on his famous father's name . He is a strong , likable , handsome , assured and charismatic hero - and this is only his film debut ! And when he gets angry , he is one dude you don't want to mess with . Regina Kent is adorable as his girlfriend , and Michael Wong turns in a convincing performance , as he changes from a bitter young man to a ruthless crime boss . The film itself is rather slow and unexceptional story-wise ( half prison flick , half revenge flick ) , distinguished from similar American fare mostly by a few superb hand-to-hand fight scenes and the amount of blood in the climax . ( )
This movie has some undeniably funny moments , but overall it's not in the league of " Naked Gun " . The jokes don't come fast enough . And although you're not supposed to take this sort of thing seriously , you may get the feeling that the movie trivializes some serious problems ( like drug addiction and youth gangs ) by making fun of them . Still , any movie that features both Jim Brown AND Isaac Hayes ( with a few notes of his classic " Shaft " theme to boot ) is at least worth a look . ( )
Sumptuous-looking , beautifully photographed , meticulously produced . . . . this movie seems to do everything right visually . But its story , very engaging in the first half , runs out of steam in the second . Story points and character motivations are often muddled , and I never got a complete and clear idea of where and when exactly the passionate love affair between the two basic characters started to go wrong . And yes , it is sometimes erotic ( mostly thanks to the very beautiful Karina Lombard ) , but it never becomes as steamy as you may have heard . ( )
Basically kid stuff , although it may engage some adults occasionally . Variable special effects ( the explosions look particularly unconvincing ) but very good makeup . The scenes set on earth , with a robot that has taken the place of the hero while he is fighting for the protection of the universe , produce some charming moments - like the one where the robot " fixes " a problem with his ear or his attempts to flirt with the hero's girlfriend . The scenes set in space are less successful ( even " Moonraker " had more impressive set design ) . And the basic story ( despite beginning from a good premise ) is silly ; " the frontier is about to collapse " and " we're under attack " ? Who cares about that stuff anyway ? ( )
I wasn't a big fan of the relentlessly unpleasant 1990 original , and this direct-to-video sequel certainly didn't look too promising . After viewing it , however , I found it superior to the first film . It follows the original's formula closely but emphasizes action instead of violence ( although there is still an element of sadism ) . It's a slicker-than-expected production , with plenty of mayhem and noise , which also re-creates some of the cool visual tricks that the original's director Sam Raimi had used . And Larry Drake returns as Durant with an utterly convincing performance .
This film has a complex , multi-layered structure that grabs your interest . . . but not much substance underneath . There's no real mystery to the plot , and no real revelations about " human nature " either . Well-acted all around - including a little boy who is wise way beyond his years . ( )
Atrocious dubbing , gratuitous violence , moronic dialogue , chaotic plot . . . . " Rumble In The Bronx " is so bad in so many ways that it's hard to know where to start . It has only two major fight scenes ( with Jackie against many but not especially skilled opponents ) , and only one truly noteworthy stunt . The only reason this movie was such a big hit is that when it came out , in 1996 , most people hadn't seen enough Jackie Chan movies , so they had nothing to compare it to ; if it were released now , it wouldn't stand a chance . ( )
As almost everybody has already noted , " Circus of Fear " is not a horror movie , despite the title , the advertising and the presence of Christopher Lee ( in a secondary role ) . It's a cross between a crime caper and a whodunit . And as soon as you get over your initial reservations , it turns out to be an engrossing film that keeps you guessing all the way to the end . The story is full of strange , shady , secretive and suspicious characters , but the revelation of the killer's identity still comes as a shock ( to me at least - it blew my theory away ! ) . Apart from the sometimes overemphatic music score , this 40-year-old movie still holds up today . And who wants to miss any opportunity of seeing Klaus Kinski playing . . . . Klaus Kinski ? This guy only needed a cigar , a few close-ups and two or three lines of dialogue to look creepy ! ( )
No great shakes in terms of scripting and originality , but this interesting horror film has an unusual , realistic edge that sets it apart from most routine thrillers . Well-drawn characters and first-rate effects make this a perfectly decent , if minor , effort . The explosive final sequence is very well-edited .
This musical certainly has everything money can buy ; you can almost see money dripping from the screen . The use of colors is truly dazzling ( and best appreciated on the new DVD ) , and some of its musical numbers are showstoppers ( my favorite was Monroe's " Lazy " - oh , the way she pronounces the word ! ) . But the story is flimsy even for a musical , and the direction is impersonal throughout - there are virtually no close-ups in the entire film ! The wide-screen framing certainly helps the musical numbers , but when we have a scene with two people just talking to each other and the camera STILL refuses to go closer to them , the result is a frame with a lot of empty space on the sides and two figures that you can barely see in the center . Honestly , if some of the " dramatic " scenes were played by impersonators of the stars , nobody would know the difference ! ( Monroe not included , of course ) . ( )
Don't bother looking for a single sane character in this twisted , demented sickie , because there isn't one ; you just keep watching and waiting to see who will prove to be the most perverse of them all . If you can accept the hard-to-swallow premise , then the film is fairly entertaining . Plus , it has an AMAZING ending . You won't see it coming , no matter how good you think you are at predicting plot surprises . ( )
A werewolf movie with an unconventional angle : you actually want the werewolf to prevail in this one . It has an air of mystery and at times it's very compelling , but the climactic " battle of the beasts " is kind of silly . Still , it's miles ahead of Parts " II " , " III " and " IV " . ( )
This low-budget horror film had an innovative concept , mixing rather successfully a traditional Agatha Christie-type murder mystery with a " gory " werewolf flick ; the result does hold your attention but is marred by wooden acting ( except for the excellent Peter Cushing ) and a few overextended chase scenes . As another reviewer noted , no real clues are given to us to help us figure out the identity of the werewolf , so it's strictly a matter a guessing , but there is some fun in the game . . . ( )
For a movie centering around the world's first successful penis transplant , " Percy " turns out to be considerably less raunchy than one might expect ; in fact , it's downright melancholy at times . The hero spends half the movie trying to discover the identity of the ( deceased ) donor of his new " member " , and the other half meeting the donor's past conquests ; in the end he realizes that going to bed with a woman only gives him pleasure when he really cares about her . The film is meandering and short on big laughs , but Hywel Bennett gives a likable , low-key performance , as do most of the women , who are quite lovely to boot ( be aware , however , that the biggest names , Elke Sommer and Britt Ekland , appear only for a couple of minutes each ) . So " Percy " does not rise to any great heights ( ha ! ) , but it is not completely limp either ( ha ! ) ( )
" Nature of the Beast " is a well-crafted thriller , with excellent chemistry between Eric Roberts and Lance Henriksen ( two actors who have often wasted their time on worthless direct-to-video movies ) . However , the " twist " at the end is predictable ( generally , when a thriller tries its darnedest to convince you that " something " is true , nine the " opposite " is true ) and moronic ( just think about the specifics of the murder of the waitress , and it all falls apart ) . Ultimately , it's a movie for those who don't like to think too hard about movies . ( )
The highest compliment one can pay to this movie is that it's no better or worse than the 1993 version of the same story ( " Alive " ) , despite its having been produced on a much lower budget , with more primitive special effects . The problem is that if you're familiar with the story , there are no surprises left ; you're simply waiting for the inevitable . It must be noted , however , that the " gore " factor has been considerably hyped up : the scenes that are " not for the squeamish " amount to a total of two . ( )
A prettily photographed , occasionally enjoyable but rather leisurely paced Disney adventure . It features an amusing Peter Ustinov ( as a good-hearted quack ) , some pretty good special effects ( except for a mosquito attack , which looks awful ) and a few unusually adult elements ( one character is nearly executed by the Ku Klux Klan ) . The two leading kids are not irritating at all , and the film is agreeable enough , but too long and not very compelling story-wise . ( )
" Operation Pink Squad " is a strange HK mix of action , drama and lowbrow comedy . The cover features four girls , and the Pink Squad IS made of four girls , but two of them aren't really important and are soon forgotten . The main leads are Anne Bridgewater and Sandra Ng . Anne has the lion's share of the action - the film begins with an incredible fight scene ( her vs . Jeffrey Falcon ) , but sadly she has only two more fights after that : the one has no proper ending and the other is too silly ( she is disguised as a clown ) . Sandra is in charge of the comic and dramatic elements , and she handles them well , in fact she is the main reason they work at all . Overall , the film is a mixed bag , and probably works better if you know that you should not expect a lot of action . ( )
I stumbled upon this little-known movie by accident . It's a confusing at times , but still fairly interesting " political paranoia " thriller . Unfortunately , both the video box summary and most of the other reviews pretty much give away the entire plot , so don't expect anything terribly surprising . And Robert Mitchum's performance in this one was disappointing , considering his juicy role . Still , it WAS a rare find . . . . ( )
A few people have said that it's an undiscovered treasure , more people have stated that it's possibly Wes Craven's worst movie ( haven't they seen " Shocker " ? ) ; I simply found it to be an OK , average horror offering that merely helps you kill two hours . The first half plays almost like a well-observed drama , but after Swanson has been " resurrected " the film becomes just too silly to work . The " infamous " basketball scene , however , is undeniably great ; you'll have to rewind the tape multiple times to get the full effect of it ! ( )
This movie is never boring , that must be said . Although it runs 138 minutes , it feels more like 98 . BUT . . . . its " message " is dubious at best ( there is a difference between non-conformity and sheer paranoia ; the boy's actions are never condemned , and almost justified by the movie ) and the " devices " used by Lumet to transfer the play to the screen ( like flashbacks with an older Firth playing the six-year-old Firth , or Burton's madman-like monologues ) create an extra feeling of artificiality . Also , it would help if we could study the gradual disintegration of the boy's mind , but there is no " gradual " - he is deranged from the start . ( )
Jim Brown , the personification of coolness , is the nightclub owner who decides to avenge his brother's murder and begins a war against the local Mafia . Familiar but enjoyable , thanks largely to Brown's presence , and to some dynamic action scenes . Two interesting things : the use of wide-angle lenses during a fight scene , and a strong supporting role for the actor who was memorable as one of the two homosexual goons in " Diamonds Are Forever " . ( )
The title of this movie makes a point that is highly debatable - to put it kindly . I don't think that anyone in his right mind would prefer Marilyn Monroe to Jane Russell after watching them both here : Russell seems to be a more attractive woman , a better actress ( her smile is natural , Monroe's is forced ) , a sexier dancer and she plays a " normal " , likable character , while Monroe's character is appallingly lame-brained . Russell is vastly preferable , no doubt about that . As for the film , it's just a little piece of nothing , made endurable only by Russell's presence . The ironic thing is that , although there aren't enough musical numbers here for this movie to qualify as a musical , they forgot to throw in a decent plot , as well . And visually , it looks stagy and inexpensive .
I haven't seen every single movie that Burt Reynolds has ever made , but this one ( which I've just finished watching , for the third time ) may very well be his best ! It suffers only from some slow stretches ; Burt perhaps tried to make it more " arty " than it should have been . On the other hand , he managed to avoid many of the usual cliches in the presentation of the " tough cop " role he plays ( notice , for example , the scene in which he attempts to kiss Rachel Ward for the first time , or the fear he expresses just before the final showdown with the indestructible Henry Silva ) . In fact , Silva and those two ninja assassins are three of the most memorable villains of cop thrillers of the 80s . The film also has some offbeat touches , a surprising amount of humor , a brutal and gripping fistfight and many well-directed shots . ( )
" Fulltime Killer " is not quite as good as John Woo's ( just plain ) " Killer " . The super-stylish direction catches your attention , and the flashbacks and changes of focus among the four main characters are confidently and successfully integrated into the narrative . Also all the performances are good . But if you're looking for any qualities like originality , substance or realism you've come to the wrong place . ( )
Though this is billed as the official third entry in the " Police Story " series , it doesn't really feel like a part of it . The higher production values and the rapid changes of international locations give it an almost Bondian feel . The comedy has been touched-up a bit from the previous entry , and it is actually frequently funny ( unlike , for example , the comedy in " Twin Dragons " or the " Lucky Stars " films ) . The action sequences - from the ( literally ) death-defying stunts to the dizzyingly fast fight scenes - are incredible . The plot is much stronger than usual for a Chan film , though sometimes it collapses into chaos ( particularly in the massacre after the meeting of the drug lords , where it's hard to know who's killing whom , or why ) . Michelle Yeoh cannot quite match Jackie in the comedy department - she doesn't have his facial expressions or comic timing - but she more than matches him in the action scenes , and she shows off some fantastic moves . The version I saw was ( acceptably ) dubbed , but thankfully did not include the rap soundtrack that others mention . ( )
An intelligent , thoughtful , extremely well-acted drama . Both Gene Hackman and Melvyn Douglas perform with great restraint , helped by a script that gives them fully-drawn characters to play . The direction , although not the most important element in this type of film , also has its moments , like a visit to an old-age home that is presented as a descent into Hell . But there is a burden that keeps this film from being a really great one ; its overwhelming banality . ( )
There is only one way to get through this " Aladdin " : you must have a high tolerance for corniness . One minute the Genie says that he doesn't know what these " boxes " ( meaning the cars ) are , the next he delivers exactly the kind of car that the kid ( his " master " ) wants . There isn't really a story , it's just a series of unrelated episodes . And the " culture shock " factor ( the Genie wakes up 200 years after his time ) goes almost completely unexplored . But the movie has an essential good-heartedness that makes it likable . It's also nice to hear Bud Spencer's original voice for a change , Italian accent and all . ( )
Entertaining mix of action and comedy , at least for the first two-thirds of its length . Then there are some rather overextended action sequences and the film loses some of its comic edge . Still , the acting is first-rate all around , with Fox and Woods offering many laughs when the script gives them the chance , and Stephen Lang a highly enjoyable , totally loony villain . ( )
Despite some cliched motivations and plot elements , this big-budget courtroom thriller will hold you for its 130 minutes , mainly because it engages the brain as well as the senses . At first it looks like a " either-he-did-it-or-he-didn't " story that we've all seen many times before , but around the midway point the ambitious script shifts its direction and becomes a thought-provoking drama . It STILL seems derivative , however , until a final twist that I found totally unexpected and surprisingly well-thought-out . Richard Gere is terrific in a tailor-made role , Laura Linney was strangely endearing in my opinion ( of course , others thought she was awful , so be warned ) and Edward Norton really shows remarkable talent in his debut , especially in his closing scene . ( )
Excellent adult thriller . Stylish , intense , funny and unexpectedly moving . Intricately plotted ( it will always be one step ahead of you ) and fluidly , inventively directed ( including a unique twist on Eastwood's classic " Did I fire six bullets . . . or only five ? " line ) . Well-acted , especially by Kilmer . The less you know about it beforehand the better , though , so I'll just add this : this film is not always pleasant to watch , but it has personality and will take you on quite a journey . Don't read about it , see it . ( )
" Rocky II " isn't as wildly entertaining as the next installment ( which is my favorite ) , and it's slightly overlong , too . But it's still an earnestly made , appealingly tender sequel . Stallone dedicates time to character development and quirky humor ( the scene where he attempts to star in commercials is really funny ) , making the movie more suitable for viewers who prefer dialogue over action - although the actual fight is more dynamic than the one in the original .
A well-made mystery / film noir . Bogart is in top form , Scott is as glamorous as any given femme fatale of the period , and Carnovsky is smooth as the well-spoken villain . The direction is no more than workmanlike , but the dialogue is superior throughout . My favorite line : " Maybe she was all right . . . and maybe Christmas comes in July , but I doubt it ! " ( )
