This couldn't have even been popular in its day . It's incredibly incompetent . I can forgive the total lack of cinematic devices . This is , after all , pre-Griffith . But there's no imagination in the film whatsoever , not a wink of it . In fact , the novel on which it's based was written by a total idiot . Only one character in the film has a Roman name , despite it taking place in Pompeii , and the name that that one man has is of a family that had been extinct for a couple of decades by the time that the film takes place , in the last few days before the eruption of Mount Vesuvius in 79 CE . To this film , anyone wearing a bedsheet counts as a Roman . In this melodrama , prominent man falls in love with one woman on the same day as he buys a blind , female slave away from an abusive mistress . The blind slave is so grateful that she quickly falls in love with him , stumbling after him with arms outstretched as he takes his fianceé for a walk . The blind girl goes to the priest of Isis , who gives her a potion purported to be a love potion , but really a potion that causes insanity ( I don't recall why he particularly hates the guy ) . The blind girl poisons the guy , the priest frames the guy for murder . The priest locks the blind girl in a dungeon , and the guy is sentenced to be eaten by lions . In the film's only decent sequence , the blind girl fools the slave left behind to protect her by performing a bogus magic trick and then stealing his keys when he is unaware . She goes to save the guy , but then , right before the soldiers can feed him to the lions , there is a very angry deus ex machina as Vesuvius begins to erupt . The citizens of Pompeii run around in circles , flailing their arms , not even attempting to escape . The blind girl leads the insane guy to a boat ( ? ! ) but he and the other people leaving in the boat just leave her behind to be engulfed in lava . The film is worthless , although , nearer the end , it does start to become unintentionally funny . However , it's not near funny enough to warrent any sort of recommendation . This should have been lost with the multitude of other silents that were being made at the time . .
The story is good enough : two sailors are ordered to take a younger sailor from Virginia to New Hampshire to a brig . There he'll serve eight years for a ridiculously minor offence , trying to steal $40 from a charity box . On the way there , they try to show him a good times and have some adventures . But the style of the film seems very amateurish . The sound feels like Ashby really wanted to copy Robert Altman's revolutionary soundtracks , but it just doesn't work . The characters mutter all the time and often I couldn't understand what they were saying . Luckily , I rarely cared . The dialogue seems like it was improvised . Often the characters would stumble through lines , as if they weren't sure what to say next . Some of the dialogue resembles that of the Blair Witch Project : when the actors didn't know what else to say , they just swore . Well , I guess they are supposed to be sailors . Jack Nicholson has never been so obnoxious , nor ever as bad . I despised his character more than any other I can think of offhand . Otis Young has almost nothing to do in the film . Randy Quaid is pretty good , but , if indeed it was improvised , he has an easy job as an extremely shy and dumb fellow . I don't know what the hell Hal Ashby was thinking when he did this one . He's no master filmmaker , of course , but , in his own charming , sloppy way , he made two of my favorite films : Harold & Maude and Bound for Glory . .
Man , who allows scripts like this to be made into movies ? Is it really that funny to hear a Jewish guy speak in black slang and an old white guy pretend he's African American ? Why didn't they just put Steve Martin in blackface ? This film is far more offensive than Al Jolson singing ' Mammy , ' let me tell you . I feel so embarrassed for Martin . He's far too talented to be appearing in sht like this . Queen Latifah provides some of the energy that should have been in the script , but she doesn't have the talent to save this train wreck . This film was very successful , but I beg you , Hollywood , please don't shove a sequel down our throats . You can't blame the executives , however . The audience is directly culpable for dreck like this , and every single person who gave this film a dime should feel ashamed . .
If nothing else , this movie will be a landmark in my film viewing life : it was the first movie I ever saw on Blu Ray ( a buddy bought a Playstation 3 ) . If not for that , I'm sure it'd be one for the dustbin of my memory . Granted , it's hard to judge fairly when I never saw the first two installments of this based-on-a-video game trilogy , but Resident Evil : Extinction can only barely count as a movie . It's a post-apocalyptic zombie movie where a genetically engineered woman with excellent fighting abilities ( model / musician Milla Jovovich ? I refuse to acknowledge her as an actress ) helps a ragtag band of survivors escape to Alaska , while she herself infiltrates the underground layer of the Umbrella Corporation , which created the virus that zombified the rest of the world . The plot is mostly nonexistent . I kind of like the set and costume designs ( sci-fi being every set and costumer designer's favorite gene ) , and the movie's watchable when it focuses on the scenery . But it's an action movie , and , for God's sake , the action sequences are dull . CGI looks even more fake in high definition . The director and / or editor cut madly during these sequences , inducing headaches and making it impossible for you to tell what's going on . It's a pretty worthless film , and let's leave it at that .
Way to start the summer , Marvel . This is a prequel to a series of mostly decent comic book movies - I'd rank the second one , X2 , as maybe the second or third best comic book movie ever . It concerns the origin of the series ' most popular character , Wolverine . Well , that's kind of a lie . It's not really that concerned with anything . It's an indifferently created action movie that goes through the cliché plot line ploddingly . Dialogue is flat , as is the acting . The film is overly violent but completely bloodless - I hate when they edit an R-rated movie into a PG-13 rated movie . At least it's sometimes laughable . Try not to giggle every time Wolverine is on his knees , hands ( and claws ) spread , screaming " NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! " That happens four times in the story , and the movie flashes back to one of those times at least once , as well . There's hardly a good thing I can say about it . It's a stinker , probably the worst summer blockbuster since Van Helsing . Sorry , Mr . Jackman . I have nothing against you , but these two movies are beyond abysmal .
I cannot imagine Woody Allen creating a film worse than September . Never has a film been more stagy - Allen must have intended that feeling , but only God knows why . The direction is poor in every way . The dialogue is God awful , often laughable , and the acting is just as bad . Mia Farrow and Dianne Wiest turn in what must be their worst performances . Sam Waterston is ineffective . The two parents ( whose names I cannot even recall ) seem like their in a different movie - a Woody Allen film . Their delivery is wry and often good , at least it would be if it belonged here . None of the characters ever ring true - never . What's really sad is that there is a good story underneath this terrible train wreck of a film . Lane's situation and her relationship with the other characters could have been fascinating . Unfortunately , the events of the past are introduced is such a poor way , the same way a really bad play would do it , that they never really seem important . Allen wanted desperately to make a Bergmaesque chamber piece , but Bergman is smart enough to have the outside world exist in his similar films , Persona , for instance . If you are an Allen fan , then this one is worth seeing - an artist's bad work is nearly as important as his great work . Just be prepared for something utterly awful - at least it's only 82 minutes long .
Definitely one of Altman's worst , though perhaps not quite as bad as some may lead you to believe . The producer wanted Altman to make a teen comedy in the vein of Porky's or something . Altman hated those kinds of movies , and decided to make a parody of one instead . Unfortunately , you just can't make a parody of a comedic genre . It never works . O . C . and Stiggs comes off as just a wacky teen comedy as directed by Altman ; the only difference is that the characters are slightly more obnoxious and , instead of being fun anti-heroes , they're detestable . Which makes for a rather unpleasant movie . The script ( or Altman's alterations ? he apparently hated the script as written , so who knows how much he changed it ) is extremely sloppy as well , especially as it nears the end . There are some amusing moments along the way , so it's not a total bust . It does contain one of the funniest dialogue exchanges I've ever heard : " How would you like to have more fun than you've ever had in your life ? " " I don't know . I've had a lot of fun . I have Legos , you know . "
Hip-hop dancer Jessica Alba wants to become a professional , as well as save her dance studio , the only place where local kids can hang out and not get in trouble . Yes , it's a 2000s version of Breakin ' 2 : Electric Boogaloo . Unfortunately , Honey has little of the charm of the Breakin ' movies . Well , maybe in 20 years it'll be seen as camp , too . It's kind of the only way any Jessica Alba movies , save maybe Sin City , will ever be viewed in the future . The film is less than terrible when it focuses on the dancing . I say yes to Jessica Alba dancing . Apparently she knew nothing about dancing before taking the role . It's impressive that she learned how to do it so well . Has no one suggested maybe acting classes ?
Newfangled B-Western , pretty much released straight to video , starring Selma Hayek and Penelope Cruz as bank robbers trying to right the wrong of an evil American railroad company . Dwight Yoakam plays the bad guy and Steven Zahn plays a detective skilled in brand new technologies like fingerprinting . Sam Shepard also briefly appears as a famous bank robber who teaches the bandidas his trade . Produced and co-written by French Eurotrashmeister Luc Besson , I thought this might be amusing crap . Unfortunately , it's unamusing crap . It's actually fairly well made and respectable enough to look at , and the performances are good . But the script is just bad enough to be boring , not entertaining . It's coy , despite the heaving bosoms of Hayek and Cruz . There's maybe only one scene that could be described as sexy . The two actresses do look awfully cute dressed up as cowgirls . They always look like they just took a shower before they shot every scene ( or more likely a milk bath with rose petals ) , and the extras always looked like they just got thrown into dirt piles .
This is a 15 episode serial based on the Bob Kane comic . It wasn't the first version of Batman brought to the big screen . In 1943 , there was another serial that had Japanese villains . This one is pretty innocuous , and also pretty forgettable . I am almost completely ignorant of the medium of serials . The only other one I've seen is Feuillade's Les Vampires , which is strikingly similar in form , even though made much earlier and in France . American serials are generally known for their cheesiness , their quick pacing and their cliffhangers . If I've gotten that stereotype correctly , Batman and Robin is a perfect example of the form . Some of the cheapness is a lot of fun . Like you notice the one bat that is perpetually flying around in circles in the bat cave . You think he'd die of exhaustion after a while . Vicki Vale appears . While she was in the comic books before this , Bob Kane only incorporated her as a main character after this serial ( though he based his design on Marilyn Monroe ) . Vale here feels a lot like Superman's Lois Lane ( I can't say which character in this form was first ; I don't know enough about their relative histories to say for sure ) . It's fun how difficult a time Batman and Robin have at keeping their identities . Half the time Batman is visiting Commissioner Gordon as Bruce Wayne , and he keeps having to tell people that Batman wants him to convey certain information . The best moment in the series comes when Vicki Vale pulls up behind Bruce Wayne's car ( the Batmobile does not exist in this version ) and Batman and Robin pop out . " Does Bruce Wayne know you're driving his car ? " Vicki asks . Without a pause , Batman replies : " Of course he does . " Their capes and costumes always get in the way when they're fighting . One time Batman's cape almost pulls him down , and he's often shifting his mask so he can see better . I wish the villain had been one of the familiar faces from the Rogues Gallery ( which literally appears in the serial as a filing cabinet ) . Instead we have " the Wizard " , a dull guy in a black hood and cloak . The serial as a whole is amusing , but hardly worth spending four and a half hours watching .
The second feature from the comedy troupe Broken Lizard , the first being Super Troopers . That film was one of the crappiest I've seen of the last few years , but my brother wanted to see Club Dread and I'm easy . And I didn't hate it . Don't get me wrong , I didn't like it either , but I've seen a lot worse . It's a slasher comedy , although it needs way , way more comedy . I found it to be more adequate as a slasher flick , a slasher flick with a few amusing jokes tacked on . The plot involves a serial killer on a rampage on a Costa Rican resort island . This resort is owned by Coconut Pete , a clone of Jimmy Buffet . This character amused me a lot . As performers , the members of Broken Lizard ( and , by the way , I don't know which actors qualify as part of this troupe ) do have talent , but they seriously need to learn how to write a movie script . I may not have hated this movie , but I've got to wonder who the hell keeps giving these nobodies money . .
It's not that I despise this sort of realism , either . This is just an example of the most generic type of realism . It's a dime a dozen . It has no point whatsoever , really . The most effect I got out of it was watching it as a character study of Ah-Ha , the main character . He is the only character , besides Grandma , whom I'll discuss later on , whose name I could remember by the film's end , although there was a rift in my recognition of him after a long period of time was skipped and a new actor began to play him . There may even have been two skips in time ; I'm not sure . My major criticism of this film I must state right here and now : to only be able to proceed in one's narrative by killing characters off is a sign of very poor authorship and a general lack of imagination . Many other films and novels have faced this problem , too . The most famous one , in my opinion , is Gone with the Wind , whose second half is little more than a series of pointless deaths , so much so that , to me , it became very laughable . Another good example is Zhang Yimou's To Live . The most important example , though , is Satyajit Ray's Apu Trilogy , Pather Panchali , Aparajito , and World of Apu . If you're worried that I might ruin those films for you , go ahead and skip down a bit . These three films seemed to have influenced Hou Hsiao-hsien's film greatly . In fact , the grandmother character seems to me to have been directly taken from Pather Panchali . In that film , an old aunt would wonder about and get lost and such . She was played mostly for humor , as is the grandmother in this film , but that aunt had pathos . Grandma here just seems silly . Okay , here's how predictable A Time to Live , a Time to Die is : within the first five minutes , in the opening narrative , the father's death is clearly foreshadowed . The title of the film , which is pretty generic in the first place , announces this film's subject and even its structure , for the most part . More than halfway through the film , the mother of the main family discovers a growth on her tongue - count her dead , my brain said . Half an hour later , we were at her funeral . To top it off , Grandma dies . Its her death that , for me , hammered the final nail in the coffin . Her death is so morbid that it becomes almost funny . Nearer the end of her life , she cannot move off her mat . She ends up defecating and urinating all over the floor ( apparently with great force - the sht stains are something like half a foot from her anus , which , I assume , is still covered in some fashion ; she must have been eating some extraordinarily spicy General Tso's Chicken or something ) . The teenagers who are taking care of her only discover her death is by the ants which have begun to devour her . And when the morticians begin to move her , well , let me put it this way : have you ever seen a frog that has been out of water for too long , dead with it's legs sticking straight up in the air ? When the morticians move Grandma , her arms are stiff , so when she is moved , her arms , legs and all are so stiff that she is stuck in that position . Yes , I know that that's what would have happened , but it simply looks hilarious . Also , the side on which she lay was totally rotting away . I think the point is supposed to be that , with all the tragedy that they've experienced in their lives , these children just don't want to accept their grandmother's death , who was always so kind to them . Or maybe they didn't want even her shell to be taken away . But , during this moment which is supposed to be touching , it simply turns out to be foul . Grandma does happen to be the most entertaining and interesting character after Ah-Ha , so she really deserves more dignity than Hsiao-hsien is giving her . Compare the similar death in Pather Panchali , the only film in the Apu Trilogy whose tragedies I can accept ; after that they just get repetitive as Hell . As for this film's first two deaths , we don't get to know the characters enough to care . You might think , and , yes , Hsiao-hsien must have been thinking , that just because these are the parents of Ah-Ha , the main character with whom we should be identifying ( and are , for the most part ) , we should feel pain . Nope . That's not how it works . Even if they are the parents of a character with whom we identify , the screenwriter is required to build a touching and realistic relationship between the parents and the child . There was no such pathos involved in the situation . Pathetically , although not " pathetic " in the sense that I had any pathos , but rather in a sad and embarrassing manner , Hsiao-hsien tries to make us care about the father's death by having the mother cry profusely , knowing that people will be more likely cry if someone else is crying . This is no less dishonest than a laugh track . And I don't think anyone in the theater where I saw the film was falling for it . I've been hearing so much about Hou Hsiao-hsien in the past year that I was truly disappointed in this film . However , I'm not going to give up on him . There's a free program featuring many of his films at my university this semester , and I plan to take in every one I can . My rating for this particular film is .
Zetes ' Dictionary defines ' mediocrity ' as the 2003 Best Picture nominee Seabiscuit , directed by Gary Ross . It's watchable , but it's a weak , uninteresting story that is poorly plotted and has a low success rate at tying said story into its historical context , as hard as it tries . I can take films about underdogs once in a while , providing that they're well done , but Seabiscuit wins , what , a quarter of the way through the movie and then its rich sponsor ( played by Jeff Bridges ) pesters the even richer owner of the Triple Crown winner War Admiral until he finally gives in , lest he be annoyed any further . The only actors who do anything nearing a decent job are Tobey Maguire as Seabiscuit's down-and-out jockey and William H . Macy , who plays a radio sports broadcaster . Jeff Bridges , Chris Cooper , and that other uninteresting lady sleepwalk through the film . The film does boast some fine cinematography . .
Based on a Japanese cartoon strip , and it shows . Yes , the visual style is very simple and , honestly , once I got over the novelty of it , it did start to grate . But that's not even what I'm talking about . I only ever read the comic strips in the papers when I'm extremely bored . I like to see just how bland and unfunny they are . My Neigbors the Yamadas isn't entirely bland , but it is often enough that the film disappoints overall . For every charming moment , of which there are quite a few , there are half a dozen moments filled with the most banal of observations about Japanese family life . The script is very episodic , presumably because it is based on a bunch of individual story lines from the comic strips . There are some longer stories , but a majority of the film follows the basic three-box comic strip formula . There's a two part set-up and then a quick punchline , always in the film followed by an annoying musical cue . The best moments of the film are meant to be small and sweet , but even these are so understated that they are mostly forgettable . Ghibli has done toned-down material very well in the past , notably Yoshifumi Kondo's Whisper of the Heart . I would never have imagined that a Studio Ghibli film would disappoint me ; it's beyond comprehension that I had to fight to stay awake during one !
A romance with a bit more intelligence than the average one , a little more heartfelt and one that has a very likable and non-stereotypical man at its center . He is played by Ryan Reynolds , most famous for his role as Van Wilder , but surprisingly good as a romantic lead , and the movie is about him telling the story of how he met his wife ( from whom he is getting a divorce ) to his young daughter ( Abigail Breslin ) . There were three major women in his life , and he changes their names so the daughter can't guess which one is her mother . The three women are played by Elizabeth Banks , Isla Fisher and Rachel Weisz . He falls in love with each of them at different times , but always at the wrong time . At times , this is a very sweet movie , and not very cloying . Unfortunately , it's never all that engaging , either . It offers some simple pleasures , but it was , overall , pretty forgettable . I also didn't care for the flashback structure much . Some of the stuff that is apparently being narrated to his daughter is stuff a girl of her age , who incidentally just learned the term " sexual intercourse " the same day at school , doesn't need to hear . When the girl has to stop the story to ask what a threesome is , your story might have gotten a bit too graphic . That gag was certainly more disturbing than funny .
First thing first : Carnival of Souls kicks this movie's butt so hard that its spine shoots right out of its skull and launches forward so far that it breaks the world record for javelin throwing . The first fifty minutes or so are really terrible , about as clumsily directed and written as anything I can think of . Romero can't think of anything for Barbra ( Judith O'Dea , whose look should prove without a shadow of a doubt that Romero had in fact seen Herk Harvey's film ) to do than sit around staring insanely . The other characters are just as bland and illogical , although it's nice to see a black hero . Duane Jones gives the film's only decent performance . The only way Romero knows how to move the narrative forward is with the television and radio news programs , which provide us with far too much explanation for what's going on . The movie starts to pick up when the ( far too many ) characters attempt to escape the house in which they've boarded themselves up . There are a couple of surprises along the way , and the dread does begin to build . But then the final twist is far too predictable . Whatever little it was building towards falls apart . .
A Fistfull of Dollars has its moments , but the original film , Kurosawa's Yojimbo , was much better . Clint Eastwood , though very good , is no Toshiro Mifune . Mifune's nameless man had much more of a character and a personality than his ever-scowling counterpart , Eastwood . The supporting characters were much more interesting in Yojimbo , also . The gunslinger in that film was much cooler than Ramone ( whom I believe to be the counterpart in A Fistfull of Dollars , but I'm not sure ) . Even Christopher Walken in Last Man Standing , a pretty terrible movie , was more interesting than Ramone . Also , the bell ringer , the undertaker , and the bartender were all more interesting in Yojimbo . Fistfull is also not as much fun as Yojimbo . That one was more playful . This on is more gruesome . The music was great in the original , and the score here is a tad bit annoying and overused . The story is basically identical . I actually found them both kind of confusing . Overall , Fistfull gets a from me .
Has great promise , but delivers too little . It's always amusing , but I wish it would be more than just amusing . The production design is absolutely fantastic . It's the selling point of the film . Jim Carrey is very funny , and I like at least two of the three child stars . Emily Browning is sure to be the next Christina Ricci . Liam Aiken is also very good . The third child is just a baby , so who can tell whether she can act or not . What I do know is that the character of Sunny was by far my least favorite thing about the film . I did not like the cheap subtitled joke lines that she delivers constantly . The film would have been much better if that character would have been run over by a dump truck . There is an extraordinary animated sequence during the closing credits . This is , in a way , unfortunate . As soon as the film was over , everybody got up and started walking out . The audience did that thing when , as soon as something interesting appears over the closing credits , they all stop standing up , or try to push those who are still sitting down out of their way . That's horrible , but what's worse is that the three people I was with insisted on going . And the worst of all is that the theater rudely turned on the lights so that they could clean . I was forced out ! People worked damn hard on that sequence , probably much harder than the screenwriter or director did . They really ought to have had that open the film , instead of the stupid little clay animation bit that does begin it .
It's always cool to see rare , barely seen films from famous directors . This one is Fritz Lang's take on M . Butterfly ( a story ( a novel ? a play ? ) with which I am unfamiliar ) , about a Japanese woman who marries a European man , only to be abandoned by him , poor and pregnant . The story of the film is very good and should have made a better film . Unfortunately , Lang's direction is very unimpressive and plodding . The actors , too are poor , except for Lil Dangover as the Japanese woman , who is merely adequate . It reeks of early directorial effort . It's definitely worth seeing if you get the chance , if only as a curio . . PS : the quotation I cited in the summary above is actually spoken in the film by a Buddhist monk who wants to destroy the Japanese woman . Can you think of any god more intimidating than the Buddha ? I know I can't .
Such interest in Fitzcarraldo was sparked in my mind that I was compulsively forced to purchase the DVD version of it . It was fascinating , a near-masterpiece , I would say . And I desperately wished to see the documentary about its making , Burden of Dreams . Well , probably a year after I first saw Fitzcarraldo , I came home one night to find Burden of Dreams on the Sundance Channel ( praise god for this station ! ) . I had missed about 8 minutes , but , oh well , I sat down to watch the rest . Unfortunately , it did not reveal much about Fitzcarraldo . I had read about the problems Herzog had during the filming , and this is basically what Burden's focus is . The documentary does not go deep enough , though . I would say about a quarter of it ( its running length is just over 90 minutes ) is made up of actual scenes from Fitzcarraldo with maybe a short paragraph to describe the setting and maybe some small bit of behind-the-scene narrative . Another section of the film is made up of interviews with the cast and crew . This should have been the lifeblood of this documentary , but it was not . Herzog's own interviews were interesting , but it is more or less him complaining because things are not going his way ( which he has a right to complain about , but it isn't all that interesting to watch ) . He has this very silly monologue where he complains about how the jungle symbolizes the death of the world , when really the only thing symbolizing death is his dying film . Very disappointing is the documentarians ' inability to get interviews with the cast . I was seriously hoping for some of Klaus Kinski's patented insanity and also at least one interview with the great Claudia Cardinale . There was one tiny interview with Kinski where he complained about having cabin fever for being stuck in the cast camps for weeks at a time , completely justifiable , I would say , and there are no interviews with Cardinale ( although she may have been interviewed before I started watching ) . It made me feel a little disappointed that no documentarians had been there to film Aguirre , the Wrath of God , where Kinski absolutely flipped out ! Never fear , though . There is one very good part of this film : it serves as an ethnographic document for the Indians of South America . Herzog rightly claims that their parts in Fitzcarraldo itself were not sufficiently ethnographic , since they were just doing what he was asking of them . But in the documentary , we see the Indians making masato , an alcoholic drink made of yucca and saliva , we see them playing games such as arrow catching , we even see an attack from a different tribe that believes that the Indians who are working on the film have come to attack them . All of this is extremely interesting .
Infamously bad musical , often considered the worst movie of that genre . This film is a treasure for bad movie lovers . It's just transcendently awful , an assault to the ears and eyes . Ed Wood-level auteur Menahem Golan , who produced such classics as Over the Top , The Forbidden Dance , the Breakin ' movies , American Ninja , Ninja 3 : The Domination , Superman IV and Masters of the Universe , directs this futuristic retelling of the story of Adam and Eve , set in the distant year of 1994 . Mr . Boogalow is a record company executive who is symbolically the devil . Catherine Mary Stewart and George Gilmour are two Canadian ingénues who try to revive the long-dormant art of the love song ( so 1970s ! ) . Mr . Boogalow quickly puts a stop to that by tempting Stewart to the disco scene . The movie pretty much hits its record industry target , and predicts American Idol ( except that , instead of soulless disco songs , for the most part the contestants on that show sing soulless ballads ) . It's not the stupidest movie in the world . On the other hand , it is one of the most garish imaginable , with its goofy futuristic clothes ( people in the future always tend to like shiny things a lot ) , and the songs are beyond horrible . Well , at least they're laughable . The whole film is , very much so . And I honestly enjoyed it in a masochistic sort of way .
" Documentary " about the world's filthiest joke , as told by dozens of famous ( and not so famous ) comedians . The joke involves a man describing a family act to a talent agent . The act includes any scatology a comedian can invent in his or her head , but normally involves feces , blood , sperm and urine , at the very least . Anyway , the joke isn't funny in itself . It's all in the telling . Which is why the film is somewhat uneven . Not everyone's version is equally funny . It's also uneven because the editing is kind of lousy . They like to cut up a comedian's segment and insert clips of others talking about why the joke is or isn't funny . But then you get a particularly funny person telling the joke , and , bam , this film is absolutely hilarious . And then , after we've heard the joke a dozen times , we start to hear hilarious variations on it . The best part of the film in my mind , is when , after we all know the joke well , we see a mime tell it . I almost died it was so funny . Recommended , especially on DVD . I wish I had had more time to watch the extras .
One can't talk about this film without ruining a long-held secret . Then again , I'm not sure that not knowing would help one to enjoy it , either . Without knowing the film's sense of purpose , it would be easy to get bored , I think . It's not that hard even if you do know , unfortunately , but it might be excruciating if you didn't . So here's the secret ( SPOILERS , duh ! ) : the girl , played by Luisa Williams , has been drafted to execute a suicide bombing mission in Times Square . We never know who the girl is , we have only tiny clues as to why she would agree to do this , and we never know why the mysterious organization , several of whose members we meet , wants this mission carried out . In a way , the film reminded me of last year's Old Joy , and it is similarly frustrating . There's so little information , and the style is so minimalist , that it's hard to care . I liked both films to an extent . I think I slightly prefer Day Night Day Night . It had a hypnotic rhythm about it . Luisa Williams is a very good actress . Plus , the final half hour is quite tense , and worth the wait . The writer / director's decision to completely depoliticize the situation pretty much subtracts any real meaning . The terrorist organization is hilariously diverse . I half expected a Native American in a wheelchair to show up at some point . Loktev's direction is strong . The way she uses sound during that last half hour is impressive .
A fun swashbuckler starring Errol Flynn . It's not especially great , but Flynn himself elevates it to a level far beyond what it would have been without him . Really , he's in full form here . The only other Flynn vehicle that I've seen is The Adventures of Robin Hood , which is a far better film . Still , I think Flynn is even better here . He's got such verve and personality . It's certainly not hard to see why he was such a monumental success with the opposite sex ! As for the rest of the cast , I liked Ross Alexander as Blood's somewhat homoerotic friend , Jeremy Pitt , and Basil Rathbone has a nice small role as a partner and rival pirate . I really disliked Olivia de Havilland , however , whom I have liked elsewhere . I didn't even recognize her in Captain Blood ; her character was too dull to deserve any attention . The dialogue is quite good , but the plot and structure of the screenplay are poor . I actually liked the first half , in which Blood has to fight for his freedom from the cruel slavery forced upon him by King James , better than the swashbuckling second half . I found myself yawning a bit at the sword fight and the sea battle finale . Still , it's a film worth watching . .
For a long while , I've described Ben-Hur as the biggest film that I had not yet seen . Now I have . This is one of those classics whose status has been fading with time , and it's no wonder once you've seen the film . Sure , there are a few scenes that are very memorable , and have become part of our common culture . Who can forget the scenes where Judah Ben-Hur is a slave in the galleys , rowing fiercely as the weaker slaves collapse around him ? The music in this scene is what I find particularly memorable . And then there's the chariot race , which I think cements this film as one that is worth seeing more than any other . I also like how the story is constructed , as a side story to the life of Jesus . Christ pops up every once in a while . Early in the film , there is a memorable scene where Christ defies a Roman soldier and gives the parched Ben-Hur water . When the soldier tries to reprimand him , a quick look from Jesus silences him completely . Unfortunately , a whole hell of a lot of the film is very forgettable . Each scene seems to take 25 % longer than it really needs to ? not only are the scenes protracted far beyond their limitations , but the actors stumble slowly through their lines , as if each and every syllable was carrying the cross on its back . It gets old , and quick . The film has very little passion as it lumbers along . Most of the direction seems lackluster . Big , but mostly lacking heart . William Wyler directed one of the most emotionally touching films of all time , Mrs . Miniver , an utterly intimate affair that will stay with me forever . Ben-Hur often just sat there without trying to connect to the audience at all . The acting itself is generally weak . Charlton Heston's performance is certainly not among his best . I actually like him as an actor , but I don't think it's very good here . To be fair , his performance gets better as the film moves along . Ben-Hur's moral dilemma is intriguing , and as his desire for revenge and violence did ultimately touch me . Many of the other performances are just bad ? the one that comes immediately to mind is Haya Harareet as Esther , the slave girl whom Ben-Hur loves and later marries . Martha Scott and Cathy O'Donnell , who play his mother and sister respectively , are too dull to really care too much what happens to them . And I'm disappointed in Sam Jaffe , whom I love as an actor in films such as The Scarlet Empress and Gunga Din . I didn't even recognize him , he has so little energy in this film . Hugh Griffith won an Oscar for playing a sheik , but his character is not memorable at all . The only actor who really hits a home run is Stephen Boyd as Messala , Ben-Hur's childhood friend , now his bitterest enemy . He really projects his inner turmoil . Overall , I say that I am glad that I saw this finally . It may have not worked very well , but I was generally entertained . Not moved at all , but it was nice to watch ( and a lot more fun to criticize ! ) . Only the chariot sequence and a couple of Messala's scenes did anything more than that for me . .
A classic " through the eyes of childhood " story about the Holocaust . Asa Butterfield plays Bruno , a German 8 year-old whose father ( David Thewlis ) is the officer in charge of a concentration camp . Bruno has no clue what goes on at the camp , which he initially thinks is a farm where the weird farmers wear pajamas all the time . He sneaks up to the fence outside of the camp and meets a Jewish boy , whom he befriends . Slowly , he comes to realize that something awful is happening , and that his father is partly responsible for it . It's a great concept . It's not a great movie . I'm unsure if the fault lies with the original novel or the screenplay ( by director Herman , best known for a couple of ' 90s indies , Little Voice and Brassed Off ) , but the story eschews interesting moral philosophy in favor of a more base emotionality . This is especially true in the ridiculously forced climactic sequence , with its swelling music and completely illogical cross-cutting . There's an earlier sequence in which Bruno informs on the Jewish boy in order to get out of some trouble . This should have formed the climax , similar to Louis Malle's Au Revoir les Enfants . It's impossible to deny that The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas is powerful , but it should have been better .
This isn't one of those classics that you just have to see . In fact , you could live the rest of your life very happily without ever having seen it , even if you are a major film buff . There are plenty of other films you could see in its stead , and , with the time you would save by skipping this 3 hour and 20 minute opus , you could watch two better films . SPOILERSStill , Doctor Zhivago is worthwhile . It is very well directed , as you can only expect from David Lean . The score is justifiably famous . The cinematography is also quite glorious at times . I wish I could say the same for the writing . The film's dramatic angle revolves around an affair between Yuri Zhivago ( Omar Sharif ) and Lara ( Julie Christie ) , a woman , not his wife , whom he meets and grows to admire during medical services for WWI . Unfortunately , the film never really develops their relationship . I never felt any dramatic weight when the two were separated or when they found each other after long lapses . I am a definite weeper when it comes to romantic epics , but I didn't come anywhere close to shedding tear one during this film . In fact , I was always disappointed that the screenplay ( or novel , really ) kept pushing Yuri away from his wife , Tanya ( Geraldine Chaplin ) , who always seemed better to me . Besides , as I have said , there really is never a reason why Yuri would abandon Tanya . Most of these feelings come from the poor character development . Yuri himself is developed decently , but some of his decisions seem unrealistic and forced . The two women in his life are the biggest problem Tanya seems left cold by the writers , and I suspect she is this way just so we end up not sympathizing with her , or at least so we end up wanting Zhivago to go to Lara . But Lara is not well developed either . Her situation at the beginning is very interesting , but after we meet up with her again during WWI , she doesn't really seem the same . Worse yet , the man whom she originally married , Pasha , is swept away during the war to live a different life . We meet up with him a couple of times along the way , but he is only a plot device . Lara never seems affected by his loss . The two characters who do register are supporting ones , Yevgraf Zhivago ( Alec Guinness ) ( Yuri's half-brother whom he hardly knows and only meets a couple of times ) and Komarovsky ( Rod Steiger ) . A lot of the difficulty in character association is the fault of the actors , though . Omar Sharif is good as Yuri , but not great . Geraldine Chaplin , a very underrated actress indeed ( she was the daughter of Charlie Chaplin , and , if you wish to see her act in a film , see Nashville , made a decade later ) , is cruelly underutilized . It is her remarkable acting skill that allowed her character to live at all and that made me identify with Tanya rather than with Lara . And Guinness and Steiger steal every scene they are in , both great at playing characters with ambiguous morality . In fact , I have to lay a lot of the blame on the general failure of the film on Christie . She is a great actress elsewhere , but she fumbles here . Big time . She plays Lara as someone with deep stares . But those stares , meant to exhibit longing or profundity or whatever come off more as blank and thoughtless . Christie clearly doesn't know what to do with the part . I don't know how early this was in her career , but she was definitely not ready for it . Her character , though underwritten , could have at least seemed passionate towards Yuri , but there is never an ounce of chemistry involved . If you want to see her as a mature actress , catch Robert Altman's McCabe and Mrs . Miller , where she plays the titular Miller . She's riveting there . Besides these major flaws , I'd still recommend it to anyone who loves David Lean or epics or even Alec Guinness or Rod Steiger . It is worth watching just for Guinness ' subtle performance . But be prepared to sit for a prolonged period of time . If it gets boring , just concentrate on the pretty pictures and music . However , if you want to skip onto some of its descendants , see Warren Beatty's Reds or Philip Kaufmann's The Unbearable Lightness of Being . They both have some similarities in theme and setting with Doctor Zhivago , and they are much more thought out and beautiful . .
After seeing The TV Set earlier this week , I was especially interested in seeing the followup film from director Jake Kasdan and producer Judd Apatow . The biopic is definitely a genre in much need of a spoofing , and I figured Kasdan and Apatow , with the often brilliant John C . Reilly in the lead , would produce a spoof with perhaps a little more depth than other films of the genre . But , alas , Walk Hard walks about the same line as the Hot Shot movies , somewhat below The Naked Gun and somewhat above Scary Movie . It's funny for the most part , but painfully two-dimensional . It does have some nice jokes concerning the history of pop music that might bypass the younger generations . I especially loved when Dewey Cox went through his Brian Wilson period . The recording session of his Pet Sounds-like album is just great . " I need an army of didjeridoos ! " Perhaps the funniest joke of the film are the various music stars of the era whose personae are occupied by celebrities in cameos . I actually wish they had gone even further with this , covering as many musicians as they could . The moment of the film that made me laugh the most is when Frankie Muniz , the kid from Malcolm in the Middle , appears as Buddy Holly . The casting is truly inspired , and I just love the way every phony celebrity is called by both their first name and last name every time they are mentioned , like , " Well hello , Buddy Holly " or " How are you doing , Paul McCartney ? " The entire sequence where Cox meets The Beatles in India had me holding my sides . That could have gone on for longer . There are a lot of other jokes that cracked me up , as well . The entire first sequence , where we see the obligatory tragedy that sets Cox's life in motion , is hilarious . The recurring joke where , whenever Dewey gets especially upset , he finds the nearest bathroom sink , rips it out , and smashes it on the ground is one that is close to my heart . It seems that there are at least two Oscar clips of actors or , more commonly , actresses , smashing dishes on the ground when they are angry . And , if you want to see something extremely rare , Tim Meadows is hilarious in another recurring joke , where Cox walks in on him doing drugs in a back room ( a direct parody of Ray ) and then joins him . So , yeah , there are some great gags . But then there are long dry stretches . And , as I said , the film is very shallow . It's content to be just a spoof , so , in the end , it's not all that memorable . But it's well worth watching if you're looking for some quick , easy laughs .
A straightforward film about a gambling addict , Dan Mahowny , beautifully played by Philip Seymour Hoffman . Yet , as good as Hoffman is in the film , saying that he gives a great performance is like saying the ice in my freezer is cold . Philip Seymour Hoffman [ I ] always [ / I ] gives a great performance . So what else does Owning Mahowny have to offer ? Well , there are several other good performances . Minnie Driver dresses down to play a Canadian bank teller from the early 1980s . She is quite good , but it's not an especially interesting role and I have to wonder why she would uglify herself with that awful hairdo for a movie that focuses almost entirely on the lead . If she was looking to win awards , she came to the wrong place . Maury Chaykin , one of my favorite Canadian character actors , is very good as Mahowny's bookie . I also liked Chris Collins , who plays a young man in Atlantic City who begins as a nobody working for Mahowny's favorite casino . When Mahowny shows a fondness for the kid , his boss pulls him up in the world and has him become the gambler's personal assistant . The manager of the casino is played by John Hurt . I don't know if I like him . He seems so evil at times I expected him to tap his fingers together and exclaim ' Excellent ' in a Mr . Burns voice . The most interesting part of the film , outside of Hoffman's performance , is the way Hurt is portrayed as Mahowny's shadow . When Mahowny is losing , Hurt is winning , and vice versa . He's as addicted to Mahowny's gambling as much as Mahowny . Other than that , the film offers few if any insights . See it for Hoffman's performance if you're a fan . Or just catch any of his other pictures . He's good in everything . .
David Gordon Green is a most irritating director . He is so clearly talented , immensely so , but he cannot for the life of him mold his creations into a working whole . All the Real Girls is beautiful , and at times its so poignant , intense , and truthful that it seems like it is hitting the very meaning of love . Then the very next moment , he craps on that with a completely ludicrous , forced , and utterly false scene . It was exactly this way with George Washington , another horribly frustrating film that made me joyous one moment and ped off the next . What Green really needs is a co-writer to edit his script . Or Green might try adapting a screenplay , because , as a writer , he has little sense of what is good and bad , since both qualities stand so close side by side in the two films he has made . I did think All the Real Girls worked slightly better than George Washington , mostly because the actors in this movie can act , unlike a majority of the child stars of his debut . .
Radio Days seems like it should be one of Woody Allen's best movies . Unfortunately , the structure is so amorphous that nothing at all registers . There are a ton of promising vignettes , but none of them are developed . Like , for instance , what happened with the burglars , or even with the prize they won for the people they were robbing ? Where does Sally ( Mia Farrow ) fit into the story at all ? What about the teacher whom the boys saw naked ? Allen drops it like a hotcake . The actors are all good , but their characters aren't developed enough to really care about . I guess that they were so familiar to Allen that he forgot to do so . It's not often when an 85 minute movie seems long . I did enjoy myself watching it , but I was glad when it was over . It won't stay in my mind for more than 20 more minutes . .
Hail Mary is done in the exact same style as the only other late Godard film I've seen , First Name : Carmen , which , I believe , he did right before this one . The narrative is fractured , much more so than even his classical films such as Breathless and Pierrot le fou , and it is impossible to understand exactly what's going on . Like in many of his early films , he plays with sound effects and music . It may have been clever and interesting in Une femme est une femme , but it has grown old here . Still , Hail Mary , like First Name : Carmen , musters enough mood to make it well worth seeing . With First Name : Carmen , I was interested at the beginning and bored by the end . Here , although the prologue is quite good , the first half of the real film bothered me , and the second half grew more interesting as it progressed . What I'm saying here is that you have to stick with it and be patient . It can be rewarding . Also , Hail Mary seemed to me one of Godard's more visually accomplished films , probably second to Vivre sa vie . You'll see some of the most gorgeous photographs of clouds and the sun , the moon , fields , flowers , and nude women . Some of the nudes are absolutely stunning and it never felt to me pornographic ( unlike First Name : Carmen ) . They reminded me of beautiful paintings that I have seen by the likes of Lucien Freud ( I don't know if people know him , but I was particularly struck by some of his sleeping nudes ; I think he is the son of Sigmund , and I know he was a companion of Francis Bacon ) . Other more abstract photos reminded me of Picasso . .
Although The Quiet Man has traditionally had a place on the top of John Ford's career , I found it to be second , or maybe even third tier Ford . I've seen more than a dozen that I prefer to it , with only two that are on its low level , none really below ( however , I like them all ) . The story here is uninteresting . John Wayne moves to his homeland of Ireland from the U . S . , buys back his family home , and courts a young woman ( Maureen O'Hara ) . Her brother ( Victor McLaglen ) must approve of the marriage , but he refuses . Later in the film townspeople trick him into giving his siter to Wayne in marriage , which starts a bitter feud . The film is played for romance and comedy , and only moderately succeeds in both sectors . It begins very romantically , but as soon as O'Hara's part expands , she immediately becomes overbearing , annoying , and somewhat psychotic . I sure as hell wouldn't want anything to do with that woman . And John Wayne does little with his character . The role is underwritten , with a particularly flimsy backstory . Wayne is generally a very good actor in Ford's films , but he has little to do and , more or less , just stumbles through the entire film . He actually gets pretty mean to O'Hara late in the film , but I disliked her character so much that I almost approved of the scene where Wayne drags her over the landscape on her butt . The supporting cast has better luck . Barry Fitzgerald especially shines , and Ward Bond , Victor McLaglen , and many others whose names I didn't catch were good , too . Perhaps the best reason to watch the film is for the beautiful color cinematography . It catches the country of Ireland well . The music is also quite beautiful . Overall , The Quiet Man does have some great scenes , but there's generally little of interest happening . It's rather overlong at 2 hours and 9 minutes . A lot of other Ford films are more worthy , The Grapes of Wrath , My Darling Clementine , The Searchers , The Wagon Master , the list could go on for nearly a mile . The Quiet Man gets a , which is quite unimpressive for such a beloved film from such a wonderful director .
Long-obscure cult film noir finally makes it to DVD thanks to Fox's noir line . It's about a sideshow con-man , played by Tyrone Power , who learns how to play the role of a mentalist . His skills become so great he moves to nightclub shows , whereupon he learns a way to cheat people out of even more money . Considering its glowing reputation , I frankly found it rather overrated . It definitely has some good stuff , and some excellent cinematography . The story is very original . However , as original as the plot is , the overall script is only passable . There are a lot of weak moments , and a lot of unbelievable twists . I was left wishing it would have been better than it was . The acting is also mostly mediocre , but I did really like sweet Coleen Gray . I'm not sure if her performance is good or not , but she sure is pretty . It's still worth watching ? just don't let your expectations ruin it for you .
Adrien Brody plays a detective investigating , and becoming obsessed with the death of George Reeves , most famous for playing Superman on television ( played by Ben Affleck ) . The story of George Reeves is a compelling and sad one , and that's where the film is best . Reeves ( in flashbacks ) is having an affair with a studio boss's wife ( played by Diane Lane ; her husband is played by Bob Hoskins ) . He becomes a kept man , and his career is going nowhere . The detective part of the movie is much less successful , mainly because it all feels like a been-here-done-that . Brody is fine ; he's kind of channeling Peter Falk from Columbo . The character's drama is pretty much all cliché . He's divorced and is having relationship problems with his son , and has to deal with his ex's new meathead boyfriend . For some not very believable reason he becomes so entangled in the case that he refuses payment when his client turns tail and runs . He's working on another , less interesting case that he's not doing very well on because he's so worked up about the Reeves case ( seriously , this subplot should have been excised ) . He even gets beat up by some heavies . I just never really cared . I wanted to get back to the Reeves story . Affleck gives the best performance of his life ( which isn't saying much , honestly ) . Lane is also very good . There are also several very good supporting performances , from Robin Tunney ( playing Reeves's fiancée ) , Jeffrey DeMunn ( playing Reeves ' agent ) and others . I liked the movie , but it is somewhat uneven .
Suzhou River's beginning represents an extremely compelling film . It has it all - a great narrative , great acting , great score , and it is emotionally involving . But the director / screenwriter throws it all away when he decides simply to revert back to Sir Alfred Hitchcock's Vertigo . Vertigo is one of those films that is impossible to top , so it is just a waste of time to try . Here is my experience during Suzhou River , after having enjoyed the first 30 minutes or so immensely : I hear the score sampling Bernard Herrmann's Vertiginous theme , and see the camera quoting the film , and my mind immediately jumped back on my dreamlike memories of Vertigo . It's as if Suzhou River disappeared . Near the end , the film started to become a little more original , and my daydreams faded , but I was pretty lost at that point . Don't get me wrong . Suzhou River is still a fine film . I would actually like someone to remake most of it , taking out the Vertigo homage and inserting something more original .
With this , I only have one more Pasolini feature to go and I have seen all of them ( the missing culprit being Accatone ) . Porcile does not represent Pasolini at his best . It's far too abstract and obscure . Two stories alternate , one taking place in a quasi-legendary time and one in modern times . The quasi-legendary scenes concern a young cannibal , some rapists and murderers . The modern sequence concerns some former Nazis living in Italy . One of their sons , played by French actor Jean-Pierre Leaud , is sick of the evil , bourgeois lifestyle he leads . At one point , since he lacks any ambition , he throws himself into an intentional coma . I don't get it , especially how the two parts work together . Still , as a Pasolini fan , I have to admit that it is a strikingly made film . I especially liked the scenes set in the past . Pasolini regulars Franco Citti and Ninetto Davoli ( the only actor , I believe , who appears in both parts of the film , although I have no clue why ) come along for the ride . Pasolini fans should certainly see it , others should avoid . .
A unique film , a blend of documentary and animation . It definitely shares some aspects with Richard Linklater's Waking Life , but it seems fresh and new . Ari Folman interviews people with whom he served in the Lebanon War in 1983 . He himself was a soldier at the time , but he seems to have blocked the entire period from his memory . The film is almost all animated , mostly because it wants to illustrate the events described by his interviewees . He also wants these horrible events which he doesn't remember experiencing to come across as dreams or nightmares . The style of animation is very odd , very simple , and very beautiful . It's an entertaining and mystical film , but it didn't win me over completely . I kept thinking , " Wow , this is beautiful , " or " Wow , this looks neat , " and then I'd feel guilty for that . The dreamlike quality of the film becomes kind of numbing after a while . Folman switches to live action , real-life footage of the atrocities he doesn't remember witnessing to show that it definitely wasn't a dream , but I felt like it was too little too late .
A film even most Bergman enthusiasts dislike . However , as weak as it is , I have to admit I found a lot to like about it . First , the bad : David Carradine is pretty awful . He's had an uneven career , giving several very good performances and many bad ones . In the interviews included on the MGM DVD , it seems clear that he was out of his element working with Bergman ( the featurette , incidentally , is a must-see ; it's hilariously awkward , especially with Carradine's positive take on the film and his own work in it and how it contradicts what Liv Ullmann has to say ) . Secondly , this was the biggest budget Bergman ever worked with ( Dino de Laurentiis produced it when Bergman was hiding from Swedish authorities in Munich ) , and it feels like a lot of his attention to the emotions of the film , and possibly also David Carradine , was diverted to the handling of the massive amounts of extras and the massive sets of 1920s Germany . Third , the script takes too long to develop . The first half of the film can be excruciatingly slow , and most of the good material comes in near the end . I fear that , for most , it'll be a matter of too little , too late . The good : well , to counteract Carradine's crusty performance , we have the fantastic Liv Ullmann . True , she's a little hard to understand through her accent ( I should have probably also noted in the " bad " section the sound , which I think was just badly done ; I watched the film with subtitles , but then , hey , it's a Bergman film , so no big deal , right ? ) , but she's as expressive as always . She brings out a lot of emotion , and does it subtly . The setting , Depression-era Germany , is vividly recreated . The Bergman film The Serpent's Egg reminds me most of is Hour of the Wolf , in that it is a horror film . The setting is truly horrifying . The film builds to a surreal , dreamlike climax with Carradine winding his way through a labyrinth . These scenes are impressively done , as are several others . I love the one-shot scene where Carradine wanders into a crowded dance club looking for booze . There really is a lot to like , even though , overall , it's pretty hard to enjoy . Honestly , I think it's well worth seeing .
This is quite an entertaining B-flick in the Universal Horror series featuring Dracula , the Wolfman , and Frankenstein's Monster . The plot revolves around Dracula ( John Carradine ) and Larry Talbot , the wolfman ( Lon Chaney Jr . ) , separately visiting a revolutionary doctor . They both ask him if they can be cured , and the doctor attempts to devise a way for each . Beneath the doctor's castle , they find Frankenstein's Monster buried in mud ( this is apparently a reference to the previous movie in the Frankenstein series ) . Of course , if things had went as planned , the movie would have turned out incredibly boring . Instead , Dracula can't suppress his appetite , and the doctor is eventually infected , by a blood transfusion , with vampirism . As a semi-vampire , the doctor goes insane and awakens Frankenstein's Monster . As with all of the Universal Horror series , the ending is completely unsatisfactory . A beautiful woman with a hunchback , one of the doctor's two assistants , has a particularly gruesome end . Plus , you just have to feel sorry for Frankenstein's Monster in this film - he's awake for around two minutes , kills one police officer , and then yet another building ( what's this , the fifth now ? ) collapses on top of him and is consumed by flames . It is also unfortunate that the great character created in The Wolf Man ( 1941 ) , Larry Talbot , is really reduced here . People underrate that film and Chaney's performance in it . Here , he would be justifiably criticized as wooden . All in all , though , it's a pretty fun movie at just 68 minutes . A nice waste of time . .
I liked the Umbrellas of Cherbourg , but was acutely aware that it was gimmicky . The American musicals of the 1950s obviously influenced this film quite a bit , and that genre was already nearly dead in the world as filmmaking began to move into the more artistic ( American ) films of the 1960s , like Bonnie and Clyde or Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid . The gimmick , to have every line , no matter how mundane , sung by the actors , is interesting at first , but after about 30 minutes , it gets old . The music is never all that great in the first place , and it is really repetitive . Also , the actors aren't very good singers . What I did like was the art direction and the costumes . The color schemes are very interesting throughout the film . But even this , the best part of the film , owes a lot of debt to the American musicals of the 1950s , especially An American in Paris and Singin ' in the Rain . Remember the color schemes in the extended " musical number " sequence near the end of Singing in the Rain where Gene Kelly proposes the grand finale of the film they are making ? It involves a goofily dressed Kelly trying to find a job as a dancer . Especially memorable in this scene is his dance with Cyd Charisse , decked in a gorgeous green flapper dress . Basically , the Umbrellas of Cherbourg constantly looks like it takes place in the same world as that scene in Singin ' in the Rain . I would suggest renting those two films before The Umbrellas of Cherbourg . And if you want a French musical , I suggest Le Million . As for the rest of the movie , i . e . , the plot , the dialogue , etc . , it is extraordinarily light . It is very two-dimensional and it is instantly forgettable . It isn't very romantic , and it is very predictable . It reminded me a bit of Elia Kazan's Splendor in the Grass in its plot , but it doesn't produce the same feelings in me that Splendor did . All in all , I would still recommend it if you're a lover of world cinema , but I'd just warn you not to expect the masterpiece that it is often touted as . I give it a .
I , for one , liked it . The film is half a standard bio-pic , depicting much of George W . Bush's early life up until his Presidency . The other half takes place in the run up to the Iraq War , and continues until around the time the war starts to turn back on him . The stuff of the past is sometimes messy , but I liked that it attempted to understand Bush ( Josh Brolin ) psychologically . The film takes the stance , popular around 2004 , that W . ' s political career was a desperate attempt to win his father's love . The modern-day stuff is a lot more interesting and well done . It depicts the politics of Bush's first term . Stone has done a mostly excellent job of re-creating that cabinet , with Thandie Newton as Condoleeza Rice , Richard Dreyfuss as Dick Cheney , Jeffrey Wright as Colin Powell , along with several more . The make-up guys are the ones who do the best job here , but Dreyfuss and Wright are particularly great in their roles . The film isn't an especially deep exploration of the President ? I suspect we'll get many more thorough analyses of this undoubtedly fascinating man's life in the future . The film's major angle , that Bush was a well-meaning idiot who is easily manipulated , is a very common opinion , one that is not entirely supported by facts . But , really , who can know the entirety of a man ? W . is at least a good cursory examination of Bush .
Fassbinder's wry comedy about the trials and tribulations of filmmaking . It's gorgeously shot and very well acted ( especially by Fassbinder himself and Lou Castel , who plays the director ) , but , truth be told , a bit on the dull side . I guess most of Fassbinder's early films are a little dull . Only fans will want to pursue them . There is plenty to like , though . The best element of the film seems to be lost on all those whose reviews I've read . The film is set mostly in an opulent Spanish hotel , and , at least for one sequence , it lapses into a deft parody of Resnais ' Last Year at Marienbad . I think that , if I tried to describe it , my explanation would be too wordy and would not convey it well enough . So , if you ever do happen to watch the film , make sure to keep an eye out for that joke . .
This is definitely Terry Zwigoff's least successful film , and a big disappointment in a lot of ways . But I think if you don't expect too much , it's fun and has some good twists along the way . The film follows Jerome , who goes to art school after graduation . The film's major strengths are that it really gets into the absurdity of the concept of art school ( I don't think many believe that one can be taught how to be an artist ) , and that it communicates well the feeling of not being able to succeed . It also does good by not making Jerome a remarkable artist himself . He's a talented drawer , but his stuff is largely uninteresting and unimaginative . For a while the film seems to be poking fun at more abstract art , but then it does pull back and smartly doesn't dismiss the more abstract or pop art on display , though it does put forward some of the various artists ' pomposities . The film plays a lot like Ghost World , which had the same director and writer , in that it sets up all the characters as stereotypes and then begins to reveal them as more human . Unfortunately , it just doesn't work nearly as well here . There are a ton of other problems , too . Max Minghella , the actor who plays Jerome , is painfully dull . He looks like a model in a catalogue . The girl in whom he develops an interest is equally dull , an everyday blonde cutie who comes off as rather vapid . With these two protagonists , a certain tiny part of the film kept coming to mind , where one of the very rare persons of color in the class asks their art history professor why they only study dead white males . Why do we have to have these two boring , white-bread characters dominating the film ? Luckily , the supporting cast is very good , and includes John Malkovich ( in a rather typical but entertaining Malkovichian role ) , Steve Buscemi , Jim Broadbent and Joel Moore . It also includes Anjelica Huston , whom I generally don't like . But it feels like she might have had a bigger part originally which was cut down .
Amazingly well directed and produced WWI flick made in France . Bernard is an extremely talented director . Unfortunately , the film doesn't stand up too well compared to so many other WWI pictures , notably the earlier All Quiet on the Western Front and the later The Grand Illusion . What Wooden Crosses lacks is strong characters . About the only one who stands out from the rest is the " loudmouth " , as he is described bluntly by another solider . " There's one in every company , " he says ; or at least , I think he says that . If no one said that , someone probably should have . Instead , Bernard concentrates almost wholly on extremely long battle sequences . One lasts nearly 40 minutes . Great , but if I don't care about the characters , I'm not going to care much when one gets killed .
Big disappointment . I've heard such great things about this French horror film , but it doesn't at all live up to them . Sure , it has its moments , but most of the time , it's fairly dull . An experimental surgeon ( Pierre Brasseur ) is trying to graft the faces of young women he kidnaps onto his daughter , who lost hers in a car accident . Alida Valli plays the assistant who carries out the kidnappings . The situation is definitely promising , but the film just plods along . Valli was never more bland , and Brasseur is weak , as well . The film only comes alive when Edith Scob , the daughter , appears . That mask , featured on the DVD cover , is very creepy itself . And when we actually see Scob's face , she's one of the most beautiful women imaginable . I like the fact that Franju gives us that pleasure halfway through the film , and then cruelly takes it away through a photo montage of the skin graft's deterioration . Which would be the best moment of the film , if not for the excellent ending . So I guess I kind of liked it . I only wish it were a lot better . If you get the Criterion DVD , make sure to watch the short The Blood of Beasts . It's better than the feature , though be warned : it's not for the easily queasified . .
I was completely expecting to despise this movie . The only reason I watched more than five minutes is because I was lazy . Fortunately , it turned out to be quite good . I mean , yeah , it is sort of trite . It doesn't ask for too much . You know , be yourself kind of thing . Anne Hathaway is at first provided with hair , eyebrows , and glasses that don't make her ugly at all . In fact , when she gets her magical makeover , she's no more pretty than before . So what makes this movie good ? Well , Julie Andrews , for one . It's just wonderful having her back in a movie , for God's sake . But it would be a very slight film if it weren't for Ms . Hathaway . She's a very rare breed indeed : she's Hollywood A-list material , easily one of the most beautiful faces out there . But she's also a fine actress . Her character is the typical accident-prone , romantic comedy type , but Hathaway provides her with so much character that it's difficult not to be swept off your feet . Even in scenes that were clearly terrible , she shone through . I laughed at jokes that were quite bad . Her character's growth was nothing but cliches , but she convinced me . Also of note is the excellent supporting cast : Hector Elizondo especially , but also Heather Matarazzo , so great in Welcome to the Dollhouse , and Sandra Oh , who was great in Don McKellar's film Last Night . Most people are , of course , still going to hate this movie . That's fine ? there is plenty to frown upon . Young girls will very much like it . It's very harmless . The lessons taught are all valuable ones , however cliche . .
Romero returns to the zombie well for the fifth time . And , yes , it's gotten old now . These stumbling monsters have shown surprising resilience in the past 60 years ! Romero goes big theme hunting here , exploring the current video - and internet-obsessed youth culture , dusting off that old film-making-is-voyeurism chestnut ( with dozens of shots of characters staring daggers at whoever's operating the camera at the moment ) , but I think he fails to say anything especially interesting . Truth be told , I don't think he was particularly insightful in any of the Dead movies , save maybe the class-consciousness of the undervalued Land of the Dead . But , come on , if you really think the whole " people be acting all like zombies at the mall " thing counts as deep social commentary , you're overselling it more than just a little . But wait ! I didn't say I disliked the film . In fact , quite the opposite ! It's not Romero's best by a long shot , but the guy is a consummate filmmaker , there's no doubt . I went into this with low expectations , given the reviews , but I was entertained by it . Romero delivers on stuff like gore . You'd think he'd have imagined every possible zombie situation , but then you get stuff like a scythe through the head or hydrochloric acid eating away at a brain . The film comes off much like Blair Witch meets Night of the Living Dead , and it's about as successful as the other Blair Witch rip-off of this year , Cloverfield . It isn't as frightening as Cloverfield , but I'd say , with its more interesting characters , it's about equal .
Clooney's third directorial outing , and his followup to the Oscar nominated Good Night and Good Luck . This movie is quite a bit lighter , a screwball comedy about the early days of professional football . Clooney stars as a pro football player for the Duluth Bulldogs in 1925 . The sport is not very popular at this level , but is insanely so at the college level . His plan to increase attendance and save the sport is to recruit football and war hero John Krasinski , who plays for Princeton , onto the team , though college football players rarely go on to the pros . Meanwhile , a reporter from Chicago , played by Renée Zellweger , has discovered that Krasinski's war hero story is bunk , and plans to expose him . While never hilarious , it's quite an enjoyable movie . Clooney , I think , is a more talented director than any of his three films have displayed . I think , if he ever gets his hands on a great script , he'll knock out a truly great film . He captures the period detail well , and the photography is great . I think the film would be a whole lot better without Zellweger . I'm not necessarily a Zellweger hater , but she's staggeringly awful here and drags the whole film down a notch . I like the whole fin de siecle mood . Nothing especially memorable , but a good time .
This strikes me as Haneke's least successful film . Still , it's more than worthwhile , and I would still nearly call it great . Several different , seemingly random stories are mixed together . We watch vignettes of varying length . Among them are the stories of a homeless Romanian boy who has illegally crossed into Austria , a lovingly married couple adopting a new foster child , another married couple at odds with each other , an old man starved for attention , and a group of frustrated college students . We are told at the beginning that one of these students will murder three people at a bank , and we immediately realize that at least some of the other people we have met will be at that bank . I'm not sure how I feel about this technique ; I'm certainly a bit conflicted . And I'm not 100 % sure what I'm supposed to get out of this all . I guess it's always worth being reminded of the unpredictability of life and that at any moment we could disappear from this Earth . Interspersed between the various stories there also appear long clips of the evening news , where various atrocities and tragedies are reported in a manner that desensitizes its audience to them . And the climactic event pops up right alongside them . Which of course reminds us also that these atrocities happen to real people , a fact that's so easily forgotten when watching the 10 o'clock news . Structurally , the film is brilliant . It is similar to what Altman was doing with Nashville . Haneke would improve upon this film with Code Unknown , which stands as my favorite of his films and perhaps as my favorite film of the current decade .
Two streetcar conductors whose streetcar is set to be dismantled sneak into the station late one night to take it for one last spin . They spend all night and most of the next day having small adventured throughout Mexico City . Agustin Isunza is the film's standout as an old man , Papa Pinillos , who worked for the streetcar company most of his life . He was laid off a while back , but he does little with his time besides get on random streetcars to see if their drivers are competent . When he jumps on the 133 , he quickly realizes that it's stolen and he spends the rest of the film desperately trying to get the company to believe him . It's a fun movie and very charming . Not a necessary Bunuel film , but fans should certainly catch it . .
What Ever Happened to Baby Jane ? has a lot of clunky spots . Even the acting is sometimes strained . Both Bette Davis and Joan Crawford have moments of extreme overacting , even though they are mostly great . The script also has some poor spots , especially the fate of the maid . Te final revelation is disappointing also and adds nothing to the film . That's especially poorly done . And one of the major flaws of the film is that the musical score is intrusive and often completely wrong for the film . However , most of the film is quite excellent . It overcomes its flaws quite well . As I've said , Crawford and Davis have plenty of good scenes . Victor Buono , who plays Edwin Flagg , a pianist whom Jane hires to work for her , is especially excellent . He has a couple of scenes that are just hilarious . The film itself contains more than half a dozen scenes that can be described as nothing but brilliant . Robert Aldrich's direction is amazing at times . The photography , by Ernest Haller , is beautiful and adds a horrific mood to the film . The film is very much worth seeing . If you liked it , may I suggest the other Robert Aldrich film I've seen , which is quite a ways above this , actually , Kiss Me Deadly . It's not the same - it's film noir . But the direction is similarly great . .
A man ( Ken Ogata ) is saddled with his three illegitimate children when his mistress skips town . This more than annoys his actual wife ( Shima Iwashita ) , who knew nothing about it and is herself childless . Ogata attempts to care for the children , but he just isn't up to it . For a while , I was expecting an Ozu-esquire domestic drama about a man and his wife who eventually come to love these children and learn responsibility . Oh , how wrong I was . I should have known that the title had something to do with the content . After thirty minutes or so the film's tone shifts as the husband and wife make plans to get rid of their unwanted bundles of joy . This is a very dark film , done very subtly . It strikes me as something Vittorio de Sica could have made perfectly . The last sequence reminds me very much of The Children Are Watching Us . As it is , The Demon is not a perfect picture . It goes on a bit too long . You can't do much besides hate the married couple , and it's just so difficult to build honest suspense around endangered children . Ogata , best known as being the star of Shohei Imamura's Vengeance Is Mine , which was made the next year , is exceptional . He goes through a range of emotions in the picture , all perfectly and subtly expressed . He is probably the titular character , but that title is ironic . He is demonic in his intentions , but he is clearly a human being . A couple of third act speeches , especially one he gives about his own past , harms the film a lot , unfortunately . Shima Iwashita is also great , although she doesn't get any chance to seem human ( she's much closer to being a demon ) . In the past she starred in two movies by Ozu ( Late Autumn and An Autumn Afternoon ) , as well as Shinoda's Double Suicide , Kobayashi's Harakiri , and Okamoto's Red Lion . I also love the musical score , though it is often used cheaply to toy with the audience's emotions . The film wins extra points by mentioning Gatchaman , one of my favorite TV series ever ( that I just found on DVD ! ) .
Nargis stars as a suffering woman , Radha , experiencing tragedy after tragedy , surviving it all . The first half of the film doesn't promise anything overly special . A poor community falls under the weight of a moneylender , Sukhilala . When Radha marries , her mother-in-law mortgages her farm to pay for the wedding and Radha's jewlery . Since the mother-in-law has no education whatsoever , Sukhilala , probably the only educated man in the village , is able to take advantage of her . When she challenges Sukhilala's claim , she can't do much to disprove their deal . This part of the story is pretty cliché , rather predictable and very questionable . Sukhilala is a fairly standard villain , very cartoonish and simplistic . The audience is programmed to hiss at his every appearance . The conflict is compelling , but I was hoping for something more complex . It is nice , I suppose , to see the system challenged , but the fact that the system is challenged does not necessarily mean that the film challenges the system in an insightful manner . In reality , the film's solutions to the problems are all melodramatics . Luckily , something else is brewing in the film at this point . Radha has two sons , Ramu and Birju . The story starts to focus in on Birju , who is very obnoxious . His mother loves him dearly , spoils him , and he becomes simply evil . I should say at this point that the little kid who plays him as a child , Master Sajid , is very , very annoying , not to mention a terrible little actor . As an adult , Birju is a devil . Sukhilala still runs the place , and now Birju is big enough to do something about it . Thankfully , Birju is not made a hero . Well , perhaps an anti-hero , but at least we're spared him becoming an Indian Robin Hood as I expected . Complexities begin to develop in the way Sukhilala is depicted , and , while he's still the villain , the audience is no longer programmed to despise him on site . Radha has to both protect her son and stand up for what is right . The climax is so extremely impressive that I was almost convinced that the film was great . Yet the film is not what I would call great as a whole . There were dozens of scenes that I loved , but , as the film goes on for three hours , there was plenty to dislike , as well . The fat and gristle detract . Did I mention there are great songs ? Great indeed ! I love Hindi music myself . The cinematography is also often exceptional . .
An original entry into the vampire genre from Sweden . The film is about a 12 year-old boy , Oskar , who suffers the brutality of bullies at school every day . He has no friends until one day he meets a strange girl who has just moved into his building . Her name is Eli , and she is a vampire . Much of the film is made up of the two kids bonding . They are both very interesting characters , and I've seen very few movies about tweens that understand their psychology quite as well as this one does . Unfortunately , whenever the film wanders from the intimacy between Eli and Oskar , it stumbles . While sating her hunger , Eli causes a huge mess with a group of boneheads at the edge of town . These characters exist solely to move the plot along ( otherwise , frankly , the film wouldn't have one ) . At one point , a woman from this group becomes a vampire after Eli bites her . When she is exposed to sunlight , she bursts into flames . This doesn't seem to effect anyone else in the town save her husband . This whole subplot is just weird and underdeveloped , and drags the film down significantly .
Paul Haggis ' followup to his Best Picture winning Crash is certainly a bit of an improvement . I'm not a Crash hater , but I'm the first to admit it's far too heavy-handed and sloppy to be considered to be a great movie . And honestly , at its worst , you can feel that old Haggis hackery popping up in Elah more than a few times , most notably in that final shot , which is the worst final shot of a film since John Sayles ' Silver City . I also have to giggle at the lame Biblical allegory from which the film gets its title ( Elah was the valley in which David fought Goliath ) , which , try as I might , I cannot get to fit any possible scenario in the film's story . For the most part , though , In the Valley of Elah is an intriguing mystery and a powerful story . Tommy Lee Jones plays a Vietnam vet whose son has gone AWOL . He drives two days to the Army base in hopes of quelling the situation before it gets any worse . Unfortunately , the reason his son is AWOL is because he has been murdered , which is discovered shortly after Jones arrives . Both the military police and the local police ( led by Jason Patrick and Charlize Theron respectively ) are on the case , but Jones , himself a former MP , decides to do his own detective work . The mystery is well crafted by Haggis and his co-screenwriter , Mark Boal . It is true that , after parts of the mystery are revealed , some parts that you learned earlier don't make much sense . But that's pretty common in mysteries in general , and I didn't feel like Haggis had cheated , although it's entirely possible he's just kind of stupid . There are several very moving moments in the film . Susan Sarandon plays Jones ' wife , and , while I usually dislike her as an actress , she brought me to tears in the scene where she learns of her son's death . Jones ' performance was nominated for an Oscar , and it's well deserved ( although I would have rather seen him get one for No Country for Old Men , where he was even better ) . I like how Haggis makes him rather unsympathetic at times . Theron is also very good .
I don't know if this film has anything all that useful or original to say . We know , or at the very least we've heard that 1950s folks didn't much care for homosexuals and black people . Todd Haynes is certainly not taking any brave new stands in this film . It's a tribute to Sirk , who would never overtly deal with these exact same subjects . But he did make a good study of racial attitudes in Imitation of Life in 1959 , so he was no coward . Fortunately , Far From Heaven does manage to work itself up to something quite worthwhile . The film is subtle in the same way as Sirk's were : throwing florid melodrama in your face while secretly depicting the truth under that cloud . Haynes probably wouldn't have succeeded half as well as he did if he weren't working with Julianne Moore and , to a slightly lesser extent , Dennis Quaid . Moore has been a powerhouse actress for more than a decade now , and this could be her strongest performance yet . I might prefer her in Boogie Nights slightly , but this is close . She's great as a sheltered 1950s housewife coming out of her protective shell . Her husband ( Quaid ) has been fighting his homosexual lust his whole life , and he's beginning to lose the battle . Rejected , Moore befriends her gardener , an educated black man ( Dennis Haysbert ) . It's not love , at least right away . Moore is just enthused to have found someone outside of her own world who understands her and will talk with her in an honest manner . The color cinematography , set design , and costume design are full of transcendent Sirk-influenced colors . Perhaps my favorite aspect of the film is the musical score , by Elmer Bernstein . It would be a shame to see it go without an Academy Award nomination . .
Excellent early Fassbinder about two shiftless young men who decide , seemingly on the spur of a moment , that the next big step in their lives will be an extended expedition for treasure in Peru's Rio das Mortes region . One of their fiancées ( Hanna Schygulla , as gorgeous and as great as ever ) finds the notion stupid and wants to put a stop to it . It's a droll comedy and has a ton of great sequences . This is the first film in a Fassbinder bender I'm going on . I'm planning on seeing all of the films of his that have recently been released on DVD . I've been thinking a lot about this particular auteur lately . I don't think that enough time has passed since his untimely death to allow his career to be taken into proper perspective . Fassbinder reminds me a lot of Rohmer , Ozu , Godard and Bresson . He's in his own little world in his films ( a world which changed a lot in the 13 or so years during which he was active ) , and a lot of people are still misunderstanding it as overly theatrical , or stilted , or otherwise . The more films one sees by him , the more one gets adjusted to this universe . I think Rio das Mortes is best appreciated by Fassbinder's fans , and is unlikely to make any new converts ( start with Ali : Fear Eats the Soul , Fox and His Friends , and The Marriage of Maria Braun ) .
The recounting of the investigation surrounding the Daniel Pearl kidnapping in Pakistan , based on the account of his wife , Mariane . Winterbottom takes much the same approach as Paul Greengrass did for United 93 last year , playing everything very subdued , very straight , and concentrating on the procedure . I'm not really sure it was necessary to make this film , honestly . United 93 worked mainly because is an event that is shared by everyone in the United States , and arguably everyone in the world . It makes sense to watch the film as a kind of catharsis , and as a kind of visual education of how things went down ( at least with the procedural part of that day ) . A Mighty Heart feels more like a peering into a private tragedy . I also question the casting of Angelina Jolie in the lead role . She's a figure who is far too associated with trash journalism , and has , for a long time now , been more of a celebrity and less of an actress . To cast her in a film like this makes you wonder , is this just a bid to win awards ? Was her casting just a ploy to lure audiences to the theater ? If the latter was the case , the producers of the film failed miserably : the movie flopped . I think it is fair to judge movies by their intentions , at least partly . But the truth of the matter is that the film is very good . It grips and moves when it is supposed to . And , yes , Angelina Jolie is award-worthy , as much as I hate to go that route . I guess I can't complain about it all too much . If Mariane Pearl hadn't wanted her story known across the world , she wouldn't have written the book .
If it weren't for the great performances in Iñárritu's previous film , 21 Grams , I think I would have called it one of the worst films of 2003 . The script was ridiculous and , even worse , chopped up chronologically in a pointless and exceedingly artificial and pretentious way . So I have not been in a hurry to catch his new film , Babel , but finally grudgingly decided to go to a matinée because I assume that it will be a contender for the Oscars . And I'm glad I did . It's imperfect , but worthwhile . And it's a huge improvement over 21 Grams . As is the vogue , Babel contains three stories connected tenuously by narrative , but more closely related by theme . That theme is the difficulty of communication , and also the inception of bridges spanning that difficulty . In one story , an American tourist in Morocco is accidentally shot by a child playing with a rifle . The second story takes place in the near future with that woman's children , as their caretaker , an illegal immigrant from Mexico , is forced to take them with her to her son's wedding across the border . The third story is about a deaf-mute Japanese teenager who is growing apart from her father , and is love-starved . Honestly , I don't think Iñárritu or his screenwriter , Guillermo Arriaga , hit a homerun with their themes . I really don't think the film ends up saying anything important . And the interlocking narratives don't end up commenting on each other very well . The Japanese story in particular feels like it's out of left field . What I do like about the film is just the stories themselves . All three stories , even though they don't connect very well , are involving and entertaining . And Iñárritu directs them very well . Using a lot of close-ups , he succeeds in putting us directly into the action , and I felt like I was experiencing what the characters were experiencing . It's thrilling to feel that culture shock when the affluent white children find themselves in the middle of Mexican wedding festivities . Or the thrill when the deaf Japanese girl enters a night club for the first time , and how frightening it is to have the strobe lights destroy your ability to contact other human beings . The film may fail on a number of levels , but it does succeed in being vivid , which is something many better films fail to do . So I quite liked it .
James Gray's third film , seven years after his previous , the criminally underrated The Yards . That film starred Joaquin Phoenix and Mark Wahlberg . They must have realized that Gray , who also wrote the script to The Yards , gave them some damn fine roles there , so they came back , and even helped produce We Own the Night . This film belongs more to Phoenix than Wahlberg , and he's fantastic . It's kind of like the reverse of The Godfather , where Phoenix plays a man with criminal friends who gets pulled into police life . Gray's direction is superb . He gives the film the same low-key intensity that existed in The Yards . There are also two setpieces that should be included among the best sequences of the year . Especially notable is the outstanding car chase in a heavy downpour , which has been compared to the infamous French Connection sequence . This one is actually quite a bit better , and may be the scene of the year . Just the way Gray keeps the focus on Phoenix's car , even when all kinds of other stuff is happening . It gives it a horrifyingly claustrophobic tone that's amazing . The script isn't quite on the level that the rest of the film is , unfortunately . For a story about familial bonds , I don't think Gray did a good job establishing the relationships between Phoenix , Wahlberg and their father , played by Robert Duvall . The film just goes an easy route , making Phoenix a black sheep and not telling me enough to make me really care . In addition , the character of Phoenix's girlfriend , played by Eva Mendes , is underdeveloped . We never learn enough about her , and after a while it feels like she's only there for sex appeal ( she does kind of provide a vital plot point , but so what ? ) . I also didn't buy the climactic sequence at all . It doesn't make any real sense that they'd allow a newbie like Phoenix to go on a raid . One other small detail that drove me nuts : the film takes place in 1988 , but the movie opens with a Blondie song playing in a night club . Couldn't we find a better song than " Heart of Glass " to establish that it's 1988 ? And later , in the same night club , they're playing " Rapture " ! That's just odd . In my opinion , Phoenix gets pretty much all the acting honors . Wahlberg isn't given much to do . Duvall is pretty good , but he's done better . Woljciech Kilar provides a masterful score ( which is why sometimes the film seems like it's even better than it is ) , and the sound design is certainly Oscar-worthy ( keep your ears wide-open during the car chase sequence , as well as the other awesome setpiece , the drug raid ) .
This film has suffered some pretty undue criticism . It gets the dreaded ' BOMB ' rating in Leonard Maltin's guide , followed by ' The worst film of a great director . ' I haven't seen more than a couple of Penn's other films , so I can't comment on that , but it is hardly a bomb . Sure , it is a little slow moving , and it doesn't quite feel like the themes of the film were totally panned out , but most of the film is very good . I'm assuming Brando's the problem with most of the film's detractors . Wow , is his performance weird here . If you ever wanted to find the missing link between The Godfather and Apocalypse Now , here it is . He plays a bounty hunter of sorts hired to discover some horse thieves and murderers . This character is very eccentric , and I'm guessing that Brando had a lot of artistic input on this one based on his later career . He's basically a psycho killer , and he seems much more lawless than the criminals he's seeking . He also speaks with an Irish brogue , some of the time . Personally , the waxing and waning accent is my only real problem with the role , and I'm not a big accent baby anyway . It's a tiny flaw in what is otherwise a very interesting performance . Brando creates a very memorable character . Jack Nicholson plays his rival . He's almost ready to go straight , having found a nice , small ranch and a girlfriend ( Kathleen Lloyd ) . His performance is subdued , and I really think Nicholson is best when he's like that . This isn't his greatest performance , but it is subtle and it's very good . The flaws of the film are offset by the number of great scenes in it . Almost every single actor gets one scene alone with Brando , and both Randy Quaid and Harry Dean Stanton deliver excellent performances especially in those scenes . Nicholson's two best scenes are also alone with Brando . I would guess than he had something to do with their co-star ; I do think Brando deserves some credit for the excellence of these scenes . Penn's direction is nothing to write home about . I love the two other films I've seen by him , Mickey One and Bonnie and Clyde , but , let's face it , he was more or less ripping off the Italian and French cinemas of the time , respectively . Missouri Breaks is much more straighforward in that respect , and perhaps it is here that it could have used a boost of energy . .
I'm a sucker for movies about people and their pets . This film stars former SNL player Molly Shannon as a secretary whose personal life revolves around her beagle , Pencil . When he passes away unexpectedly , she has to find another reason to go on . The film first hints that she'll discover the world of humans around her , particularly men , as two new ones ( John C . Reilly & Peter Saarsgard ) enter her life . But it smartly steers away from the obvious and veers into a more original voyage of self-discovery . My only real problem with the film is that a lot of the supporting characters are a little too caricature-esquire ( notably Shannon's boss , played by Josh Pais ) , but writer / director White does a good job of redeeming them for the most part . A very touching , gentle film that's well worth your time .
Good Fassbinder , if a little lethargic . Brigitte Mira , who just passed away earlier this month , plays a housewife who has long settled in her uneventful life . One day , however , her husband commits murder-suicide at the factory in which he works . Suddenly she has to deal with the media , as well as her uncaring family . She can't really figure out why her husband did what he did . Luckily , some local communists show up to help her figure it out . Soon she's a pawn in their politics . And , when they don't satisfy her need for an explanation , a group of anarchists steps in to use her for their own political purposes . The film ends twice ? once we read Fassbinder's original scripted ending , then we see the ending he did use . Both work , though I think the first , unfilmed one is a lot more Fassbinder-esque . Mira is wonderful , as usual ; some of the family material is too close to Fear Eats the Soul , and is rendered somewhat ineffective because of that .
They Were Expendable opens on December 7th , 1941 and takes us through the opening of the Pacific leg of WWII ( from the point of view of the U . S . ) . Most of the film takes place in the Philippines . Most of the major characters are sailors on P . T . boats , which the navy doesn't believe are going to be very useful . The film is handsomely produced , with some of the best battle scenes of its time ( the boats take on destroyers and planes ) . The battles with the planes are spectacular and gripping . The film should be better than it is , but there are some major doldrums in its run . Unlike some of John Ford's better films , They Were Expendable is only sporadically great ; several individual scenes are beautiful . John Wayne is great in it ; it's definitely one of his best performances . Perhaps I might like it better if I watched it a second time ; I had a long break in the middle , and that can always harm films . .
I saw this film months ago when it first came out , and I never stopped thinking about it . It is the only film of this year that deserved to make a lot of money ( The Matrix and The Phantom Menace disappointed me terribly ) . It is unlike the rest of the movies Hollywood throws out . Unlike the empty Matrix and the Phantom Menace , the Sixth Sense is a character driven drama . It comes to a conclusion that no other ghost movie ( that I've ever seen ) has touched on . I think the film has a good chance to snatch up some Oscar noms . I think it deserves nods for script and definitely Best Supporting Actor in Osment ( though he really is the main character , he is pushed to second string because of the bigger star ) . I wouldn't even be offended if Willis got a nom , seeing that this is his best film besides maybe 12 Monkeys and Pulp Fiction . Now for the ending that I mentioned in my summary . Most people will know about it this late in the game , but I won't tell . I think it pulls attention away from the true greatness of the film , which is the characters . It is what we were talking about after we left the theater , and I'm disappointed at myself for doing so . Sure it was neat , but I have gone through it in my mind several times , finding flaws within the film . Surprise endings are almost always detractors . If you remember a film just because of its surprise ending , it is a worthless film , just like The Usual Suspects , a very bad film if anyone would actually think about something besides the ending . overall , being a 9 originally , but losing 1 point for its supposed hook .
The Last Crusade is the Indiana Jones film I've seen least . In fact , I may be lying if I were to say I've seen it more than once all the way through before this viewing . Having watched all three of the original trilogy last week , I have to say , there isn't a great gap between them in quality . They're all three excellent movies with brilliant direction by Spielberg , and pitch-perfect action sequences , paced just so as not to overwhelm the viewer . The Last Crusade is the most comic of the three films , adding Sean Connery as Indy's father and pairing the two as a kind of Abbot and Costello team . It's shocking just how well it works ? if I hadn't seen the movie and you told me Harrison Ford and Sean Connery would be the perfect comic duo , I'd have been more than a little dubious . Connery isn't known for his comic chops , but , if he didn't have them before , he definitely earned them here . I think , after James Bond ( and I'd say unfortunately so ) , his Henry Jones Sr . will prove to be his most remembered performance . Denholm Elliot and John Rhys-Davies both return from Raiders , and both are more comic characters this time around ( Elliot in particular is hilarious ; I think Sallah is kind of wasted in this one ) . Alison Doody plays Indy's double-crossing love interest . I had remembered her as being particularly forgettable , but this time around I thought she was quite good . I still have to wonder what happened to Karen Allen ( which is kind of explained in Kingdom of the Crystal Skull ) , who was by far the best of the Indy girls , but Doody is good at what she does . River Phoenix appears in the brilliant opening sequence as young Indiana Jones . What a sad waste his death was .
Based on a novel by Edogawa Rampo , a Japanese author whose name transliterates to " Edgar Allen Poe " . This story is very Poe-like , covering the subject of doppelgängers much like " William Wilson " . Gemini is somewhat confusing , but overall it is a haunting film that actually generates fear and a deeper feeling of uneasiness . A rich doctor marries an amnesiac whose origins are unknown . Soon , her former lover ? who happens to be the doctor's twin brother who was abandoned and then raised in the slums ? comes back to claim what is his . The doppelgänger throws the doctor into a well and tries to win back his former wife . Soon , the twins begin to exchange personalities until , by the end , it's not entirely clear which one is the victor ? or even if the final version of the man doesn't share the minds of both brothers . The film is slow to start , but it climbs to a high level . The technical aspects are especially amazing here . The makeup , the sound , the editing ? everything is top notch . The acting is also great . Masahiro Motoki ? whose other starring roles include Miike's exceptional The Bird People of China as well as a tryptich of Rampo adaptations named after the author ? plays the doctor and his evil twin . A woman simply known as Ryo plays the doctor's wife . She's got a particularly intriguing face . She also starred in Ryuhei Kitamura's Alive . Gemini is not an easy picture , nor is it entirely satisfying . But it is great .
It's unfortunate that this film is so little known . I caught chunks of it on television a few months ago and found the idea of a Satan worshiping Kirk Douglas a bit more than interesting . I didn't know the title , but came upon the film again in the tv listings . Since it also included Burt Lancaster and Laurence Olivier , I figured that I could only gain something by recording it . And I'm very glad I did . The film is a historic drama set during the American Revolution with a lot of comedy thrown in . These varying aspects mix quite well in the film for the most part , and , even when they don't , there're always those three great actors to save the proceedings . Lancaster plays an American priest who is hoping that his community takes no part in the rebellion . Douglas is the self-described devil worshiper and ne'er-do-well who is the community's most outspoken rebel . Olivier has a major supporting part as an English general . These three performances are impeccable . The dialogue is also so ( it's based on a G . B . Shaw play ) . SPOILERSThe script has a couple of large problems . The biggest is that the writers seem to have no clue how to treat the role of the priest's wife , Judith , well played by Janette Scott despite the script's flaws . I have a feeling that Hollywood conventions are getting in the way here . Judith reacts violently to the cynicism and cruelty of Douglas ' character , but , for some odd reason , the screenwriters have her fall in love with him . This is pure Hollywood hokum . Even at the film's end , the writers have not decided what to do with her character : the priest , now transformed into a militiaman ( he dresses like Davy Crockett ) , hands over his wife to the devil worshiper because of a heroic deed he has accomplished . His response to the priest is confusing . I think he refused the offer . Still , Olivier asks Douglas to join him for tea with Judith , to which Douglas agrees . Instead , Judith runs off with her original husband . It is very odd . The writers should have never pushed Judith into Douglas ' arms . One other scene is very hard to watch , too : the scene where Lancaster attempts to sabotage the British troops . It is well meant to show the priest's transformation , but they play it as an action sequence . It is quite poorly staged - one of those scenes where you are always wondering why that one British soldier doesn't kill the priest when he has the chance . Anyhow , it is pointless to complain . These inconsistencies and missteps don't harm the overall effect of the film . I watched this movie for its actors , and , boy , do they give awesome performances .
An adventure movie to match the great ones of the past , and the one to beat for the future . The culmination of this ambitious trilogy is more than fitting ; it surpasses the first two films by quite a distance . Almost nothing disappointed or bothered me . All parts of the story were equally interesting . It was sweeping , it was involving , it was beautiful . One of the few thing I would complain about is the villain . Sauron is boring and more or less unseen . He does not feel very threatening . And his army of orcs has been dull since the first film . They're just not very interesting creatures . Fortunately , The Return of the King really makes up for these monsters with a gallery of better ones . Some of them have been present in the other two films , trolls and those flying dragons that the ring wraiths ride on . They're more present here , however . Even better , though , those gigantic elephants , ten times the size of a normal one . Oh , man , those are cool . Star Wars fans might grumble that they were too much like the AT-AT walkers from Empire , and they are . One scene where Legolas , the elf , triumphs over one of them feels like a sped up version of Luke Skywalker's attack . But the very best thing is a giant spider . Everyone knows that there was originally a giant spider on skull island in King Kong , cut from the film because it really disturbed a test audience . Seeing the spider in Return of the King is like having that famous piece of lost footage restored . When all three films are finally out on their special edition DVDs , I'm going to spend a month combing through them to see whether or not the entire series of films isn't just as good as this one , or perhaps as good as many of my younger friends have sworn they were .
It has generally been thought of as a minor Sayles work , but I think it demonstrates his talent to the utmost . No other filmmaker I know of is so skillful at creating a believable community , one that feels like a real place , while at the same time illuminating the sense of community throughout the entire United States . Sunshine State focuses on a Floridian community , of course , on a small island off the coast . A lot has gone on here during the last half-century . The island is populated mostly by blacks and whites , most of whom remember the old days of racial tension well . The two races still don't interact much , but they now live side by side in peace . Mostly they hold on to their values as a small community , where individuals owned the businesses and land . At least they try to hold on to those values . Corporations are threatening to turn their paradise , which is actually called Paradise Island , into strip malls and golf courses . Some choose to protest what others see as progress , others have given up . The film has two main characters , a black woman and a white woman , who never meet during the film and , though they know the same people , might never have met , they share similar life experiences . Edie Falco plays Marly Temple . She runs a local motel / restaurant that stands in a location that developers desperately want . Angela Bassett plays a woman who has just returned to Paradise Island after a long absence . Yes , the film is far from perfect . Some of the supporting characters , of which there is an enormous amount , end up as loose threads . And the climax is sort of a weak deus ex machina . But , generally , Sayles creates an utterly complex work that explores its themes in a manner that compels , teaches , and deeply satisfies . It isn't his best film , but it's one of his best . It is perhaps his most ambitious film and it certainly didn't deserve to be passed over like it was . .
I can't believe this isn't a huge cult hit . Perhaps people in 1968 , thinking of the Monkees as a silly factory-made pop band rip-off of the Beatles , refused to see it . That cynicism probably covered it from sight ever since . Don't make this mistake . _ Head _ is an amazing film that most open minded people will appreciate . It is very funny and very intelligent ( and very trippy ) .
This is one of the weirdest and most unique films I've ever seen . It's artsploitation , and like most artsploitation , its art is questionable . In the end , though , I judged that it was more art than exploitation . Others , and probably the majority , would probably feel the opposite . A shy young man follows a group of men who are dragging a woman up to his apartment building's roof . He watches quietly as they rape her . When she awakes in the morning , she asks him to kill her , for she's too unhappy to live . We discover that he himself is suicidal , and that he harbors a deep curiosity and fear around sex , which has lead him to murder before . It does cross the line several times , especially with a series of photos of Roman Polanski and Sharon Tate , among which is a picture of Tate's corpse , but there's a lot of interest to grab onto . If nothing else , the stark black and white cinematography is gorgeous , and director Wakamatsu's use of music is masterful . A trip some will definitely want to take , while others , and you probably know it already , should avoid . The director later went on to produce Oshima's In the Realm of the Senses , which , while certainly a good film , is far less daring and compelling as Go Go Second Time Virgin . .
I'll follow Joseph Gordon-Levitt wherever he chooses to go . After two knockout performances ( Mysterious Skin and Brick ) , it was clear that he had something . With his new film The Lookout , he more or less solidifies the notion that he's one of this generation's best actors . That is , if he even needed to do a third film to prove that . But , yes , he is just as impressive here as he was in his previous two films , playing a young man who has suffered major brain trauma . He himself is responsible for the injury , having crashed his car in a silly fit of teenage romanticism , killing two of his friends and maiming his girlfriend besides what he has done to himself . Now he mainly pines for his old , normal life , and browbeats himself with guilt . He works at a small town bank as the night watchman / janitor , and his disability ( and his guilt and anger ) makes him the perfect target for conman Gary Spargo ( Matthew Goode ) . Looking at it from the outside , The Lookout contains a lot of clichés , especially in the colorful supporting characters . It also shares a lot of similarities to Christopher Nolan's Memento . But the film survives for a couple of reasons . First , the actors are all just excellent . Even though inhabiting cliché characters like the kindly Midwestern cop ( Sergio Di Zio ) , the bimbo stripper ( Isla Fisher ) or the wisecracking blind guy ( Jeff Daniels ) , every actor brings his or her A game . And I wouldn't discount writer / director Scott Frank's abilities either . I mean , these people are cliché in a lot of ways , but he brings them all a step up with his smartly written dialogue . I especially like how he gives Isla Fisher's character a very human face even while simultaneously joking about how dense she is . And that's the second reason that the film turns out to be really good , that Frank focuses so much on the characters . The protagonist , Chris Pratt , is one of the more tragic characters to come out of Hollywood in recent years . The crime film / thriller elements of the film probably wouldn't be half as involving if not for characters that I really cared about . All in all , I was extremely entertained by The Lookout . It's the best film I've seen so far this year .
An epic about Italian political history of the first half of the 20th Century , detailing the lives of two men born on the same day . Olmo ( played by Gerard Depardieu as an adult ) is the bastard child of peasants and is raised to be a socialist . Alfredo ( Robert De Niro ) is the son of a wealthy family and will someday become lord and master of all the peasants on his land . He's a pleasant man , not cruel like his father , but he won't go out of his way to help those below him in status ( including Olmo , who is his closest friend and companion ) . It's a huge film , and very sloppy . I would guess it would be very sloppy even in its original version ( the English language version is an hour shorter at least ) . My biggest problem with the film is the character of Olmo . As a child ( played by Roberto Maccanti ) , he exhibits daring and independence . As an adult , he seems like a sponge and he kind of drops out of the last third of the picture , it seemed to me . My interest dropped in the character because , first , the character does not seem to follow from childhood to adulthood , and , second , Depardieu gives a dull performance . He's handsome , but in the kind of way that makes you forget that he even exists . Maccanti , as young Olmo , leaves a much bigger impression . My second biggest problem with the film is the treatment of politics . It's no secret where Bertolucci's sympathy lies , with the communists . That's fine by me , and it's good that he has Alfredo not as the villain but as a man who turns his back and continues to live his life as a wealthy man . But there are Fascists in the film , and they are lead by Donald Sutherland . Sutherland is so evil in this film it becomes amusing . He'll do anything to get what he wants , including killing old women , children , and he even headbutts a cat ! I have no real problem with showing the Italian Fascists as evil , but this is cartoonishly evil . Sutherland's character's name : Attila . No sht ! On the other hand , I cannot help but admit that Donald Sutherland has all the most memorable scenes in the film . He may be more or less one dimensional , but I'll never forget his wicked grin , and I'll never forget the splattered blood on his forehead from that cat ! Robert De Niro does a lot with his role , which is the most complex in the film , probably . His performance here matches his best work . Alfredo's wife is played by Dominique Sanda . She also gives an exceptional performance , although her character could have been ( and might have been , in the full version ) better developed . While I have some major problems with the overall substance of the film , there's no doubt there's a genius at work here . Several , actually . Bertolucci's direction is as good as it ever was , and his ambition seems , at least for a while , peerless . He may have had several better films , but this is as much a peak in his direction as Last Tango in Paris or The Conformist . Helping him achieve greatness far beyond what should have resulted are Vittorio Storaro , providing gorgeous , sweeping photography , and Ennio Moricone , ever the trooper with another exceptional musical score . 1900 , despite heavy flaws , is indeed a great film .
Actually , it's a British period piece that has many plot elements in common with a strain of movies of the 1940s , like Rebecca , Dragonwyck , and even Duel in the Sun . A woman working as a maid , Blanche Fuller ( Valerie Hobson ) , discovers that she is on the fringes of a very wealthy family , the Furies . When she arrives , she discovers a strange situation . Her family , the Fullers , who come from a lower class background , have married into the Furies , all of whom have died . The only remaining Fury , or possibly a Fury , is Philip Thorn ( Stewart Granger ) , supposedly the illegitimate son of the last living Fury . He works on their estate , called Claire , but he is trying to inherit the estate ; his lawyer is researching his lineage . He's desperate to get his hands on the place . When Blanche marries her cousin , Laurence Fury , Thorn devises to seduce her . Also in his plotting he decides to use a group of Gypsies who have come into conflict with Claire and the Furies . Though it took a while for Blanche Fury to capture my wandering attention , eventually I started to get into it . The performances are what drew me in . Granger was especially delightful as the evil , scheming Thorn . I had to laugh at his clever deviousness at times . A man after my own heart , he is ! Hobson is quite good , as is Michael Gough , who plays her weakling husband . The color cinematography and musical score are fine . The script feels like it came from a novel , but it was written for the screen , making it especially impressive . I like the character arc of Blanche Fury . She begins as a sort of a schemer herself , planning to get rich and wield her feminine power over the estate . Only when she comes into conflict with Thorn , a more clever and desperate conspirator , does she realize she herself has done wrong and will now have to do the right thing . The ending is weird , but rather haunting . This is an exceptional film . .
Very good film from director Wyler , although it is its star , Bette Davis , upon whom its high quality mostly rests . This is perhaps Davis ' best performance that I've seen . She plays a spoiled Southern belle whose fiancé ( Henry Fonda ) leaves her after a socially embarrassing event . As he leaves her , she swears that he will return , as he has in the past . And he does , one year later , with his new Northern wife in tow . The film does wonders with its historical setting , New Orleans a short while before the Civil War . A year before Gone with the Wind cooed over the fancy lives and manners of the Ante Bellum South , Jezebel was exploring them in more detail , and with a more intelligent eye . Also lurking about is the threat of Yellow Fever , which devastated New Orleans in the 1830s and is starting to grow rampant again . Another thing I really liked about Jezebel was its ending . Perhaps when it was released in 1938 there would be a feeling that Davis ' character has turned a corner and has become more selfless , but to me her motives seemed awfully suspicious . That ambiguity is fascinating . Along with the leads , Donald Crisp and George Brent give fine supporting performances , and Max Steiner's score is one of the best of its era . .
Great film about an American G . I . who quits the army to marry a German girl who saved his life in the last days of the war . She accepts , but does she do it because she really likes him , or because he can support her with easier access to food and such ? Meanwhile , her brother and an old friend form an anti-American terrorist group called the Werewolves , their purpose to drive away the occupants ( you might remember the same group playing a major part in Lars von Trier's film Europa ( Zentropa ) ) . James Best , best known for his role as Roscoe P . Coltrane in the 1980s television show The Dukes of Hazzard , is shockingly excellent as the American . He should have become a big movie star ? at this age he reminds me very much of Warren Beatty . The other main actors are good , as well . Fuller's direction is quite good , using a lot of long takes again ( although they are not nearly as complex as they were in Park Row ; the long takes more often than not consist of long scenes with a lot of dialogue ) . The only problems lie in the script , as seems to be the case with all of the Fuller films that I've seen . It's not too badly flawed , but it ought to have been expanded , fleshing out major characters and parts of the script . Helga , the wife , goes through a major change , but completely off screen . Therefore , the emotional center rests squarely on Best's shoulders . Fuller also should have killed off the sick mother early in the film . I hope that doesn't sound too harsh ! She just doesn't really do anything throughout the film except lie in bed . She has so few lines . But Fuller keeps bringing her up as the film goes on . I would have had her death solidify David and Helga's relationship myself . And the film ends too abruptly , and it lacks payoff . These aren't really the biggest flaws in the world ( the way I described them makes them sound bigger than they are ) . .
When people ask the question " Why don't they make musicals anymore ? " I find that it is quite easily answered : " Well , the genre was perfected in classical Hollywood . " We can never get to that point again , and can only hope for re-invention , which we kind of got this past year with Moulin Rouge . However , that film cannot compare with the musicals of the 30s and 50s , nor can any other musical ( at least from what I've seen ) of the past 20 years . I had never heard of Two Weeks with Love , and only began to watch it because there was nothing else on when I sat down to eat my lunch . I missed the first 15 minutes or so , but the plot was simple enough to reconstruct : a family goes on vacation in the Catskills around the turn of the Twentieth Century , and the middle of three daughters ( Jane Powell ) , Patty , 17 in age , feels that she is becoming an adult . Her parents treat her like a child , though , and won't allow her to where a corset , the symbol of young womanhood . Another guest in their hotel is Demy , a Cuban gentleman played by none other than Ricardo Montalban ( how old is this guy ? this film was made in 1950 ! ) . He's a bit older than Patty , but she is extraordinarily attracted to him . Her older sister , Valerie , tries to trick her into screwing up when she's in front of him ( she wants him , too ) , and her younger sister , Melba , thinks Patty's a nut . Debbie Reynolds , cute as ever , plays Melba , two years before Singin ' in the Rain . This film has a lot of great musical numbers , but it can go a long time at some points without one . However , it's so entertaining even without the music that I was never impatiently waiting for the next one to occur . The humor is marvelous . The dialogue is very clever , and there are actually a lot of sexual innuendoes . Some of them may not have been meant . For instance , one scene has Patty explaining to Demy how she would cling to him if she fell into a lake . She wraps her arms tightly around this pole that looks far too much like a penis to suggest anything else . I hope someday that I'll be able to see the first 15 minutes that I missed . Perhaps then I'll give it a 10 , but for now I'll give it a .
Surprisingly great John Ford film starring Shirley Temple . I was unsure if I could stand her cuteness for an hour and forty minutes , but I was never as annoyed as I expected to be . She's actually quite - good ( I'll probably never live that down , will I ? ) . Once in a while , she got a bit cloying , but for the most part I enjoyed her performance . Believe me , though , John Ford and his screenwriter were careful to balance her with the rest of the film , which is indeed quite masterful . All of the other performers are pitch perfect , including C . Aubrey Smith , Cesar Romero , Michael Whalen , Constance Collier , June Lang , and especially Ford regular Victor McLaglen . He's amazing , as always . The story , based on a Rudyard Kipling book , is very good . Lang plays Temple's mother . Her husband has apparently died , and she accepts the gracious invitation of her father-in-law ( Smith ) , a colonel in India , whom she has never met . While there , Temple becomes a sort of a mascot of the soldiers , with Sgt . MacDuff ( McLaglen ) taking care of her and teaching her how to be a soldier . Another soldier ( Whalen ) courts Temple's mother . Cesar Romero plays Khoda Khan , a bandit prince who is being held prisoner in the fort . Ford's direction is as exciting as ever , and the cinematography is halfway between the expressionism of The Informer and the naturalism of Stagecoach . The musical score is also quite good . One might object to the colonialist viewpoint of the film , but , to be fair , Wee Willie Winkie is a lot more palatable in that respect than George Stevens ' much more famous Gunga Din is . .
It's the kind of movie that reminds me that the words " cute , " " sweet " and " quirky " ought not to be criticisms in and of themselves . The film is about two pre-teens , a troublemaker ( Will Poulter ) and a sheltered kid from a strict religious sect ( Bill Milner ) , who decide to make a sequel to First Blood . Poulter fancies himself a filmmaker , and hopes to win a BBC contest with the movie . First Blood is Milner's first movie ever ( the movie begins with him and his family holding a vigil over the lost souls who are in a theater watching it ) , and it fires up his already vivid imagination . The plot is generally predictable , but the themes of friendship and the love of creating art are well done and very touching . Most surprising is the frequently exciting direction by Garth Jennings , whose first film was the mediocre-at-best adaptation of The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy . I would never have expected him to produce an original screenplay of such wit , pacing and attention to detail . It's an absolutely satisfying film , and one of the few I've seen so far in 2008 that I genuinely loved .
He's not a director I'm overly enthusiastic about , but he's good . This is a simple love story , based on Dostoyevsky . Marcello Mastroianni plays a man who meets a beautiful young girl ( Maria Schell ) . He falls for her instantly , but finds she is awaiting an older man ( Jean Marais ) with whom she fell in love the previous year . He is supposed to be coming back for her . Mastroianni attempts to prevent the reunion . This reminds me more of Fellini than Visconti . There's a dance sequence in a night club that almost escapes from the movie . It's like a centerpiece , and like a small masterpiece existing within an otherwise excellent film .
This film is pure Ford , so , if you're a fan , definitely seek it out . Will Rogers plays the title character , a relaxed judge in a small , Southern town at the end of the 19th Century . He's a kind man with a homespun sense of justice . Others in the legal profession around him disdain him for his casualness , and Judge Priest dislikes their rigid sense of formality . The film opens with the dour Berton Churchill ( best known for playing the wicked banker in Stagecoach ) prosecuting an ignorant black man , Jeff , for stealing chickens . Jeff claims that he was out fishing for catfish at the time he is supposed to have nabbed the poultry . This activity excites Judge Priest so much that he lets Jeff go and they both go off fishing for catfish . Jeff afterwards becomes his servant . The plot of this film , which was the kernel for the plot of Ford's later ( and lesser ) Young Mr . Lincoln , involves a stabbing in self-defense . Judge Priest's young nephew , Jerome , back from law school , takes it up as his first case . The courtroom scenes are good for courtroom scenes , but that was never what interested me . The sense of Southern nostalgia , which I love so much from William Faulkner , is enveloping in this film . Will Rogers ' kind judge is such a good character . He apparently improvised most of his dialogue , which was his style . He speaks slowly , but with conviction . It's a very good performance . People will certainly object to the treatment and characterization of black characters in the film . This is more just a product of the times , and it doesn't worry me much . Besides , I really found Judge Priest's interactions with Jeff and his maid , Dilsey ( played by Gone with the Wind's Hattie McDaniel ) , touching . Aunt Dilsey , as she is called , is also the name of one of Faulkner's more memorable characters , the black maid in The Sound and the Fury . She and Will Rogers actually have quite a fantastic duet at one point . Rogers also sings with McDaniel and a few other black women , as well . .
Probably the most well liked movie of 2004 that I missed . I'm glad I finally decided to sit down and watch it , because it really is one of the best films of that year . There was a glut of biopics at the time , but I think this one is the best . It's just a truly fascinating movie about an important individual . It argues well for his case in history , and builds a three-dimensional portrait of him . It explores his successes and his failures , his strengths and his shortcomings . I didn't necessarily avoid the film when it came out , but , since I didn't have much affection for Condon's other biopic , Gods and Monsters , I didn't feel it was a must-see . But Condon really excels here as both a writer and a director . And the cast is simply fantastic . Liam Neeson stars . I'm not a big Neeson fan , but he has given a few great performances and this is probably his second best effort after Schindler's List . Laura Linney , the sole Oscar nominee from the film , gives a wonderful , subtle performance as his wife ( I think Catherine Keener in Capote fills the same space among the 2005 Supporting Actress nominees ; these two performances are excellent but easily overlooked ) . Peter Sarsgaard , one of the best actors among the current crop , gives the best supporting performance among the many good ones here . I also loved Carter Burwell's wonderful score . It's a great film .
Charlie Chaplin is one of the undisputed masters of the cinema . He was one of the funniest actors of the cinema , and he was also one of the greatest directors . Of course , the films that he is most famous for are his silent comedies , especially The Gold Rush , City Lights , and Modern Times . The latter two were the product of Chaplin's stubborn clinging to the format and conventions of the silent cinema , though everyone else had gone to sound . This stubbornness was certainly sound . His contemporaries such as Buster Keaton and Harold Lloyd lost popularity when they moved to sound . Chaplin's last two silent films were popular and made a lot of money . Audiences may have craved sound , but they craved Chaplin , too , and did not disdain his silence . He was one of the silent artists who thought that they were just achieving the peak of their medium when sound came in . He proved himself right , since City Lights ( 1931 ) and Modern Times ( 1936 ) are probably his two best films , and both are two of the best films ever made . Finally , in 1940 , Chaplin directed and starred in his first talkie , The Great Dictator . Three more followed , Monsieur Verdoux , then Limelight , then King of New York , which happens to be the only one of these four I have not seen . The Great Dictator and Monsieur Verdoux were both good films in their own way , but perhaps Chaplin's in depth political commentary in these films detracted from them . The type of comedy that you find in his silent films did not mix well with this social commentary . The simple juxtapositions of the worlds of the poor and the rich in City Lights and Modern Times were far more powerful than what his first two talkies had to offer . Then came Limelight , one of the most bittersweet films ever made . It is not perfect , but it achieves a grand melodramatic beauty that few films have ever even approached . The story is simple : a washed-up , old vaudvillian rescues a young ballet dancer from suicide . He takes care of her until she is healthy again , and even restores her confidence . The story may be simple , but the character dynamics are very complex . As the dancer , Theresa , is recovering , Calvero is not only rebuilding her confidence , but also his own . Theresa , because of his kindness towards her , finally believes she has fallen in love with him , even going so far as proposing marriage to him . Whether she actually loves him or not , and Calvero strongly asserts that she shouldn't and doesn't , these two characters have a constantly evolving relationship that does not end until the credits role . It is utterly fascinating , captivating , and dramatic . There are a couple of problems , and though they're small , they deserve attention . Perhaps the biggest problem is that Claire Bloom is quite guilty of overacting . Her line delivery is bizarre and overdramatic . This isn't a big deal , since you ought to be keenly aware that the film takes place in the world of melodrama , and is thus exaggerated . Another thing that irked me is Buster Keaton's role . It is little more than a cameo . In fact , his character doesn't even have a name in the credits . This is truly disappointing , seeing that he , although Chaplin may have had the most heart , was the all-around funniest silent comedian .
May be a ways down from perfection , but with such an ambitious project , that's more than understandable , as well as forgivable . It's a poetic , impressionistic mood piece on the desperation of man to escape death , told over three intermingled , interrelated stories , one of a Spanish conquistador , one of a modern experimental doctor and the final of a man in the distant future , hurdling through space . I don't quite like what Aronofsky's solution is , that death is a new version of life . As an atheist , I have a more existential dilemma when it comes to death , and Aronofsky's new-age-y thoughts on the subject are no more helpful than Christianity's . I may disagree with the film's thesis in part , but what I cannot disagree with is how outstanding a film it is . I would take it over almost any other film released this year , certainly most of the best reviewed ones ? it honestly kicks The Queen's ass . It looks and feels , and even sounds like almost no other film I've seen . The visuals are absolutely astounding ( and done without an ounce of CGI , so they have a uniqueness to them ) . Even the non-sci-fi or historical parts have extremely beautiful visuals . The musical score , by Clint Mansell , is easily the best work of the year . The film really does engulf you in its remarkable aura , like the bubble in which Hugh Jackson travels through space . And the theme of trying to reverse a loved one's mortality is always a powerful one , and something that will stand the test of time . My prediction is , although this seems to be a colossal financial failure on first release , that The Fountain will become a favorite of a lot of people as time moves on .
The story concerns a Hollywood screenwriter ( Bogart ) who is suspected of being a murderer . Grahame , a neighbor , steps in to defend him ? she saw the murdered woman leave his apartment alone . Afterwards , they begin a relationship . But Bogart's nature is a violent one , and that violence keeps pushing forward . It makes Grahame rethink her earlier testimony , as well as fear for her own safety . It's quite a unique film for the time , one that actually deals with the possibility of an abusive man . Everything is perfectly done , and the script is wonderful . The film's tagline was ' The Bogart suspense picture with a surprise ending ! ' What is surprising about the ending is just how much weight it carries . .
I had grave doubts going into this one . Its fans seemed to me to be the same people who like a lot of the movies I really hated over the past five years or so , movies like The Matrix , Run Lola Run , Fight Club , and many others . I avoided it for a long time , though I always thought I had to see it no matter what . And when the chance to see it for free came along , I jumped at it . Fortunately , Memento lives up to the hype . It's one of the few movies that can . Seriously , I wouldn't doubt that this movie will one day be counted as one of the best ever made . Perhaps not the ninth best ever , its current position on the imdb top 250 , but it will certainly have its place in the history books . The main reason for this is its unique narrative structure . Add this one to the ranks of Citizen Kane for its high level of narrative innovation . What it does is it tells its story backwards . It will give us one large chunk of narrative information , stop , and then rewind to the last place Leonard ( Guy Pearce ) began his small chunk of memory . You see , Leonard has this condition where he has little short-term memory . After a few minutes , he forgets everything that has happened to him since a serious injury . He reminds himself of his purpose every time he wakes up in a new chunk of memory through hosts of photos and notes that he has written to himself . His purpose : to avenge his dead wife . She was raped , and her rapist knocked poor Lenny on his head . This condition , which is the foundation of the narrative structure , is clearly false . You just have to suspend your disbelief as you watch , and , I promise you , you'll see something very unique . The best thing about this film is that it gives you some real mental exercise . It asks you to remember a large amount of information . Add to that the fact that not everything is trustworthy , and that truth and memory and facts and everything that we take for granted are constantly being questioned and warped , and you've got yourself an enjoyable uphill battle . The rest of the film is equally commendable , which ought to be remembered as long as you can retain it . The acting is quite good , especially Joe Pantoliano , so good in Bound , and Carrie-Anne Moss , with whom I was quite unimpressed in The Matrix . Here , she shows that she can play a complex character and that her main assets aren't her T & A . Guy Pearce is also quite good , though he was perhaps better in L . A . Confidential . I think someone else might have brought a bit more depth to the part , but perhaps not . One of the most difficult things about his role is the fact that he really has no complexities - he's a blank slate . One could honestly call him simply a tool of the plot . However , someone who would say that would be missing the fact that he is often being used as a tool by other characters . Christopher Nolan is not just a master scenarist , he's also an excellent director . Also great is the cinematography , sharp color with some spatterings of black and white . Perhaps there are some plot holes , but I didn't notice them . This is truly a masterpiece , a film to remember . .
Excellent film about a group of Imperial Russian expatriates who try to pass off a nobody as the Grand Duchess Anastasia , who was supposedly executed along with the rest of her family a decade ago . No one knows , not even the woman herself , whether she is or is not Anastasia . Ingrid Bergman plays this woman in her glorious return to Hollywood after several years of exile on account of the affair she had with Italian director Roberto Rossellini . History , or at least some of us film buffs , see her exile as something other than shameful , but you can't really judge Anastasia without seeing it as a homecoming . The story echoes Bergman's life , as I'm sure it was meant to . Can this Anastasia convince those who once knew her that she really is the long lost Grand Duchess ? Can Ingrid Bergman convince the American public that she is worthy to be taken back into their confidence ? To answer the first , you'll have to see the film . The answer to the second question is a definite yes , as the film was quite successful and earned Bergman her second Academy Award , which she much deserved ( her first was for 1944's Gaslight ) . She was not present at the ceremony in 1957 to accept that award , but I'm unsure of whether she was still in exile at that point . The film was made outside of the U . S . After Bergman , there is still a whole lot to love . As for the other actors , Yul Brynner , playing the man who enlists Bergman in his plot to win Anastasia's inheritance , gives a fine performance , easily the best of the three films he made in 1956 , even though he won an Oscar for his ridiculously over-the-top performance in The King and I . Akim Tamiroff , always reliable , gives one of his very best performances as Brynner's assistant . Helen Hayes is great as the dowager empress whose opinion is absolutely necessary to accept Bergman as the real Anastasia , and Martita Hunt gives a delightful comic performance as her attendant ( she was the best thing in the film , in my opinion ) . The musical score , by Alfred Newman , won the only other Oscar nomination for the film , and it is excellent . The dialogue is wonderful . There are only a couple of things I didn't like , and they are relatively minor . Nearer the beginning , for instance , the screenwriter ( or the original playwright ) has a problem keeping the ambiguity of whether Bergman is actually Anastasia or not . The hints the woman gives off are instantly convincing that she is the lost woman . Fortunately , this improves over the course of the film and the ambiguity becomes somewhat more pronounced . I'm not sure whether I liked the ending , either , although it has a great last line ( which I expect was even greater when it was a play ) .
Tod Browning is a marvelous director . I guess I've known this since i've seen his two most famous films , Dracula ( the Bela Lugosi version ) and Freaks . But neither of those films could have prepared me for the two films that I saw tonight ( well , okay , maybe Freaks did ; Dracula's not all that great a film ) . First , The Unknown from 1927 and , second , West of Zanzibar from the next year . Both of them starring Lon Chaney ( Sr . ) . They are two of the most well-acted , well-directed , inventive , literate , powerful , and beautiful films I've ever seen . The difference between the two is that I had before heard of The Unkown - it's plot is too bizarre to be all that unknown . It's easily mentioned in the same breath with Freaks ( in my opinion it is a step above it ; that film is only interested in showing the freaks , although there are a couple of great , great scenes ) ; there are thematic and plot similarities . But West of Zanzibar - it's not a typical film at all ( not that The Unknown is , either , mind you ! ) . In fact , it would be pointless to reveal any plot here , for if you've seen it ( and I have no clue how many have ) , you'll likely remember it . If you haven't , it would be nice to come in fresh . See this underrated gem , I implore you !
I think the dance numbers , and even some of the songs , are less amazing than those of its immediate predecessor , An American in Paris , made by gene Kelly a year beforehand . I know that the An American in Paris songs were just adaptations of Gershwin songs , but they're great , and they work . That rendition of " I Got Music " is wonderful , and the 20 minute ballet at the end is one of the greatest things I've ever seen in a film . There are several songs from Singing in the Rain which were a little weak , and the " New York Ballet " doesn't feel right at all in this film . It's obviously a grab for the success of An American in Paris and its amazing finale . That one made a lot of sense in that film ( and was itself inspired by the even more amazing ballet sequence from The Red Shoes ) . That ballet sequence had much more substance , and didn't seem excessive . The New York Ballet did seem a bit excessive , although nice to watch . What puts Singing in the Rain above An American in Paris is its plot . An American in Paris ' plot was almost completely filler material between the songs and dance . The ending to that film ( after the ballet sequence , that is ) was very abrupt and didn't even make much sense . Singing in the Rain is extremely interesting in its setting . It's very interesting from a historical perspective , and that's what pushes it to a for me , 1 above An American in Paris .
This movie has suffered from an undeserved Oscar backlash . It is truly a powerful film experience . The writing , direction , and acting are all perfect . All the passion of this film is overwhelming ! What did this film do wrong to anger so many people ? Was it the complexity of the characters and the situations that they were in ? Was it some anti-British sentiment ? No , I'm willing to bet that it is just plain stupidity . So get a life and watch this masterpiece again .
Pier Paolo Pasolini might be the most underrated director of all time . You hear almost nothing about him nowadays , except how disgusting Salo was . But , in my mind , Pasolini ranks evenly with the other great masters , Fellini , Visconti , De Sica , Antonioni , and Rosselini , perhaps better than them . Pasolini is probably the most humane of all of them ( even when considering Salo ) . The Decameron is a perfect representation of Medieval European humor . Perhaps those unfamiliar with Medieval literature should avoid it , but all Medievalists must see it at some point . The stories are hilarious , and the human stories are beautiful . Just take a look at any face in the film . Pasolini is such a great lover of beautiful faces . Not that all the faces represent the standard concept of beauty , but the ones that might be considered ugly are exceedingly beautiful .
Any film that affects me emotionally I consider great . But a film that affects me so much that I feel it physically can be called a masterpiece . Narrative does not normally have such power . When a spectator is learning about people who aren't directly connected with you , who are usually not even real , then he / she should realize that these characters are apart from your life and should not matter . Woody Allen's Husbands and Wives is a film , however , which sets the viewer in the action on screen . He does this with perfect hand-held cameras and jump cuts . The camera work makes you feel like you're right there , and it adds a breakneck speed to the film . This seems like one of the most realistic films ever made . I have no complaints about this film myself . I would give it a , but make no mistake : this is a very unpleasant film to watch . I like unpleasant films , but this one is particularly harsh . The situations develop like a fly landing in a Venus fly trap . A character will walk towards a life which he / she believes will bring sweetness and happiness , but the new life quickly engulfs them . And when the film ends , the characters are seen stepping into a different trap : quicksand . No audience member could be naive enough to think that any of the characters are standing in a desirable place when the film closes . Husbands and Wives is a movie that could cause divorces , and could cause long-term lapses between relationships . If nothing else , it is a film that will make you cringe and squirm .
I could easily imagine Hollywood remaking Olivier Assayas ' Clean ? in fact , I would be happy to see it . The story is a sure-fire Oscar winner . Whichever big Hollywood actress wants her Oscar , step right up . But it would certainly be melodramatic , and could never match the raw power contained in this film . Maggie Cheung plays a woman , Emily , trying to stay away from heroin after her husband has overdosed . Their son lives with her father-in-law ( Nick Nolte ) , who insists ( though kindly ) that she not see him for a few years , until she has proved that she can be responsible . The movie is mostly spent with Emily and her day-to-day life . She moves back to Paris , where she met her husband , and works in a Chinese restaurant , then in a department store . She desperately tries to get in contact with old friends who might help her get a decent job , but they all know her too well and don't trust her . The film is very observant of Emily as a human being . It's such an intimate portrait of a desperate person trying to get her life back together ? perhaps together for the first time in her life . Assayas , who also wrote the script , understands her deeply . And Maggie Cheung even moreso . Cheung gives one of the finest performances I've ever seen . Just the expressions on her face devastated me from scene to scene . I mean , she is so subtle . It's just outstanding . Assayas ' direction is likewise subtle . A Hollywood remake , I could imagine , could also be subtle , but nowhere near as quiet and observant as the original ( in fact , scanning through user comments , I can see that many were simply bored by the film ) . While it would be easy to spend pages gushing over Cheung's performance , it must also be noted that Nick Nolte is at least at the same level . This may very well be his best performance . It helps immensely that the character is so perfectly written . It would have been easy to make him a jerk ? and , again , thinking ahead to the remake , it's quite possible that that is what this character will become ? but Assayas gives him a deep understanding of Emily's situation , and an ability to empathize that I don't think can exist in American cinema . Nolte hits every note exactly right . His line reading is just beautiful . My single complaint about the film is the child actor who plays the son . I suppose it must have been difficult to find a half-Chinese , half-Caucasian kid on a limited budget who could act . They certainly did not find a kid who could act , though . James Dennis is easily one of the worst child actors I've seen in years . It's a flaw I can forgive , though . The movie ends very ambiguously , and it's arguable whether Assayas made the right choice here . I could argue that it feels too hopeful . There's a quick , matter-of-fact shot in which we see a smile cross Emily's face . I think I would have cut that and perhaps directed Cheung to avoid any readable facial expression . However , I know it didn't escape the director ? or the actress either ? that Emily , who is clean at this point , is approaching the world in which she fell into the trap of drug addiction . It might be better for her to stay working at a department store , perhaps somewhere cheaper to live than Paris .
This is one of the most perfect films ever committed to celluloid . It involved me more than at least 99 % of other films I've seen , and the main character , Cabiria , is a character to cherish and love forever ( of course , we who have seen La Strada are already partly familiar with the character ) . I've hardly ever cared more about a character , and even after only five minutes into the film , I wanted so desperately to protect her . Giulietta Masina is so masterful in her performance , and Federico Fellini , her husband , is as masterful in his direction . I did not believe that they could match their success with La Strada , but , in fact , they succeeded in surpassing it . Bravo . . One of the best films ever made , plain and simple .
Extraordinary neo-noir . It's so good a Raymond Chandler imitation that it's shocking that it was an original screenplay and not adapted from a detective novel . The film takes place in high school , where a student , Brendan ( Joseph Gordon-Levitt ) , investigates the murder of his ex-girlfriend . He navigates through the various cliques and fringe groups and uncovers the seedy realm of drug dealers . The movie works in every way ? as noir parody , as straight up noir , as a high school movie ( though one wonders if any of these characters have ever gone to class ) , and even the drama is compelling . The plot is delightfully unfollowable , as is the hard-boiled dialogue ( this is a rare movie whose script I'd like to read ; I should at least give it another viewing with subtitles on ) . And the direction is outstanding . This is one of the best directorial debuts of the last decade . Rian Johnson also edited ( he previously edited Lucky McKee's wonderful May ) , and even that aspect is amazing . Johnson is a triple threat , and an immense talent to be watched . It's going to be very difficult for him to surpass Brick .
It's not especially deep , but it's a dark and disturbing chambara about a merciless samurai , Ryunosuke ( Tatsuya Nakadai ) , who can ? and will , without hesitation ? kill anybody who challenges him with a sword . He sees himself as a force of karmic balance . The film starts off with him disposing of an old man praying for death . The film is based on a newspaper serial that began in the 1910s and continued for several decades . The story never really ended , and , likewise , the film , which only covers certain bits of the novel , has no resolution . This has often bothered people , but I think it works well . Whatever the case , even if the film doesn't satisfy you as a whole , there are a number of outstanding setpieces . Nakadai's being ambushed in the forest near the beginning . The battle in the snow , where Toshiro Mifune dispatches of a dozen or more attackers while Nakadai watches cautiously from the sidelines . And that final sequence is the mother of all rampages , where Nakadai goes apesht in a brothel . Tatsuya Nakadai is really a fantastic actor . I know , his performance here isn't particularly complex , but he is absolutely frightening in his infinite evil . Compare this to his overwhelming humanity in The Human Condition . Okamoto's direction is assured , and Hiroshi Murai provides some of the best black & white photography ever captured . The new Criterion disc is quite good . It is without extras , but the accompanying essay is a big help at putting the film and its source material in context .
Easily the best film that I've ever seen from George Stevens ( and I really like several of his other films ) . Jean Arthur stars as a woman renting out half of her apartment because of a housing shortage in Washington D . C . Charles Coburn , who is in Washington to help solve the crisis , weasles his way into the apartment even though Arthur didn't want a male roommate . The morning after , Joel McCrea arrives with yesterday's newspaper , not knowing that the vacancy exists no more . No matter , though . Coburn rents half of his half of the apartment to McCrea , unbeknownst to Arthur . God knows this premise could have made one hell of a sitcom , but it also makes a damn funny movie . There isn't an unfunny scene in the entire film , and several scenes vie for the title of Best Romantic Comedy of all times with Preston Sturges ' contemporaneous films . The three performers are remarkable . They have great chemistry as a comic trio , and McCrea and Arthur throw sparks off the screen with their surprisingly erotic romance . I failed to mention that Arthur is engaged to an older man , adding to the dilemma . Richard Gaines is also excellent as that fiancé . I love the way his mouth moves . Grady Sutton has a very funny cameo near the end of the film as a waiter . Stevens ' direction is exceptional . It's shocking how believably he pulls off the scene in which McCrea and Arthur wander around the apartment without bumping into each other . This is reminiscent of a famous scene from Buster Keaton's The Navigator , and it's even funnier . Or that intimate scene where McCrea gives a carrying case to Jean Arthur . Their acting is so subtly romantic in that scene . I love the way Stevens films it . .
Stunning , gripping WWII thriller that plays like a pulpier version of Jean-Pierre Melville's Army of Shadows . That's not something that should be criticized , I think . There's nothing wrong with being entertaining when dealing with serious subjects , as long as the film stays respectful of its subject . And Black Book is respectful . It's tense and exciting , but it always made me understand that these were real people who were undergoing real suffering . I was both extremely entertained and involved in the situation of these characters . Carice van Houten stars , and is brilliant as a Jewish girl who escapes several near-death encounters to end up working with the Dutch resistance movement near the end of the war . She infiltrates a Nazi headquarters by seducing an officer ( Sebastian Koch of The Lives of Others ) . While the film starts off as a very black and white , resistance vs . Nazis flick , things get more and more complicated and , after a while , no one can be trusted . You never know what will happen next . The film-making is very classic , and nearly perfect . Verhoeven has always been an interesting filmmaker , but his work is plagued by sloppiness in both direction and writing . Black Book exhibits few flaws ( I might have rethought the opening , which assures us immediately that the protagonist will survive the war ) . It's one of the most satisfying cinematic experiences I've had in a very long time .
