From director John Guillermin ( The Towering Inferno ) , this remake is nowhere near as good as the 1933 original masterpiece . For one thing , it changes the whole reason to go to the mysterious island , the guy in charge , Fred Wilson ( Beethoven's Charles Grodin ) , is instead looking for a new source of oil , the male lead Jack Prescott ( Jeff Bridges ) is a stowaway , and the lead girl Dwan ( introducing Golden Globe winning Jessica Lange ) is a castaway actress who escaped a sinking ship . Anyway , they get to the island , surrounded by fog , find the tribe , who offer her for sacrifice , and along comes their god Kong ( played by special effects artist Rick Baker ) , who takes away , and starts falling in love with her . Another change is the battle with a T-Rex , it is instead a giant snake and is over pretty quickly . The oil they find by the way couldn't be used , so they instead caught Kong , and plan to exploit him as a promotional gimmick for the oil company . Kong escapes , after seeing Dwan being mobbed by reporters , there is a little chase , and Dwan lets him take her , and he climbs one of the World Trade Center / Twin Tower buildings , the final big change . Eventually he is attacked by flame throwers and then helicopters , and being fatally injured he falls his death ( although there is a sequel 10 years later , King Kong Lives , where he is just in a coma ) . Oh , and there's no final quote about beauty and the beast ! Also starring John Randolph as Captain Ross , René Auberjonois as Roy Bagley , Ed Lauter as Carnahan , Mario Gallo as Timmons , Jorge Moreno as Garcia , Jack O'Halloran as Joe Perko and Live and Let Die's Julius Harris as Boan . Rick Baker , best known for special effects in An American Werewolf in London , the Thriller video , Ed Wood , The Nutty Professor , The Grinch and Planet of the Apes ( 2001 ) playing Kong is very curious , especially seeing his facial expressions , so sleazy , ridiculous giant hands and giving a " blow job " ( blowing to dry Lange off ) . Bridges is the wrong man , Lange is very cheesy , and you have to remember it was her first film , and she still won a Golden Globe , and the film itself , as soon as Kong arrives , it goes down hill all the way , and to be honest , you are relieved when he finally dies . Bizarrly this won the Special Achievement Award for visual effects at the Oscars , and it was nominated Best Cinematography and Best Sound , and it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Production Design / Art Direction , it should have surely got some Razzies . Poor !
A stupid film with stupid acting and stupid moments that are meant to be scary , but they aren't . There's nobody I know in it but the guy who plays Count Dracula ( or Nosferatu ) is rubbish and is hardly terrifying at all . All the other actors are just as bad trying to convince you that they are either being stalked , killed or having their blood sucked from them . I have included this on my worst films list because it made me nod off many times when it was meant to be a scary moment . All that happened was that he stuck his " fangs " out , and that's pretty much it . Ooh , scary , NOT ! So trust me , don't bother seeing it unless you have problems sleeping , this is a film that will definitely help you . Poor !
When I heard the title of this film , I thought that I was definitely going watch it and that there would definitely be a lot of nudity and sex . How wrong I was . This has got to be the worst porn film I have ever seen . Basically a guy who is interested in porn and he decides to help work in it . One day , he meets the perfect girl for his project . Unfortunately this girl does not want to be naked and people seeing her . That's probably one of the main problems , he goes on and on saying " you'll be fine " . There is only one sex scene that I can remember where he is filmed by a porn star . The story is stupid , the sex scene is rubbish , and there's no decent nudity . Poor !
I think you know the main reason why I have rated this film one star , just like the further films after his death , it does not have Peter Sellers in the starring . Instead they have an idiotic Alan Arkin ( Little Miss Sunshine's Oscar winning actor ) as Chief Inspector Jacques Clouseau . He is not funny , he does not have the same clumsiness and slight idiocy , and I think he was pretty rubbish as the accent . If he did the cartoons however , then it should of just been left like that and not make him into live action . Also I can't remember what the mission actually was in the film , so no wonder he is rubbish . Also starring Worzel Gummidge's Geoffrey Bayldon as Gutch , although that doesn't help . Poor !
I saw this on TV , so I didn't have any 3D glasses ( although I did for a few minutes find a way , the blue and red wrappers in Quality Street , but it got annoying ) , then again , I dunno if I'd want to see a full 84 minutes in 3D , imagine your eye sight for a while . Basically Juni Cortez ( Daryl Sabara ) is alone at home , and realises that his sister Carmen ( Alexa Vega ) has been kidnapped by the new villain , the Toymaker ( a ridiculous Sylvester Stallone , although I hadn't seen him for a little while , he deservedly won a Razzie ) . She is trapped inside a real video game that he has created , and with the help of some technicians , Juni has to go in and get his sister out bu passing the many levels , and be careful not to lose too many lives . He does this with the help of his crippled Grandfather ( Star Trek II : The Wrath of Khan's Ricardo Montalban ) , well , he's not crippled in the game world of course , and some other kids trying to get out with him . He manages to rescue Carmen and the other kids , but there is a brief moment where unseen ( apart from special glasses ) monsters are attacking , and with the help of other characters from the two previous films have to defeat them , and then the Toymaker . Also starring Antonio Banderas as Gregorio Cortez , Carla Gugino as Ingrid Cortez , King of the Hill and Beavis and Butt-Head creator Mike Judge as Donnagon Giggles , Salma Hayek as Cesca Giggles , Richard ' Cheech ' Marin as Felix Gumm , Danny Trejo as Machete , Alan Cumming as Fegan Floop , Men in Black's Tony Shalhoub as Alexander Minion , Steve Buscemi as Romero , Bill Paxton as Dinky Winks , George Clooney as Devlin and Elijah Wood as The Guy . You can tell even without 3D glasses which moments " stick out " ( LOL ) , but this is not an impressive film . Stallone is too kooky as four personalities , there is no real story , the chat is too corny , and only kids will enjoy it , it is just stupid . Pretty poor !
Airplane ! from Jim Abrahams and the Zucker brothers ( David and Jerry ) was a fantastic spoof film , but this sequel ( simply titled " The Sequel " , lousy ) made without their help quite obvious to fail . Basically Ted Striker ( Robert Hays ) , who has recently escaped from a penitentiary is following ex-lover ( again ) Elaine Dickinson ( Julie Hagerty ) as she gets into a plane-like rocket , Mayflower I , going on the first commercial flight to the moon , once again piloted by Capt . Clarence Oveur ( Peter Graves ) . Disaster soon ensues when the computer kills the crew , and it is up to Striker , with the help of Steven McCroskey ( Lloyd Bridges , Jeff's father ) to land the plane / rocket safely on the rock . Also starring William Shatner as Cdr . Buck Murdock , Chad Everett as Simon Kurtz , Stephen Stucker as Controller Jacobs , Poltergeist's Oliver Robins as Jimmy Wilson , Sonny Bono as Joe Seluchi - Bomber , Raymond Burr as Judge D . C . Simonton , Chuck Connors as The Sarge , John Dehner as The Commissioner , Men in Black's Rip Torn as Bud Kruger and Jack Jones as Lounge Singer . I will admit the comedy style is still the same , and I did giggle at bits and pieces , but relying on a few flashes from the original film , and without the original film makers , and Leslie Nielsen ( seen only in archive footage ) , I can't say this is as good as the first . Adequate !
When I was a kid , this used to be quite an amusing film with Robin Williams as a joking toy person , and from director Barry Levinson ( Rain Man ) . Basically the father of Zevo Toys has recently died , and he has left the company to General Zevo ( Sir Michael Gambon ) , I think he was his brother . Unfortunately , the General does not have the same taste of toys as Leslie Zevo ( Williams ) . It's not long before the General secretly starts something in a restricted area of the company . Leslie discovers that he is making war toys and computer games where the children help destroy real things ( I think ) because the General believes kids have good eyes . Towards the end it turns into a war to claim back the factory , i . e . humans against the toys , and then wind up toys against the General's toys , accompanied by Frankie Goes To Hollywood's " Welcome to the Pleasuredome " . Also starring Forrest Gump's Robin Wright Penn as Gwen Tyler , LL Cool J as Captain Patrick Zevo , Donald O'Connor as Kenneth Zevo , Arthur Malet as Owen Owens , Jack Warden as Old General Zevo and look out for young Jamie Foxx as Baker . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration and Best Costume Design . Adequate !
The lead star and the concept of the film are what drew me to see it . Basically Jimmy Tong ( Jackie Chan ) gets the job of chauffeuring for millionaire Clark Devlin ( Jason Isaacs ) , who is actually a super spy with many gadgets . It is after Devlin has an accident , ending up in hospital , and unknowingly Jimmy tries on Devlin's tuxedo , discovering it gives extraordinary powers to anyone who wears it . It also thrusts Jimmy into the secret spy world with danger , international intrigue and espionage , and with agent Delilah ' Del ' Blaine ( I Know What You Did Last Summer's Jennifer Love Hewitt ) mistaking him for Devlin . There is a plot to kill everyone on Earth by giving them a specially developed water that will dehydrate all who drink it , and it is up to Jimmy and Del to stop it . Also starring Debi Mazar as Steena , Ritchie Coaster as Dietrich Banning , Peter Stormare as Dr . Simms , Mia Cottet as Cheryl and Romany Malco as Mitch . There are some highlights provided by the special effects for the suit , e . g . dancing and singing like James Brown ( who cameos ) , and a couple of not too bad fight scenes , but this isn't the funniest or most thrilling film ever , but you can't complain too much with Chan involved . Okay !
From writer / director John Hughes ( The Breakfast Club , Ferris Bueller's Day Off ) I had a vague idea of what this film consisted of , and I was pretty close . Basically two nerdy teenage boys , Gary Wallace ( The Breakfast Club's Anthony Michael Hall ) and Wyatt Donnelly ( Ilan Mitchell-Smith ) are desperate to be liked , and of course sex-obsessed , and in their desperation ( inspired by watching - a coloured version of - Frankenstein , 1931 ) they decide to create the perfect woman . They weren't counting on the computer gaining so much power it would actually make their woman a reality , but it happens , and Lisa ( Kelly LeBrock ) is determined to help them have a good time . Lisa , who can get absolutely anything she wants ( e . g . expensive cars , mutant bikers to appear ) has a purpose to turn them into men by putting them in a couple of situations to boost their confidence , and they are on the road to becoming accepted by others . Of course it is at the big party ( they always wanted ) they meet the girls they would have always wanted , and Lisa's job is done . Also starring Bill Paxton as Chet Donnelly , Suzanne Snyder as Deb , Judie Aronson as Hilly , young Robert Downey Jr . as Ian , Robert Rusler as Max , Commando's Vernon Wells as Lord General , Britt Leach as Al Wallace , Barbara Lang as Lucy Wallace , Ivor Barry as Henry Donnelly , Ann Coyle as Carmen Donnelly and the original Hills Have Eyes ' Michael Berryman as Mutant Biker . LeBrock is obviously very attractive , and there are one or two amusing moments , but the comedy is pretty crass , but it was interesting to younger Paxton and especially future star Downey , Jr . in a film of this sort . It was number 42 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments . Okay !
The first film was a near good return for the lead actor , and this sequel from director Adam Shankman ( The Wedding Planner , A Walk to Remember , Bringing Down the House ) is no different to it's predecessor . Basically Tom Baker ( Steve Martin ) and wife Kate ( Jumanji's Bonnie Hunt ) feel they are losing some of their ( older ) kids as they get ready to leave for their own lives , e . g daughter Nora ( Piper Perabo ) , now married to Bud McNulty ( Jonathan Bennett ) and expecting a baby , Lorraine ( Razzie nominated Hilary Duff ) is getting ready to go to New York for an internship with Vogue , and son Charlie ( Smallville's Tom Welling ) is leaving ( I think for college or whatever ) . So Tom thinks it would be a good idea if he and Kate take all twelve kids on a camping vacation , and would have been perfect if Tom wasn't in an old rivalry with ultra-competitive neighbour Jimmy Murtaugh ( American Pie's Razzie nominated Eugene Levy ) , with wife Sarina ( Carmen Electra ) and their eight kids . It is obviously when trying to make themselves look better , or trying to the make the Murtaugh's look foolish where all the disaster comes from , so Tom and Jimmy decide to settle it once and for all in a family sports day , and thank goodness both families can't beat each other when daughter Nora has her water break . Also starring Sin City's Jaime King as Anne Murtaugh , Taylor Lautner as Eliot Murtaugh , Alyson Stoner as Sarah Baker , Small Soldiers ' Jacob Smith as Jake Baker , Liliana Mumy as Jessica Baker , Morgan York as Kim Baker , Kevin G . Schmidt as Henry Baker , Forrest Landis as Mark Baker , Brent and Shane Kinsman as twins Nigel and Kyle Baker , Blake Woodruff as Mike Baker , Alexander Conti as Kenneth Murtaugh , Melanie Tonello as Becky Murtaugh , Robbie Amell as Daniel Murtaugh , Courtney Fitzpatrick as Lisa Murtaugh , Madison Fitzpatrick as Robin Murtaugh and Shawn Roberts as Calvin Murtaugh . I think this is worth seeing for the funny chaotic events of young children , and Martin and Levy having their disagreements . Okay !
This new version of the classic Mary Shelley monster story is quite an interesting film from actor / director Kenneth Branagh . Victor Frankenstein ( Branagh ) is in the middle of a snowy place , he is on a ship telling some people on a ship his story . Frankenstein is a scientist interested in creating new life . With Professor Waldman's ( John Cleese ) short help he starts to create a form of life in his lab . During the process he falls in love with Elizabeth ( Helena Bonham Carter ) . When he has finished this " thing " , he discovers he has created a monster . This monster ( played by Robert De Niro ) escapes and learns the world around him , because he has Walman's brain . He later sees Frankenstein and asks him to make another creature , for love . Also starring Ian Holm as Baron Frankenstein and Celia Imrie as Mrs . Moritz . The special effects are certainly very good , but some of the story is a little weird , or OTT in places . Okay !
I had my predictions of this film , but I am glad I gave it a chance , based on the book from Jurassic Park writer Michael Crichton ( Also producing ) and directed by Barry Levinson ( Rain Man ) . Basically Tom Sanders ( Michael Douglas ) is the computer company executive happily married with two children who loses out to a promotion to the woman he once had a thing with , his new boss Meredith Johnson ( Demi Moore ) . One night Maredith invites Tom to her office for a quick " meeting " , and with her new found power she tries to get her way with him , giving him a quick blow-job , even though he keeps saying " no " , and then angrily he tries to do her , but he stops himself and leaves . The next day , Meredith is accusing Tom of sexual harassment , when in fact it was the other way round , and he is determined to sue her for the charge she herself has alleged . They don't have a proper trial , they just have an office discussion , obviously with Tom's wife Susan Hendler ( Caroline Goodall ) now aware of everything to watch , he and his lawyer Catherine Alvarez ( Roma Maffia ) fight his cause . There is some subplot of there being something going on that Tom finds out about with all the Gizmos in the company , but you can't really care about this , and it is a relief when it turns out Meredith's " meeting " with Tom was all caught on tape , she is fired , and Tom wins . Also starring Donald Sutherland as Bob Garvin , Dennis Miller as Mark Lewyn , Rosemary Forsyth as Stephanie Kaplan , Happiness's Dylan Baker as Philip Blackburn , Nicholas Sadler as Don Cherry , Allan Rich as Ben Heller and Suzie Plakson as Mary Anne Hunter . Besides the very erotic " meeting " between Douglas and Moore , a highlight for me was the nightmare where Sutherland flirts with Douglas and is about to kiss him with tongues . I can agree with the critics , this may be an unintentionally thriller , because it is all the dialogue , especially talking of sex , a penis in the mouth and panties , that makes you laugh , it also has it's wittiness , so it's not a completely terrible film . Okay !
A very silly film but worth seeing for all it's nudity . Jennifer ( Leigh ) Hammon plays Allyson Roper who has moved into a new apartment next door to Bridget ( Caroline Ambrose ) . Allyson is hoping to become a film actress for a company . She is also fascinated when she is peeking through her neighbours door keyhole . She is aroused by what goes on in there and eventually they get together . When Allyson wants advice for her character her and Bridget eventually kiss . Soon they take their clothes off and have a very good and very long lesbian scene . It is definitely worth a look . Like I said a silly story , but it's worth it . Good !
This was only the second I had seen a stand-up show by Eddie Izzard , and in his transvestite guise . Playing in Town Hall , New York City , he gives his usual abstract and amusing material , including his opinions and theories about Pope John Paul II , the Spanish Inquisition , Jerusalem and Jesus , and the future . Also with some bits about mad cows , the Renaissance period , Leonardo DiVinci and the Mona Lisa , and a good part near the end about Darth Vader on the Death Star . I didn't think this was as funny or fun to watch as Dress to Kill , but it does have it's moments . Eddie Izzard was number 3 on 100 Greatest Stand-Ups , and he was number 19 on The Comedians ' Comedian . Worth watching !
From director Jerry Zucker ( Ghost , Rat Race ) this retelling of the Arthurian myths is quite good . Basically Lancelot ( Richard Gere , not bothering to try an English accent , just Kevin Costner in Robin Hood ) is a skilled swordsman who is not seeking a knighthood or reward , just peace . Lady Guinevere ( Julia Ormond ) is on her way to marry King Arthur ( Sir Sean Connery ) , but is ambushed by the evil Prince Malagant ( Ben Cross ) , but Lancelot rescues her . As they hide and head back to the kingdom , they fall in love , but Guinevere still wants to honour Arthur's wishes . Arthur has no idea of the love ( till later ) , so he knights Lancelot and makes him a new member of the Round Table . Of course , when Arthur does find out he does not hit anyone , he does shout a bit , but he instead sees his life a bit worthless , and when Malagant comes back he is prepared for anything , even death . Also starring Liam Cunningham as Sir Agravaine , Christopher Villiers as Sir Kay , Valentine Pelka as Sir Patrise , Colin McCormack as Sir Mador , Ralph Ineson as Ralf , Sir John Gielgud as Oswald , Tom Lucy as Sir Sagramore , John Blakey as Sir Tor , Robert Gwyn Davin as Sir Gawaine , Sean Blowers as Sir Carados , Alexis Denisof as Sir Gaheris , Daniel Naprous as Sir Amant , Jonathan Cake as Sir Gareth and look out for comedian Rob Brydon as Man in Crowd in the opening sequence . Apparently this film was a box office flop , but then again , besides Connery who steals every scene and does it well , I guess this isn't the greatest of medieval films , but fun to watch . Worth watching !
Obviously this is one for the kids , I guess I was mainly interested in the cast more than much else . Basically the Brown children are very naughty , they have managed to get rid of 17 nannies , and the agency is closed to their dad Mr . Cedric Brown ( Colin Firth ) . Then comes along comically ugly governess Nanny McPhee ( Emma Thompson , also doing the screenplay ) who has a rule that when she's needed not wanted she'll stay , and when she's wanted not needed she'll leave . The children have to learn the five basic rules of behaviour with the help of Nanny McPhee's magic stick , and when they do , she loses a bit of her ugliness . The children should worry that their Aunt Adelaide ( Angela Lansbury ) , who is basically paying for their health and stuff , wants Mr . Brown to marry to keep getting cash , and Mrs . Quickly ( Celia Imrie ) is the wrong choice . In order , the rules : get into bed when told , get out of bed when told , get dressed when told , listen , and do as your told . In the end , Mr . Brown marries his true love , the maid they got to pretend to be his oldest daughter , Evangeline ( Trainspotting's Kelly Macdonald ) , and Nanny McPhee is pretty and can leave . Also starring Derek Jacobi as Mr . Wheen , Patrick Barlow as Mr . Jowls , Imelda Staunton as Mrs . Blatherwick , Love Actually's Thomas Sangster as Simon and Eliza Bennett as Tora . It is a good new twist on Mary Poppins . Worth watching !
Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy are the most famous comedy duo in history , and deservedly so , so I am happy to see any of their films . Basicaly Stan and Ollie are living rough , with only some clothes and their car , and after managing to burn down their tent they see no choice but to go begging for food somewhere . They find the house of Old Lady ( Mary Carr ) , and she agrees to make some sandwiches and coffee for them , while they do a little wood chopping , which of course doesn't last long . While tucking into their food , they overhear the Old Woman begging " villainous landlord " ( James Finlayson ) not to evict her when she can't pay him the $100 she owes . Stan and Ollie decide to try and sell their car and give the Old Woman the money to pay the villain off , and a paying drunk man accidentally puts his wallet in Stan's pocket , spurring Ollie to think he stole it from the Old Woman . So he forces Stan to go back ( their car by the way collapses ) to prove his guilt , but they both didn't realise she was rehearsing with the Community Player for a play , so Stan is very mad , and the film ends with a last squabble . Filled with good slapstick and all classic comedy you want from a black and white film , it is an enjoyable film . Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy were number 7 on The Comedians ' Comedian . Worth watching !
I can remember it was always on just after I got home from school . Now it has moved to another channel and a near-morning afternoon kids show . When I saw it I always liked the computer effects and some of the okay , sometimes corny , but alright characters . There was obviously Max , the most kind-of corny character of the show . The one character that wasn't so corny when I used to watch it was Psycho ( or Smiley to Max ) . He was the robot covered with human skin who almost always took his face off to reveal his smiling robot face , which is why Max called him Smiley . Every episode Psycho was in was a good one . But apart from him , it was pretty much the same thing every episode . Max battles a guy with some power to his arms or something , wow , great . Not ! Yeah , kids will like it . Okay !
From the director of Gosford Park , this is an interesting film mixing war and comedy , but not exactly providing that much action . Golden Globe nominated Doanld Sutherland as Capt . Benjamin Franklin ' Hawkeye ' Pierce , and his gang , including BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Elliott Gould as Capt . John Francis Xavier ' Trapper John ' McIntyre , Alien's Tom Skerritt as Capt . Augustus Bedford ' Duke ' Forrest , Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Sally Kellerman as Maj . Margaret ' Hot Lips ' O'Houlihan and Robert Duvall as Maj . Franklin Archimedes ' Frank ' Burns are in the Korean War , but don't exactly have a big part . They are at the Mobile Army Surgical Hospital , and there is no plot as such , just a series of episodes from individual characters . It won the Oscar for Best Writing , Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium , and was nominated for Best Film Editing , Best Director and Best Picture . I don't remember all that happens , but there are amusing parts , and it did eventually turn into a TV series . It won the Oscar for Best Writing , Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium , and it was nominated for Best Director for Robert Altman , Best Film Editing and Best Picture , it won the BAFTA for the UN Award , and it was nominated for Best Direction , Best Film Editing , Best Sound Track and Best Film , it won the Cannes Film Festival Golden Palm Award , and it won the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Musical / Comedy , and it was nominated for Best Director and Best Screenplay . It was number 22 on The 100 Greatest War Films , it was number 22 on The 50 Greatest Comedy Films , it was number 7 on 100 Years , 100 Laughs , it was number 56 on 100 Years , 100 Movies , and it was number 73 on The 100 Greatest Films . Worth watching , as far as I can remember !
If you liked the original 1999 story of an Egyptian monster brought back to life , then you might like the sequel . The film starts with the story of The Scorpion King ( wrestler The Rock ) who swore an oath and his soul to the god Anubis , and after he had done what he wanted , they all returned to the sands , waiting to be woken again . Then it is 1933 , Rick O'Connell ( Brendan Fraser ) is still exploring Egyptian places , along with wife Evelyn " Evie " ( Rachel Weisz ) and their son Alex ( Freddie Boath ) . Soon after returning to London , the bad guys have brought the body of High Priest Imhotep , and they just need the bracelet of The Scorpion King to help him take over the world . They bring Imhotep ( Arnold Vosloo ) back , and he is reunited with the body ( no soul yet ) of Meela Nais , aka Anck Su Namun ( Patricia Velasquez ) . They do eventually get the bracelet , that is on the arm of Alex , and with his help they navigate their way round Egypt to find the burial of The Scorpion King so Imhotep can kill him . Meanwhile , Rick , Evie , Jonathan ( John Hannah ) , Medjai Ardeth Bay ( Oded Fehr ) and balloonist Izzy Buttons ( Human Traffic's Shaun Parkes ) they are following Alex's trail and trying to help Alex before the sun rises and sucks the life out of him . Eventually they save Alex , and the bracelet is taken by the guy responsible for bringing Imhotep back , but the Madjai still have to fight off the army of Anubis soldiers , aka dog soldiers ( LOL ) , Evie ( or Princess Nefertiri ) is fighting Anck Su Namun , and Rick is fighting now mortal and powerless Imhotep , as well as The Scorpion King , who has turned into a giant scorpion , a lot of fights . Also starring Alun Armstrong as Baltus Hafez and Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje as Lock-Nah ( now in TV's Lost ) . The story is still quite cheesy , but the special effects are much more elaborate . Rachel Weisz was number 18 on The 50 Greatest British Actresses . Worth watching !
Apparently this film was hyped by the internet , possibly because of both the concept and the lead actor , but either way , it was a film I looked forward to trying from director David R . Ellis ( Final Destination 2 , Cellular ) . Basically , while in Hawaii , Sean Jones ( Nathan Phillips ) witnesses powerful mobster Eddie Kim ( Byron Lawson ) murdering of an important American prosecutor . He is found quite quickly , but under protection by FBI agent Neville Flynn ( Samuel L . Jackson ) he escorts him to the Red Eye plane to Los Angeles , where Sean will testify against Kim . However , the FBI didn't think about Kim arranging for hundreds of species of poisonous snakes , sprayed with pheromones to make them more aggressive , being released ( by a timer ) and slithering their way around to bring the plane down . Neville is now on the case to kill and block the path of these dangerous serpents , and get the plane and all surviving passengers safely to Los Angeles . In the end , after saying his iconic " I have had it with these mother fing snakes on this mother fing plane " , with all passengers strapped in , the windows are shot through , with all snakes being sucked by cabin pressure , the plane lands , and all bitten people have antidotes provided by a snake expert , oh , and Kim can be prosecuted for sure . Also starring Julianna Margulies as Claire Miller , Road Trip and Peep Show actress Rachel Blanchard as Mercedes , Bobby Cannavale as Hank Harris , Flex Alexander as Three G's , Kenan & Kel's Kenan Thompson as Troy , Terry Chen as Chen Leong and Sunny Mabrey as Tiffany . I will admit I can see reasons the critics give the film two out of five stars , and it pretty cheesy at times , just get past the first twenty minutes and ignore the final five or so , and just pay attention to the rest . The gimmicky title says it all , snakes all over the plane slithering under chairs , biting women's breasts , men's dicks , a kid and a black man's ass , it is similar to the feel of a B-movie , but Jackson and the CGI reptiles save this film from being a complete failure , it is a fun film . Worth watching !
In the first one who fought against evil , this time he joins them , but don't worry , it's for a good cause . Wesley Snipes returns as Blade / Eric Brooks / ' The Daywalker ' who has looked for Abraham Whistler ( Kris Kristofferson ) for years , and when he finds him he needs his help in fighting with the bad guys . Basically he joins the bad guys because there is a threat to both his side and the bad side , some ugly vampires that have huge side opening mouth ( bigger and uglier than the Predator ) that are immune to silver , but can be killed by sunlight . Also starring Ron Perlman ( from Alien : Resurrection and Hellboy ) as Reinhardt , Leonor Varela as Nyssa and Norman Reedus as Scud . Snipes is still very good , and the special effects are very good , but I don't think this is as worth while as the first . Wesley Snipes was number 96 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars . Worth watching !
When I found out that this was a cannibal film , and from the director of Priest , Antonia Bird , I was really looking forward to it , unfortunately it was not what I was expecting . Instead you have a film based in the time of the American Civil War , with not much gore at all , and to honest , I was only interested in it for the stars and gore . Basically Capt . John Boyd ( Memento's Guy Pearce ) gets promoted , but when Gen . Slauson ( John Spencer ) discovers his cowardice , he decides instead to send him to Fort Spencer , where he is third in command of a bunch of men , including Pvt . Cleaves ( Scream's David Arquette ) , Pvt . Toffler ( Secretary's Jeremy Davies ) and Col . Hart ( Beetle Juice's Jeffrey Jones ) . As they travel they come across wounded Scottish stranger F . W . Colqhoun ( Robert Carlyle ) , and after a little while he turns out to be a cannibalistic maniac . Boyd is the only victim left alive escaping him , but when he gets back to the civilisation of the General , he is shocked to see him again , as Col . Ives . But it is not just Carlyle that might be the cannibal , Boyd had temptations ( or possibly did ) to eat people , and Carlyle is trying to tempt him , but in the end they both die together , after a quite long fight , in a giant bear trap . I suppose in some ways it was inventive , but it just isn't the cannibal based horror film I was expecting . Worth watching !
I recognised a few of the actors appearing , and I like comedy dramas , so I thought , why not , from director Paul Weitz ( American Pie ) . Basically middle aged Dan Foreman ( Dennis Quaid ) is head of ad sales for a major magazine , but he is to be demoted when he gets a new boss in the form of young ( half Dan's age ) business school hotshot Carter Duryea ( Spider-Man 3's Topher Grace ) , preaching corporate synergy . Dan knows he has to get used to his new boss , and changes to the company , including firing employees he hired . Also he and Carter are having troubles at home , Dan has two daughters , Alex ( Scarlett Johansson ) - 18 , and Jana ( Zena Grey ) - 16 , and he is shocked when his wife Ann ( Species ' Marg Helgenberger ) tells him she is pregnant , Carter meanwhile is being dumped by his wife of seven months as he gets his promotion . Dan and Carter's uneasy friendship gets even worse when Dan discovers Carter has been sleeping with his daughter Alex . In the end , Dan and the wife have another healthy baby girl , and Carter and Alex still talk once in a while . Also starring Mighty Joe Young's David Paymer as Morty Wexler , Philip Baker Hall as Eugene Kalb , Clark Gregg as Mark Steckle , Cruel Intentions ' Selma Blair as Kimberly , Frankie Faison as Corwin , American Pie's John Cho as Petey , and look out for an uncredited Malcolm McDowell as Teddy K - Globecom CEO . I can't remember laughing a lot , but the film is certainly good in the drama department , with good performances from Quaid , Grace and Johansson . Worth watching !
I have seen many different versions of Kenneth Grahame's famous and popular story of the river and the characters that live in it . This is the clay cartoon version where the characters ( I think ) are made of Plastercine and do not move much , unlike the Aardman Animations clay work . I think you know the story already . Mole gets out of his hole , meets Rat , they meet Toad , go in the wild wood , meet Badger , Toad goes to prison for nicking a motor car and so on and so forth . Toad is the only character I have always liked in and Wind in the Willows . This one is voiced very well by Sir David Jason . It won the BAFTA for Best Children's Programme ( Entertainment / Drama ) in 1984 , and it was nominated the same award in 1985 . A TV series followed this , which was was number 56 on The 100 Greatest Kids ' TV Shows , and it was number 69 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons . Worth watching !
I only really remember seeing one episode of this series , but it is pretty clear of the meaning of the title and the plot of all four episodes . Basically they take a period of time in Britain , I think it was the 60s , 70s , 80s and 90s , and explain all controversial and publicised things that were banned . It doesn't matter if it television , radio or products , there will always be something that not everyone is happy to hear , look at , buy or basically have around . The episode I saw was about all things banned in the 80s . The highlight for me was the ban of many films such as The Evil Dead and Friday the 13th , and releasing them to people on video , they were referred to as the best selling " video nasties " . Anyway , you get the idea of the series from only one programme , and it was quite interesting to see the types of things people want banned . Worth watching !
When I was younger , I only actually saw one episode of Help ! It's the Hair Bear Bunch . It was about three bears , Hair , Square and the little one , with lots of hair , trying to escape from a zoo to have freedom in the National Forest . Mr . Peevley and Botch were the two zoo keepers stopping them from doing this . Mr . Peevley obviously wasn't watching , but Botch , the fat stupid one let them out and they escaped pretty easily . When the bears explore the National Forest they find a ranch house which they enter to try and get food . After eating they find out the ranch is being used by Bank Robbers . When Mr . Peevley and Botch catch up with the bears they are all tied up by the crooks until they decide what to do . They manage to escape and at the end the crooks are captured and the Super Intendant gives the reward to the bears . Quite a good cartoon episode !
I had heard of this starring the leading actress of Lara Croft and from trailers , and when I actually saw it , it wasn't completely what I expected . It is supposed to be 1939 ( I know this because of the costumes , and they were showing The Wizard of Oz in a cinema ) , but is seems more like the distant future . Anyway , basically in New York City , some of the world's leading scientists have disappeared , and the city is being attacked by giant robots . To get more pictures and information for her story , and stop them I guess , reporter Polly Perkins ( Gwyneth Paltrow ) gets the help from ex-boyfriend and Joe ' Sky Captain ' Sullivan ( Jude Law ) . As they escape a couple of other attacks and followings by more robotic creations , they also find out that Joe's genius technician , who created some of the gadgetry on his spitfire ( e . g . submarine technology , like James Bond ) , Dex ( Giovanni Ribisi ) has gone missing , but he managed to leave behind a clue . With aid from Joe's good friend , commander of a flying battle , Franky ( Angelina Jolie , putting on a pretty good English accent , sounding very much like Liz Hurley ) , they set off to find the villain Totenkopf's hideout . But when they get there , they find out Dr . Totenkopf is dead , and has been for years , and the machines themselves have taken over the operation to destroy the planet , and they must stop them . Also starring Sir Michael Gambon as Editor Paley , Bai Ling as Mysterious Woman , Omid Djalili as Kaji , Trevor Baxter as Dr . Jennings , Julian Curry as Dr . Vargas , Peter Law as Dr . Kesslerand archive of Lord Sir Laurence Olivier as Dr . Totenkopf . It may be slightly dark , but the good actors and special effects are enough to keep you interested . Worth watching !
The title just tells you what the story is about , a criminal that is going to be executed for something , and it directed and written by The Shawshank Redmption's star , Tim Robbins , nominated the Oscar and Golden Globe for Best Director . In this case the criminal , Matthew Poncelet ( Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Sean Penn ) committed murder a while ago and he is ready to be executed by poisonous fluids going in one by one to his heart . Oscar winning , and Golden Globe nominated Susan Sarandon plays Sister Helen Prejean , the woman who tries to find out the reason why he murdered , and to comfort him . He obviously will not listen to all her reasoning and does not completely fear death . It's only when it gets close that he starts to change his mind . But by the time he does , it's too late and he is up for execution ( injections ) . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Song for Bruce Springsteen's " Dead Man Walking " , and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Screenplay for Robbins . Good !
This isn't meant to be a musical ( there's certainly no dance routines ) , it is a drama featuring some songs . Basically Alex Burke ( Gig Young ) enters the lives of the Tuttle family , led by father Gregory ( Robert Keith ) with his three daughters Fran ( Dorothy Malone ) , Amy ( Elisabeth Fraser ) , and Laurie ( Doris Day ) . Laurie and Alex seem to be made for each other , and become engaged , but things change when his friend , musical arranger Barney Sloan ( Frank Sinatra ) comes along . Laurie realises she has grown to have stronger feelings for Barney , and she also realises the mistake she would be making when she sees one of her sister's crying about the marriage , she loves Alex . So Laurie marries Barney , but he is convinced that his wife may still have feelings for Alex , and towards the end attempts suicide , and this is the night Laurie would announce she is pregnant , thank goodness there is a happy ending when all the family are together . Also starring Ethel Barrymore as Aunt Jessie Tuttle , Alan Hale Jr . as Robert Neary , Lonny Chapman as Ernest Nichols and Frank Ferguson as Bartell . Day offers a warm and sensitive performance with some great singing ( they call her the Warner Brothers goldmine ) , Sinatra ( also worked at Columbia records with Day ) has his moments , even though he said he hated the soppy plot . You can almost agree with Sinatra concerning the ending , but you can't see it going any other way , so this is certainly a film to try and enjoy for songs , including one or two Day and Sinatra duets . Good !
This is a really good example of the British film makers at their best , and a classic story played so well by some talented people . Basically during a certain period , probably early Victorian times , the story is based in a men's prison . Working in the prison is laundry and food person , Madeleine ' Maddy ' LeClerc ( the gorgeous Kate Winslet ) . She is interested in helping one of the prisoners , who used to be a very good writer , finish off his latest work . The Marquis De Sade ( Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Geoffrey Rush ) plans to create a really good story , but he is not permitted by the guards , and especially The Abbe Du Coulmier ( Joaquin Phoenix ) and Dr . Royer-Collard ( Sir Michael Caine ) to do this . Contains moments of nudity , one of Winslet , and at least six with Rush . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration and Best Costume Design , it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Costume Design , Best Make Up / Hair and Best Production Design , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Screenplay . Good !
I saw the photo in a magazine of a huge family of clones and the father , and thought this might be quite an interesting one-off drama , it turns out it wasn't what I had in mind at all , based on the play by Caryl Churchill . Basically Rhys Ifans ( presumably the real one ) comes home to his father Tom Wilkinson explaining about " a number ! of clones roaming the streets , and the father insists there was only meant to be one . He reveals Ifans was created from the DNA of his former body , after he was killed somehow , and Wilkinson had him copied for the same son instead of tyring for a new child , he wasn't expecting the experts to make more than one , that wasn't in the deal . This one-hour drama is mainly just lots of chatting between Ifans and Wilkinson , you only see all the clones at the end when they are having a family get together , and then pose for that photo obviously . Not much action or spectacle , but I can imagine that is what is the stage play was like , simple , but with some good dialogue quite effective . Good !
You've probably read your kids this sometimes scary but lovable story book by Roald Dahl ( The BFG , James and the Giant Peach , Charlie and the Chocolate Factory ) , this is the film version of the story , with only the ending changed . Basically young Luke ( Jasen Fisher ) and his Grandma go back to England to live after his parents died , she is his guardian . Then they decide to go on a short hotel holiday after Grandma gets mild diabetes . It is in this hotel that Luke sees a terrible plan by Miss Eva Ernst , or the Grand High Witch ( Academy Award winner Anjelica Huston ) , leader of the many witches in England . They plan to cover sweets and chocolate in a special potion that will turn children into mice ! Unfortunately , this is what happens to Luke and his new friend , rich kid Bruno Jenkins ( Charlie Potter ) . Luke ( as a Jim Henson made mouse ) now plans to stop the witches by putting the potion in the soup for the " Women's Cruelty To Children " party banquet , that's obviously the witches , except not caring for kids . Also starring Jane Horrocks as Miss Irvine , Bill Paterson as Mr . Jenkins , Brenda Blethyn as Mrs . Jenkins , and bumbling Rowan Atkinson as hotel owner Mr . Stringer . It was nominated for a BAFTA Film Award for Best Make-Up . Good !
I mainly knew of Richard Harris from Harry Potter , so it was really interesting to see him as the younger leading actor , in this historical drama from director Ken Hughes ( Chitty Chitty Bang Bang ) . Basically Oliver Cromwell ( Harris ) is the landowner and former politician , and he gets tangled into the war of and religion and politics resulting in the English Civil War . After refusing to form a constitutional monarchy , King Charles I ( Sir Alec Guinness ) sets out to defeat the Parliament , who are ineffective , and Cromwell is setting up the New Model Army . Charles calls on help from the Catholic nations , but he is finally defeated , and still refuses to give into any demands for a system of government in which Parliament will have as much say in the running of the country as the King . Cromwell discovers ( along with many others ) that Charles raised a Catholic army for the war against Parliament , and he is put on trial for treason , and found guilty , he is sentenced to death by beheading . Charles faces his sentence bravely and with dignity , but after there is no celebration or satisfaction , and after Parliament proves itself just as ineffective to govern , Cromwell says to himself that the country will be governed well , even if he has to do it himself , which he did for five years , till his death . Also starring Robert Morley as The Earl of Manchester , Dorothy Tutin as Queen Henrietta Maria , Frank Finlay as John Carter , young Timothy Dalton as Prince Rupert , Patrick Wymark as The Earl of Strafford , Patrick Magee as Hugh Peters , Nigel Stock as Sir Edward Hyde , Diamonds Are Forever's Charles Gray as The Earl of Essex , Michael Jayston as Henry Ireton and Richard Cornish as Oliver Cromwell II . Wart covered Harris and calm Guinness make a great double act from both sides of the big issues , and the high budget war sequences are well staged , a good old fashioned film . It won the Oscar for Best Costume Design , and it was nominated for Best Music for Frank Cordell , it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Costume Design , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Original Score . Sir Alec Guinness was number 12 on The 50 Greatest British Actors , he was number 2 on Britain's Finest Actors , and he was number 11 on The World's Greatest Actor , and the film was number 83 on The 100 Greatest War Films . Very good !
If you've seen the original made in the 80's , or your a fan of Wallace and Gromit and Chicken Run , then you'll like this . Nick Park and his team have created a TV series of the 80's special where animals give opinions about certain subjects , or rather it is the great British public . Basically they interview real members of the public and turn them into animals with the help of Plasticine animation . There are cats , dogs , hamsters , fish , aliens , horses and many other animals that are interviewed . They talk about many things during the series , e . g . Christmas , Easter , Food , Jobs and many other interesting or necessary subjects . It has been nominated twice at the BAFTAs for Best Comedy Programme or Series . Very good !
When I was a kid , this used to be quite a good animated film from Walt Disney Pictures , a bit more aimed at girls and readers of the famous book by Louis Carol , but good . Alice is listening to her boring older sister reading History research and then she is distracted by a white rabbit in clothes with a watch . She follows this rabbit into a rabbit hole which leads to Topsy-turvy world of Wonderland . In this world there are talking locked doors , talking Dodos , twin fat blokes that squeak called Tweedle Dee and Tweedle Dum , a Mad Hatter ( voiced by Mary Poppins Uncle Albert , Ed Wynn ) and a March Hare , a nasty Queen with a deck of cards as guards and many other bizarre things . Alice later gives up wondering about the rabbit and tries to find her way home . Will she get out , or will the Queen have head chopped off for making her lose her temper ? It was number 71 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons . Good !
After seeing the film , I thought it was quite good , like the trailer suggested . Basically Larry Daley ( Ben Stiller ) is quite desperate to get a job to get access to and help son Nick ( Jake Cherry ) , and the only reasonable job he can find is being night watchman at the Museum of Natural History , working along with Cecil ( Dick Van Dyke ) , Gus ( Mickey Rooney ) and Reginald ( Bill Cobbs ) , and mainly for manager Dr . McPhee ( Ricky Gervais ) . Anyway , what the three co-workers didn't tell Larry is that everything comes to life at the museum , the only thing they gave him was the keys and some instructions . As he continues to work there though he gets used to the surroundings of figures and animals , and is pretty confident to continue , and hopefully prove the story to his son and love interest , Rebecca ( Carla Gugino ) . They can only come to life at night ( daylight turns them into dust ) and an Egyptian golden plate thing is what bring them to life . Also starring Mizuo Peck as Sacajawea , Robin Williams as Teddy Roosevelt , Kim Raver as Erica Daley , Patrick Gallagher as Attila the Hun , Rami Malek as Ahkmenrah , Steve Coogan as Octavius and Owen Wilson as Jedediah . Good !
This was a very unusual kids show for me , but who cares I still watched it when I was younger . Starring ( I think ) a little doll called Andy Pandy and her friend a lovable teddy bear called Teddy this was quite a bit of fun . Also it starred a very silly secretly alive doll called Looby Loo , she just always froze whenever Teddy or Andy Pandy was about to come on . Was there ever an episode where she doesn't dance or freeze before Andy Pandy or Teddy ? I think Teddy was my favourite part of the show because he always did a little something to make you giggle , like falling off a seesaw . At the time it was very entertaining , but now it is just the tiniest bit of an embarrassment . A very good childhood memory though . It was nominated the BAFTA for Best Pre-School Animation . It was originally black and white programme , and it was number 62 on The 100 Greatest Kids ' TV Shows . Very good , at the time !
The critics give this film from director Sir Ridley Scott ( Gladiator ) four stars out of five , maybe I'd agree if I was paying full attention to everything . As far as I remember , it is 1184 , the Middle Ages , during the time of the Crusades in Jerusalem , and blacksmith Balian De Ibelin ( Orlando Bloom ) has lost his family , including father Godfrey ( Liam Neeson ) , and nearly his faith . He is taken into the war for the Holy Land , falls in love with Sibylla ( Casino Royale's Eva Green ) , and becomes the leader to defend the city . That's the brief summation , I can't really remember much else besides the interesting battles , similar to those in The Lord of the Rings , well , and some of the other good actors . Also starring Jeremy Irons as Tiberias , Harry Potter's David Thewlis as Hospitaler , 28 Days Later's Brendan Gleeson as Reynald , Marton Csokas as Guy De Lusignan , Ghassan Massoud as Saladin , Fight Club's Edward Norton as King Baldwin , Alexander Siddig as Nasir , The Queen's Michael Sheen as Priest , Kevin McKidd as English Sergeant , Jon Finch as Jerusalem and Iain Glen as Richard Coeur De Lion . I would probably watch this again to understand it fully , and appreciate , but I don't think it'll happen anytime soon . Good !
If you have seen the original jungle set alien science fiction film with Arnold Schwarzenegger , then you might like this not bad sequel . Instead of being in the jungle , the deadly alien Predator is in the city hunting more humans for its collection . Danny Glover is Lieutenant Mike Harrigan , the guy assigned to find this mysterious killer . He also has the help of Bill Paxton as Jerry Lambert and Licence to Kill's Robert Davi as Captain Phil Heinemann . Also starring Kevin Peter Hall as The Predator . Danny Glover doesn't have as much snarl as Schwarzenegger , but he is a good star for the film . The sequence near the end with a room of Predators is quite a good scene . Good !
I recognised the poster , then I watched some of the film in Film Studies class , and I was very interested in seeing the whole thing . Writer / director Kimberley Peirce started this project first with a documentary ( or it might have been her short film ) based on the true story of a young girl from Nebraska who disguised herself as a man , and was raped and murdered , and then Peirce got the go-ahead to make this independent film . Teena Brandon ( then rather unknown , Insomnia and Million Dollar Baby star , Oscar ( her first ) and Golden Globe winning , and BAFTA nominated Hilary Swank ) dressed as a man , mostly to get used to the idea of what it would be like to be one before her operation . She called herself Brandon Teena , and with her new persona made some male friends , including John Lotter ( Peter Sarsgaard ) , Tom Nisson ( Brendan Sexton III ) and Lonny ( Matt McGrath ) , and some female ( the sex was now more attracted to ) including Kate ( Alison Folland ) , Candace ( Alicia Goranson ) , and of course , the girl that she would fall in love with Lana Tisdel ( Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Chloë Sevigny ) . The film basically sees Teena / Brandon making a convincing life as a man , getting a girlfriend that after finding out is pretty much okay with it , and the only person that knew before was her brother Brian ( Rob Campbell ) . Soon enough though , the male characters find out her secret and first exploit it to others , then rape her , and in the end it was John that murdered her , maybe accidentally , maybe intentionally for her / his lies . The rape scenes are very disturbing , and the murder is tragic , this is a very convincing performance from Swank as the hero ( ine ) , and a gripping film . Good !
Derren Brown does quite a few specials shows including Russian Roulette , Séance and The Gathering . Now , he is bringing about 20 normal members of the public to perform another " stunt " . Basically he convinces all of them to commit a robbery , without them knowing it . So he makes them see the colour green a lot , plays a Jackson 5 song that they'll remember and says a lot of words that criminals would use . So first he gets them to steal sweets from a newsagents . Then he chooses four finalists to be the robbers . Basically a closed off street ( by the police ) will help a walking victim to commit a robbery of a suitcase filled with £50 , 000 . They throw in all the tempting elements until they decide to pull out a near realistic gun to commit the robbery . 3 out of the four do it ! A good trickery special showing how easily we can be tempted to do something . Good !
I have seen many good westerns and robbery films , and when you combine the two , it is quite good . Basically two robbers Butch Cassidy ( BAFTA nominated Paul Newman ) and The Sundance Kid ( BAFTA winning Robert Redford ) are portrayed in this film as the heroes , even though they are stealing money from many banks and money carrying things , e . g . trains . Etta Place ( BAFTA winning Katharine Ross ) is the only backup they have to staying undercover . The only question I have about this film is why they were portrayed as heroes , unless they were like Robin Hood or something . Also starring Strother Martin as Percy Garris , Henry Jones as Bike Salesman , Jeff Corey as Sheriff Ray Bledsoe and George Furth as Woodcock . With some good gun fighting and chase sequences . It won the Oscars for Best Cinematography , Best Music for Burt Bacharach , Best Song for " Raindrops Keep Fallin ' on My Head " ( also nominated the Golden Globe , and it was number 23 on 100 Years , 100 Songs ) , and Best Writing , Story and Screenplay Based on Material Not Previously Published or Produced , and it was nominated for Best Director for George Roy Hill , Best Picture and Best Sound , it won the BAFTA Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music , Best Cinematography , Best Direction , Best Film , Best Film Editing , Best Screenplay and Best Sound Track , and it won the Golden Globe for Best Original Score , and it was nominated for Best Motion Picture - Drama and Best Screenplay . Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid were number 20 on 100 Years , 100 Heroes & Villains ( as heroes ) . Good !
When I first saw this Saturday morning show , or rather caught bits of it , I first thought it was some kind of sports programme . Then after a couple of other bits I discovered that it was more for kids than adults because there were obvious things to spot . These kinds of things involved kids TV presenters like that really nice black guy who had a teary quit , two Irish puppets , the Rugrats on , and many other things . To be honest I only watched bits of it when I felt like it . When I saw the teary goodbye from the black guy on Greatest Kids TV Moments , I didn't realise he like his job that much ! But anyway , what I saw of this show was not bad . Pretty okay !
Do you remember Kevin Bishop as Jim Hawkins in Muppet Treasure Island , well , he first came to our screens in Star Stories , and now he has his own sketch show . This sketch show is basically a channel hopping concept where he spoofs many celebrities , programmes and adverts , along with his other co-stars James Howick ( Peep Show ) , Oliver Maltman ( Star Stories ) and Katie Miles ( The IT Crowd ) . Celebrities impersonated include Gordon Ramsay , Jonathan Ross , Ross Kemp , Justin Lee Collins , Colin Farrell , Christopher Walken ( by Maltman ) and some rappers , spoof programmes include Nursery Crime Squad , ' Allo ' Allo and Pimp My Ride , and spoof adverts include Playbox , celebrity perfumes , film trailers and Daily Mail DVD giveaways . A good show with some funny moments from a new up-and-coming comedian . Good !
I was expecting this film to be the tiniest bit cheesy , and I was right , but it is still enjoyable in places . Basically it is all about Billy Bigelow ( Gordon MacRae ) who is in a Heaven like place telling his story of how met , fell in love with and married Julie Jordan ( Shirley Jones ) at the Carousel , where he used to work . The only thing is that he pretty much ruined his life , and ended it by trying to commit a crime , which ended up with a fatal escape attempt . However , he was given the chance to see his daughter he never saw , at 15 years old , and his wife . Anyway , that is the main story , accompanied with her friend Carrie Pipperidge ( Barbara Ruick ) and her husband Mr . Enoch Snow ( Robert Rounseville ) and a load of music and dancing . Also starring Cameron Mitchell as Jigger Craigin , Claramae Turner as Cousin Nettie , Gene Lockhart as Starkeeper / Dr . Selden and Audrey Christie as Mrs . Mullin . It is a corny film , but definitely worth a try . It was number 41 on The 100 Greatest Musicals . Worth watching !
From director / writer Christopher Guest ( one of the band members in This Is Spinal Tap , and acting in the film ) , and co-writer ( and actor ) Eugene Levy ( American Pie ) , this is an interesting comedy with a hardly interesting contest , but it does actually become fun . Basically an array of characters from all walks of life , and all as unusual as each other , are preparing their dogs for the 25th Annual Mayflower Kennel Club Dog Show . A film crew is filming all individual contestants , and the judges , including Harlan Pepper ( Guest ) , Gerry Fleck ( Levy ) along with his admirer Cookie Fleck ( Home Alone's Catherine O'Hara ) , Stefan Vanderhoof ( Michael McKean ) , Scott Donlan ( John Michael Higgins ) , Sherri Ann Ward Cabot ( American Pie's Jennifer Coolidge ) and Buck Laughlin ( American Pie : The Wedding's Fred Willard ) . There are some giggly moments of dialogue , and small gross or silly comedy , and the winner of the contest is almost obvious , but worth it . It won the British Comedy Award for Best Comedy Film , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Comedy / Musical . It was number 44 on The 100 Greatest Funny Moments , and it was number 30 on The 50 Greatest Comedy Films . Good !
This is a pretty interesting story about one man's love for his family , and trying to spend as much time with them as possible , even the one that hates him , but I'm not sure I'd want to see it again . Basically the meaning of the title being Royal is obviously the father and husband of the wealthy like family , Royal Tenenbaum ( Golden Globe winning Gene Hackman ) . Anjelica Huston plays his wife , Etheline Tenenbaum , Gwyneth Paltrow as daughter Margot Tenenbaum , Luke Wilson as son Richie Tenenbaum and Ben Stiller as his brother Chas Tenenbaum , he is the one who hates his Dad . Basically Royal finds out he has only three or four months to live , so he wants to spend that time with his family . By the way , in the end Chas does like his father , he even accompanies him in the ambulance at the end . Also starring Owen Wilson as Eli Cash , Danny Glover as Henry Sherman , Bill Murray as Raleigh St . Clair and narrated by Alec Baldwin . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Writing , Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen , and it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Original Screenplay . Gwyneth Paltrow was number 89 , and Gene Hackman number 42 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , and he was number 31 on The World's Greatest Actor . Good !
I would need to see it again to write a better review , but I am writing the basics and what I do remember about this Disney animated film . Basically Pocahontas ( Irene Bedard ) is the young Natiev American girl of the " New World " who is to be married to the village's greatest warrior , but she instead grows to love English sailor Captain John Smith ( Mel Gibson ) . So in short , a forbidden love story , some quarrelling , and in the end ( which I admit I remember crying to ) the lovers can't be with each other . Also starring Joe Baker as Lon , Christian Bale as Thomas , Billy Connolly as Ben , Linda Hunt as Grandmother Willow and David Ogden Stiers as Governor Ratcliffe and Wiggins . It won the Oscars for Best Music and Best Song for " Colors of the Wind " ( also won the Golden Globe ) , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Original Score . Good !
The only thing I don't understand about this programme , is it meant to be focusing mainly on the pornography , or the hip hop music industry . It was basically a documentary showing the cross between hip hop and hardcore porn industry , i . e . hip hop videos using this money making tool and industry , and hip hop artists themselves making and becoming part of it ( not literally , but directing it ) . Footage includes the videos of Snoop Dogg and Sir-Mix-A lot , but in all honesty , it was the pornography footage that appealed to me . There wasn't as much as I'd expected from the hardcore aspect , it blurred quite a lot , but there were enough big asses and tits to keep me watching . Good !
From Fred Schepisi , director of Roxanne and Fierce Creatures , this is quite a good drama . Basically it is all about the friends of Jack Dodds who have been given the difficult " last orders " of scattering his ashes to the sea . These friends , Vic Tucker ( Tom Courtenay ) , Lenny ' Len ' ( David Hemmings ) , Ray ' Raysie ' Johnson ( Bob Hoskins ) and ( I think ) Vince ' Vincey ' Dodds ( Ray Winstone ) on the journey remember the good times with their friend as butcher and pub mate . Sir Michael Caine as Jack in the flashbacks is the nice guy with a good personality . I cannot remember much of what happens , besides the scattering , and the fact that Caine and Hoskins are in it , but it is definitely worth seeing . Also starring Dame Helen Mirren as Amy Dodds . Good !
YouTube has established itself as the most used video sharing site in the world since it was created in 2005 , anyone can put on a video , and anyone and anything can be the star , and this countdown shows us the 50 most popular videos growing by the number of views , presented by Balls of Steel star Alex Zane , and with interviews by some of the stars themselves . Videos on the list include the world record for cup stacking , fanny farting , dog bites own leg , monkey smells but then faints , dog shags cat , mad hair wife , rap contest entry , Steve Ballmer at Microsoft convention , the Reh Dogg - " Why Must I Cry ? " music video , karate baby , skateboarding dog ( who in appeared in the film Lords of Dogtown ) , ninja wimps , the Dirty Dancing wedding , Pam & Tommy Lee - Hardcore & Uncensored , 1 Night in Paris ( Hilton ) , Janice It Hurts , piano playing cat , Star Wars kid , The Quad Squad - 4 laughing babies , The Backdorn Boys lip syncing " I Want It That Way " , break dance baby , Adhisaya Piravi - Pigmi Dance , Where The Hell Is Matt ? - Matt Harding dancing badly around the world , Japanese Prisoners doing Thriller , Gary Brolma - The Numa Numa Song , Tay Zonday - " Chocolate Rain " , sneezing panda , robot dance - Dave Burnell , Chris Crocker - Leave Britney , and the most popular , with over 80 , 000 , 000 views and growing , The Evolution of Dance starring Judson Laipply . Very good !
Apparently a remake of Jane Austen's Emma for the modern world , from writer / director Amy Heckerling ( Fast Times at Ridgemont High ) . Basically Cher Horowitz ( Batman & Robin's Alicia Silverstone ) is the rich , pretty , blonde and popular girl who knows how to talk anyone into doing almost anything , and also the narrator . When Cher can't get a better grade from her teacher Mr . Wendell Hall ( Toy Story's Wallace Shawn ) , she and her friend Dionne ( Stacey Dash , who played the same character in the Clueless TV series ) match him up with Miss Toby Geist ( Twink Caplan ) to them happier , and maybe boost their expectations . Cher is happy doing " good deeds " , and when new girl Tai ( Brittany Murphy ) shows up , Cher and Dionne give her a makeover and try to get her a boyfriend . Cher realises doing this she wants a boyfriend as well , but she can't find the right guy . As she continues a spiritual makeover , she realises theirs more to life than clothes and popularity , and the guy of her dreams is the guy she has spent most time with as a friend , Josh ( Paul Rudd ) . She should have also realised Tai was infatuated with Travis ( Road Trip's Breckin Meyer ) , and vice versa , not the guy she expected to like her , Elton ( Jeremy Sisto ) , and also the guy she originally wanted as a boyfriend , Christian ( Justin Walker ) was gay , it was obvious . Also starring Donald Faison as Murray , Elisa Donovan as Amber and Dan Hedaya as Mel Horowitz . It is in my book of 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die , I'd have to see it more to agree with that , but it is a good film . Very good !
The first time I saw it I was pretty confused , but seeing it again I can almost understand the plot . Basically Joel Barish ( another more serious role for BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Jim Carrey ) wakes up with no memory of the night before , and his car scratched . He skips work and heads to the shore , and as he travels he keeps seeing Clementine ( no jokes , e . g . Huckleberry Hound's " Oh My Darling , Clementine " ) Kruczynski ( Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Kate Winslet ) . First she is asking if they know each other , then they lie together on the thick ice of a lake , and then all of the sudden it cuts to Joel upset because of their split . He finds out that she went to Dr . Howard Mierzwiak ( Tom Wilkinson ) and had all memories of Joel erased from her memory , so he follows her . As his memories are erased , his mind rediscovers past passions , and he almost tries to escape the procedure . Meanwhile , out of Joel's mind , Stan ( Mark Ruffalo ) is carrying out the erasure , while his partner Patrick ( Elijah Wood , after the last Lord of the Rings ) is trying to create a relationship with the now Joel-memory erased Clementine using Joel's stuff . Stan is also trying to continue his relationship with co-worker Mary ( Kirsten Dunst ) , but she finds out that she had memories of a passion with Dr . Howard erased . When the erasure is complete , you find out the segments at the beginning was after the procedure , so Joel and Clementine pretty much start their passion all over again , even after Mary gives them back their opinion chats of each other back . Also starring Jane Adams as Carrie and Scary Movie 2's David Cross as Rob . It might be complicated inside Carrey's mind , but it is a very inventive story about how memories can construct our minds . It won the Oscar for Best Writing , Original Screenplay , it won the BAFTAs for Best Editing and Best Original Screenplay , and it was nominated for Best Film and the David Lean Award for Direction for music video director Michel Gondry , and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Musical or Comedy and Best Screenplay . Very good !
I didn't finish the entire film , but what I did see of it was interesting . Based on a true story , Golden Globe nominated Martin Scorsese directs a film based in an American Las Vegas casino . Robert De Niro is Sam ' Ace ' Rothstein , he does not have a real job at the casino , he just keeps swapping them to stop him getting in trouble , and keep the casino running smoothly . He marries Ginger McKenna ( Golden Globe winning , and Oscar nominated Sharon Stone ) for a while , but she lets him down and he can't be bothered with her . Joe Pesci is Nicky Santoro , the only person that knows Ace keeps swapping his job , and he also makes sure the casino don't find out . I like this film really because of the explanations by De Niro and Pesci about how American casinos work and run , and how people try to con and steal from them . Also starring James Woods as Lester Diamond and Frank Vincent as Frank Marino . Very good !
From director John Frankenheimer ( Birdman of Alcatraz , Deception ) this is a fantastic retro ( deliberately ) thriller with plenty of eye-catching moments and some good choice actors . The title means Japanese Samurai without a master , so basically the lead characters in this are Ronin , outcast specialists hired for jobs . Basically Irish Deirdre ( The Truman Show's Natascha McElhone ) hires some Ronin to form a team with a mission to retrieve an important suitcase from a man planning to sell it to the Russians . These men are Sam ( Robert De Niro ) , Vincent ( Leon's Jean Reno ) , Gregor ( Pirates of the Caribbean's Stellan Skarsgård ) , and briefly Spence ( Sean Bean ) - exposed as a fraud , and Larry ( Skipp Sudduth ) . Also starring Moonraker's Michel Lonsdale as Jean-Pierre and Jonathan Pryce as Seamus . The main reason this film is unmissable is for the many exciting chases and almost never ending gun shooting sequences , and the actors all do very well , a very slick film . Very good !
You may remember a documentary series ( and one of the first reality TV vehicles ) in the 1970's with the same title focusing on the lives of a working class family , well , now in the modern world , it was about time to see the lives of a regular middle-class family . With title narration by Life on Mars's John Simm , this documentary series on the lives of the Hughes family : mother / wife Jane , father / husband Simon , 19-year-old daughter Emily , 17-year-old daughter Charlotte , 14-year-old son Tom , family cat Ziggy , and ( seen most in the last episode ) oldest daughter Jess , living with fiancée Pat and baby daughter Ruby . The first five episodes each had narration from one of the family members , the rest of the episodes didn't . Anyway , each episode showed the typical day in the Hughes family , quite a few arguments about many things , e . g . bed time , a piercing , parenting , etc , but they do always make up in the end , and the episode they all really express happiness is the wedding of Jess and Pat , the final episode , and a happy ending . Very good !
I heard about this for having some strong sexual scenes , and my Mum liked the film , and it turned out to be quite a fun film that went just a bit too quickly . There is no real story apart from Rita ( Siobhan Finneran ) and Sue ( Michelle Holmes ) are two school girls having a sexual fling with a married man named Bob ( George Costigan ) . It started with Bob asking if they know anything about sex , being virgins , and then having sex with them one at a time . It continues through the film , many meetings in not very popular public places and having sex . There are obviously many arguments about who should go first , Sue being argumentative towards her mother ( Patti Nicholls ) and father ( Willie Ross ) , and Bob trying to end it to be with wife Michelle ( Lesley Sharp ) . But it is a good comedy drama with some good laughs and turns . It was number 57 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments . Very good !
I think this is the same makers as Postman Pat , and if you liked that you'll love this . A local fireman named Sam works for the local fire service , and throughout the series him and his team help people . For example Sam helps the naughty Norman out of a deep dark hole / cave in the ground , he gets his nephew and niece's kite off Bella's roof , he catches Trevor's tyre and many other " daring " rescues and services . I used to like the naughty Norman always skate-boarding and trying to steal his Mum's apples . His Mum always tried to get him away from the telly , she didn't realise he was a mischief . There was also the silly Trevor with his van , he always had a problem somewhere . So altogether , when I was young this was a very good kids show . Very good !
I heard about this film on the news , from director Suzie Templeton , from Hedge End , Southampton , Hampshire , England ( which I know very well ) won the Oscar for Best Short Animated Film , and deservedly so . It is a film based on the piece of music by Sergei Prokofiev , so like Fantasia , a story is added with the music to guide . Basically Peter is the young boy locked out the woods by his protective grandfather , and his only friend is a duck , he is bullied in town . Peter manages to steal the gate keys from his sleeping grandfather and enters the woods with the duck , and an ill-flying bird . They have a little fun on the frozen lake , with the grandfather's cat joining them . Soon though they encounter a wolf , and when it eats the duck , Peter wants to get revenge and capture the wolf with a near netting . He succeeds , and his grandfather sees it too , but in the end , when taking the caged animal into town , Peter can't let the wolf be either put in a stage show , or killed by hunters , he just lets it go . The stop-motion animation , particularly for the ginger cat and wolf , is extraordinary . Templeton apparently spent a year making this half hour film , and she deservedly won the Oscar for Best Short Animated Film ( also nominated the BAFTA ) , a great triumph . Very good !
I don't know the meaning of the title , but there is a reference to it towards the end with the guy writing a novel with ' The L-Shaped Room ' as it's title . Anyway , basically it is all about French born Jane Fosset ( BAFTA and Golden Globe winning , and Oscar nominated Leslie Caron ) . She moved to England to escape her dreary life in France , and has moved into a flat block . In this place she makes friends with manager Doris ( Avis Bunnage ) , Sonia ( Patricia Phoenix ) , neighbour Johnny ( To Kill a Mockinbird and Batman : The Animated Series - Lucias Fox - star Brock Peters ) , and downstairs neighbour Toby ( Tom Bell ) . The main story is that Jane is pregnant , and unknowing Toby forms a close relationship with her . She does give in one night to his love , but is gone the next morning , after Johnny told him about the baby coming . She is now trying to sort everything out with everyone in the flat block , get back together possibly with Toby , and not let the baby get in the way of a happy life . Also starring Anthony Booth as Youth in Street and James Bond's Bernard Lee as Charlie . It was nominated the BAFTAs for Best British Film and Best Film from any Source , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best English-Language Foreign Film . Very good !
I have seen quite a few science-fiction films where aliens or mutants have become part of the modern world , e . g . Total Recall , and this is a pretty good one . Basically in the not too distant future , Earth has first contact with an alien civilisation , known as the Newcomers ( same anatomies as us , only they are all bald and spotty ) these aliens , after being quarantined have slowly integrated into human society . When the first Newcomer police officer , Det . Samuel Francisco ( The Princess Bride's Mandy Patinkin ) is assigned his new partner , he gets Det . Sgt . Matthew Sykes ( James Caan ) , who still has issues about Newcomers . They are searching for the people who killed Sykes ' partner , and investigating the Newcomer underworld , and especially Newcomer leader William Harcourt ( Terence Stamp ) . It is both a friendship growing partnership between Sykes and ' George ' , oh , and I should mention Newcomers can be killed by water , which causes an acidic reaction to their skin . Also starring Kevyn Major Howard as Rudyard Kipling , Leslie Bevis as Cassandra , Peter Jason as Fedorchuk , Conrad Dunn / George Jenesky as Quint , Jeff Kober as Joshua Strader , Roger Aaron Brown as Det . Bill Tuggle , Tony Simotes as Wiltey and The Terminator's Earl Boen as Duncan Crais . With some good action sequences , a good buddy-buddy films , a good sci-fi thriller . Very good !
Written and directed by , and starring Ben Stiller , I knew this film was about modelling , and it turned out to be a pretty funny film . Basically Derek Zoolander ( Ben Stiller ) is the three time VH1 male model of the year , and he looks forward to the fourth , but is beaten by rival Hansel ( Owen Wilson ) . So Derek's friends disappear , his father Larry ( Jon Voight ) is disappointed in him , and feels like he's not a good model anymore . But he soon gets hired by the fiendish fashion guru Mugatu ( Will Ferrell ) , only to be brainwashed into killing the President of Malaysia , and many other models have something implanted in them . Time Magazine journalist Matilda Jeffries ( Christine Taylor ) is now trying to help Derek hide out from the Katinka ( Milla Jovovich ) and the other bad guys , and find a way to stop the brainwashing murder from happening . Also starring Jerry Stiller ( Ben's father ) as Maury Ballstein , David Duchovny as J . P . Prewitt , Judah Friedlander as Scrappy Zoolander , Nathan Lee Graham as Todd , Alexandre Manning as Brint , Asio Highsmith as Rufus and Alexander Skarsgård ( Stellan's son ) as Meekus , with cameos from Donald Trump , Christian Slater , Cuba Gooding Jr . , Natalie Portman , Fabio , Lenny Kravitz , Gwen Stefani , Heidi Klum , Mark Ronson , Paris Hilton , David Bowie , Kimberly ' Lil ' Kim ' Jones , Claudia Schiffer , Lukas Haas , Amy Stiller ( Ben's sister ) as Hansel's Posse Member , Jennifer Coolidge as American Designer , X-Men's James Marsden as John Wilkes Booth , Victoria Beckham , The King of Comedy's Sandra Bernhard , Emma Bunton , Blade's Stephen Dorff , Winona Ryder , Vince Vaughn as Luke Zoolander and Billy Zane . Stiller is good at playing both stupid and Hissy fits ( he won an award from it funnily enough ) , and pulling those " pose " faces , and it is good to see so many famous faces in a satirical comedy film like this . Very good !
One of Harry Enfield's comedy favourites has now come onto the big screen in this hilarious comedy film . Kevi the Teenager is obviously the virgin . His best mate Perry ( Kathy Burke ) and him are both DJs , when they buy a porn magazine they read about lots of sex going on in Ibiza . So Kevin asks his Mum ( Louisa Rix ) and Dad ( James Fleet ) if they can go to Ibiza . When they eventually do get there , that is when more mayhem begins . With the help of their new " friend " Eyeball Paul ( Rhys Ifans ) , the manager of the Amnesia Club , they want to attract two girls that they fancy . There are some small moments with one of Harry Enfield's " chums " , Paul Whitehouse as a Bouncer . Also , look out for appearances by Patsy Byrne and EastEnders ' Steve McFadden ( Phil Mitchell ) . A great comedy , particularly for the teens . Paul Whitehouse was number 48 on The Comedians ' Comedian , Harry Enfield was number 10 on Britain's Favourite Comedian , and Kevin the Teenager was number 15 on The 100 Greatest TV Characters . Very good !
My Mum said she did not like the main actress of this film , I can say that she is a little annoying in this role , but she is probably eccentric . Basically Dolly Levi ( BAFTA nominated Barbra Streisand in her second film role , after coming from stage ) is a matchmaker , and has her own eyes set on single millionaire Horace Vandergelder ( BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Walter Matthau ) . She convinces him to go to New York , and secretly also does the same for his two excitable clerks Cornelius Hackl ( Some Mothers Do ' Ave ' Em's Michael Crawford ) and Barnaby Tucker ( Danny Lockin ) , his niece Irene Molloy ( twice Golden Globe nominated Marianne McAndrew ) and her beau Minnie Fay ( E . J . Peaker ) . The romance between the clerks and the shop women is definitely strong , but Dolly has to go quite far to interest Vandergelder . With a fantastic cameo by Louis Armstrong . . . Louis , who had a number one with the song Hello , Dolly ! in America . I never thought I'd see Matthau in a musical , but he great , the only other little flaw is a not-fantastic American accent by Crawford , but it is not a big deal . The highlights for me are in the restaurant with dancing waiters , clerks , Armstrong and some good laughs . A great film with some great songs and dance . It won the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Music and Best Sound , and it was nominated for Best Cinematography , Best Costume Design , Best Film Editing and Best Picture , it was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Art Direction and Best Cinematography , and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Director for Gene Kelly and Best Motion Picture - Musical / Comedy . It was number 50 on The 100 Greatest Musicals . Very good !
When I was a kid this was one of favourite cartoons ever , I don't know but it might of been made in Japan , but who cares . Basically four turtles are transformed into large super heroes and save the day in their car and with their knives . The Rat King wasn't in it that much , but was he meant to be their boss ? The person the turtles ( I can't remember the names of ) always faced was the nasty Shredder with a mask and helmet . There were two henchmen as well , I can only remember the warthog called Beebok . Rachel , the turtles ' friend , was in a couple of good episodes as well . It was the turtles who actually introduced me to eating pizza and buying the toys , thanks turtles . It also had a good theme tune . It was number 27 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons . Very good !
As far as I can work out , it is after this film that the career of Steve Martin has had very few laughs , which is a shame , he just needs to find the right film . Anyway , this is the remake of the 1950 film , and it sees middle aged father George Banks ( Martin ) with wife Nina ( Diane Keaton ) having to prepare the wedding for their 21-year-old daughter Annie Banks ( Kimberly Williams-Paisley ) . They had never met her fiancée Bryan MacKenzie ( George Newbern ) , living an upper class with his parents in Bel-Air , but George tries to keep his feelings about wedding preparations and this new man in his daughter's life intact . But it is mainly the thought of never seeing his daughter again that gets to George the most , and it is only after a near cancellation ( over a blender ) that he understands he has to let go and reunites the happy couple . So the wedding day comes , George walks Annie up the aisle , and the rest of the day he can't even say his final goodbye before they leave for honeymoon , but at least she called him . Also starring Home Alone's Kieran Culkin ( Macaulay's brother ) as Matty Banks , Martin Short as Franck Eggelhoffer , B . D . Wong as Howard Weinstein , Peter Michael Goetz as John MacKenzie , Kate McGregor-Stewart as Joanna MacKenzie , Carmen Hayward as Grace and April Ortiz as Olivia . Martin does do well , Keaton offers a good support , and Short adds giggles as the foreign wedding organiser , and while there are one or two good gags , it is the mushy bits ( which I'm not always up for ) that actually do most good . Very good !
I always wondered when Martin Scorsese was going to win an Oscar for Best Director , after 6 nominations , and he deserved to win for this inventive crime drama thriller . Basically years ago , Irish mobster Frank Costello ( BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Jack Nicholson ) got Colin Sullivan to go through the many courses to become a professional cop , and now grown up , Colin ( Matt Damon ) has everyone's trust , but what they do not know is that is in fact keeping an eye out for any police activity that could come to an arrest . The police decide to get young undercover cop Billy Costigan ( BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Leonardo DiCaprio , Oscar nominated the same year for Blood Diamond ) to get into Frank's gang , earn his trust , and hope to get evidence of his guilt , and crimes . It is when word gets out about two rats , in Frank's gang and the police that trouble brews for both groups . Also starring Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Mark Wahlberg as Dignam , Martin Sheen as Captain Queenan , Ray Winstone as Mr . French , Vera Farmiga as Madolyn , Scary Movie 3 & 4's Anthony Anderson as Brown and Alec Baldwin as Ellerby . I really like the idea of two rats in both groups , and the concluding scenes are the personal highlights . It won the Oscars for Best Editing , Best Motion Picture of the Year and Best Writing , Adapted Screenplay , it was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Editing , Best Adapted Screenplay , the David Lean Award for Direction and Best Film , and it won the Golden Globe for Best Director , and it was nominated for Best Motion Picture - Drama and Best Screenplay . Leonardo DiCaprio was number 94 , and Jack Nicholson on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , he was number 63 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols , and he was number 7 on The World's Greatest Actor , and Ray Winstone was number 32 on The 50 Greatest British Actors . Very good !
If you like interesting one joke comedies , then you might be interested in this film . Oscar nominated and Golden Globe winning Dudley Moore plays millionaire playboy Arthur Bach , a man who lives on quite a lot of alcohol and spends all his money on it , plus high living . One day he is told that he must get married if he wants to keep his share of the family fortune . Obviously , because he drinks a lot he doesn't try that hard . Although , he does meet his perfect woman , Linda Marolla ( Golden Globe winning Liza Minnelli ) , a poor woman living with her father . Everyone thinks that she is the wrong woman because Arthur is already engaged . It does have a happy ending , although it does take a little while to get to it . It won the Oscars for Best Song , and Best Supporting Actor for Sir John Gielgud as Hobson , Arthur's Valet , and it was nominated for Best Writing , Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen , it was nominated the BAFTA for the Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music for Burt Bacharach , Best Supporting Actor for John Gielgud , and it won the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Comedy / Musical , Best Actor for Dudley Moore , Best Supporting Actor in a for John Gielgud and Best Original Song for " Arthur's Theme ( Best That You Can Do ) " . It was number 53 on 100 Years , 100 Laughs . Good !
You probably know the five human senses : Touch , Scent , Sight , Sound and Taste , and this is a terrifying idea for a sixth , from director M . Night Shyamalan ( also starring as Dr . Hill ) . Basically Malcolm Crowe ( Bruce Willis ) is a child psychologist recently awarded , and on the same night visited by a mad ex-patient who wounds him by gunshot . A few months later Malcolm is visited by the troubled 9-year-old Cole Sear ( Forrest Gump's Haley Joel Osment ) . He does not tell his secret for a while , but when he does , it is one of the iconic moments of the film , it was number 44 on 100 Years , 100 Quotes , " I see dead people " . It is because of this he is a freak in school , and his mother Lynn ( Toni Collette ) is very concerned about his increasing problems . Malcolm is now trying to find out whether he is seeing things or not , and trying to rekindle his relationship with wife Anna Crowe ( Olivia Williams ) . Also starring Saw II's Donnie Wahlberg as Vincent Gray , Glenn Fitzgerald as Sean , young Mischa Barton as Kyra Collins and Jurassic Park III's Trevor Morgan as Tommy Tammisimo . The film has a great conclusion as well with Cole's mother weeping at the idea of Cole seeing his Grandma , and Malcolm finding out why his wife has been ignoring him for so long , he wasn't wounded in that gunshot , he died . It was number 60 on 100 Years , 100 Thrills , and it was number 33 on The 100 Greatest Scary Moments . Very good !
This is considered the best adaptation of Charles Dickens ' classic Christmas story , and I can certainly see most of the reasons to give it five stars like the critics do . It is Christmas Eve , the anniversary of Jacob Marley's death , and Ebenezer Scrooge ( the great Alastair Sim , who actually played Scrooge twice , second time in a cartoon version ) of course is working with his employee Bob Cratchit ( Mervyn Johns ) , being rude to charity collectors and his nephew Fred ( Brian Worth ) , and of course saying Christmas is a humbug . Then that night he is visited by Marley's Ghost ( Michael Hordern ) who warns him of the pain he faces in death unless he faces what's ahead , the haunting from three spirits . Then , one by one , the Spirits of Christmas Past ( Michael Dolan ) , Present ( Francis De Wolff ) and silent Future / Yet To Come showing him what he has become in the many years passed . The only additional material ( that could have been taken out in my opinion ) is Scrooge leaving business with Mr . S . Fezziwig ( Roddy Hughes ) , and starting business with Marley , oh , and his love interest is named Alice ( Rona Anderson ) instead of Belle ( like all the other versions I've seen ) . At the end of the " journey " Scrooge wakes to Christmas morning and does do a little over the top in happiness with his maid , but promises her a pay raise , and to change to be a better man and appreciate Christmas . In doing this he gives a blind guy some money , buys Bob Cratchit a turkey , Tiny Tim ( Glyn Dearman ) believes it is Scrooge and that Christmas changed him ( well , that's kind of right ) , and he goes to his nephew's for dinner that he originally refused , and obviously from then on he stayed the nicer man he became . Also starring Kathleen Harrison as Mrs . Dilber , Mary Poppins ' Hermione Baddeley as Mrs . Cratchit , George Cole as Young Ebenezer Scrooge , Miles Malleson as Old Joe and A View to a Kill's young Patrick Macnee as Young Jacob Marley . I have say there were moments this seemed almost like a light horror film , the music especially gave that impression , but it is still a great family film . It was number 58 on The 100 Greatest Christmas Moments . Very good !
This is one of the best spy spoofs ever made . Mike Myers stars as Austin Powers , a secret agent from the 1960s brought into 1997 . He has been brought back to fight Dr . Evil ( Myers again ) who plans to take over the world . He uses Vanessa ( Elizabeth Hurley ) to help him . A very funny film with some good gags . Seth Green hardly does much , but he will later in the next two films . Austin Powers is stupid , but then again , so Dr . Evil . I can't decide who's funnier of the two . Austin's funniest moment is discovering the future , e . g . crossing off deceased people he admired , and testing at CDs and trainers . Dr . Evil's funniest moment is telling Scott ( Green ) to shh . Also starring Mimi Rogers as Mrs . Kensington , Robert Wagner as Number Two , Fabiana Udenio as Alotta Fagina ( kinda like Pussy Galore ) and Mindy Sterling as Frau Farbissina . Look out for Burt Bacharach , True Lies ' Tom Arnold , Christian Slater , Star Wars ' Carrie Fisher and Rob Lowe ! Mike Myers was number 46 on The Comedians ' Comedian , and the film was number 4 on The 50 Greatest Comedy Films . Very good !
This was Jim Carrey's first official role and launched his brilliant career . He stars as Ace Ventura : Pet Detective . " He's the best there is . Actually , he's the only one there is . " The mascot of the Miami Dolphins " Snowflake the Dolphin " has been kidnapped . It is Ace's job to find this dolphin . He has help from Courney Cox ( Arquette ) and Sean Young who has a funny but sick story towards the end . There is also an appearance by legendary Miami Dolphin player Dan Marino ( as himself ) . A hilarious film with wonderful slapstick and cuddly animals thrown in . The best part for me is seeing Ace being thrown about by a shark ! Ace Ventura : When Nature Calls followed . Very good !
If you have ever seen the futuristic TV series about the future of the caped crusader , then you might want to see this movie . Bruce Wayne is still retired , but still has Wayne Enterprises . His house boy is now the new Batman in the new suit . Bruce ( Kevin Conroy ) and Terry McGinnis ( new Batman ) ( voiced by Will Friedle ) don't know it , but a familiar and horrifying face from Bruce's past has returned to Gotham City . The Joker ( Star Wars ' Luke Skywalker , Mark Hamill ) is back to try and take over the city and destroy it with a satellite laser . There is a very good flashback of how The Joker died , and the voice talents are just perfect . Also starring Teri Garr as Mrs . Mary McGinnis , Arleen Sorkin as Harley Quinn and Sabrina's Melissa Joan Hart as the twins , Dee Dee and Dee Dee . Batman was number 84 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons . Very good !
When I first heard of this film , I thought it was some kind of sci-fi film , but it could have been more obvious it was talking about a cruise . Basically Charlotte Vale ( Oscar nominated Bette Davis ) suffers a nervous breakdown because of the pretty nerve-wrecking domineering of her mother , Mrs . Henry Windle Vale ( Oscar nominated Gladys Cooper ) , and she is sent to a sanitarium , where she is transformed to become elegant . Then she goes on a South American cruise where she falls for already married Jerry Durrance ( Paul Henreid ) . She goes back to comfort her mother dying from a heart attack , and she returns to the sanitarium where she meets Jerry's depressed daughter , Tina ( Janis Wilson ) . They become really close friends and they both move back to Boston , Jerry is glad to see Tina happy , that he lets her stay with her mother ( although she doesn't know it's Charlotte . It won the Oscar for Best Music for Max Steiner . Bette Davis was number 45 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , she was number 2 on 100 Years , 100 Stars - Women , and she was number 17 on The World's Greatest Actor , the film was number 93 on The 100 Greatest Tearjerkers , it was number 23 on 100 Years , 100 Passions , and it was number 46 on 100 Years , 100 Quotes for the great end quote ( " Oh , Jerry , don't let's ask for the moon . We have the stars " ) . Very good !
Based on the 1960 film , apparently only filmed in two or three days , this is the remake based on the Howard Ashman Broadway musical , directed by Muppet veteran Frank Oz ( In & Out , Bowfinger ) . Basically nerdy Seymour Krelborn ( Rick Moranis ) wants to help improve business at the florist he works at for Mr . Mushnik ( Vincent Gardenia ) , and get the interest of his co-worker who he has a crush on , Audrey ( Ellen Greene , reprising her Marilyn Monroe inspired Broadway role ) , by placing an unusual and unidentified plant in the window to attract customers , and it works . The plant , Audrey II , seems to have a craving on blood , and grows after every feeding , to the point when it speaks / sings for itself ( with the voice of The Four Tops ' Levi Stubbs ) for his supper . Luckily Seymour finds the perfect victim he can chop up and feed to Audrey II , sadistic dentist and Audrey's on-off boyfriend Orin Scrivello ( Steve Martin ) , Mr . Mushnik is also victim to the plant after witnessing Seymour's chopping up . Seymour questions Audrey on why she loves him , and it's not for the success of the plant , and not long after she discovers the truth , nearly to her demise , Seymour decides it's finally time to put a stop to Audrey II . Also starring Tichina Arnold as Crystal , Tisha Campbell-Martin as Chiffon , Michelle Weeks as Ronette , James Belushi as Patrick Martin , John Candy as Wink Wilkinson , Bill Murray as Arthur Denton and Christopher Guest as Customer # 1 , Miriam Margolyes as Dental Nurse and Stan Jones as Narrator . The Doo-Wop songs ( of course all performed by the actors themselves ) are all very catchy , in particular : " Grow For Me " , " Somewhere That's Green " ( spoofed hilariously in Family Guy ) , " Dentist ! " , " Feed Me ( Git It ) " and the Oscar nominated " Mean Green Mother from Outer Space " . With a similar feel to The Rocky Horror Picture Show , this is a fantastic special effects and star-filled black comedy horror musical . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Visual Effects , it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Special Effects , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Comedy / Musical and Best Original Score for Miles Goodman . It was number 21 on The 100 Greatest Musicals . Very good !
The same year as Bringing Up Baby , and a few months later , the two leading male and female stars were back together for this great romantic comedy , from director George Cukor ( The Philadelphia Story , My Fair Lady ) . Basically free-spirited John ' Johnny ' Case ( Cary Grant ) is engaged to Julia Seton ( Doris Nolan ) , daughter of a millionaire . Withthe exception of drunken Edward ' Ned ' Seton ( Lew Ayres ) and Linda Seton ( Katharine Hepburn ) , Julia's family want him to settle down to big business , but Johnny instead wants to spend his early years of his life on " holiday " . With the help of his friends , Professor Nick ( Edward Everett Horton ) and Mrs . Susan Elliott Potter ( Jean Dixon ) he makes up his mind which is the better course , and as he is slowly falling for her , should he choose happiness with Linda , or stick with marrying the not to sure anymore Julia . He obviously made the right decision in the end when Julia drops him and the wedding , and Johnny goes on the cruise ship that Linda is travelling . Also starring Henry Kolker as Edward Seton , Binnie Barnes as Mrs . Laura ' The Witch ' Cram and Henry Daniell as Seton ' Dopey ' Cram . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Art Direction ( the only award it was ever nominated for ) . Katharine Hepburn was number 38 , and Cary Grant number 10 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , Grant was number 2 on 100 Years , 100 Stars - Men , Hepburn was number 1 on 100 Years , 100 Stars - Women , and Grant was number 23 , and Hepburn number 9 on The World's Greatest Actor . Very good !
I first heard of this film at number 44 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments because of the lesbian scene ( and Jeff Goldblum gave his opinion on it ) , and then I heard it was a film from Oscar and Golden Globe nominated director David , and it is a very good one . It is after a concert that the two main characters go to where I can't understand what is going on . The story before that is that Rita ( Laura Elena Harring ) having a car crash in Mullholland Drive ( Hollywood ) , and for some reason before she was pointed at with a gun . She has quite serious amnesia , and she spends the night in a house that Betty Elms ( Naomi Watts ) was borrowing from her aunt . It is pretty gripping as they try and discover who she used to be , and they form a close bond , that soon turns to a true love lesbian relationship . The other story going on , although not that interesting , is film director Adam Kesher ( Justin Theroux ) having problems with a film . After that concert I mentioned they change their names for some reason , Watts is Diane Selwyn and Harring I can't remember , but this part aside , the rest is a must see . Also starring Ann Miller as Catherine ' Coco ' Lenoix and Jackie Brown's Robert Forster as Detective Harry McKnight . It won the BAFTA for Best Editing , and it was nominated for the Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music for Angelo Badalamenti , and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Drama , Best Original Score and Best Screenplay . It was number 38 on Film 4's 50 Films To See Before You Die . Very good !
Based on a true story , this is a really good film about one woman's life with a hard to deal with problem that his husband has to live with . BAFTA winning , and Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Dame Judi Dench plays Iris Murdoch , a famous writer who makes books , most about her private thoughts and problems made into a story or autobiography like book . Iris's husband John ( Oscar and Golden Globe winning , and BAFTA nominated Jim Broadbent ) is proud of her making these books , but there are moments when living with her he cannot deal with . She suffers Alzheimer's disease , and doesn't understand what is going on , and has panics for no reason . She also has flashbacks of her life with young John , where she is played by Oscar nominated Kate Winslet , with a couple of nude scenes thrown in . Also starring BAFTA nominated Hugh Bonneville as Young John Bayley and Shaun of the Dead's Penelope Wilton as Janet Stone . I thought Broadbent stole the show , particularly with his panics , happy times , but ultimately struggling to cope with Iris . It was nominated the BAFTA for the Alexander Korda Award for Best British Film and Best Adapted Screenplay . Kate Winslet was number 55 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , Winslet was number 2 , and Dame Judi Dench number 1 on The 50 Greatest British Actresses , Dench was number 1 on Britain's Finest Actresses , and Winslet was number 29 , and Dench number 8 on The World's Greatest Actor , and Jim Broadbent was number 23 on The 50 Greatest British Actors . Very good !
I must admit that a while ago I was too interested in all talk shows , even though Jerry Springer looked very good , and also I used to think the presenter of this show was a prick to his guests , but as I have watched more and more episodes I have grown to like his " technique " of talking . Jeremy Kyle has become one of the most entertaining British day-time shows in years , they have brought on / satellite talked to many people with known and regular problems , e . g . sleeping with people behind partner's backs , DNA tests to find a father to a baby , etc , but they have also done some disturbing material , including obesity , British drug addicts and gang members , beating husbands , and most memorable , some insane American atheists ( aka people who believe God is evil ! ) , and Kyle is like you bad tempered head teacher towards the guests , this is the main reason I have grown to love it , it's both great to see someone giving the same opinion the audience ( TV and studio ) have , and it can be quite funny . Very good !
This was the debut stand-up show from the comedian that has since starred in the Part Troll stand-up show , Black Books and Never Mind the Buzzcocks . Bill Bailey at the time was hardly known , but he certainly made quite an impact with the theatre audience , and indeed television audiences alike . He is just the best at some observational , on the spot and musical jokes , he can play pretty much any instrument that is given to him ( probably why they wanted him to replace Sean Hughes in Buzzcocks ) . The highlights for me are the Starsky and Hutch music joke with guitar effects , and the song near the conclusion , " Human Slaves in an Insect Nation " ( Aaaaagh ! ) with an appearance of Lenny Henry in Pieces ' Martin Trenanman . Before or after you've seen his Part Troll show , see this ! Bill Bailey was number 7 on 100 Greatest Stand-Ups . Very good !
I used to think this wasn't all funny , but that was just because I couldn't remember any of it , besides the obvious scenes , and seeing it again , I can now see why people love it so much , from directing brothers Peter and Bobby Farrelly ( Dumb and Dumber ) . The film starts with a flashback in high school , where awkward Ted Stroehmann ( Ben Stiller ) is going to senior prom with the beautiful Mary Jensen ( Golden Globe nominated Cameron Diaz ) . They never got to the prom together because Ted had a very unusual accident of catching his nuts caught in his trouser zipper ( ouch ! ) , and 13 years later , Ted still can't stop thinking of the girl he lost the chance to be with . He hires private investigator Pat Healy ( Matt Dillon ) to track her down , but soon enough he is infatuated with her as well , and he gives Ted false information to keep him away from his new love interest . Ted soon finds out about Pat's lies , and manages to walk back into Mary's life and try to rekindle a relationship . Little known to Mary , her English friend Tucker ( Lee Evans ) is in fact a faker as well , his real name is Norman ' Norm ' Phipps with a hillbilly accent and no need for crutches , and the same love the other two have . Oh , correction , that should be three , Dom Woganowski ( Scary Movie 2's Chris Elliott ) reveals his love for soon as well , and also he was the infamous ex-boyfriend " Woogie " . In the end , Mary finds out all four of them feel something for her , and she must ultimately decide which one she likes most , and this is where ( predictably ) another ex-boyfriend walks in and reveals his love , it looks like she's gonna get back with him , but there is happy ending and audience satisfaction Mary picks Ted . Also starring Lin Shaye as Magda , Jeffrey Tambor as Sully , Markie Post as Sheila Jensen , Keith David as Charlie Jensen , Scream's W . Earl Brown as Warren Jensen and Dumb and Dumber's Harland Williams as Hitchhiker . The memorable and most hilarious moments for me are Dillon trying to revive the dog from being knocked out , Stiller's dog wrestle , Evans ' traditional physical comedy ( on crutches and with those accents ) , and the most well known image , Diaz mistaking Stiller's spunk for hair gel , and having the huge quiff in her hair ( yikes ! ) . It was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Comedy / Musical . Cameron Diaz was number 65 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , and she was number 26 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols , the film was number 27 on 100 Years , 100 Laughs , and it was number 9 on The 50 Greatest Comedy Films . Very good !
This is a very good humorous horror with some great actors . Basically three witches living in the town of Eastwick , Alexandra Medford ( Cher ) , Jane Spofford ( Susan Sarandon ) and Sukie Ridgemont ( Michelle Pfeiffer ) try to live pretty ordinary lives . They only use their powers either slightly accidentally , or when they want something done , e . g . to end a band class . Anyway , they all one at a time meet the charming rich Daryl Van Horne ( Jack Nicholson ) who also possesses similar powers , he uses it on them obviously for sex . They eventually all turn friends , until they discover that he used them all . He is now on the lookout to kill them , he even turns into a huge monster thing . Also starring Alien's Veronica Cartwright as Felicia Alden . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Music for John Williams and Best Sound , and it won the BAFTA for Best Special Effects . Very good !
The original version is just perfect entertainment . Oscar , BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Sir Michael Caine plays a smooth talking , women loving guy obsessed by women and sex , Alfie . Throughout the entire film we see how Alfie creates loves / relationships , and he talks to us during the process . We also see the women after being with and thinking about Alfie . But it's Alfie talking to the camera that makes the film just pure genius , I do not know many films where the main character adds interest by talking to us . Sir Michael Caine has done a very good performance worthy of the sixties / seventies style of love . Look out for an appearance by Indiana Jones ' Denholm Elliot . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Supporting Actress for Vivien Merchant , Best Song for " Alfie " , Best Writing , Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium and Best Picture , it won the BAFTA for Best Newcomer for Vivien Merchant , and it was nominated for Best British Cinematography ( Colour ) , Best British Film Editing , Best British Screenplay and Best British Film and it won the Golden Globe for Best English-Language Foreign Film , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture Actor - Drama , Best Director for Lewis Gilbert ( You Only Live Twice ) , Best Song , Best Screenplay , Best Supporting Actress for Vivien Merchant and Best Supporting Actress for Shelley Winters as Ruby . Sir Michael Caine was number 44 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , and he was number 7 on The 50 Greatest British Actors , and the film was number 31 on 50 Greatest British Films . Very good !
Based on the book by her vengeful adopted daughter , this is the true story of one of Hollywood's greatest actresses going to the bottom . Bonnie and Clyde's Faye Dunaway as Joan Crawford is the most misunderstood and dramatic characters since Alex Forrest or Annie Wilkes , and just as nasty . She is obviously a huge star , and she adopted a son and daughter to get bothy publicity and a family . It is just when she goes mad that she looks like an unfit and struggling mother , especially when her career seems to be failing . Diana Scarwid as Christina Crawford ( adult ) is great , and Mara Hobel as Christina ( child ) is also gripping . Also starring Steve Forrest as Greg Savitt , Howard Da Silva as Louis B . Mayer , Rutanya Alda as Carol Ann , Xander Berkeley as Christopher Crawford ( adult ) and Jeremy Scott Reinbolt as Christopher ( child ) . It is quite disturbing to see a Hollywood actress do the types of things she does to Christina . It was number 72 on 100 Years , 100 Quotes ( " No wire hanger , ever . " ) , and Joan Crawford ( the character ) was number 41 on 100 Years , 100 Heroes & Villains . Very good !
I knew that Pop Idol was a huge show all over the world , including America , and I have only started to see ( in 2006 ) how good , or bad , the auditions and competition can be over there . Ryan Seacrest hosts a really yank competition exactly the same concept as us , except they compete in Hollywood . One thing they couldn't create themselves was another Simon Cowell , so he's obviously there . The other two judges are the beautiful Paula Abdul and the enthusiastic Randy Jackson . As with most ( singing ) talent shows , my favourite part is the auditions , the yanks are just as bad as us . It is a good show , I never realised this is where Kelly Clarkson came from . It was nominated for 22 Emmys . Very good !
This is one of the best kind-of reality celebrity competition shows I know . Hosted by Jamie Theakson The Games is very interesting This is the show taking a bunch of well or quite known celebrity names and making them perform sports . These sports include running / sprinting , javelin , swimming , hammer throw , diving , wrestling and many more rough and tough challenges . They have had a few good celebrities on the show . These people include : Pat Sharp from Fun House , Craig Charles from Robot Wars , Kirsty Gallagher from Ant vs Dec , Bobby Davro who I've seen in Rainbow ( who did a really nasty looking belly-flop ) and singer Javine . A very good kind-of reality challenge show . There was a special Champion of Champions episode in 2006 . It has been on all 100 Greatest TV Treats programmes so far . Very good !
The sequel to the highly successful family film , based on the popular books by J . K . Rowling is another great film , from director Chris Columbus ( Home Alone , Mrs . Doubtfire ) . Harry Potter ( Daniel Radcliffe ) is still living with not pleasant relatives Uncle Vernon ( Richard Griffiths ) and his Aunt Petunia ( Fiona Shaw ) and their son , and in his house he meets Dobby the House Elf ( Toby Jones ) who warns him not to go back to Hogwarts this year . Soon enough Ron Weasley ( Rupert Grint ) and his twin brothers show up in a flying blue car to take him to their place . After staying with the Weasley family , including daughter Ginny ( Bonnie Wright ) , mother Molly again ( Julie Walters ) and father Arthur ( The Fast Show's Mark Williams ) , and before going back to Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry , they pop to Diagon Alley . It is there that Harry is reunited with Hagrid ( Robbie Coltrane ) , Hermoine ( Emma Watson ) and unfortunately the mean Draco Malfoy ( Tom Felton ) , with his father Lucous ( Jason Isaacs ) . When they get back to Hogwarts , with getting through Platform 9 and 3 quarters and using the blue car , and after being told off , the lessons soon continue again . Teachers include Professor Pomona Sprout ( Miriam Margolyes ) teaching magic plant handling , and new teacher of The Dark Arts , who Harry met in Diagon Alley , the " famous " Gilderoy Lockhart ( Kenneth Branagh ) . The second Quidditch game is good because Malfoy is against Harry as the new seeker . Later , terrifying things are happening to people , they are being petrified by something , and in a lesson with Professor Minerva McGonagall ( Dame Maggie Smith ) she explains about the note left on the wall , i . e . about the Chamber of Secrets . Later , Harry finds a diary belonging to someone called Tom Riddle , and through this magical book he sees a vision about who may be responsible , Hagrid ! Oh , and Harry also finds out he can talk Parceltongue , like a Slytherin student , which comes in handy when they go looking for the beast petrifying everyone , the Basilisk . The Basilisk brings death to someone if they look in it's eyes , it's only petrified those people because they didn't look at directly , i . e . reflections or through a ghost . Harry , Ron and Lockhart , who they found out stole all his stories from other wizards , erasing their memory , anyway they find the bathroom with the entrance to the chamber , and where Moaning Myrtle ( Shirley Henderson ) was killed by the beast , and Harry battles the blinded ( by the phoenix ) Basilisk , and Tom Marvolo Riddle ( Christian Coulson , his name is mixed from the words I Am Lord Voldermort ) . The film ends happily with Hermoine and the other victims revived from being petrifying , Professor Albus Dumbledore ( Richard Harris , in his last film before dying ) returns from Azkaban prison ( faulsly arrested ) , and Hagrid is applauded when Harry makes him one of the big helps . Also starring Alan Rickman as Professor Snape , David Bradley as Argus Filch and John Cleese as Nearly Headless Nick . It won the BAFTA for Best Feature Film ( Kids ' Vote ) and it was nominated BAFTAs for Best Special Visual Effects , Best Production Design and Best Sound . Harry Potter was number 45 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , but he was also number 35 on The 100 Worst Britons ( the only fictional person , why ? ) , and the film was number 24 on The Ultimate Film . Very good !
I will admit I possibly missed tiny moments when I wasn't paying proper attention , but I got enough of the story to agree that it is a great family film , from director Lionel Jefferies , who played Grandpa Potts in Chitty Chitty Bang Bang . Basically it starts with a happy upper-middle class family living in Victorian London . One night the Father ( Iain Cuthbertson ) is visited by two strangers , and he leaves with them , and does not return . They move to a cottage in the country , and here the children ; Bobbie ( Jenny Agutter , who I first saw in Child's Play 2 ) , Phyllis ( Sally Thomsett ) and Peter ( Gary Warren ) keep their spirits up , with their fascination for the nearby railroad . Everyday they wave faithfully to the passengers in the passing trains , and with courage and vigilance they also avoid an accident and are made heroes . Their kindness makes them friends , including important people who can help find the mystery of their missing father . Also starring Dinah Sheridan as Mother / Mrs . Waterbury , Bernard Cribbins as Albert Perks , William Mervyn as Old Gentleman , Peter Bromilow as Doctor Forrest , Ann Lancaster as Ruth and Gordon Whiting as Russian . It was number 29 on The 100 Greatest Family Films . Very good !
This is a quality and genius puppet show . Jim Henson's department has created some lovable and laughable puppet characters in this hilarious show . He combines music , small humour , large humour , slapstick and brilliant puppetry to make really good entertainment . The voice artists are also brilliant at making the characters come alive . There's Jim Henson himself playing the star Kermit the Frog , Dr . Teeth , Waldorf , Newsman and many more . Frank Oz ( also famous for Yoda in Star Wars ) as the irrepressible Miss Piggy , Fozzie Bear , Animal , the Swedish Chef , Sam the Eagle , Janice and many more . Jerry Nelson as Camilla the chicken , Floyd , Robin the Frog ( Kermit's nephew ) , Crazy Harry , Dr . Strangepork , Lew Zealand , Rowlf and many more . Richard Hunt as Miss Piggy ( when Frank Oz was busy ) , Scooter , Statler , Sweetums , Janice ( when Frank Oz was busy ) , Beaker and many more . Steve Whitmire appeared as Rizzo the Rat . And Dave Goelz as The Great Gonzo , Dr . Bunsen Honeydew , Zoot the Sax Player , Beauregard , Fozzie Bear ( when Frank Oz was busy ) and many more . They had some fantastic guests throughout , e . g . Sir Roger Moore , John Cleese , Steve Martin , Bruce Forsyth , Emmy nominated Peter Sellers , Liza Minnelli , Sir Elton John , Alice Cooper , Mark Hamill and many more . It's just sad that Jim Henson and Richard Hunt died , they really made the show . It won 3 BAFTAs ( from 9 nominations ) and it won 4 Emmys ( from 21 nominations ) . Miss Piggy was number 29 on The 100 Greatest TV Characters , the programme was number 8 on ITV : 50 Greatest Shows , number 2 on The 100 Greatest Kids ' TV Shows , and The Muppets were number 47 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons . Very good !
I first heard of this on a Channel 4 countdown list , then we started watching it in Film Studies , and now I have seen the entire acclaimed film , I am impressed by this great foreign film . Basically it is a three part story , based in the Brazilian slums , based on real events written in the novel by Paulo Lins . The City of God became one of the most dangerous places in Rio De Janeiro . Many characters of the story intersect , but the film is all seen through the eyes of the narrator and key character , Buscapé " Rocket " ( Alexandre Rodrigues ) . He is scared to become an outlaw and is underpaid , and grows up in the violent gun and drug based environment . But unlike other characters , he has a purpose and aspiration to become a professional photographer . Also starring Leandro Firmino Da Hora as Zé Pequeño " Li'l Ze " , Phellipe Haagensen as Bené " Beny " , Douglas Silva as Dadinho , " Li'l Dice " , Jonathan Haagensen as Cabeleira " Shaggy " , Matheus Nachtergaele as Sandro Cenoura " Carrot " , Seu Jorge as Mané Galinha , " Knockout Ned " and Jefechander Suplino as Alicate " Clipper " . Critics have compared it Goodfellas , I can see some of the similar scenes . Filled with some distinctive , and sometimes nasty moments , particularly threatening and killing young children with guns . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Cinematography , Best Director for Fernando Meirelles , Best Editing and Best Writing , Adapted Screenplay , it won the BAFTA for Best Editing , and it was nominated for Best Film not in the English Language , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Foreign Language Film . It was number 3 on Film 4's 50 Films To See Before You Die . Very , very good !
We've seen all these superhero films and programmes where most of them ( apart from Batman ) have come from other planets or have been affected by earthly accidents , but this is just purely human evolution , and a great programme . I actually saw a large poster for the show near the walk of fame when I was in America . Basically every episode see all heroes , and villains , trying to get their way in society , but will be brought together by a big fate that will affect the entire world . The characters are part of the reason why the show is such a gripping show , and even with various stories going on , there is always one that grips you and means you have to keep watching . I must admit the show started a little slowly , but the acting and great special effects more than made up , and I couldn't get enough after a couple more episodes , can't wait for more ! Starring Hayden Panettiere as Claire Bennet ( who can heal ) , her adoptive Dad , Jack Coleman as H . R . G . ( Horn Rimmed Glasses ) , later revealed as Noah Bennet ( you didn't know if he was good or bad , and his company was suspicious , but he got nicer ) , Sendhil Ramamurthy as Mohinder Suresh ( his father developed the list of every person on earth with an ability , he also narrates the show ) , Emmy and Golden Globe nominated Masi Oka as Hiro Nakamura ( who can stop , slow and travel through time / teleport ) , James Kyson Lee as his friend , Ando Masahashi , Milo Ventimiglia as Peter Petrelli ( who can absorb others powers ) , Adrian Pasdar as his brother Nathan Petrelli ( who can fly ) , Greg Grunberg as Matt Parkman ( who can hear people's thoughts ) , Ali Larter as Niki Sanders / Jessica ( suffers Multiple Personality Disorder , so can be good and bad ) , Noah Gray-Cabey as her son Micah Sanders , Zachary Quinto as Sylar ( a villain who wants to have all heroes ' abilities , and to get them he opens people's heads - we're not sure if he eats them yet ) , Ashley Crow as Noah's wife , Sandra Bennet , Cristine Rose as the brothers ' mother Angela Petrelli , Jimmy Jean-Louis as The Haitian ( who can erase parts of people's memories / make them forget certain things ) , Leonard Roberts as Micah's Dad , D . L . Hawkins ( who can go through things , e . g . walls , people ) , Santiago Cabrera as Isaac Mendez ( who could paint the future , now dead ) , Adair Tishler as Molly Walker ( who can find anybody with an ability by just thinking about them ) , Tawny Cypress as Simone Deveaux , Randall Bentley as Lyle Bennet ( Noah's son ) , Elizabeth Lackey as Matt's wife , Janice Parkman , Nora Zehetner as Eden McCain ( who could persuade people to do anything , now dead ) , Matthew John Armstrong as Ted Sprague ( who has firey / radiation / nuclear abilities ) , Clea DuVall as cop Audrey Hanson , Star Trek's George Takei as Kaito Nakamura ( Hiro's Dad ) , Missy Peregrym as Candice Wilmer ( who can become someone else , and can make people see something else ) , Eric Roberts as Thompson ( the company's boss , now dead ) , Matt Lanter as Claire's friend , Brody Mitchum , Christopher Eccleston as Claude ( with invisibility ) , Shaft's Richard Roundtree as Charles Deveaux , Malcolm McDowell as Mr . Linderman ( the big mob leader , who also had the power to bring things back to life , e . g . flower , now dead ) and many others . This is just as good as , if not better , than Lost . It has won and been nominated for numerous awards , including 8 Emmys and 2 Golden Globes . Very good !
Most people have commented as saying that this is the best televised live show from the Black Books and Never Mind the Buzzcocks comedian . Live at the Apollo theatre , Bill Bailey brought us probably his greatest show . It combines his great observational jokes , his musical talents with almost any instrument , and some on the spot jokes . The best jokes of this particular show though are all the musical ones . I can remember the best songs and pieces of music : " Love Song " encompassing all aspects of love ( betrayal , hatred and depression ) , " Skale of Music " with pictures of evil people to certain notes on the keyboard ( including Adolf Hitler , Edi Amin and Chris De Burgh ) , " New National Anthem " using the lyrics of " Zip-a-Dee-Doo-Dah " , " Drum ' n ' Bush " using pieces of George W . Bush's talks , a funky " BBC News " theme , " Lady x 3 " with German lyrics , and the Kraftwerk Tribute with German lyrics , using the words " Oakey Cokey " and appearing Lenny Henry in Pieces ' Martin Trenaman . It was number 21 on The 100 Greatest Funny Moments , and Bill Bailey was number 7 on 100 Greatest Stand-Ups . Very good !
For a cult cartoon , this is a really good representation and kind of re-imagination of Ted Hughes's popular book about The Iron Man , or Iron Giant . Hogarth Hughes is a young boy living just outside the town of Rockwell with his Mother Annie ( Friends ' Jennifer Aniston ) . One day he discovers something extraordinary , a giant man made of iron ( The Fast and the Furious's Vin Diesel ) that only eats metal . Hogarth and this giant become really good friends , they also befriend scrapyard owner Dean McCoppin ( singer Harry Connick , Jr . ) . Unfortunately , United States Government Agent Kent Mansley ( Flubber and Thelma & Louise's Christopher McDonald ) suspects Hogarth of looking after a monster , and the army soon gets involved . It won BAFTA the Children's Award for Best Feature Film . It was number 59 on The 100 Greatest Family Films , and it was number 12 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons . Very good !
The second part to the J . R . R . Tolkien book based film trilogy is more darker than the first . The fellowship is broken , Frodo ( Elijah Wood ) and Sam ( Sean Astin ) travel to Mordor accompanied by the treacherous Gollum / Sméagol ( Andy Serkis ) . Merry ( Dominic Monaghan , now known in TV's Lost ) and Pippin ( Billy Boyd ) have been kidnapped by the Urukhai , but get rescued by Treebeard ( John Rhys-Davies ) , and they plan their battle with other Ents . Aragorn ( Viggo Mortensen ) , Legolas ( Orlando Bloom ) and Gimli ( Rhys-Davies ) have joined forces with the King Theoden of Rohan ( Bernard Hill ) . Gandalf ( Sir Ian McKellen ) , now a White wizard has returned , and with Thoedon's bunch they plan the battle of Helm's Deep against Orcs and Uruks sent from Isegard by traitor White wizard Saruman ( Christopher Lee ) . BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated director Peter Jackson has done another fantastic job , and the big battle is spectacular . Also starring Liv Tyler as Arwen , Cate Blanchett as Galadriel , Hugo Weaving as Elrond , Miranda Otto as Eowyn of Rohan , Brad Dourif as Wormtongue , David Wenham as Faramir , Karl Urban as Eomer and Sean Bean as Boromir ( flashback ) . Featuring the song " Gollum's Song " by Emilíana Torrini . It won the Oscars for Best Sound Editing and Best Visual Effects , and it was nominated for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Best Editing , Best Sound and Best Picture , it won the BAFTAs for the Audience , Best Special Visual Effects and Best Costume Design , and it was nominated for the BAFTA Children's Award for Best Feature Film , Best Cinematography , Best Editing , Best Make Up / Hair , Best Production Design , Best Sound , the David Lean Award for Direction and Best Film , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama . Christopher Lee was number 31 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , he was number 13 , and Sir Ian McKellen number 4 on The 50 Greatest British Actors , and McKellen was number 5 on Britain's Finest Actors , the film was number 85 on 100 Years , 100 Quotes ( " My precious . " ) , it was number 22 on The Ultimate Film , and as part of the trilogy , all three films were number 11 on The 100 Greatest Family Films . Outstanding !
This is probably one of , if the not the best sitcom about friendship ever made . With the lovable characters living their New York lives and having wonderfully crafted scripts and story lines , this is simply the best . The six friends are all recognisable now for doing ten years of Friends . These six are three girls : the charming Rachel Green ( Emmy winning and four-time nominated , and Golden Globe winning and nominated Jennifer Aniston ) , the sensible Monica Gellar Bing ( Courteney Cox Arquette ) and simple Phoebe Buffay ( Emmy winning and five-time nominated , and Golden Globe nominated Lisa Kudrow ) ; and three boys : the smooth Joey Tribbiani ( three-time Emmy and twice Golden Globe nominated Matt LeBlanc ) , the simple Chandler Bing ( Emmy nominated Matthew Perry ) and the nervous talking Ross Gellar ( Emmy nominated David Schwimmer ) . Throughout the ten years that they did they had love stories , children stories , specials and the relationships between the friends . They have also had some good celebrity guests including : Jon Lovitz , Helen Hunt , George Clooney , Dan Castellaneta , Julia Roberts , Brooke Shields , David Arquette , Billy Crystal , Robin Williams , Jennifer Saunders , Emmy nominated Tom Selleck , Emmy nominated Christina Pickles , Emmy winning Bruce Willis , Emmy nominated Susan Sarandon , Denise Richards , Winona Ryder , Emmy nominated Gary Oldman , Sean Penn , Emmy nominated Brad Pitt , Alec Baldwin , Emmy nominated Hank Azaria , Emmy winning and nominated Christina Applegate , Scary Movie's Anna Faris , Emmy nominated Danny DeVito and many others . After ten years they finally did a brilliantly funny and an emotional final hour-long episode . The spin-off for Joey is nowhere as good as his original show . It won the BAFTA for Foreign TV Program Award , it was nominated The British Comedy Award for Best International TV Comedy , it won 6 Emmys ( from 65 nominations ) , it was nominated for 5 Golden Globes for Best Television Series - Musical or Comedy , and it was nominated 3 National Television Awards for Most Popular Comedy Programme . It was number 27 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , and it was on The 100 Greatest TV Treats programmes for 2002 ( when Brad Pitt was in it ) and it even got to number 1 in 2004 when it ended . Outstanding !
This is meant to be one of the great films directed by Sir Alfred Hitchcock , after Psycho of course . James Stewart plays Detective John ' Scottie ' Ferguson , he used to be a cop until he discovered his fear of heights , acrophobia which gives him Vertigo . He has tried to get rid of this fear but he can't . He is asked by Gavin Elster ( Tom Helmore ) to keep an eye on his mysterious wife , Madeleine ( Kim Novak ) . As he gets to know her , he sees resemblance to a woman from the past in a painting she stares at . He also falls in love with her , but their romance is cut short when Mr . Elster makes John believe that Madeleine committed suicide . After a little while , he sees a woman that bares a very close resemblance to Madeleine , Judy Barton ( Novak , of course ) . He becomes very obsessive turning Judy into Madeleine , he moves quite far from his Mr . Nice Guy image . A very imaginative story that will chill and touch . Hitchcock's cameo is a man that walks past in a grey suit carrying a small trumpet . It was nominated the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration and Best Sound . Sir Alfred Hitchcock was number 75 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons , James Stewart was number 12 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , he was number 3 on 100 Years , 100 Stars - Men , and he was number 13 on The World's Greatest Actor , the film was number 12 on 100 Years of Film Scores , it was number 18 on 100 Years , 100 Thrills , it was number 18 on 100 Years , 100 Passions , it was number 61 on 100 Years , 100 Movies and it was number 29 on The 100 Greatest Films . Outstanding !
Director Sir Ridley Scott here creates one of the best science-fiction films ever made , with some horror , action and thriller moments thrown in . Basically , the commercial towing vehicle , Nostromo , is heading back to Earth , when they receive an SOS signal from a nearby planet , and they are under obligation to investigate . They have a bad landing , but three of the crew members , Dallas ( Tom Skeritt ) , Lambert ( Veronica Cartwright ) and Kane ( BAFTA nominated John Hurt ) leave the ship to investigate . There they discover a hive colony of unknown creatures , the computer message was not an SOS , it was a warning . One of the eggs is disturbed , and a parasite ( face hugger ) attacks and attaches itself to Kane's face . Dallas and Ash ( Sir Ian Holm ) do try to get it off , but it's defense mechanism of acid for blood and the possibility of killing Kane ( because it is feeding him oxygen ) stops them . Soon though , he seems fine and this creature has detached and died . The pinnacle scene is where all the crew have dinner , and Kane starts coughing and struggling in pain , till his stomach suddenly gushes blood , and the alien ( or Xenomorph ) is born ( looking pretty phallic ) . It grows very quickly , and Brett ( Harry Dean Stanton ) is first to be attacked by the big , double-mouthed , acid dribbling alien . The crew plan to kill the creature and escape in the shuttle , and one by one die trying to find it . Ash also grossly reveals himself to be a android with the " special order " to bring this alien to Earth for scientific discovery . Eventually the other crew members , Lambert and Parker ( Yaphet Kotto ) are killed , till the commanding officer , Ripley ( BAFTA nominated Sigoureny Weaver ) ( who grew a bigger character as everyone else died ) is the lone survivor , along with cat Jones , and sets the Nostromo to self destruct and escapes in the shuttle . The alien was not destroyed though , but eventually she gets it out of the blast door , sucked into outer space , and blasted by the shuttle rockets . She concludes by making a report of the situation , with hope she will be picked up by the company , and she and Jones go into the pod for hibernation . I have also seen the 2003 Director's Cut version , but the only real major change is seeing Dallas cocooned , and a few chats , and many interesting scenes and moments cut out , I think the original version is much more interesting and essential . It won the Oscar for Best Visual Effects , and it was nominated for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , it won the BAFTAs for Best Production Design and Best Sound Track , and it was nominated for the Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music for Jerry Goldsmith , Best Costume Design and Best Editing , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Original Score . Sigourney Weaver was number 20 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , John Hurt was number 27 on The 100 Greatest British Actors , Ellen Ripley was number 8 ( Hero ) and The Alien number 14 ( Villain ) on 100 Years , 100 Heroes and Villains , the film was number 6 on 100 Years , 100 Thrills , it was number 4 on The 100 Greatest Scary Moments , it was number 11 on Film 4's 50 Films To See Before You Die , and it was number 36 on The 100 Greatest Films . Outstanding !
Following the success of This Is Spinal Tap , Golden Globe nominated director Rob Reiner ( Misery , A Few Good Men ) brought out this fantastic coming-of-age drama . Based on a book called " The Body " by Stephen King , this film has Gordie Lachance , or The Writer ( Richard Dreyfuss ) looking back on his younger days when he and three close friends go on an adventure to find the body of a missing kid , presumed dead . The four characters are all lovable , including leader and best friend Chris Chambers ( Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade's River Phoenix ) , Gordie himself ( Wil Wheaton ) , quite smart glasses wearing Teddy Duchamp ( The Goonies ' Corey Feldman ) , and large wimpy and simple minded Vern Tessio ( Scream 2's Jerry O'Connell ) . Along the way , they encounter the junk yard owner and his legendary dog Chopper , a speeding train on a bridge they are walking on which they jump from , camp fire chats ( including the hilarious Larass barfing story ) , crossing the lake of leeches , and ultimately , they become closer than they did before , if only it lasted . They are also being followed by older boys , trying to get their first , including hateful leader Ace Merrill ( Kiefer Sutherland ) . Also starring Casey Siemaszko as Billy Tessio , Gary Riley as Charlie Hogan , Bradley Gregg as Eyeball Chambers , Jason Oliver as Vince Desjardins and then quite unknown John Cusack as Denny Lachance . They do eventually find the body , but cover it back up and respect it , and all kids hardly see each other afterwards , even after their close bonds . It was nominated the Oscar for Best Writing , Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium , and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama . River Phoenix was number 69 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars . Outstanding
I have always liked director Tim Burton films ( here he was nominated the Cannes Film Festival Golden Palm Award ) , and this biography showing his love for classic sci-fi films is another terrific example of his distinctive style . We saw him in Edward Scissorhands , and then Golden Globe nominated Johnny Depp played director Edward D . Wood . If you have heard of Wood , he considered himself a great director of great films , mostly horror , but in fact he was voted one of the worst film directors of all time . He also had a habit for dressing as a woman , ever since childhood . Anyway , this film basically shows the process of making his ridiculous and utterly awful films , and relationships with people , including his wife ( for a while ) , Dolores Fuller ( Sarah Jessica Parker ) , his new girlfriend Kathy O'Hara ( Patricia Arquette ) , and his favourite actor that he worked with , Dracula's Bela Lugosi ( Oscar and Golden Globe winning , and BAFTA nominated Martin Landau ) . Also starring Jeffrey Jones as Criswell , Vincent D'Onofrio as Orson Welles , Bill Murray as Bunny Breckinridge , Mike Starr as Georgie Weiss , Lisa Marie ( Burton's fiancée at the time ) as Vampira and Juliet Landau ( Martin's daughter ) as Loretta King . Landau is fantastic , Depp is funny and there are some fantastic giggles . It won the Oscar for Best Makeup , it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Make Up / Hair , it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Comedy / Musical . Johnny Depp was number 22 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars , he was number 9 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols , and he number 2 on The World's Greatest Actor . Outstanding !
