The best thing about this horrible movie is the opening scene which shows real-life footage of large buildings being demolished . The worst thing is the theology behind the story , as espoused by no less an actress than veteran Helen Hayes whose character claims that everything has a soul and a life to it - and that's why the car , he organ , the train all can understand each other and human minds ! ! This is Walt Disney " New Age " baloney 20 years ahead of it's time . Later on , spells are cast , etc , typical of Disney films . Walt was a big fan of the occult and believed in all that sort of thing . Pretty pathetic . We know where Herbie's " soul " is right now : Junkyard Hell , where it belongs !
What a disappointment . As someone who loves unique visuals , great color , I was led to believe in previews that the super visual aspect of this movie would be major part of it - that this was going to be like nothing you ever seen ! Well , some parts were , but precious few . What dominated , instead , was one of the dumbest stories and theologically - insulting ones to anyone who has any Biblical knowledge I have ever seen . I have should have known Hollywood would invent their own strange and weird version of heaven and hell . It's sad so many ignorant people buy into whatever Hollywood puts up on a big screen as being Truth , when it's usually the opposite they are seeing and hearing . This movie is a perfect example . Suffice to say , without going into all the details , people are using the Lord's name in vain in heaven ; God is mentioned only once and that of a " distant " person " somewhere up there " and the main theology preached is re - incarnation . Secular humanism also is prevalent and in this movie , if you set your mind to it , you can bring your loved ones up from hell to heaven ! Wow , who needs Jesus ? Not people in the film world , that's for sure . No wonder this film bombed . Even the agnostics and atheists who are our national film critics knew this movie was stupid .
I guess it says something when you realize this was Anna Nicole Smith's first picture and O . J . Simpson's last . The fact they are both in this picture kind of defines what this film stands for : not the highest class of comedy . Same on Leslie Nielsen to be part of this " comedy " which has a pastor yelling out Jesus Christ's name as a profanity at one point and then mocking Mother Teresa in another scene . That sort of cheap-shot stuff is still " politically correct , " but don't try it on other religions other than Christianity . It's pretty sad that Jewish people - many of them victims of hate - wrote , produced and directed this bigoted hateful " satiric " material . I didn't see any other religions made the butt of jokes in this movie . That , and five other blasphemes , numerous sex innuendos make this a real sleazy comedy , more like the stuff that was produced in the 1970s than 1994 . I like good parodies but this was too much below-the-belt stuff that wasn't funny . I am not surprised this ended the " Naked Gun " series . They should have quit while they were ahead .
Can you say the " f-word ? ? " They can here - 353 times , according to Entertainment Weekly . This movie , as few others , will assault your senses and make you numb by the time it's over . Constant bickering , yelling , and Sharon Stone's out-of-control character the last hour will have you uttering a few expletives yourself after this Martin Scorcese sleaze-fest mercifully ends . As bad a character as Stone plays , the all-time champion profaner is - no surprise - the one played by Joe Pecsi , who must use the f-word every other sentence . Robert De Niro comes across as a choir boy compared to these other two jokers . The sad thing is , this could have been a decent movie , if Scorcese wasn't just so preoccupied with being so verbally degenerate ( see " Goodfellas , " " Raging Bull , " etc ) . If the film had been cut down 45 minutes from 3 hours ( too much of it dwells on the marital problems involving Stone ) and cut back on the profanity , you might have had an interesting crime story with some very colorful cinematography and good narration . However , Scorcese can't seem to make a crime film without all the excess . " Brutal " might be a good word to describe this movie . It's too much for anyone above trailer trash morals to endure .
I thought maybe it was just old age creeping up on me . The Jimi Hendrix that I remember from my youth sounded a whole lot better than what I saw on this DVD . I thought I had just changed my tastes and wasn't into his songs anymore . Then I read some reviews here . . . . and I feel better . It wasn't me : it was this concert - it sucked ! I just wanted to have something on film of one of the most famous guitar players of all time , so I thought this long concert would do it . Well , this disc has already been traded for something else . All it turned out to be was noise , which was really disappointing considering the songs I liked best from him were all included in this concert . Unfortunately , they were hardly recognizable . If anyone knows of a really good Hendrix DVD , please PM me . Thanks .
What a shock to see Jimmy Stewart play an anti-Christian role , although he did similar Believing-bashing roles in the ' 50s and ' 60s , not subtly but they were there , such as Charles Lindburg ( who scoffed that prayer would help him on his long journey , etc . ) . Nevertheless , Stewart has such a clean image that it was still a surprise to hear him reluctantly and sarcastically say grace before a meal with the sentence ' I raised all these kids myself and we worked darn hard for years to grow all this food ourselves . . . . but thanks anyway . " Maybe this is where the writers of " The Simpsons " got their ideas as young Bart offered the same irreverent " prayer " in one of that TV series earlier episodes . Shortly thereafter the family goes to church and the pastor is seen as an impatient boob who tells Stewart after the service , " I don't even know why you bother to come to church . " No minister , folks , would say that . That's only in the movies and was a good example of things to come in Hollywood . In a few years , it was " everything goes , " and Christian-bashing went full bore in the ' 70s . It was " open season " on Bible believers .
Well , I have to agree with the critics on this one , who all said " leave it alone . " Why they had to make this re-make of the 1960 " Psycho , " I don't know . My guess is they wanted to reach a new audience and thought color and modern-day actors were the answer , since those were the main changes . The dialog was the same and the story the same . On one hand , I applaud them for not making this over with a lot of profanity and nudity and making it a sleazy film . Yet , if they were going to keep everything the same , why bother when you weren't going to improve on Tony Perkins , Janet Leigh and the original cast ? Did they honestly think Vince Vaughn was going to be as good or better than Perkins ? Are you kidding ? Ann Heche , with her short mannish-haircut , is going to be better than Leigh ? I don't think so ! Yes , the colors were pretty in here but it's the black-and-white photography that helped make the 1960 version so creepy to begin with . It's perfect for the story , not a bunch of greens and pinks ! Once again , I guess the filmmakers were banking on an audience that never saw the original . This was just a stupid project that never should have gotten off the ground .
The first 45 minutes of this was great , thanks to some wonderful cinematography , which is no surprise since it is directed by one of the best ever : David Lean . The muted colors were pleasing to the eye in a very peaceful way . However , once the trip to the caves got underway , the movie began to become unappealing . The gist of the story - a young woman ( Judy Davis ) accusing an Indian of raping her in the cave - doesn't happen until halfway through this 163 - minute film and even that is under question because nothing is ever shown . The rest of the film is a talky bore with the typical theme is so many of modern-day British films : class snobbery . Also , Alec Guiness , no matter how much makeup he puts on , does not pass for a credible Indian man . It reminded me of all the white men playing American Indians back in the ' 30s-50s . In addition , we get the heavy-handed plug for re - incarnation and other obvious Liberal theological leanings . An overblown , overrated English literary piece . Stick with the Merchant-Ivory films for similar but much better efforts .
This is a typical Bob Hope movie in which " ole ski nose " delivers a lot of one - liners and plays his usual coward-turned-hero . ( In this story , a burlesque comic turned spy . ) The leading lady for this one was Hedy Lamarr . By 1951 , the famous glamor girl of the Golden Age looked like she was a few years past her prime . She had very little sex appeal left . Hope plays a dual role : " Peanuts White " and " Eric Augustine . " He does a fine job with both , although in one of those roles he said very little . In all , not one of his more memorable movies , or funnier films , but it has enough decent laughs to somewhat entertain . . . . but mainly , if you are a die-hard Bob Hope fan ; otherwise , skip it . Bob did a lot of other films that were much better .
With musicals , people are very subjective . The film might be a decent one ; the story might be pretty good , but if the viewer doesn't like the songs , he or she is not going to like the movie . That was the case here with me , which is why I changed the headline from " The Good & Bad " to " Likes & Dislikes . " LIKES - Unique cinematography gimmick using orange or yellow filters . . . . Mitzi Gaynor as " Ens . Nellie Forbush " was pretty and had some figure ! Wow ! A couple of songs everybody ( even me ) likes : " Some Enchanted Evening " and " Wash That Man Right Out Of My Hair . " Overall sets and production values pretty high . DISLIKES - Rossano Brazzi , as " Emile de Becque , " didn't strike me as a great actor or singer ; Juanita Hall's character , " Bloody Mary , " gets really annoying after awhile . ( I do like her name , though . ) . . . . at almost three hours , this is WAY too long . . . . . Gaynor's character whimpers too much ; Brazzi . . . . . story now seems dated . . . overall did not like the songs .
The film is supposedly based on a short novel by Stephen King . I say " supposedly " because when he saw what they did to his book , King demanded his name be removed from any association of this film ! When an author does that , it's kind of a tip-off that someone has made a bad movie . I also wonder if Pierce Brosnan ever looks back and winces when he recalls being the star of this film ? Actually , maybe he shouldn't because it's not that bad a premise . The film is no award-winner , but it is intriguing in its originality . I mean , how many films deal with a slightly-retarded gardener who becomes an experiment with a into-your-brain video game ? Jeff Fahey is pretty interesting as " the lawnmower man . " Being someone who is fascinated with special-effects , I watched the film probably normally would have considering some of the bias ( see below ) . What I objected to - and nobody else ever seems to - is another cheap shot at a cleric , where I see in almost every Stephen King story , whether he authorizes it or not . In this movie , we see a priest let the wandering mower-man live in a little shack in back of his church , and then he whips the man ! Rule number one in a King adaptation - or in the movies , in general , seems to be : always show a Christian figure as a villain . At that point , I joined King and disavowed any association with this garbage .
With a cast that features Audrey Hepburn , Peter O'Toole , Eli Wallach , Charles Boyer and Hugh Griffith , you'd think this movie would be more interesting . The problem was that at slightly over two hours , it had too many parts that lagged . It took over an hour just to set up the heist . By then , a lot of viewers - at least in the theater where I saw this - were getting antsy . I couldn't blame them . It's a heist movie but it's mainly a comedy . I liked the subtle humor in here but there wasn't enough of it to sustain interest . Eli Wallach also looked out of place . I guess I was used to seeing him as a Mexican bandit , not in a role like this ! Hepburn's accent can be very annoying at times , too , unless you are a big fan of her's . As for O'Toole : he should have stayed in the desert .
If you saw Shirley Temple's version of this story , which was okay - nothing great - this movie , in comparison , is disgusting . In this remake , the occult takes center stage : witches spells , Hindu magic , etc . In other words , it has Liberal written all over it , which is one reason Roger Ebert loved it . The head mistress and one of the little girls , both playing villains , overdoes it . The ending is stupid , too . The best part of the film is its looks : it's beautifully films with lots of nice golden and brown hues . The sound is excellent , too . Liesel Matthews does a fine job in the lead role as the modern-day Shirley Temple . Eleanor Bron is effective as the mean woman . This would have been a fine re-make if it hadn't gone overboard on the occult baloney .
This movie started off great ; the first 30 minutes are very funny and clever with some interesting characters . That's the good news . The bad news is that the film then gets too repetitive and then it gets downright stupid . What we wind up getting is a Santa Claus with " magical " powers with a lot of New Age baloney thrown in the mix . It's just ridiculous and hardly the kind of " Christmas movie " I would expect from Jim Varney's " Ernest . " To be fair , it still had a decent amount of laughs and is profanity-free but just not a film I could recommend .
What started out as an exciting adventure story wound up being nothing but a preachy environmental film . You could have almost made this into a documentary with the obvious agenda of the filmmakers . Hey , I'm all for keeping the beautiful and helping the horses , too , but that's that what this is advertised . The film begins with some beautiful Colorado scenery and an intense , intriguing scene of a small lane scaring two kids and some wild horses . It quickly levels off into a boring " Save The Wild Mustangs " environmental message and the film totally loses steam by the halfway point . By then , it should have been " Save This Film . " At least , unlike most films in the early ' 70s , it's a nice movie with no objectionable language . It wasn't horrible ; it just needed some punching up after that good start .
This was on its way to becoming part of my DVD collection until the last 30-40 minutes when religious bigotry reared its ugly head once again . All the villains turn out to be Christians ( Catholics ) . Every bad , every evil person is shown with a cross on them which is distinctly shown to make its point equating Belief with evil . All those villains mention God and prayers , of course . Atheists , whether they are French - as in the case of filmmakers here - or some other nationality , are never too subtle about their anti-God agenda . Meanwhile , the heroes - one in particular - had supernatural powers that heal and even resurrect ! In other words , that voodoo magic works - that's something you can believe in - but the prayers of thoughts of Believers , well , what a waste of time . The photography was magnificent , too . The dubbing on the DVD version I had was decent . This was a fine , horror-type Last Of the Mohicans story but with all the religious people shown as the bad and ignorant ones . Too bad they had to have all that bias because the story was interesting and moved well , especially for a long film .
I saw this 15 years ago in the theater and while I never had the desire to see it again , it always stuck with me . Maybe that's because ( 1 ) I love baseball ; ( 2 ) hate to see arrogant ballplayers ; and ( 3 ) cringe if I see someone not representing my country in a positive light . That's what you get in this film as Tom Selleck plays a crude , profane , " ugly American " ballplayer who's talents have been outlived in the Major Leagues and he's now relegated to play in Japan . ( Ironically , Japan is just starting to make some inroads the other way around , especially with Daisuke Matsuzaka and the Red Sox . ) Anyway , " Jack Elliott " ( Selleck ) pouts his way around Japan until he gets involved in a romance , which is portrayed somewhat stupidly and leads to a predictable ending . Other characters in here were interesting to watch , such as the stern manager , played by Ken Takakura . One of the other American players has turned out to be a star in his own right , acting-wise : Dennis Haybert of " 24 " and now " The Unit . " There are a lot better baseball movies out there , but you could do worse , too . It was okay , but as an American , I get to see enough arrogant pro athletes play here every day . All I have to do is turn on the TV .
I can take about anything in films , even blood-and-guts ( you can see that on television in the CSI shows ) but torture is another thing . This movie was tough to watch because of the terrible treatment given to a prisoner , played well in here by Kevin Bacon . It's an interesting story , and well performed and told , but so unpleasant to see in a number of spots that I wouldn't watch it again . Some of it was really disgusting . I am also getting tired of Liberal filmmakers making the prison warden a brutally sadistic person . That has become such a film cliché . Libs just hate any authority figure . They also hate the facts , according to " jorge's " review here , which I believe .
This film is as slow as it is pretty , or you can reverse that . Either way : it's gorgeous with brilliant colors that are eye-popping . It's also one of the more boring stories I've ever seen and I defy most people to sit down and watch this all the way through and not be bored out of their minds despite the wonderful visuals . This turned out to be a soap opera , with a little bit of swordplay here and there . . . . . mostly there , meaning the second half of the film . By then , most people - - at least us Westerners - were sound asleep or had taken the DVD out of their player . Gee , they are even starting to show us dysfunctional families in Chinese films . I like Chow Yun Fat and Gong Li . Most people who like Asian films , which include me , like them , too , but that didn't make this film any more interesting . One other thing : whoever was responsible for the English subtitles ought to be shot . I played this in Chinese with English subtitles and in dubbed English with the subtitles also on . The latter is what stunned me in that I have never seen so many sentences different from what was being said on screen . Sometimes it was educational . I got two translations of the same sentence , but it got ridiculous and added to already confusing storyline . This is wonderful stuff on the surface : real eye candy , but the story sucks . I am starting to lose my faith in film director Yimou Zhang .
THE GOOD - A deep cast and no villains make this romantic comedy a nice movie . David Duchovny does a nice job in a low-key role . I've read in several reviews ( not here ) that James Belushi stole the movie with his supporting role but I thought if anyone did that it was Carroll O'Connor , not Belushi . O'Connor is just great as the kind , Godly Irish grandfather . He and all the older people , actually , are fun to watch in their matchmaking roles . THE BAD - For such a pleasing story , the language could have been toned down . Having a young kid blaspheme by saying " GD " was inexcusable , although it does point out the importance of parents being a better " witness " as their children often mimic them . Minnie Driver is okay but doesn't seem to fit the role and I wish Hollywood would come up with a different angle in these romance-comedies instead of the same " lying " routine all the time . All in all , a pleasant but unmemorable ' chick flick . '
For those who like melodramas , this is one of the better ones . I don't particularly care for them , but this one kept my interest for the whole 127 minutes , so it must be good . The film reminded me of " Tomorrow Is Forever , " with Orson Welles and Claudette Colbert . That , too , was a fine film but a frustrating one to watch . This , too , has its frustrations as Greer Garson holds back information that you and I couldn't have the strength to do . I don't recall Garson ever looking prettier and more wholesome in a film . Ronald Colman , the male lead , entertains as he usually does . It was interesting to see Philip Dorn , too , the " papa " in " I Remember Mama , " one of my favorite films . Adding to this cast are Susan Peters , Henry Travers , Reginald Owen and Bramwell Fletcher . About the story , it's simply about a World War I vet who loses his memory , meets and falls in love with Garson , whom he marries . Then one day , an accident jars his memory and now his life with Garson is blanked out of his memory bank and he starts all over again in another town , leaving Garson back home and wondering whatever happened to her husband ! One thing : in all the time that passes - about 15 years - no one ages ! They still look the same ! Also , Colman playing a returning veteran was a little far-fetched . I mean , the guy was 40 or 50 years old , playing a young 20s guy ? ? Oh , well . Overall , a good story that keeps your interest , even if it suspends belief . How many times you'd watch this depends on how much these type of stories appeal to you . If you love them , this is one you'd want in your collection , especially since it is out on DVD now .
You can imagine on jury duty , driving the other 11 jurors ( and the judge ) nuts . Well , of course , that is the case here . It's also predictable in that he would be the only one to vote " not guilty , " and , being the good Liberal-slanted show it is , would be proved correct getting an innocent black man off to boot ! ! This reminded me a bit of " 12 Angry Men , " except it's 11 angry people at Monk , and you can't blame them . Most of the things in here , including the jokes and the dramatic ending , are pretty predictable yet despite that , it was still fun to watch . It isn't however , one of the more cerebral episodes and a little more than far-fetched . . . . but that's Monk . To the writers ' credit , the surprise among the jurors was good ( one of them was rotten , and it wasn't Adrian ) .
This was a pretty good movie in that the main character was a solid preacher , not the flawed one seen in all modern-day films . The only chink in his armor was that he married an unbeliever , something a sincere minister ( William Lundigan ) such as the one shown here , would NEVER do . Susan Hayward's character , the minister's wife , is annoying at times but at least she admits her weaknesses and doubts and then realizes the doubts were unfounded . However , her allegiance , even at the end with a quote from Scripture , is not to God but to her husband . She thinks her purpose in life is to follow him , not Him ! Interwoven in this story are a couple of touching stories of relationships that are transformed from hardened to soft with the patient help from the preacher . It's basically life in strict small Georgia town in Protestant church setting . Overall , a nice story and good family viewing , as the cliché goes , but nothing extraordinary to be honest . Worth at least one look
This fast-moving film had a number of good and bad things going for or against it . . . . at least with me . It was very corny , but that was the idea . In fact , one of the characters is named " Corny Collins . " It was pretty charming film , too , with the put-ons about the old American Bandstand-type dance shows that were television for years . " Hairspray " features some good 1960s music , too . The first half of this movie is about local teens of that period and the dance and petty jealousies in the group while the second half theme is all about racism . When I saw this movie in the mid ' 90s , I was shocked to see talk show host Ricki Lake in here , and looking so young and fat . She was way overweight , but was a good dancer . ( Some of the dances in here are hilarious . ) Her mother in the film was played by transvestite " Divine . " Yes , this is a another movie by the sick director John Waters who loved to feature Divine in his films , this being probably the most tame story he put on screen . The film takes place in Baltimore , and whether racism in that city was a bad as Waters portrays it here , I don't know , but I wouldn't be happy if I lived in that city and saw this movie . However , this film is like " Leave It To Beaver " combined to some of the other stuff Waters has produced over the years .
I found this fascinating when it came out . How I would feel about it now might be different , knowing Oliver Stone's beliefs and how he likes to put them on film . Back then , I didn't care . I just looked at this as a character study of a nasty and very disturbed radio talk show host who had nutty callers and was nuts himself . I have to warn viewers - and this has nothing to do with politics - after the riveting first 30 minutes , this lead character " Barry Champlain " ( Eric Bogosian ) wears thin big-time . He is so obnoxious that he makes this movie uncomfortable to watch in a number of areas . This is not fun to witness , folks , but Bogosian does a super job in the lead role . Personally , this story is so full of anger , hatred and sordidness that I wouldn't watch it again . However , if you know all this in advance and appreciate fine acting and different kind of story , it's worth checking out . Just don't expect to be uplifted !
Perhaps the best part of this 130-minute film is the first 10 . 5 minutes . It's so spectacular that the rest of the film almost becomes a letdown . When I first saw this 10 years ago , I thought that opening action scene , capped by the most outrageous stunt I had seen to that point in film - Bond falling off a cliff and catching up in mid-flight to a falling airplane , landing in the cockpit and righting the plane - was , of course , ridiculous but great fun to watch . The rest of the film is more typical Bond silliness with far less spectacular scenes . When it comes to gadgets , sexual innuendos , unrealistic action with Bond escaping from impossible situations , lots of pretty women and exotic scenery to ogle , these James Bond films always give plenty of the above . Sad to say , in this film , the dialog is much dumber than usual and the fake Russian accents are hard to decipher which is very annoying . One good point : there is almost no profanity in this film , even minor stuff . . . . but overall , it's just a " fair " Bond flick . decent but nothing to write home about , except to note that it was Pierce Brosnan's debut as Bond and he is fine in that role .
Henry is walking along the streets when he spots " Betty Boop's Pet Shop . " In the window is a cute little puppy who Henry would love to own . He goes into the store , where Betty is singing , " Everybody ought to have a pet . . . . . " Unfortunately , Henry only has two cents and the dog costs two dollars . Betty makes a deal with the disappointed young boy . If he'll watch the story while she goes on an errand , she'll give him the puppy . Henry then takes charge and has a unique way of feeding the birds . After what looks like a bad incident which cost Henry the dog , he uses that unique method of bird-feeding to give the story a happy ending . I guess " cute ' would be the best way to describe this animated short in which Henry , not Betty , is the star .
A very stylish but rough and profane account of gangsters ( " Dutch " Schultz and the like ) and music during the 1920s . The scene is Harlem ( NYC ) at the Cotton Club , which is still run by whites who are pictured as big bigots . Schultz , played by James Remar , is extremely coarse and profane . There are tons of Lord's name in vain abuses in this movie , many by Remar and Richard Gere . There is very hard edge to this film , sometimes a little too hard , I think . The positives are the cinematography , music , dancing and a good romance angle featuring the white leads , Gere and Diane Lane , and the black leads Gregory Hines and Lonette McKee . Gere and Hines are buddies , with Gere playing coronet and Hines tap dancing . Hines is a tremendous dancer and great to watch . You also have other " name " actors in here , such as Nicholas Cage , Bob Hoskins , Fred Gwynne , Laurence Fishburne and Allen Garfield . If the language I mentioned earlier doesn't offend you , this is a great movie .
Just the title of this movie tells you that " family values " are going to be trashed . It plays up evil , as opposed to goodness , but most of it is strictly to get laughs . In all , it's a funny sequel to the first Adams Family film , very inventive and slightly more entertaining than the first film . The special effects aren't the only highlight of this comedy . You expect that from this kind of story , but I was pleasantly surprised how much the sound added to the entertainment , especially n the first half of the film . The first half is better all-around because the second half has touches of mean - spiritedness entering the picture , not just humor . The message that evil is cool and wholesomeness is stupid gets carried away and is overdone . Yes , the camp counselors are very funny but too stupid as the filmmakers use them to bad-mouth good values . That's basically the message from today's filmmakers : evil is good and good is evil . Wrap that up in a good comedy and your message gets accepted more readily . Too bad they got carried away because this movie has many funny scenes .
The story was copied many times on television shows n the 1950s . I remember seeing the Lone Ranger up against mobs , Steve McQueen and others doing the same . . . . all preaching civility amid a rioting mob out to lynch someone . Since this film was released in 1942 , it may have been one of earliest times this theme was put on film , so I can't accuse them of copying an old storyline . What sets this apart and makes it a good movie was the great dialog , especially in the early moments when " Gil Carter " ( Henry Fonda ) and " Art Croft " ( Harry Morgan ) enter a bar . The characters in here pretty black-and-white as far as their attitudes go . The three guys the mob accuses later on are made to look totally innocent , almost too much so right off the bat , so there is really no guessing done by us , the audience . Fonda was most interesting of the lead characters , along with Frank Conroy as " Major Tetley " and Dana Andrews as " Donald Martin . " Jane Darwell was a hoot as one of the more bloodthirsty of the mob members . That was a far cry from her role with Fonda in " The Grapes Of Wrath . " The film bogs down once they get to the campsite where they think they've found the murders-rustlers . At that point , it's talk-talk-talk . Even Caesar Romero as the Mexican , " Juan Martinez " says he hungry " with all this talk going on . " It makes me think they could have made this film even shorter , and it's short as it is at 75 minutes . It does pick back up the last 15 or so minutes and the reactions of the mob at the end in the bar are interesting . Fonda reads a letter one of the accused men wrote but that turns out to be very preachy , not really a note someone in his position would have written to his wife but a sermon about law and justice . Overall , it's okay but generally petered out after a good start and , like many classic westerns of the 1940s and 1950s , is too talky and melodramatic . Still , it's a powerful story , well-acted , well-directed , nicely shot ( the DVD looks good ) and the message is one to remember . If they re-shot this today , I think they'd tighten the script up a bit and add a little more action and suspense .
This is a nasty movie - very nasty . It's extremely profane and doesn't feature a nice guy in the bunch , just a bunch of extremely low-life profane people . Bill Paxton , William Sadler , Ice Cube , Ice T and whatever other stupid rappers name you can think of cuss and shoot each other in an abandoned warehouse for much of the film . There is no one to root for and Paxton's character is the only one who has at least a shred of conscience . Also , this is a Walter Hill-directed film so you know you're going to get a lot of violence . I also didn't care for the rap soundtrack , although it wasn't overbearing or too loud . Having said all that , the film did keep my attention , to say the least . I have to admit : this was a very interesting story . If you're in a violent , testy , irritable , hostile mood and you want a movie to go with it , this is it ! Not really recommended but better than I've described it above . Just b ready to have your ears assaulted .
This late-entry Charlie Chan movie gets marks simply for the entertainment , not for a deep-thinking suspenseful " whodunnit . " It's just fun to watch with an always-smiling daughter ( played by Frances Chen ) replacing number-whatever-son and the eyes-popping-out-of-the-head Mantan Moreland adding humor , although of his humor is a bit stupid ( and insulting to black folks , I'm sure ) . However , Moreland is a likable guy so it's hard to get annoyed at his silliness . The story is a familiar one of the day , about the occult ( seances ) and , thankfully , another that exposes the mediums as crooks . These Sidney Toler-Mantan Moreland collaborations , as opposed to the early Warner Oland / Charlie Chan movies , replied more on comedy and gimmicks rather than brains , and once you accept that , you just go along with an entertaining hour of lamebrain fun , especially when Chan starts to put people down with his sarcasm .
A bit of a soap opera , this film was divided into three segments as people recalled their experiences with " Jonathan Shields , " played well by Kirk Douglas . " Shields " was a guy interested in making movies and he used people to get to the top . Three of these people tell of their dealings with him , and none of them have too many good things to say . I liked the first and third segments but didn't care for the middle one with Lana Turner simply because Turner became so melodramatic , too hysterical for me . Barry Sullivan was excellent in the first part and helped get me into the story . He was the director who got " screwed " by Douglas . Turner was the unknown actress whom Douglas turned into a star while the last part dealt with the key screenwriter for Douglas , played by Dick Powell . I thought Powell was the best of the four main characters of the film but his segment was the shortest , unfortunately . As good as he was , his wife was equally as annoying . She was played by the normally entertaining and alluring Gloria Grahame , who was anything but that in this role . She sounded ludicrous with her fake southern accent . How she won an Academy Award for this role is mind - boggling . Some classify this movie as film noir , but I dispute that . It's simply a straight drama with soapish overtones . It's well-written , however , and keeps one's interest all the way , so I am not knocking this movie . It has a good things going for it .
Friz Freleng wrote and directed all the Tweety and Sylvester cartoons , we are told in this behind-the-scenes documentary , which was part of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection DVD set . Freleng is seen here , which is nice for cartoon buffs since the man was one of the legends in the business . Freleng comment , " I liked Sylvester because he was the fall-guy and all the gags came from his failures . " The one " Tweety and Sylvester " cartoon that is given extra treatment here is " Birds Anonymous , " the Oscar-winning one in which Sylvester tried to go against his nature and treat the bird nicely . It's a spoof of Alcoholics Anonymous and Mel Blanc did about 15 voices in this one , according to his son Noel . The artwork and sound also is recognized for this particular cartoon . This bonus feature really was more of a tribute to Freleng than a comment on the popular cartoon . This feature , seen on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume Three DVD , was okay , but I was looking for an insight into " Tweety " and " Sylvester " characters , and that wasn't here .
This must have looked pretty spectacular to audiences at the theater in 1935 . The color animation is pretty good and it just has a lavish appearance to it and , as far as I know , most material on screen was in black-and-white , including cartoons . We begin by spotting a big heart-shaped sign which advertises " Honeymoon Express To The Moon . " It is next to a big rocket ship , which looked , by the way , very cool . This was the era of Flash Gordon , wasn't it ? It reminded me of his old ship . Hey , you can't beat the price for the trip : $1 to go dancing on the moon . Such a deal ! Cows , elephants , insects , giraffes , etc . , are all on the ship , ready for a night of dancing . They are still in the wedding gowns and tuxes . The male giraffe tells his bride that this is a good place for necking and then she , with her longer neck , gives her Mae West impression with " Come up and see me some time . " Other than that , there wasn't a lot of humor in here . One of the brides - a cat - was left at the gate , so to speak , so the husband pines away on the moon . The music , which plays a large part of this , is right out of the early ' 30s Busby Berkeley musicals , except we had about eight couples dancing instead of hundreds . In all , a curiosity piece but not funny and only mildly entertaining . The ending was awful and unsatisfying .
GOOD NEWS - Interesting , right from the start . . . . nicely filmed . . . . . . an involving story with a female lead character you really care about with a fine performance by Hilary Swank , and the always-entertaining Clint Eastwood and Morgan Freeman as the male leads . The story , whatever one's view of the topic here , is well-crafted and certainly one you remember . BAD NEWS - Talk about an agenda ! Who produced this film ? Dr . Kevorkian ? Hollywood's Liberal agenda for this year must have been euthanasia because this picture , as good as it is , is not Acadamy Award Best Picture material . The championship fight scene , too , is ludicrous , in that the " bad girl , " if this was real life , would have been disqualified - period : no if , ands or buts . And - having a priest say the " f-word ? " Give me a break ! There's an example of yet another liberal " agenda . " - make a cleric look bad whenever possible . OVERALL - A severely flawed film but definitely interesting and worth seeing if for nothing else than provoking a good discussion on and pros-and-cons of the main subject matter ( which ain't boxing , folks ) .
Boy , this is about as Irish as it gets : accents , terminology that is foreign to most other people but fun to hear , leprechauns , pots of gold , three wishes ( no more ) , other magic , Irish jigs and a few songs , lush countryside with plenty of green . . . . . and a lot of good-natured blarney . It's old-fashioned , innocent fun , with a love story thrown in the mix . The latter involves a very young-looking Sean Connery . It's a shock to see him when he was in his late ' 20s , and even more of a shock to hear him sing , too ! Three years later , Connery hit the jackpot ( acting , not singing ) playing James Bond in " Dr . No , " and the rest is history . In this Walt Disney film , he plays " Michael McBride " who winds up falling for " Katie O'Gill . " The latter is played by Janet Munro , a pretty woman who had the opposite screen success of Connery . After staring in a few of these Disney movies in which she played wholesome girls , she did an about-face and played unhappy and edgy characters and that , it turned out , was a poor choice . Alocholism then led to the tragic misfortune of contracting a fatal illness which killed her at the age of 38 . The lead character , " Darby O'Gill , " is played very convincingly by Albert Sharpe . He was definitely the " character " of the story . This movie is a nice , feel-good film filled with a laughing horse , the good guys winning over the bad , a few dramatic moments , singing and dancing " little people , " and an assortment of Irish delights . I think kids would still like this film , even though it's dated with the special-effects , but that's to be expected . After all , the film is almost 50 years old . It has a pleasant feel to it and should still entertain folks today .
This one took a different twist at the end , even though the movie as a whole had very familiar Three Stooges gags in it . ( By 1951 , our boys were nearing the end , as we knew them with Curly or Shemp . ) It was a like a two-parter ; the first part dealing the Stooges being cowboys and the second part being a horror-type movie . Out west , we have the same saloon jokes and scenes and the handsome-but - inept townie who thinks he's the Lone Ranger but is all wannabe . ( Jock Mahoney reprises the role he did in an earlier Stooges film in which he was " The Arizona Kid . " ) Then , with five minutes to go , we get the always-familiar ( but always fun ) guys - dressed up-in-scary costumes-chasing-the Stooges - around-several rooms angle . For me , it's the latter that I enjoyed best . For some reason , I never get tired of seeing the guys get spooked by spooks and all the slapstick that goes with it . Early in the story , we see The Stooges as vagrants . There is actually a " wanted poster " on them : 50 cents each or three-for-a-dollar ! They escape out west to a town called Peaceful Gulch and are mistaken for lawman . ( Don't ask . )
Elmer reads that one can hypnotize " dumb animals " so when he's out hunting one day ( and reading the book at the same time ) , he comes across a bear . Lo and behold - it works ! He puts the bear to sleep and has him float around like a canary . He then realizes this is his chance to finally capture the elusive Bugs Bunny . However , Bugs , as well know , is anything but a " dumb animal , " and turns the tables on dumb Mr . Fudd . By the way , does Elmer's laugh annoy anyone else out here ? It annoys me . This is one guy I don't mind getting the short end of the stick when it comes to Bugs Bunny's mayhem . He's right on when he calls Elmer " a jerk " in this story . The last third of this picture is excellent , however , when Elmer turns into a rabbit and asks Bugs , " What's up , doc ? " He then drives Bugs crazy . That's one thing about these cleverly-written cartoons ; the smarter Bugs doesn't always prevail , as we see in here .
This was a colorful take on the famous story , both in animation and in story content . Overall , it was a fun movie with interesting , strange characters following each other as " Alice " chases after a rabbit in " Wonderland " ( although that name is never mentioned in the film . ) . The songs in here are nothing noteworthy , but at least they didn't go on too long . For a short film - 75 minutes - it's good " escapist " fare and not a bad way to spend an hour-and-a quarter . Any longer than that , for classic animated films , would be too long , because they didn't have the humor and slam-bang action scenes modern animated films possess . I would imagine kids of today would be bored by this , compared to what faster-paced stuff they see now . . . . but that's no criticism of this movie , just about attention spans have shortened .
GOOD NEWS - This musical-dance performance is astonishingly beautiful . When I first saw this , I was stunned . I had never so many beautiful colors on one stage in my life ! It's just an awesome production , visually-speaking . Not only are the colors spectacular , so is the lighting , and the beautiful of some of the females , particularly a violin player and a dancer in a red dress . Those two women were not just gorgeous , but talented . . . . . but then again , who wasn't ? Like " Riverdance , " the play varies its acts well , going from tap dancing to instrumentalists , from fast to slow songs , ballet , you name it . Michael Flatley is a great dancer and is without doubt the star of the show . . . . which leads me to . . . . THE BAD - Flatley , unfortunately , knows he's the star and his ego is more than apparent here . That whole bit with the bared chest certainly is one clue that he suddenly thinks of himself as some sex symbol . It doesn't help that he has these young screaming idiot girls in the audience literally shrieking every time he comes on stage . Perhaps he is a symbol , at least to those teen ( I assume ) girls . Flatley didn't annoy me : the shrieking audience did . They ruined the audio of this performance , often drowning out the music with their idol - worshiping screams . It really detracted from a fine show .
Here's another interesting kidnap story . Sean Bean always plays a believable villain and Michael Douglas usually plays roles that keep the audience's attention . . . . so the almost - two hours go by pretty quickly . The whole cast , actually , pretty good with no one person standing out . The story loses points because the ending goes on too long and has the standard villain - holds - the - gun - and - doesn't shoot-too long cliché which drives critics , me included crazy . That , and a bit too many f-words in here by the female cop ( Jennifer Esposito ) which simply aren't necessary , and a few other holes all reduce this from a sure 9-star to an " 8 . . . . . but don't misunderstand : it's worth a look .
The subject headline - Try And Get Me ! - is the title of the movie , as I know it . Man , this is a different kind of film noir story , mainly because of the ending . It centers around two crooks , played by Lloyd Bridges and Frank Lovejoy . Of the two , Bridges is the more fun guy to watch . He and his girlfriend ( played by Adele Jergens ) have some very good dialog . Lovejoy and his potential girlfriend have some lines that are so bad they are laughable ! It almost reminded me of poor Elisha Cook verbally duking it out with tough-gal Marie Windsor : in other film noirs corny but fun stuff . This was an entertaining film almost from the start . The last 30 minutes are really intense after Lovejoy cracks , stupidly admits his crime and is unfairly accosted as the murderer ( he was the accomplice , not the murderer . ) Then , the townsfolk , fueled by sensationalist journalism by the local paper , form into a huge lynch mob and storm the jail after the two criminals . The scenes of that , and what happens , are horrific . I am not exaggerating . In fact , it was one of the most disturbing scenes I've ever seen on film , especially for a classic movie . The cheers from the crowd when they kill the two men ( which is not shown ) are downright chilling . The film obviously is a powerful indictment on yellow journalism and of mob mentality . The last scene was so distasteful that I have never wanted to watch this movie again !
The big professional football game between the Cubs and the Tigers is coming up on the weekend and the Tigers ' owner is just informed that his three best backs got plastered and rolled over in their car . Now he has to go out and find three players , fast . He's told about some great amateur backs - The Three Horsemen - at Boulder Dam College . Meanwhile , in the college town our boys are on the street panhandling and getting socked in the jaws for their efforts . However , they do get a job holding signs promoting the big college football in town , and they are dressed in football gear . You guessed it . The boys are mistaken for the Three Horsemen - by the men's girlfriends , no less - and are taken back up to their apartment . One of the girls , by the way , is Lucille Ball , but you wouldn't recognize her . The scenes in the apartment are far better than the football game which is only shown in the last three minutes and aren't much . Overall , okay but a little too dumb and not as good as expected out of the guys . However , it was still early ( 1934 ) in their careers and they were learning . It was interesting to find out how many people got injured filming this short .
This is a strange and fascinating - but that likable - story about a kid who becomes obsessed with birds and then literally goes crazy . Matthew Modine plays the introverted " Birdy . " A young Nicholas Cage plays his best friend , " Al . " It's not a particularly pleasant story . In fact , it's downright depressing many times . It also had an unusual ending , one the critics seemed to all pan but I liked . I thought it was neat . The movie does keep your interest , so it gets decent points for that , and it certainly presents a unique character study . I haven't seen this film in a long time , but after writing this review , I'd kind of like to view it again . . . . . depressing or not .
This wasn't bad , when you compare it to the average World War II film made back in the 1940s . In the first half , it had too many of the same negative aspects that many of its contemporary war movies had at the time . The narration was corny and the dialog by the GIs here is so dated and so racist it's embarrassing . Hey , I am the first to acknowledge how political correctness has run amok in recent years and , in fact , is out of control , but , still , hearing " Jap " yelled out every third sentence , and guys making slant-eyed " jokes " all the time is offensive , even for me . In that 40 minutes , we had the normal William Bendix-role of playing - - a-clown-from - Brooklyn , the priest who is a good guy but too often indistinguishable from the soldiers , the young kid who looks and acts about 15 , and most of the other cliché characters you see in this old movies . However , part of this was for a purpose : to show how these guys went from cocky , almost - ignorant soldiers who underestimated their foes , to veterans who calmed down and had their arrogant attitude kicked out of them . In fact , Bendix wound up making some very profound statements about 20 minutes from the end when things really looked bad . There's a lot of honesty in this movie , as it turned out . But , despite that first 40 minutes of mostly-inane chatter which took away from the sense of the guys being in a brutal situation , which these GIs were in - the second half made up for it . It had tons of drama , suspense and action , plus a plea or two to the folks back home in the USA watching this film . I have no problem with that . Why not ? Our soldiers should always be given whatever they need since they're putting their lives on the line for us back here . Some people didn't like those , nor the prayers or the religious angle in here , but that's today's secular-progressives who have no tolerance . I read one big-city critic who objected to the scene showing the soldier disappointed he didn't get any mail ! Give me a break . Sorry , but sometimes it's good to see a war movie with some old fashioned patriotism , " religion " and sentimentality . Overall , however , these 60-some-year-old movies just can't stack up to the realistic ones made today , and that's understandable . But , credit this film with having easily more actual war action than the average movie of its day and totally switched from dumb to pretty intelligent the last half of the movie . These guys got pummeled from the land , the sea and the air . It would be interesting to see this movie re-made today . It might be tough to watch with all the carnage , but I'd like to see it with a appropriate tribute to these brave men . The DVD sports a good transfer . " Fox War Classics " always look pretty sharp .
Droopy is south of the border , happily riding a donkey and singing . He's also playing the violin and wearing a big sombrero . Suddenly , out of a cactus tree comes a bandit you quickly rifles through Droopy's wallet . He stops when he gets to a picture of a gorgeous woman . Droopy says , " That's my girl . I am going to serenade her . " The bandit replies , " No , I , the Crisco Kid , will serenade her . ( Hey , the real Cisco Kid - star of the 1950s TV - is a good guy , not a bandit ! ) . He sends Droopy away on his little burro and rides off on his big horse " Diablo " to get the girl . Of course , the moment The Kid arrives as the senorita's house , Droopy's already there . The rest of the cartoon is similar to others in that no matter what the " villain " does , Droopy is always right there , too . You cannot shake loose from this dog ! Droopy is relentless . In a surprise , the woman gives him a big kiss , but Droopy only says , " You know what ? That's not sanitary . " You just never know what this dog will do , or say . The artwork in here was tremendous ; beautiful , lush colors of the Mexican countryside and villas . There is plenty of music in here and wild sound-effects , too .
" I kind of stand out from the crowd , don't I ? " Yeah , Daffy , you certainly do , which is why we love you . Anyway , that's the question my favorite duck asks in the beginning of this cartoon as we see four ducks just sitting there on a pond doing nothing , except for Daffy . He's filing his nails ! When Porky Pig comes by firing shotguns , the ducks stick their head in the water , but Daffy puts on a swim cap first . Then he walks out of the water and tells Porky that he's not dealing with the average duck . " I'm gifted , just slopping over with talent . " Yup , he's different all right . To demonstrate , he sings , dances , does imitations , a one-act drama , shows Porky his Warner Brothers contract , etc . Unfortunately , a decent share of the humor in here is a bit juvenile or dated or just not plain funny . Some of Daffy's remarks are good , as always . Frankly , I liked the 1950s Daffy Duck cartoons better than these 1940s efforts . They are a lot more sophisticated in the humor department .
Frankly , I am surprised I hung with this movie because it's pretty slow . It's not a real " entertainer , " except for two things : 1 - the camera-work is nice at times ; 2 - the story is quite different from anything we are accustomed to in the West . But after two-thirds of this story had elapsed , it was tough going the rest of the way . It's not an uplifting story , either . It left me feeling depressed . Yet , it IS a memorable film and I'm glad I watched it . I mean , as one reviewer says here " Vietnamese dude leads a bunch of buffaloes in search of grass . That's it . " Yes , in one sense he's right , but obviously there is more to it than that . We get glimpses of this guy's father and mother , friends , enemies , thieves , sex , loyalty and abandonment and generally what life must be like for those in this story of people who live in this odd environment . With all the water around them , they couldn't bury their loved ones until the dry season came . They wrapped them up and put them on poles , and hopes the crows didn't peck away at the bodies . Yes , you wouldn't want to live here , at the southern tip of Vietnam with these rainy , long flood season . Lugging a couple of Water Buffaloes through waist-deep muddy water for miles can't be a great existence , either . I agree with another critic here who labels this story as " lyrical . " For the most part , I liked watching and listening to " Kim " ( The Lu Le ) give his outlook on various topics and the dialog between he and his father often was humorous . Hey , how many times have you / did you sit around and smoke " weed " and play the flute with your dad ? This is a culture far removed from mine , which is one reason why I stayed with this film - to learn something while witnessing some very foreign sights and sounds to me . I would recommend this only to people who know what they are getting into ( something slow , and very different ) or who just plain love most Asian films .
This used to be one of my favorite films until I began getting offended at hearing the Lord's name in vain . This movie is brutal in that regard , but it's still such an interesting story and character portrait that I still look at it but not often . Jon Voight's character is the only reason I would look at it again . Voight , as " Manny , " provides about as intense and good an acting performance as you could ask for . He's riveting in here . As tough as he is - a hardened criminal who escapes from prison with " Buck " ( Eric Roberts ) - he Roberts a little speech during this story which is about as good a parable as Jesus gave in His brief stay on Earth . He lectures his friend about being humble enough to serve , even in the most humiliating circumstances . I've just never forgotten Voight's speech . This is an action-packed , rough film with rough people and very rough language . The language is actually ludicrous at times with over-the-top characters like the ones played by John P . Ryan and Kenneth McMillian , two of the most profane actors of their day . Being a Golan-Globus film of the period ( ' 70s and ' 80s ) , this film is overridden by low-life characters , a trademark of those scummy filmmakers . Back on the positive side , the story features great suspense , and a real feel for the bleak , snowy Alaskan terrain . The last 30 minutes is the best , because of less dialog , a pounding music beat and a great , memorable ending . Overall , if you can take the blaspheming assault on your ears , this movie is worth it for the great adventure and atmospheric feel of cold and suffering . . . . and , if for nothing else , Voight's fabulous performance .
This 1950s melodrama was an interesting , involving story . It's part film-noir , too , which I liked . I say that because the last third of the film featured an expectation of some dreaded act about to be committed , giving it a film noir feel . One thing for sure , whatever you label the movie : it's well-acted , well-directed and well-photographed . Regarding the latter , this really looks good on DVD . No surprise it's directed well since George Stevens was the director . His resume speaks for itself . Obviously Montgomery Clift and Elizabeth Taylor are the " big names " in this film , but I found Shelly Winters and the character she played to be the most intriguing . She wasn't really appealing yet one could certainly identify with her feelings of insecurity with Taylor as her competition . " Liz " was in in her prime , looks-wise , with an absolutely classic face . Anyway , watching the character studies of the antsy Winters and the troublesome Clift were interesting . Clift , as is the case with most of us , causes his own problems and things slowly unravel for him . The story is another example of what can happen when one tries to cover up the truth . It comes back to bite you , big-time ! I really found it refreshing , however , to see Clift's attitude at the end . It's the exact opposite of what you hear today . He actually takes responsibility for his actions .
This is a 45-minute look at the most famous granite sculpture in the United States and a famous one world-wide . I imagine television doesn't do it justice ; one has to see this in person to realize it's magnitude . I'd love to see it some day . Biographies are given of the two men most responsible for this amazing achievement : Doane Robinson and Gutzon Borglum . Robinson had the brainstorm for this great project . His desire was simply to attract tourists to his beloved South Dakota . But what would bring people out to middle of nowhere in the Badlands of South Dakota ? A great carving into the face of Mount Rushmore . Who could do it ? Well , probably nobody as much as Borglum . He already had experience , having worked on the Confederate Memorial Carving , better known as " Stone Mountain " in Georgia before he put a hat on Robert E . Lee's head and almost got tar-and-feathered out of the state ! In addition , Borglum had done several amazing sculptures of Lincoln . Most of the biographical material in this History Channel program was on Borglum and his son , Lincoln , who never got all the credit he should have received for his efforts . You can read all about this achievement , which was never completed and which may surprise a lot of people , in history books and encyclopedias . For instance , there was going to be a huge room dug out of the granite for a " Hall Of Records . " It never got finished . Suffice to say this program gives as much history as it can in the alloted time . What was new to me was seeing Mount Rushmore BEFORE these huge faces were put into the granite . I also was amazed to see how daring these workers were , braving the cold and primitive working elements to carve these incredible figures . . . . . with no casualties over the 16-year-period ! Even more amazing was that many of these workers were recruited solely because they played baseball , and the organizer wanted a good ball team for the area !
This was another very-solid entry in the long-running series that mainly featured either Warner Oland or Sidney Toler as " Charlie Chan . " It's generally considered that Oland's films were superior . I enjoy both of them and , after just completing watching the Chan DVD set that were all Toler's films , this return to Oland was a shocker in a way . I say " shocker " mainly because Chan was so nice and respectful to his kid . In the latter films , Toler's Chan does nothing but insult his son , whichever one accompanies him on various cases . Here , Oland's warmth for his Number One Son " Lee " ( Keye Luke ) is more than evident and " Lee " helps keep the case alive with a daring rescue of his kidnapped father . The story is played much straighter , too , than the Toler versions . There is still levity with Chan ' many profound-yet-funny proverbs but this is an action-packed short story played more like the mysteries they were supposed to be . Good stuff
A grateful mouse promises Felix " if there's anything I can do for you , just call on me " after Felix lets him go from a mousetrap . Felix then goes over to Willie Brown's house , whistles for the kid to come down from his bedroom and go " to the ' ole swimming hole " but Willie's mom spots him and tells the boy to go back inside and " practise his piano lessons . " ( That's the way they spelled " practice " in the cartoon , which often uses bubbles for dialog the way they do in printed comics . A dejected Felix goes back to the barn area , where we first saw him with the mouse . He explains his dilemma to the mouse who has a plan to help out the cat and get the kid out of doing his piano lessons . That plan - have four other mice jump around on the piano keys and make music - is funny and leads to some very humorous dancing scenes with Willie's mother , who thinks her son now is Liberace . Overall , this was good and offered a number of surprises , which a couple of more grammatical errors in the cartoon's dialog boxes . This cartoon was part of a collection of in the " Presenting Felix The Cat - The Otto Messmer Classics - 1919-1924 " DVD , with original organ scores by Dave Wickersham .
It's odd to watch hundreds of Tom and Jerry cartoons from the 1940s and early ' 50s and then see a " culture change " with characters , furniture , cars , the music and the overall artwork that is " so 1950s . " Here , " Jeanie , " a baby-sitter , has the ponytail , dress and classic mid-'50s look . She lies upside on the wide , low couch talking on the telephone , etc . - you know , all the ' 50s things . Janet Waldo has a lot of lines in here , as the gabby teen on the telephone , who stops talking every 30 seconds to go hit Tom on the head for bothering the baby . Of course , Tom is just trying to do the right things and keeps getting blamed or falsely accused of bothering the infant . You have to feel sorry for the poor cat . That's the theme of the cartoon : the baby wandering off all the time , Tom saving it but then getting pelted on top of the head . I can't say , for justice sake , I enjoyed the storyline , nor was in that funny , but the cartoon was well-drawn and a real nostalgia piece for the period . This cartoon is noteworthy for being the last William Hanna and Joseph Barbera produced Tom and Jerry cartoon . It is presented in the widescreen CinemaScope and is part of Disc 2 of the Tom and Jerry Spotlight Collection Volume Two DVD .
This is a fine drama and a nice change of pace from today's more hectic and loud films . It is another solid based-on-a-true store , which still means much of it could be made up for dramatic purposes . Frankly , I don't know but I liked the story . The story is about a young man back in the Fifties who gets interested in rocketry and wants to enter that field instead of working in the coal mines as everyone else , including his father , does in this West Virginia town . The big problem is the conflict it causes between the boy and his father , which I think was overdone . I would like to have a little less tension between the two . The young man , still a boy , is played by Jake Gyllenhaal , one of his first staring assignments , I think . He's likable , as are his school buddies in here . It's nice to see nice kids in a modern-day film . The two other key actors in the movie are Chris Cooper ( the dad ) and Laura Dern ( the kid's teacher who encourages him all the time . ) The cinematography is decent the 1950s soundtrack is fun to hear . Once again : I wish there more of these kind of films made today .
There is a stunning difference in watching this animated feature on regular DVD and viewing it on Blu-Ray . The latter dramatically elevates my rating of this movie , because the story is just so-so . It's a nice story , but nothing that will leave you laughing like in " Cars , " or " Madagascar " or a bunch of other recently-made animated features . However , on Blu-Ray , this is so flat-out awesome to look at , that's is well worth seeing and adding to your movie collection . The brilliant colors and razor-sharp images are just amazing and totally stunning ! Jim Carrey does a nice job as " Horton . " You might not even recognize his voice . He plays a character who hears a voice nobody else hears ; the voice of a tiny person on top of flower / weed which is part of a tiny town on the top of that plant . Hey , " size matters , " I guess , but far more important is the value of living beings regardless of their size . That's the general message of the story . All lives are worth saving , no matter how supposedly small and allegedly insignificant . The story is the typical frustrating one in which nobody believes the one who is telling the truth , until near the end , and then all of them do the right thing . Overall - a good message , presented in a so-so story but a gorgeous one to watch on Blu-Ray .
Wow , what a strange film . It's a David Lynch movie so it's no surprise that it is weird . I defy anyone to totally explain everything in this film . I can't be done . After some research following my second viewing of this film , I pretty much know most of the story but on a first look , and with no aid from other reviewers or outside help , it is hard to figure things out . So , if you're in that boat and was confused , don't feel bad ; that's normal . Let me just say the key to the film is Naomi Watts ' character . At any rate , I find the film fascinating . I love the wonderful visuals and rich colors and find each character in this movie really different and fun to watch . The camera-work is excellent and the music is creepy , a la Lynch's " Blue Velvet . " There also are some good sound effects to help some of the dramatic scenes . In all , it's very well scored . Like Lynch's " Twin Peaks " television series , this was a film in which the end was pieced together afterward since Lynch thought this film was going to be a long , drawn-out TV series . When that didn't happen , he pieced at the last minute this ending . That may account for some of the confusion at the end and the lack of explanations concerning characters we see earlier in the film but who mysteriously disappear . The theme of the story , supposedly , is a negative comment about Hollywood and what it does to people , especially those whose dreams of being an actor are crushed . Both Watts and the other leading lady , Laura Eleana Harring , are very interesting to watch , especially in their celebrated lesbian sex scene . Looks - wise , both women were chameleons , looking average at times , stunning at other times . I enjoyed this movie more on the second viewing than the first . It's not just a curiosity piece ; it's a very intriguing movie . . . . . just don't feel stupid if you can't make sense of a few things .
This time we see throngs of people pouring in at the " Tanktown Theater " to see Betty Boop act in a play called " She Wronged Him Right . " Immediately , we see Betty on stage pacing and all upset . She's reading a note that says , " Pay the mortgage today or else ! Signed , Heeza Ratt . " Betty is in tears and her pets and the animals on her farm are all pacing in anguish , too . Anyway , the villain shows up ( amid hisses and boos from the theater audience ) and winds up singing a duet with Betty and then trying to force himself on her . She yells for " Fearless Fred " to come and save her ! This is corny stuff but it has its share of laughs and the songs are decent .
Nobody respects and reveres those old American rock pioneers like the British . That goes for blues , too . I share their love for these guys and could sit and listen to toe-tapping rockabilly , or blues all night long . Maybe that's one reason most of my favorite rock performers are English and Irish . Thankfully , one of those Brits who loves those early rock ' n rollers is Paul McCartney . The former Beatle was not happy with the 1978 movie portrayal of Buddy Holly so he made this documentary . Frankly , I don't see what was so bad about the Gary Busey ' 78 film about Holly but if McCartney says there were too many flaws in it , I believe him . Since Holly was my favorite singer from the late ' 50s , I'm glad to see the ex-Beatle provide us with more insight and performances of the man from Lubbock , Texas . Of real interest was some footage of Buddy , Elvis and Johnny Cash . This is supposedly the earliest clips ever made of Presley and , man , you can see why the girls went crazy over him . Among the interesting comments in here was by McCartney who commented that fellow Beatle John Lennon never wore his glasses on stage until he saw Holly with his dark-rimmed glasses . Hey , if it was cool enough for Buddy , Lennon said , it's good enough for me and he wore glasses while performing from then on . That's the one of the many influences Holly had on future music greats , as we hear in this documentary . Fellow Holly band member Sonny Curtis really impressed me with his voice and guitar playing . " The Crickets , " Buddy's band , had a lot of talent . Since this tribute was made over 20 years ago , it's interesting to see how young everyone looks , from McCartney to the Everly Brothers and even Keith Richards ! The main thing , though , is that we get a real feel for who Buddy Holly was , where he grew up , the atmosphere , the people and managers who surrounded him ( including a very pretty ex-girlfriend ) and to hear how driven he was to succeed and do the kind of music he wanted to do . It all makes me sad , recalling how we lost of the greatest rock singers / writers of all time at the tender age of 22 . Thanks to McCartney for this " labor of love . "
I liked this a lot more on the second viewing , the first on DVD . It wasn't that the print was so much better as I just appreciated Buster Keaton's humor and physical prowess more today than I did back when I first saw this film . That , and I can never get enough trains on film ! Keaton plays " Johnny Gray , " a railroad engineer who signs up for the Confederate army when the Civil War breaks out . However , they reject because the South felt he could be far more valuable to their cause if he remained in his occupation than as a soldier . However , because his girlfriend wants him to sign up , and her brothers all did , she thinks he's a coward because he's not fighting for his kinfolk ( obviously not knowing why they turned him down ) . So , things look bleak for our hero . ( Note : true love never seems to be shown in these Keaton films . Buster always has to prove himself to these fickle women , who demand either heroes or tons of money from their men . ) Anyway , Buster is chased down the tracks by the Northern army train for much of the film . He tries to hold them off and keep his own little train running . . . . and rescue his girlfriend who was accidentally abducted by the enemy and is being held hostage in one of the cars . It's not as chaotic as I am making it sound , but it's fast-moving and entertaining film for most of the 75 minutes . To be honest , I can't see where it's a " masterpiece , " as so many label it , but it's a good film . Maybe I still don't fully appreciate it . Now that I have it on DVD , I will be sure to watch it more times .
It's amazing how the entertainment business loves to glamorize gangsters . They love darkness , but I expected a history-centered TV program like this to be a little more objective . . . . yet , more times than not , these two famous outlaws were made to look like sympathetic characters in this episode . They interview Clyde Barrow's sister and read letters from a Parker family member's memoirs of 1968 . They interview college professors and - surprise ! - they give more of the same slant . This all despite the fact that Bonnie & Clyde were cold-blooded killers and a pair of real low-lifes . Amazing . If you don't believe me , just read the synopsis here on the IMDb title page . " Romantic " folk hero types ? I don't think so , even in the Depression Era . If so , people should be ashamed for rooting for killers . Whatever the case , this episode provided a lot of background information on this famous pair of lovers on the lam from the early 1930s . In the middle of the Great Depression , gangsters were not always seen in a bad light , thanks to the entertainment business who often glorified the exploits of these " modern-day Robin Hoods , " as it was stated here on TV . There was Pretty Boy Floyd , John Dillinger , Ma Barker and her gang , Baby Face Nelson and Machine Gun Kelly . . . . . . all " glamorous " names . For much of Bonnie & Clyde's criminal exploits , the blame was put on their poverty-level upbringing , as if that is a legitimate excuse for crime . It's pointed out here the brutality of a jail in Alabama which really hardened Clyde and changed him from a thief to a murdering one . There are a lot of facts here in this Biography episode , though , that don't have sides , per se , but are simply interesting . People who don't know anything about these two figures outside of what they saw in the famous 1968 film " Bonnie & Clyde " will be quite a bit more informed when this program is over . For instance , Bonnie and Clyde were in love a lot more than what we saw in the film . How they met and formed their relationship , along with a ton of other pre-crime spree history , is all very interesting . A nice bonus , too , is actual footage of the victims at the end , when the two were ambushed and , along with their car , riddled with bullets . The picture shows - from a little distance - Parker slumped over in the seat . The crowds at the funerals were also shown , and it's remarkable . It's amazing how " celebrities , " no matter what their occupation , have always fascinated " normal " people .
The year 1864 marks the fourth year of this horrible war . Pictures sent depicting some of it are so horrendous people can't look at them . They show one here , and you'd swear this was a photo of someone in a concentration camp in World War II . The man was nothing but skin and bones . Horrifying . The more was learns of the Civil War , the worse it gets . Grant now had command of the largest army in the world . His rank had grown to " Lt . General , " the first since George Washington . We get a profile of his amazing rise from loser in society to the leader of the North military . Then we get a profile of the most military leader of the them all : General Robert E Lee of the South . Most of this installment of the series is about Grant and Lee , and their battles to two had up and down Virginia . Then , after a very depressing segment about all the men suffering in the ever-growing number of hospitals , we get another profile of an important man in this war : General Sherman . With Grant stalled at Petersburg , Grant had to win in Tennessee and Georgia . Abe Lincoln predicts he will lose the election , perhaps by a landslide .
After seeing this special edition DVD which shows the entire 174-minute film ( in addition to the 121-minute one that most of us had seen over the years , ) my rating of this film was elevated . This review is of the longer " director's cut . " Most of the new footage involved the main's character's romance while he was a young man . The story then is continued years later when that character comes back to his hometown for a funeral and runs into the woman he was in love with but never was able to get for his own . It turns out to be a somewhat tragic love story . The first part of the film , with Salvatore Cascio as " Toto " a young boy is a love story about two people sharing their love of movies : the kid and an adult " Alfredo " ( Phillpe Noiret ) who runs the local movie theater . Their love of film bonds them for life . The word " love " is used repeatedly in this review because that's the dominant theme : the love people had for others and for the world of film , something all of us on this website share . The second and third parts of the film are the above-mentioned love story of Toto ( Marco Leonardi as an adolescent and then Jacques Perrin as an adult ) and " Elena " ( Agnese Nano / Brigitte Fossey ) . The first third of this director ; s cut edition is much livelier and interesting , frankly , than the last two-thirds . Although not boring , it does drag in a few spots but the longer version is better in the long run because it makes the whole story much more meaningful . It's very nicely filmed and you get a real feel for the Italian people and their little town . The director of the movie , Giuseppe Tornatore , went on to make other great visual films , two of which I also like : Malena and The Star Maker . . . . . but Cinema Paradiso , I believe , is considered his " masterpiece . "
For some strange reason , I've noticed that in a lot of these 1930s cartoons - Popeye's and others - flames from fire come alive . The flames take on a human personality and do human things . In here , one of the flames from a burning house sidles even over to the fire alarm box to send for the firefighters ! In other scene , flames from one window reach out and shake hands with a flame coming out of another window . Of course , it's Olive house on fire and , of course , Popeye and Bluto are the competing fireman are both ready to be the heroes . Those two have already been shown belting each other back at the company : Bluto , of Fire Co . " C " and Popeye , head of " D " company . I really enjoy the artwork on these ' 30s Popeye cartoons , how our main characters are drawn with the exaggerated features , and I also love how they draw buildings . Olive's huge house in the cartoon looks super . I also advise those who have this as part of the Popeye The Sailor Volume One 1933-1938 DVD to put on the English subtitles , otherwise you'll miss a lot of what Popeye says , since he mumbles a lot . In here , it's doubly important because Bluto mumbles like Popeye as they taunt each en route to trying to put out the big fire at Olive's house . Some of the dialog is funny . Most of it , however , is nothing of the laugh-out-loud variety and nothing noteworthy , except what idiots these two guys are - more concerned about beating up the other guy than saving the house ! It's little things in this cartoon that produce smiles , such as how they guys get water out of their hoses , how the ladder becomes alive , etc .
This starts out like a Betty Boop cartoon , meaning with a song . Popeye and Olive have opened a diner and they are seen outside of it on opening day , singing and dancing " We Aim To Please . " After that , we see Wimpy and Bluto standing on the other side of the street , observing . " Watch me obtain a hamburger without the necessary fee , " says Wimpy . He goes inside and says , " I'll gladly pay you Tuesday for a hamburger today . " That line went on to be used by him for the next 30 years . It became his trademark , along with the hamburger-eating , of course . There's not much of a story to this , but it was very entertaining . We only see two customers , but they are Customers From Hell , mainly Bluto . Wimpy won't pay , of course , but Bluto's aim is to demolish the place ! He does everything he can to disrupt the the diner and act like some moronic vandal , just for the sake of being a no-good you-know-what . If you have this cartoon on DVD , freeze-frame she shot where Popeye shows the menu and read it - it's pretty corny and funny .
There are so many wacky , insane things in this episode , I wouldn't know where to start . Suffice to say , this show continues people with green blood , a deer killed with a crossbow and then having a skirt put on it ; a lady who wears tinfoil and says she communicates with aliens , a 60-some year old married couple who die in their sleep in the same night but aren't murdered ; a ultra-violent drunk who is beats up several officers at police headquarters , is pepper-sprayed and then tasered and then bursts into flames and dies . In addition , there are lawnfuls of dead squirrels at the old folks place and at their welder / sculptor neighbor's , who is a woman who is flaky . . . . . . and then there is the big story about brutal migraines and what they are doing to some of the above-mentioned people . Among the wacky , sad to say , are the three usual CSI suspects : the ludicrous " Hodges , " Wendy , " and " David . " The latter , the assistant ME , is brought to tears over a dead animal but is never upset at a human being killed . Another CSI worker , the female who wears glasses ( " Mandy ? " ) , tells Hodges he'd better stop living with his mom if he wants a girl , meaning her . There is a lot more , but why spoil it ? At the end of the show , Grissom gives his " Theory of Everything " which could possibly tie all the bizarre events together . His New Age speech all being tied together by some invisible string is utterly laughable , but he's serious and all his CSI subordinates seem to nod in agreement . Man , these " scientists " will anything about the universe , except about a God , of course . None of the three CSI shows gets as bizarre as this one has done the last three years . Sometimes it's funny , sometimes it's insultingly-stupid but it's usually pretty interesting . Never a dull moment in Las Vegas , I guess , especially when you have wackos as the good guys and the bad guys !
I wonder if this was a major problem a long time ago . I'll bet it was . I am referring to the subject matter of this early and very short D . W . Griffith film : rude people wearing big hats to the theater and blocking the view of those in back of them . Considering that people have probably been inconsiderate for as long as humans have inhabited the planet , this might have been a problem . Since people haven't word big hats in a generation or two , a lot of people don't remember " big hat days . " Whatever , it makes for an amusing little film with a unique suggestion to dealing with the problem ! If people were slow to get the message , the director put in print at the end . The special-effects aren't exactly state-of-the-art for today's audiences but I bet they shocked the film-goers 99 years ago , when this was seen .
Wow , this is a wonderfully-filmed movie that especially looked good since it was one of the first DVDs I purchased a decade ago . Rich colors and good period detail of 19th century England made it visually attractive . However , the picture was too grainy . I hope someone has re-issued this and given it the transfer it deserves . Beware that it takes quite awhile before the actual holdup takes place . This is almost a two-hour film and they build up slowly to famous heist . However , I didn't find any of it boring . This is rated PG but there are quite of bit of sexual innuendos early on by Connery as he woos Lesley-Ane Down . Other than that , it's a pretty tame film . Donald Sutherland adds a touch a touch of humor here and there as he and Connery pull off the suspenseful heist . . . . and it is suspenseful . Connery trying to maneuver on top of the train was a highlight , as was the " whooshing " sound of the train each time it passed under a bridge . The stereo in here is very good for a film almost 30 years old .
Boy , there are really dragging out this deal with our star " Mac " ( Gary Sinise ) going through all this interrogation and court hearings , etc . , over the serial killer scumbag who jumped from the roof killing himself in last week's finale . For political gain and other reasons , the higher-ups - " Stanton " and " Sinclair " and a police advocate ( laywer ) who is some incredibly-smug woman - are all made to look nasty and self-serving as they try to ruin the reputation of " Mac . " The writers on this show ( and most others ) are so manipulative I almost laugh out loud sometimes . They make it so you just hate these people with a passion ! Subtly has never been a strong point with TV-and-film makers . Meanwhile , the sleaze factor is back as a man is impaled on a condom machine in the men's room somewhere at his bride-to-be's female party . He crashes the party , gets upset when he sees his finance being cuddled by - get this - ex-tennis great John McEnroe and storms into the restroom . Witnesses say McEnroe followed him there , and the next thing they new the man was found dead in that unusual spot . On top of that ludicrous and bloody sight , we get a bunch of wise-guy jokes ( " Dead Man Standing , " " safe sex , " etc . ) . The writers have every CSI member except Lindsay making professional jokes at every crime scene now . Although never a fan of McEnroe the tennis star ( or short-lived TV talk show host ) , I have to give him his due : he performs well in here and is funny . The guy appears to be a good actor . What the angle was involving him in this story was something I figured out early on . If an idiot like me can guess what is really happening , you can , too . Meanwhile , on a more positive note , " Don Flack " now seems to be sticking up for his boss instead of the other way around , so that's good to see . I would hate to lose him from the show even though he isn't a major character . Eddie Cahill does a nice job with that role .
In a season ( the third ) that is producing weird stories for the first time ( most weeks , thus far ) we get two outrageously-goofy stories . Get this : one guy named Noah has built an ark in his backyard and has four couples already living it in , prepared a new flood to occur any day . Noah is found shot to death in his home . He's covered with dollar bills . He turns out to be a guy with a long rap sheet but this particular " event " on the level ; he wasn't scamming people . So who killed him ? The second case has a man dressed as a cigarette . He died after someone set him on fire in his outfit . He was a fanatical anti-cigarette protester and evidence in his death leads , naturally , to the footsteps of a cigarette maker . That's what we are led to believe until it's discovered that the man really worked for the tobacco company . In a round-about way , he was supposed to be helping them promote a new , safer cigarette . I have to snicker at all the anti-smoking comments in here , although I agree with them . Suddenly , after all these years , Hollywood has finally started to stop glamorizing smoking . It took them long enough - about four decades ! . ( Actually , some of the " good guys " still smoke in feature films but their numbers are rapidly dwindling . ) Also , Stella finally tells Mac about her situation with the cut and the possible HIV infection . At least Mac asked the question I would asked : " Why haven't said something ? " She replied she thought she could handle it on her own , but admits this failing in that regard . " I'm here for you , " Mac replies in a real cliché moment . Melina Kankaredes is a somewhat hard-looking , tough-talking woman at times , yet very vulnerable at others . It's like she can't decide ( or her character " Stella " ) what she wants to me . I have found the same with Marg Helgenberg on the original CSI series . If that's not enough , " Sid , " the odd medical examiner , passes out cold and Stella saves his life . He turns out to be just fine , just an allergic reaction to something he ate . . I still prefer more straight crime stories , the kind this show featured in the first two years . I don't need all this weirdness to be entertained , but apparently the writers think their audience does . Now it's like they are competing the Las Vegas show with a " can-you-top - this ? " contest to see who can come up with the most far-out stories . Well , this episode is almost beyond description . If you still think I'm exaggerating , one of the killers was a guy dressed in a Dracula outfit !
After seeing how good the combination of director Frank Oz and actor Steve Martin was in " Dirty Rotten Scoundrels , " I wasn't surprised that the two would make " Bowfinger " interesting , too . It's not the caliber of " Scoundrels , " but it's still fun to watch . Eddie Murphy , as usual , is responsible for a lot of laughs as he plays two characters : this paranoid New Age-type follower and a very nerdy stand-in actor . In both roles , he's effective . Terrence Stamp , meanwhile , does his normal intense job of acting as the leader of a far-out " mind group " that one of Murphy's characters belongs . Heather Graham provides the sex appeal . Few women have made the transition from wholesome country girl to sleazeball in one movie as Graham does here . It's shocking but laughable at the same time , which pretty much describes this odd film . Nice to see Steve Martin back in form , too .
There was a lesson to this story , one of those " you don't miss what you have until you lose it " or " the grass is always greener on the other side , " etc . However you phrase it , Jerry discovers he'd rather have Tom chasing him around the house than no Tom at all . He misses the excitement . He doesn't think so in the beginning , " framing " our cat and having " Mammy Two Shoes " boot him out of the house for breaking a vase which Jerry broke . While the devilish mouse is singing " Happy Days Are Here Again , " in a few days he winds up bored out of his mind and wishing Tom was back in the house . Finally , he goes out to Tom across the street and they concoct a plan to get him back into the good graces of " Mammy , " so he can get his warm home back . This isn't hilarious but there are enough gags in here plus a rarity : hearing the two main characters speak English briefly - to definitely warrant watching this . Some of the facial expressions of Jerry made me really laugh . It was " cute " and funny at the same time . This was part of the Tom and Jerry Spotlight Collection Volume Two DVD .
I've only seen a couple of Hammer horror films , but I'm impressed . They seem to be subtly effective if you're looking for a few thrills and chills , not overdoing the gore , being mild on the language but yet having a definite edge to them . " Captain Kronos " isn't super but it's enjoyable . The direction is excellent , the DVD transfer looked nice , and - like a good mystery - there's a good twist at the end regarding the murderer , er . . . . . vampire . For us guys , there are also a lot of pretty women in here , too . The acting isn't the best but who cares ? It's entertaining , and not made to be taken seriously . I enjoyed the team of " Captain Kronos and Professor Hieronymous-Grost , " and I'm surprised there wasn't a sequel . These two guys make a good team : Horst Janson as the younger , dashing swordsman , and John Cater as the older assistant . The latter provides a little comic relief , too . Their relationship reminded me a bit of Basil Rathbone and Nigel Bruce at " Holmes and Watson . " The good captain is not your normal vampire hunter . He's just as anxious to get it on with the ladies , and he has a sexy one for a partner in Caroline Munro as " Carla . " Kronos also smokes " herbal " cigars ! The brief touches of comedy , western , swashbuckling , horror , mystery , romance , sex , supernatural , and who-knows-what else all make it an inventive and fun hour-and-a-half . Hey , it even gives God several good plugs ! This horror movie is different , all right .
I was surprised I enjoyed much of this since martial arts movies are okay but nothing I really get into often . Jet Li plays the only likable character in this Asians vs . Blacks gang story . Some of the stunts were tremendous . Some were so over-the-top , so unbelievable that they were funny . The movie certainly isn't one to be taken seriously . The wild action scenes , fairly involving story and nice colors and interesting sound track all make this movie a cut above the normal martial arts fare . The excellent surround sound and sharp picture make it a good one for DVD .
Both of these cases take place in Miami , Fla , with two different lead detectives . One is a series regular : Det . Fernando Bosch while the other is Det . Emilano Tamayo . In Tamayo's case , police get a frantic 911 call stating , " The bullets are flying everywhere ! It turns out two men were in a shootout right in front of a small convenience story . The sad story is that a customer inside , Jessica Dixon , 23 , was struck with one of the bullets and died . Here is a totally innocent victim ; just someone out buying groceries . The police officers in this case are bothered a great deal by this , as they hate to see innocent people senselessly killed . Most people would agree with them . People knew that two people were shooting because a video camera caught one of them on tape . He had fled the scene , as well as the killer who had come by in his car . They quickly scour the hospitals and find their man . At first , he won't talk but when detectives show him a picture of the innocent victim , he breaks down . The man has a heart . After shedding some real tears , he gives them a first name : Corey . Police find out his full name through a marriage database at the station ( computer lists ) . " Wow , it's just one more reason why not to get married , " cracks one wise-guy cop after the database reveals their man . The postscript to this case was a shock : after all that work , the witness gets cold feet and refuses to cooperative and the killer , Corey D . Harris , is let free ! Bosch heads up a force that has to go to the " Little Haiti " section of Miami to find witnesses . A man had been gunned down , but his girlfriend had been face-to-face with the killer . His gun was out of bullets or she would have been murdered , too . The woman , Clara , knows him as a former classmate named " Steve . " The cops get a yearbook and she spots his picture . Steve Stirlin has been identified . However , he proves hard to find , especially with neighborhoods which won't cooperate . " It's a miracle that murders sometimes get solved around here , " cracks one cop . It took four months but they got him .
" Marc Anthony , " the big , brutish-looking-but sensitive bulldog , has a new friend , a tiny little kitty who makes a " home " by sleeping on Anthony's back . The big dog takes a shine to the little one and then protects him as he gets , or seems to get , into domestic trouble . The homemaker in the house makes it clear early on to the dog that she doesn't want him bringing anything into the house . The dog thinks he has to hide the cat , but the little animal gets loose and gets into various predicaments . While trying to hide the identify of the cat or save him being being in the mix-master and being made into a cookie , the dog is always pestering the woman and getting admonished . I read somewhere where this cat was in subsequent cartoons and named " Pussyfoot . " The beginnings of this animated short were both touching and very funny . Then , the one - joke story started to drag a bit until Marc Anthony thought the cat was killed a cried a river of tears , which actually was funny . ( I've never a dog cry or sweat like this dog ! ) They even showed the poor dog's bloodshot eyes after his crying spell ! Another very funny touch was when the dog came back in the house and was given a cookie by the woman . He thought it was the poor little cat-made into-a cookie and placed it on his back where Pussyfoot laid before . This is one sensitive , caring dog ! The end of this is more of the same - more touching and sweet than humor - but it was nice to see .
I admit I found it disappointing on the first look but I decided to give it a second chance and was glad I did . Only then did I appreciate Bill Murray's great performance and the wonderful photography in this movie . The vivid colors in here are really something to see . It's odd how some movies are so much better the second time around . This is a very , very low key film about loneliness and about being in a culture that is totally foreign to you where few people speak your language . In this case , it's Americans - or at least the main character of film ( Bill Murray ) - trying to cope in Japan . The film is almost two-in-one : a travelogue and a story . The former because you really get the feel of what it is like to be a non-Japanese speaking person in that country and what the customs of the people are in Japan , at least to some degree . . . . and it's interesting . Murray is the star of the story and any plaudits he's received for his performance are well - deserved . His facial expressions alone are classic ! Scarlet Johannson is the female lead and she , too , is interesting to watch . These two make for a fascinating " odd couple . "
This is the kind of film that can stay with you for awhile after you watch it : a haunting kind of film that isn't always pleasant or easy to understand but you remember it . It also helps to have a fondness for the 1940 film noir movies . It doesn't help that it appears racist in nature with people of one color all being the bad guys while people with another color all the good guys . I won't say which is which , but if the colors were reversed , there would have been an outcry about the obvious bias here by screenwriter-director Carl Franklin . Despite this , it's still a fascinating movie that just oozes with the 1940s atmosphere . Great narration in there , a la film noir , great automobiles and great sets . It puts you right into the late 40s in Los Angeles , a little bit like the film Chinatown . Denzel Washington does a nice job with the narration and the lead role , the character of " Easy Rawlins , " off the book by Walter Moseley ( which I read and recommend ) . Tom Sizemore and Don Cheadle play very intense characters in supporting roles , particularly Cheadle as the trigger-happy " Mouse . " Jennifer Beals is alluring as the mysterious " Daphne Monet . " The film is a bit confusing in parts and was especially so for me since the book was not exactly the same and had a totally different ending . Nonetheless , the film has always fascinated me and drawn me back for multiple viewings . It's good storytelling and it would be fun to see more of Moseley's books translated to the big screen .
Two cops are bringing a truckload of confiscated weapons to be destroyed when they are rudely interrupted on the street as a semi-trailer suddenly impedes their progress . As the cops screech to a halt , something explodes beneath them and overturns their van . Now all the rifles are dumped out in the street and worse things happen . One cop is dead from the accident and another struggles with some guy and is shot and killed . All of this was planned as we discover early on in the show . A real baddie from past CSI-Miami shows , a name I hadn't heard in awhile , pops up here : " Clavo Cruz " ( Gonzalo Menendez ) . Eric fills in Natalia about that scumbag's history with Horatio and the department . About halfway through this episode , we get another story when a young , Hispanic teen boy is shot and killed , presumably from the one of the guns taken from the heist earlier . The second half of this gets really intense , which is no surprise considering Cruz - perhaps the most vile villain in the history of this program - is involved . The story winds up being a two-parter as one of the CSI regulars is shot twice , the second bullet entering his brain . It's Eric Delki .
I really loved the first 84 seconds on this four-minute silent cartoon . The cartoon is one year short of being 90 years old as I write this , but it's still clever . We see the artist draw the main figure , " Bobby Bumps " and his dog " Fido " and those two plus the scenery comes alive in a speed-ed-up fashion that is interesting to watch . The dialog was presented into two different kinds of formats : in a comic-strip " balloons " and in " title cards . " I liked the former more , because it's almost like looking at a comic strip literally come to life . The story is a bunch of antics that go on in a diner / restaurant ( they used to call a " beanery " ) and in the kitchen as Bobby and his dog help out . Some of the gags are excellent . The dog is a riot . I've seen perhaps 20 silent cartoons as of this writing and , so far , this is the best . It was part of the Popeye The Sailor 1933-1938 DVD Package and can be seen on Disc two . Highly recommended . Don't pass this one up . It is part of the " From the Vault " features .
Who doesn't like ice cream ? Most everyone loves it , I assume , unless they are allergic to it . This episode deals with this ultra-popular food , one in which nobody knows who invented it ! Historians do know where ice cream was " perfected , " though : Italy . That's where " Gelato , " is ; the name they used to call it . Gelato still exists and you can get it ( expensively ) in New York City . As viewers , we get a tour of several places in this Modern Marvels episode , beginning with the huge Dreyer ice cream factory in Bakersfield , Ca . Looking at their labels , it's identical to " Eydes , " which sells here where I live , so apparently Dreyer's goes under more than one name . Most of the tour is seeing how ice cream is made and packaged . Later , we visit two fantastic ice cream parlors in Cincinnati ; learn about ice cream cones , Eskimo Pies , soft-serve ice cream , Dairy Queen , frozen yogurt , the outrageous flavors at Ben & Jerry's and finally , the ice cream of the future " Dippin ' Dots . " I thought it was interesting to hear why the soft-ice cream has more taste than hard ice cream and the top five selling flavors in America . Want to know what they are ? Answer : 1 - Vanilla ; 2 - Chocolate ; 3 - Neapolitan ; 4 - Butter Pecan , and 5 - Cookies ' N Cream . Watching this show will make you want to rush out and buy more ice cream .
There are two stories-in-one here , at least at the beginning . It turns out , of course , there is a connection . Overall , it's a very good episode , a fun one for the most part . We have the normal dramatic opening . Here , a robbery of an armored truck , and the armored guys killed ( we don't see that ) . After the commercial break , we have Lt . Randy Disher having a major toothache and going to the dentist . While under , anesthesia ( but partially aware of what's going on ) , he witnesses the dentist getting into a big fight with someone who had just come into the room . Randy tells Capt . Stottlemeyer , Monk and Natalie about it but no one believes him . In frustration , and tired of being the butt of jokes , he quits the force ! Despite those serious scenes , it's a funny show with Monk at the dentist office , first as a visitor and second as an unwilling " Marathon Man " participant and Randy trying to be a rock star ( in his mind ) .
Overall , this recent concert was good and offered a wonderful group of diverse artists . I had never heard of about a half dozen of these performers and really liked a lot of the " new " faces ( to me ) . They ranged from a few old-time gentlemen to a couple of young women . Macy Gray blew me away with her rendition of " Hound Dog . " I also had no idea Natalie Cole could belt out the blues as she did . Wow , that was a pleasant surprise , as were the two Aerosmith performers , Steve Tyler and Joe Perry . I thought they were just rock / heavy metal-type guys . Wrong . Kim Wilson on harmonica was great , and Buddy Guy playing guitar is always awesome . How about the band ? There were some heavy hitters in there and they left no doubt what a great time they were having helping out most of these performers . The only negative to this DVD , as a few others have pointed out , is the ridiculous rendition by Chuck D of a John Lee Hooker classic . Plus , he made things worse by turning the song into some really lame anti-war diatribe . This is where the expression , " Shut Up And Sing " takes hold . There is always some moron who has to get political , where it's not the forum for that sort of thing . The real question is , " Why was this included in the DVD while so much other good music was not included ? " Anyway , B . B . King finishes up the disc on a positive note and then Bonnie Raitt and Robert Cray join him as the ending credits roll . This is more of a concert than a documentary but the songs are short , too short for my tastes since I enjoyed them so much but , hey , there were a lot of " acts " to squeeze into this 103 - minute DVD , so I understand . I'd rather have paid more and had a two-disc DVD and heard the entire night's offering . That would be awesome . Speaking of that , don't forget the extra bonus tracks on the " features " part of the DVD . There is some excellent music in this , some of it , I found , better than many of the performances on the main concert . The two Aerosmith dudes , Greg Allman and guitarist Warren Haynes , Buddy Guy doing another number and a " 21st Century Blues " rendition of " Revelation , " featuring Chris Thomas King . These extra songs are not to be missed . Any fan of blues , I would suspect , would want this in his or her collection .
What a powerful story ! It's hard to believe this epic movie - three hours in length - was nominated for eight Academy Awards and came away with nothing . It seems unjust . Well , not everything is " just " in this dramatic story , either . Good people die , bad people live . Incredible joy and sorrow are but a few minutes away . The story is well-told and thus keeps your attention , is well-acted and is nicely - filmed . My only complaint was the last 13 minutes when the film got a little too political and , of course , tilted to the Left as films tend to do . Otherwise , I throughly enjoyed the experience of watching this long movie , and sorry I didn't watch this years ago . Well , better late than never , is all I can say . This movie is worthy of any serious film collector's attention . Robert Wise directed and he did a fabulous job . I just love some of the shots and camera angles in this widescreen production , which was done justice in a recently - - released two - disc DVD . The cinematography was by Joseph MacDonald . I'm sorry he didn't win an Oscar . The story has something for everyone : several action scenes , two romances , a little humor , some flag waving and flag disparaging , and a lot of drama and intrigue . I also found two interesting character studies : " Jake Holman , " by lead actor Steve McQueen , and " Captain Collins - , " with Richard Crenna . Both men delivered numerous surprises . There also is a lot of hostility by the Chinese toward the " invaders , " the Americans . China's revolution during the period this story takes place ( md ' 20s ) had two factions : the Nationalists , led by Chiang Kai-shek , and the Communists . The former was generally a peaceful organization , the latter , pretty violent . Neither one wanted outsiders running their country any longer . The cast - well-known and not-so well - - known , was solid from McQueen on down . I think it was odd to hear Richard Attenborugh with an American accent but he did a nice job with it . Crenna played the most interesting character , in my opinion , as captain hard to figure . As for the supporting actors , Simon Oakland ( " Stawski " ) and Mako ( " Po-han " ) stood out to me . I'm not going get into the story , as enough reviewers have already done that . Photograhy-wise , it was nice to see most of this shot outdoors , not on some studio lot or sound-stage . I enjoyed all of the shots of the ship , the " San Pablo . " The new DVD sports an outstanding transfer . Audiby , i's advertised as 4 . 0 sound but there is no rear speaker audio in here , so 3 . 0 would be more accurate . Overall , a memorable story and highly-recommended .
I acquired this mainly because it is a beautifully-filmed period piece centered around World War II . There are several train station scenes that I think about when recalling this film . They are a couple of the highlights of the fine cinematography and set designs in here . Overall , the movie had nice 1940s feel to it with the cars , dress , hairstyles and colors . It also is good to see this on widescreen DVD . The story also is interesting but not exactly plausible in one major regard : Melanie Griffith as a spy . sorry , but the bimbo-like quality of Melanie's voice , doesn't lead credence to playing this kind of character . I just can't picture her as some super-intelligent spy , but maybe she's a lot smarter than the roles she usually plays . Otherwise , this is a well-done , involving suspense film that I enjoy from start to finish .
This was a nice little half-hour movie , which reminded me a bit of another film of similar length that was popular 50 years ago : The Red Balloon . " Paddle To The Sea , " made 42 years ago , never got the publicity or achieved the popularity of " The Red Balloon " but if you liked the latter , you'll like this . I enjoyed them equally . This is a Canadian movie which begins by showing a boy whittling this amazing piece of work : an Indian - very stoic looking - sitting in his canoe . On the side of the boat , he asks that anyone who handles this piece of art , " please throw it back in the water . " The boy decides to let this boat go as far as it can in the water . Although he lives on a mountain , he knows once the ice of winter melts , the boat will slide down the steep hill into a small creek and then into a river , into a bigger river and , hopefully , all the way to Atlantic Ocean . We ( the camera ) follow the progress of this little toy boat through several seasons , some human contact , some contact with sea creatures and birds . The little boat navigates down small rivers , rapids , whirlpools , big rivers , small lakes , big lakes , canals . . . . you name it . Unlike most of the reviewers here , I never saw this movie as a kid . I am only seeing it now as a 60-year-old man , but I enjoyed it as much as any kid . This is " good stuff " that should appeal to anyone .
Our pink hero is searching for used cars in a lot when he discovers a James Bond-type Aston Martin vehicle with all the gadgets . This little sports car intrigues and impresses him , so he buys it . As in other Pink Panther cartoons , an inanimate object turns to be human-like , so when our guy brings his new car back home and begins to spray paint the front of it pink , the car balks ! It wants no part of this spray-paint job ! The car - not the Panther - winds up in a drag race against an old lady , who turns out to be " Granny Flash : senior citizens drag champion . " This was hilarious , thanks to Granny , and I hated to see it end so abruptly . They could have continued this for another full cartoon with the just race between the two cars .
There is no set definition of the word " classic " but I'm sure this film qualifies as such or will in the near future , since it was so unique and popular . . . . and remains so today , over 20 years old later . It's just one of those films that you remember seeing when it came out at the theaters . I doubt if anyone has forgotten the catchy theme song , either . Despite numerous viewings , I still find this very funny as I suspect many people do , because it entertains so well . I know the story is ludicrous and I don't believe for one second in ghosts so I ignore the " theology " and just laugh at Bill Murray , Dan Ackroyd , Harold Ramis , Rick Moranis , Annie Potts and Ernie Hudson . Murray , as he tends to do , grabs the spotlight more than the rest and delivers more laughs than any of the cast but my favorite was Moranis as the nerdy " Louis Tully . " I wish his role had been bigger . All the guys , however , plus Sigourney Weaver , the love interest of the always-horny Murray , are fun . I even liked the sequel because most of this cast was included .
The famous year of 1863 is portrayed here , beginning with the infamous battle of Gettysburg in the first week of July . The carnage of Pickett's suicidal charge , ordered by the usually - reliable Gen . Robert E . Lee , is described vividly . It's not a pretty picture with heads literally flying in the air and other brutalities . The women's role in the Civl War is detailed in this segment . They help the men by supplying food and medical help , as well as moral support . Women , especially in the South , were anything but casual bystanders . Once again , the South has almost no resources and the average citizen's ' house is turned into a hospital . Also interesting here was the account of the shelling of Vicksburg , where people were literally living in made-do caves to escape the intense bombing .
I almost always laugh when a cartoon character turns to us , the audience , and makes a remark . Early in this animated short , Sylvester , turns and whispers to us , " How naive can you get ? " That's after Tweety is asking him what he wants as the cat reaches into the cage , trying to steal him from the front window at " Stacy's " Department Store . Also funny , and usually taken for granted by us viewers , is the music . I liked the violin strings being plucked each time Sylvester would tiptoe around that department store front window and then in the main store as he stalked Tweety ( who had flown away just before being eaten as a sandwich ) . There are the normal amount of great sight gags in here , such as Sylvester making a ladder out of mannequins and then becoming part of the mannequin , or the goofy cat trying on women's hats or the chase through the doll house . This is very entertaining all the way with great gags and great music .
I suppose a film like this will fall into one of two categories for fans of this series : either this was the best of the three or the worst . My vote goes to it being the " best " although I prefer Superman and Batman over Spidey in the superhero category , anyway . However , I did find this movie extremely entertaining . Silly ? Yes , but it's a Marvel Comics cartoon-come-to-life , so anything goes . A little too long ? Probably . . . . . yet I was never bored watching this , and I - and I assume most people - certainly got their money's worth for action , special effects , cool villains , romance , sentiment , good vs . evil , revenge vs . forgiveness , etc . Even two main characters : Spider-Man and his pal Harry - both had two different personalities in this story . There is so much material packed into this movie , it almost too much for one sitting . The film can wear you out ! . Myself , I thought " The Sandman " was the coolest part of this movie . I've read a few of the comic books and thought he was the most interesting of the villains so I was curious to see how he'd be presented in here . I was not disappointed . His scenes were awesome ! This is a rare film : a ton of action and , at the end , a sincere message of forgiveness , not revenge , being the answer . Wow , is that refreshing to hear . Yes , the revenge is more fun . . . . . . but never as satisfying . For a little over two hours of totally escapist entertainment , this fills the bill .
This was much better than I had expected , not that I didn't expect a decent performance from these guys . I just didn't know exactly what to expect since they were long past their " prime . " However , like a number of other ' 60s groups that are still playing , these guys are still very good . Age doesn't seem to hurt their ability to sing , play instruments and entertain in concert . Most of the songs were the classics of the group , the ones that made them famous . These gray-haired " old-timers " were very animated and really into the concert , and did a great job with their old songs . The concert had some electricity to it . The crowd appreciated their efforts and made this a fun DVD to watch and hear . Overall , this is solid music by a classy group , who may look old but can still rock and sing with the best of ' em .
This is one powerful film . The first time I saw it , the Scottish accents made it tough for me to understand a lot and that ruined the viewing experience . I gave up on it but then acquired the DVD , used the English subtitles when I needed them , and really got into this movie , discovering just how good it is . It is excellent . The widescreen picture makes it spectacular in parts , with some wonderful rugged scenery and the story reminded me of Braveheart , an involving tale of good versus evil . Here , it's Liam Neeson ( good ) vs . Tim Roth ( evil ) . Both do their jobs well . Few actors come across as despicable as Roth . Man , you really want to smack this guy in his arrogant , irritating puss . ( He is so nasty and vile the sick critics love his character more than anyone else's here ) . Neeson is a man's man and a solid hero figure as Gibson was in Braveheart . Jessica Lange is strong in here as the female lead . The movie draws you in and gets you totally involved , so prepared to have an emotional experience viewing this .
Here's another of my favorite films , movies that get better and better with each viewing . One thing I've always enjoyed here from the first time I saw this movie is it features the best ( and longest ! ) car chase scene I've ever seen on film . But the movie is far more than just spectacular car chases ( there are two incredible ones , not just the one noted above . ) . It offers an interesting story that remains interesting with each viewing . That's because it's a bit confusing , a la " Mission Impossible , " so each time you see it , you figure more and more out . There also are tons of twists to this crime story . It also features a wonderful international cast " American Robert De Niro , Frenchman Jean Reno , Britain's Sean Bean and Natascha McElhone ( both of whom are better playing Irishmen , as they do here ) and Swede Stellan Skargsgard . All of them are top-flight actors , as you know . As a bonus , I get to see Olympic skating champion Katarina Witt , from Germany . eAlso , it's directed by John Frankenheimer , a man who makes some of the most entertaining films I've ever watched . Speaking of watching , De Niro and Reno are my two favorite guys to watch in this thriller . The French scenery - rural and urban - is also terrific . The action is not overdone and the only scene in the film I didn't care for was the gruesome one in which a bullet is taken out of De Niro . It's just too detailed and unpleasant to view but , with a DVD , can be skipped rapidly . The soundtrack also is outstanding . The Chinese instrument that plays here and there is fantastic . I've heard it before in a couple of Yanni concerts . This is a high quality crime movie and is very highly recommended . This was the first DVD I ever bought ( in 2000 ) and I couldn't have gotten by DVD collection off to a better start !
" Bluto The Great " does it all - at least at the Mardi Gras , where signs are all over proclaiming that Bluto will walk a high wire while swallowing 20 knives . Then , he's dive 100 feet in a " thimbleful " of water while shaving at the same time ! Wow , that's what I call a great act . Before that , he even entertains the big crowd around him by singing , " I Am King Of the Mardi Gras . " Popeye is nearby singing " I Am Popeye The Sailor Man " but he has no crowd listening to him , except for Wimby eating a hamburger . Both songs are the same melody ; just different lyrics . One of the lyrics Bluto sings mentions " I am the king here at Coney , " meaning Coney Island , off New York City . There is a big amusement park with a roller-coaster in the background . So . . . . is the New York or is it New Orleans ? Did Coney Island host a " Mardi Gras Day " or was this a mistake ? I suspect the former , just a day at Coney celebrating Mardi Gras . At any rate , the cartoon offers a little of everything : songs , humor and a ton of sight gags , from tattoos that come to life to some incredibly wild magic tricks to an amazing three-minute chase scene on the big coaster . All in all , as you can , tell was an extremely entertaining Popeye episode .
This was an excellent " Inspector " cartoon , maybe the best one I've seen so far out of a dozen . It featured fantastic artwork and a fun story as our two guys - Inspector Clouseau and Deux-Deux - literally traverse the globe in search of a secret agent . That " secret agent " has an important message to tell the Inspector , which could save his life . Each time the latter and his pal go to a city , something happens and they have to rendezvous somewhere else . Finally , they meet in a hut in the jungles of Naiorobi , only to find out the " agent " is a different kind of agent ( who is a takeoff on British actor Terry Thomas , an actor who became well-known in the 1960s . ) It's on the DVD " The Pink Panther Classic Cartoon Collection , Vol . 6 - Inspector Cartoons . " Note : June Foray did some quick voice-work in here as a Marlene Dietrich-type spy . Unfortunately , she only had one quick scene .
Here's another recently-made animated film that has two outstanding characteristics which make it a winner : 1 - consistently funny humor that adults can enjoy , and 2 - beautiful , bold colors . When a movie is both fun to hear and to watch , I have very few complaints . This movie provides a lot of enjoyment with more jokes perhaps that adults would laugh at than the kids . I can't say that for sure , since I watched it by myself . . . . but I sure got my share of laughs This is a tale of four zoo animals that wind up in the wilds . To be more precise , they go from the big zoo in New York City to the wilds of Madagascar , an island near Africa . Wherever these " guys " are - the lion , zebra , hippo and giraffe - they are entertaining . Ben Stiller and Chris Rock , voicing the lion ( " Alex " ) and zebra ( " Marty " ) , respectively , are the two main characters . Jada Pinkett Smith's hippo ( " Gloria " ) and and David Schwimmer's hypochondriac giraffe ( " Melman " ) provide solid support . The main thing is that all the characters , including supporting ones , are likable and funny in their own way . Every character is quite different . The story movies exceptionally fast so the hour-and-a-half is easy to watch . Maybe the best thing I can say is that I heard a lot of good things about this before watching it , and it lived up to its hype . That's not easy to do .
I'm very familiar with Chris Issak's voice , having owned a half dozen or so of his CDs , but I had never seen him perform until " Soundstage " DVD . It exceeded my expectations in that I never knew Issak was such a comedian . The guy is hilarious ! Most importantly , he sang well and did some of this best songs . The only bad part of this DVD is that it is so short : the program is only 46 minutes long , enough for about 11 numbers . This guy is such a good singer and so entertaining between songs that I wish this concert was longer . I've read that people who attended this remarked it was longer but cut for this disc . When I told a good friend about this DVD , he remarked he has seen Isaak twice in concert and said they were two of the best concerts he's ever attended . They were a lot wilder and risqué than the material shown on this made-for-TV disc ( which he had also seen . ) Anyway , the songs we hear are : American Boy , Wicked Game , Go Walking Down There , Baby Did A Bad Bad Thing , Courthouse , Somebody's Crying , One Day , San Francisco Days , Forever Blue and Super Magic 2000 . The most fun was " Baby Did A Bad , Bad Thing " because Isaak did a great job with the song and added some great humor to it .
This is an outstanding sequel to an outstanding movie The Fugitive ( 1993 ) . In this film , the focus is on the team that was searching for Dr . Richard Kimble in the first movie . That team was led by Tommy Lee Jones , who won an Oscar for his performance , which probably helped spur this sequel . It worked , as Jones and company ( Joe Pantoliano and others ) are just as much fun to watch as they were in The Fugitive . There are many similarities to the latter , especially in the first third of the film , featuring some tremendous action scenes . Instead of a train crash , we have a plane crash . Instead of Harrison Ford on the run , we have Wesley Snipes . In both films , you have such an involving story that the two hours fly by . U . S Marshals , being the newer film of the two , has better sound and even better special effects for the action scenes . As spectacular as was the train crash in The Fugitive , the plane disaster in here is even better . The same goes for a few other scenes . There is more action in this film . Normally , I don't need that but it's so well-done here , it's fine . . . . fun to watch . The Fugitive is still one of my all-time favorite movies . If you were entertained by it as well but are wary of sequels , you needn't be here : this is excellent .
