This is NOT a sequel to ALLIGATOR ( 1980 ) , but the premise is still the same . A community is terrorized by a giant toxic alligator that crawls out of the sewer . A decent ensemble cast can not save this ' dud ' . The ' gator ' is just not scary enough and the pace of the story is equal to a bad accident . The diverse cast members are good , but equally bland : Steve Railsback , Joseph Bologna , Dee Wallace Stone , Brock Peters and Bill Daily . Stone is the biggest disappointment . This movie just doesn't get going faster than a slow crawl .
Twenty foot , nine foot ; size is not that important when it involves these freaks of nature effected by insecticides and angered by underwater earthquakes . The giant ocean creatures bring fear to a tiny Polynesian island and a marine biologist ( Adam Baldwin ) and his young son ( Emile Hirsch ) try to protect them from being killed . Julie Carmen and Peter Adams also participate in this more or less waste of time .
More money was spent on the DVD case . Obviously low budget ; ridiculous story ; no acting ; terrible make-up . . . need more ? Following a traffic accident , a young woman ( Christine Taylor ) tries to get her fiancé ( Shane Brolly ) out of a demonic hospital that is located somewhere between reality and who knows where . The staff is made up of devil worshipers and vampire-like nurses . Looking for credibility I assume , Jerry O'Connell is cast as another person searching for a lost soul in this dark and too repetitive contrivance . The last fifteen minutes is filled with ghoulish patients staggering through the hospital halls . . . more of a headache than frightening . Also appearing are : Katie Lohmann , Ellie Cornell , Stacy Fuson and Marshall Bell .
Very interesting product from South Korea , a . k . a . REPTILIAN is equally good as it is bad . Far out story line with unimaginative dialogue . Very good F / X holds your interest . Hostile invading aliens reanimate a dormant giant lizard-like creature named Yonggary to eradicate humanity and take control of Earth . Super cool alien spacecraft and a prehistoric monster should be more than enough to keep Sci-Fi fans happy . Overview of notable cast members : Harrison Young , Donna Philipson , Karl Calhoun , Dan Cashman and Richard B . Livingston . The monster is handsomely detailed and fun to watch .
Heading a search for oil , a geologist ( John Agar ) finds adventure in the form of a mad doctor ( Jeff Alexander ) who seeks to create a reptile man . Also in the cast are Francine York , Bill Thurman and Shirley McLine . Talk about low budget . . . some kid gave up his lunch money to make this one . And when you finally get to see a " creature " , you bust a gut laughing . Why did they waste color film on this ? To be exact , being shot in black & white would've been an asset . This is a must to avoid . Sorry .
Imagine if you will : four teen students have an assignment to spend the night in a haunted house in St . Francisville , Louisiana to check for the existence of the paranormal . If you watch this in the dark and late at night ; you possibly will have the hair on the back of your neck rise a couple of times . Otherwise this mock documentary is a very lazy rip off of BLAIR WITCH PROJECT . What is to be dialogue is very lame and the actors are pleasant looking enough , but seem to lack genuine personality . It seems to take forever before something real spooky even happens . This movie is excellent for ' sleep overs ' , when you have both eyes barely open and everyone is yakin ' and snackin ' .
You like movies that are so bad , they're good ? You know who you are . Borderline ridiculous even better . MOUNTAINTOP MOTEL MASSACRE features amateur acting , terribly cheap special effects and top notch creepy atmosphere . Evelyn ( Anna Chappell ) , after a three year stay at the Arkansas Mental Hospital , runs the Mountaintop Motel just off the highway and deep in the woods . She oversees a series of run-down cabins renting for $7 a night . Evelyn's head is full of evil voices that push her to killing her own daughter and then on a rampage of cabin-to-cabin slaughter . She employs snakes , rats and cockroaches as tension elevators before she sneaks in and uses her deadly blade . I absolutely loved the rainstorm atmosphere . This motel has a hell-of-a check out time . . . its bloody murder . Jim McCullough Jr . writes and directs . The cast also features : Bill Thurman , Will Mitchel , Virginia Loridans and Gregg Brazzel .
Its more like up a s^t creek without a paddle . Dumb , dumb , dumb . After the funeral of a friend , three " city boys " decide to honor a childhood promise and take a trip on river in Oregon . This little camping expedition will enable them to search for the lost D . B . Cooper loot . The will some how survive outrageous encounters with animals and wild , woodsy mountain men . The three will end up close to naked when befriended by a woodsy hermit played by Burt Reynolds . Plenty of sexual reference and crude humor . The scenery is more impressive than the cast that includes : Matthew Lillard , Seth Green , Dax Shepard , Nadine Bernecker and Bonnie Somerville .
Ed Wood Jr . tries Film-Noir with this little crime drama . Lyle Talbot plays Inspector Johns and Steve Reeves as Lt . Bob Lawrence close in on a young man ( Clancy Malone ) , the son of a prominent plastic surgeon ( Herbert Rawlinson ) , who after hanging with a small time criminal ( Timothy Farrell ) is wanted for murder . His sister ( Dolores Fuller ) has been his best support for so long and now there is nothing she can do . His father wants to protect him and does have the last say-so in the finale . Wood's lack of talent shows all over JAIL BAIT . By the way , the title is not about a young girl . . . but a gun . Talbot does the best with what is offered him . And yes , Reeves is the future Hercules . Fuller would would later have small parts in movies , but her biggest claim to any fame is for writing a handful of songs for Elvis Presley .
This is one of my childhood favorites watched in tandem with THE KILLER SHREWS ( 1959 ) both being products of the Ray Kellogg / Ken Curtis team . A tiny Texas town is terrorized by a giant mutant Gila Monster . After a couple of teens disappear from lover's lane along with reports of farm animals missing , the local sheriff ( Fred Graham ) enlists the aid of teen hot-rodders to search for the missing . The leader ( Don Sullivan ) of the hotrod club attempts to sing a couple of songs before solving the problem with the giant slithering lizard . Also in the cast : Ken Knox , Lisa Simone and Shug Fisher as the funny town drunk . The music is pretty lame proving Sullivan is no rock ' n ' roller . Special effects are quite primitive , but this is still a hoot to watch after all these years .
An Irwin Allen disaster yarn about African killer bees swarming into Texas with a bee-line on Houston . Over acting , bad acting and wasted acting . Fear factor is mild . Ensemble cast includes : Michael Caine , Katherine Ross , Fred MacMurray , Lee Grant , Richard Widmark , Henry Fonda and Olivia de Haviland . Pretty much a waste of time .
THE BROKEN is part of the After Dark Horrorfest III . Not a slasher or filled with gore . Plenty of broken glass and mirrors in this edgy thriller from France and writer / director Sean Ellis . A successful radiologist Gina McVay ( Lena Headly ) inters a strange world as her life seems to spiral out of control . While attending her father's ( Richard Jenkins ) birthday party , the guests are stunned when a mirror crashes to the floor for no obvious reason . Things get really strange when she witnesses a woman that is the spitting image of herself driving down a London street in a car identical to her own . Gina sneaks to her doppelganger's apartment and finds a photo of herself with her father . She drives away and is involved in a head on collision . Then mysteriously her boyfriend is not the same ; to be exact family and friends are not easy for her to trust . Is Gina beside herself ? Is she in a parallel world ? Her nightmares become more horrific . . . is she broken ? Kudos if you can figure this one out . . . it won't be easy . Editing couldn't be any tighter . Lighting is questionable . Other players : Melvil Poupard , William Armstrong , Michelle Duncan and Ulrich Thomsen .
ADULT . Softcore . A beautiful woman ( Nikki Fritz ) spends a week with her old corrupt boyfriend " working off " her husband's gambling debt . No need to get involved with a real story line when there is a ton of simulated sex scenes scorching the screen . It is hard not to notice Fritz . . . she appears to be naked even with her clothes on . Most of the acting is lame and the sex is overacted . Also in this direct to video eye popper is Angela Davies , Alex Ferro , Daniel Anderson and Wendy Rice .
Ron Howard directs this quirky comedy about a San Francisco video-store clerk ( Matthew McConaughey ) allowing a desperate TV station televise his daily life around-the-clock . It causes problems for those around him , especially his brother ( Woody Harrelson ) and a new relationship with his brother's former girlfriend ( Jenna Elfman ) . This is so off beat . . . I like it . After a while you realize you've been watching it for two hours . A real diverse cast keeps the movie alive . Featured players : Ellen DeGeneres , Rob Reiner , Martin Landau , Sally Kirkland , Dennis Hopper and Elizabeth Hurley who is hotter than hot . Give this romantic comedy a chance to play your heart strings .
By far not a Hammer film , but it does have that dynamic duo of Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee . The skull of the one and only Marquis de Sade is robbed from the grave and a shady dealer ( Patrick Wymark ) offers it to a collector of the occult Christopher Maitland ( Cushing ) . Maitland is proud of his new possession and later discovers that it was stolen from his friend Matthew Philips ( Lee ) . Philips is not exactly unhappy with the loss and he passes on some sound advice about the skull's deadly powers . Death seems to follow possession of the purloined headpiece . Portions of the film have no dialog and the visuals carry the story along . Some pretty cool and interesting camera shots are through the eye sockets of the skull . Its not hard to see the strings moving the skull about . Also in the cast are : Michael Gough , Patrick Magee , Nigel Green and Jill Bennett .
OK , another giant spiders flick ; but wait . . . this one is not totally bad . The CGI is really pretty smooth and the spiders do look cool . A young ski team is training for the Olympics and arrive at a nice ski resort in Logan County Utah run by Stephen J . Cannell . The young squad is thrilled to meet a ski instructor ( Patrick Muldoon ) that is a retired Olympic star . Things no longer focus on training when a scientist ( Vanessa Williams ) working at a government lab arrives with the horrifying news that a project has gone wrong . Giant spiders with accelerated growth are loose in the Lost Mountains and killing anyone they can pounce upon . Also in the cast : David Millbern , Matt Whittaker , Carleigh King and Thomas Calabro .
Not exactly a new story line , but this romantic comedy makes the concept work . A young man ( John Cusack ) and a drop dead gorgeous woman ( Kate Beckinsale ) keep meeting by chance and wonder if they are meant for each other . Although both are promised to others . . . oddly enough they still feel that their soul mate is out there somewhere . A little sappy in some places , but viva la love . Being a romantic I am almost obligated to be riveted . My favorite scene is where Cusack is on the ground and snow starts falling . The finale is almost too sweet , but most deserving . This is not one of Cusack's deeper roles , but who in the hell could not be smitten by Beckinsale . Notable support is provided by Jeremy Piven and Molly Shannon . John Corbett plays the worst role I've ever seen him in . On the other hand Eugene Levy is quirky and funny . Watch this with your soul mate .
Based on real life events , but liberal in skirting the facts . Richard F . Speck was born in Illinois , but moved to Texas around the age of six . Growing up in more trouble than not . The acne-pocked high-school dropout was a lifelong criminal and was pleased with himself for living his life the way he wanted . In July 1966 , Speck ( Corin Nemec ) shocked a nation with the brutalized rapes and murders of 9 Chicago student nurses . Methodically beating , raping , stabbing , choking and shooting them to death in one of the horrific atrocities committed in American history . With his death sentence overturned ; was set to be in prison for over 400 years , when he died of an enlarged heart in 1991 . Five years later , a video tape surfaced that showed Speck in his cell with female breast , the results of smuggled female hormones ; doing hard drugs and having sex with his cell-mate . He also spoke explicitly of the murders he committed . . . with bravado and no remorse . Also in the cast : Andrew Divoff , Joanne Chew , John Eric Bentley , Debby Rochon and Tony Todd .
Very shallow script ; lame story line ; wasted star studded cast ; but enough action to keep your eyes on the screen . Lovers of fine cars will be in Heaven . Memphis Raines ( Nicolas Cage ) is a recently retired genius car thief that must come to the rescue of his little brother ( Giovanni Ribisi ) . Raines must gather a crew and boost 50 exotic cars in one night in exchange for the life of his brother . Cage can say so much with his mannerisms and expressions to make up for the script . Robert Duvall wants to take charge of the movie so bad you can see it . A blonde Angelina Jolie is sassy and sexy and that is enough . Gosh , she makes me sweat . Will Patton is like a fish out of water . Ribisi is just a little over the top , but after all his life is at stake . Not one of the best action / crime flics , but sure is fun to watch . At times , Cage and Jolie are at the flash point .
The lives of Megan ( Jackie Kresler ) and Dylan ( Shane Elliott ) change in the Nevada desert between Reno and Las Vegas . They stop to eat at a small greasy spoon where they reluctantly learn about the infamous Area 51 by the café proprietor ( Jonathan Breck ) . After getting back on the road in their forty year old Lincoln , the radio gets a little crazy broadcasting Hitler's speech at the 1836 Olympics and then later a 1958 news bulletin of Elvis Presley being drafted into the military . The car slowly breaks down and the two are in for the scare of their lives as mysterious unexplainable things happen in the lonely radiation-poisoned desert ; remnants of nuclear testing . Megan meets a lost little girl ( Channing Nichols ) and a wounded WWII soldier . The nightmarish journey doesn't end there . Kresler is impressive to a degree and writer / director James Lay makes good use of Patsy Cline tunes . All in all , moderately interesting Sci-Fi .
Kind of cheesy , but still creepy . A small island is terrorized by a shell-like creature with tentacles that pulverize and suck the bones out of their victims . This is one of those sci-fi flicks that seems to end up funnier than it is frightening . Still worth a watch . Special visual and sound effects are obviously dated . Veteran horror master Peter Cushing can't save this one . The better acting comes from Edward Judd , Carole Gray and Eddie Byrne .
This is a rip off of the old Frankenstein premise . An acclaimed scientist is killed in a freakish accident and his father , a noted brain surgeon saves the brain . It is then put into a robotic body of his own design . His brother , an electrical genius , gives the ' colossus ' impetus to transfer thoughts into motion . The whole project goes bad , when the creation goes berserk . Special effects are undeveloped . The script is lacking . And it is humorous that this is not scary a bit . Well , very small kids will think this is good . If you are wide awake at three in the morning and this comes on . . . . night , night . The lead characters are played by Otto Kruger , John Baragrey and Ross Martin . Ed Wolff played the ' Colossus ' .
It is the 1880s and Cuba is a hotbed of commerce and personal manipulations . A wealthy businessman ( Antonio Banderas ) is thrust into a dizzy world of danger and mystery after marrying a sensationally beautiful woman ( Angelina Jolie ) . Her past governs her future and her newlywed husband is obsessed with giving her his whole world . The story line seems at times a bit haphazard ; but the steamy love scenes are worth more than the cost of admission . And we are talking about full redeeming nudity , because the story's very meaning lies within . Banderas has not been this powerful since MASK OF ZORRO ( 1998 ) . And Miss Jolie evokes sex period . The sizzle between the two is what holds the movie together . In supporting roles are Thomas Jane and Jack Thompson . This movie may not be the best or even that memorable ; but it will damn sure give you something to talk about .
Based on personal memoirs of Hollywood producer Art Linson and directed by the famed Barry Levinson WHAT JUST HAPPENED is a fictional flick about showbiz . Ben ( Robert De Niro ) is a struggling producer desperately trying to save two marriages and salvage two movies . His movie " Fiercely " is in a downward spiral after a disastrous test screening and the studio head ( Catherine Kenner ) is not impressed slightly and is certain that even lead star Sean Penn can't save it . Ben's upcoming film is in jeopardy because its star Bruce Willis has gained considerable weight and is sporting a woolly beard . . . detrimental to his audience appeal . Hollywood is filled with deceit , greed and inflated egos bouncing out of control . Even humor can't get too dark . Also in this star-studded cast : Robin Wright Penn , John Turturro , Stanley Tucci , Kristen Stewart and Michael Wincott .
Sporadically funny retread of the original . Once again J ( Will Smith ) and K ( Tommy Lee Jones ) special agents of a secret society of protectors of Earth aka Men in Black must shield the world's population from aliens at odds with themselves . The diverse cast can't save this film from itself . Smith is sometimes funny , but mostly predictable and a little flat . Isn't Jones getting a little old for this s # t ? Other featured players : Johnny Knoxville , Rip Torn , Rosario Dawson and the fetching Lara Flynn Boyle . And cameos for Peter Graves , Martha Stewart and Michael Jackson . Worth watching just for the aliens and terrific F / X .
A honeymoon is cut short when a maimed war hero ( Richard Crane ) seeks healing . The newlywed bride ( Beverly Garland ) tracks her husband down in a Louisiana bayou getting injections of a serum from alligator glands . A mad scientist tries to heal cripples with his bizarre experiments . After awhile the injected mutate into . . . well you can guess by the movie's title . Veteran actor Lon Chaney Jr plays a crazed Cajun with a left hook ( pun ) and a strong aversion to ' gators ' . Great scenery and background score . Special effects are pretty neat . Garland is beautiful and flawless in this Sci-Fi thriller . Notable support from George Macready , Bruce Bennett and Frieda Inescort . This is an attention grabber and well worth your while .
Arthur Conan Doyle's super sleuth Sherlock Holmes ( Basil Rathbone ) and his assistant Dr . Watson ( Nigel Bruce ) work seriously to save the British war effort . Holmes is again up against his arch enemy , Professor Moriarty ( Lionel Atwill ) , who is now working for the Nazi and they must be stopped for getting their hands on information concerning a crucial new bomb site . While investigating Holmes takes on a few disguises : an old German bookseller , a Swiss inventor and even a criminal named Lascar . Also featured in this crime thriller is Dennis Hoey as inspector Lestrade , Holmes Herbert , Kaaren Verne and once again Mary Gordon plays Mrs . Hudson the faithful housekeeper at 221B Baker Street . For some reason I thought Rathbone appeared less intense as usual . And although Atwill is known for being a good villain he is bland compared to Henry Daniell as Moriarty . NOTE : The USA release runs 68 minutes . . . 12 minutes less than the UK film .
A mysterious murder on a fast moving train is not exactly a unique story line , but this Sherlock Holmes who-done-it is entertaining . Holmes ( Basil Rathbone ) and his faithful sideman Dr . Watson ( Nigel Bruce ) are hired to guard against the theft of Lady Margaret Carstairs ' ( Mary Forbes ) precious " Star of Rhodesia " , a diamond huge enough to choke a pony . While on a speeding train from London to Edinburgh Lady Carstairs ' nephew is killed and the priceless gem is stolen . Holmes sets out to find the murderer and retrieve the diamond . Besides everyone being a suspect ; also on board is the infamous criminal Colonel Sebastian Moran ( Alan Mowbray ) , a master of disguise who can be posing as any of the passengers . Pretending to be on his way toward a fishing vacation is Inspector Lestrade ( Dennis Hoey ) of Scotland Yard , who wants to be in the middle of the confusion trying to solve the mystery . Intrigue and suspense builds at every turn of the speeding train . This is not one of the best Holmes films , but interesting enough . Perfect for your late night viewing .
Sixty year old Tom Selleck still has that boyish macho charm working for him . Based on a Robert B Parker novel , Selleck plays Jesse Stone a former big-city detective turned laid-back police chief of a small fishing community Paradise , Massachuesetts . Stone still fights his demons , namely the thought of his ex-wife and his thing for drinking . Two major crimes confront Stone : a gang rape of a teenage girl ( Alexis Dziena ) and a seemingly random series of killings . Stone strongly suspects a pompous vacationer ( Reg Rogers ) and his slightly loony wife ( Jane Adams ) of the methodical murders . . . but still needs to build up enough evidence to prove it . My favorite scene is where a cunning lawyer ( Mimi Rogers ) hikes her skirt and straddles a seated Selleck to muddle his mind with seduction . The no real frills climax is not unexpected . Also in the cast are : Cindy Sampson , Kohl Sudduth and Viola Davis .
Robert Urich is a retired cop from New York City on vacation with his daughter . While traveling on vacation , a flat tire enables him to get involved investigating a series of mysterious cattle mutilations . JoBeth Williams is the local sheriff having trouble convincing authorities of her ideas about the cause of the killings . Gailard Sartain plays an anxious mayor . Visuals are not so graphic , but the suspense keeps you interested . Providing fine support are : Hoyt Axton , Peter Coyote and Harry Carey , Jr .
Produced by Steven Soderbergh and George Clooney , good pedigree . Greg Jacobs directs this cold ride . A female student ( Emily Blunt ) is desperate to get home for the Christmas holiday . Instead of taking the bus , she excepts a ride with a classmate ( Ashton Holmes ) . He appears a little timid , but on the other hand he sounds to her more and more like a stalker . After hours on the lonely snowy highway , the stranger decides on taking a short cut on the " scenic route " . . . of course its through the woods . They are sideswiped by a hit-and-run driver and end up stuck in a snow bank . Her cell phone is in a dead zone , but they do find a candy bar to eat . She is still not certain about her driver ; but there is something else to worry about . . . they are not alone in the snow covered woods . Frightening apparitions begin to appear and the chills become more chilling . But somehow this story becomes a bit disjointed and the viewer is left understanding nothing more than a raging snowstorm on a remote country road .
No doubt director Bob Marshall does Bob Fosse proud ; but I guess I was expecting more . Catherine Zeta-Jones plays Velma Kelley , a popular Chicago nightclub star who gains more fame than she needs after shooting her cheating husband . Velma's notoriety soon begins to fade when an aspiring stage performer , Roxie Hart ( Renee Zellweger ) , who also shoots her lover and winds up in jail . Under the self-serving guidance of prison supervisor Mama Morton ( Queen Latifah ) and silver-tongued lawyer Billy Flynn ( Richard Gere ) , the two divas conjure freedom , with each trying to steal the favor of the spotlight from the other . Zeta-Jones is no less a goddess . Zellweger has the way to charm your attention . Queen Latifah if nothing else provides cleavage . And the ever charming Gere fights off being pedestrian . Albeit it only took close to three decades to get Fosse's Broadway musical glittering on the silver screen .
Animated enjoyment . . . definitely not the best I've seen , but crude humor gives it a little lift and a PG rating . Marty the zebra ( Chris Rock ) is bored with being in the NYC Central Park Zoo and decides to bust out and maybe find " the wild " . After Marty's escape , he is discovered missing by his friends Alex the Lion ( Ben Stiller ) , Melman the Giraffe ( David Schwimmer ) and Gloria the hopeful Hippo ( Jada Pinkett Smith ) . The three break out of the zoo and finds Marty at Grand Central Station , but before they can catch the train back home , they are darted and carted and placed on a ship headed to Africa , where they can get away from their stressful captivity . The ship is sabotaged by some persistent penguins and all find themselves stranded on the shores of Madagascar , off the southeast coast of Africa . Surprises arise and the four friends are faced with the reality of their own predestined roles in the animal world . Also lending voices to this fine looking CGI animated adventure are : Sacha Baron Cohen , Andy Richter , Chris Knights and Cedric the Entertainer . Rock's Marty the Zebra is the most likable character . I think just the opposite about Stiller's Alex the Lion . I can't say I am honestly awaiting a MADAGASCAR 2 .
Very interesting action flick . An elite assassin ( Kristy Swanson ) for a covert U . S . agency decides not to pull the trigger on her latest assignment . She spots her target who is a well known TV reporter ( David Dukes ) playing with his child and decides to not take his life . Now she and her target are hunted down by her employers . Michael Madsen and Ron Perlman are determined to catch the savvy and sexy sharpshooter .
Popular Indiana born cowboy Rocky Lane's heyday was probably the 1940's and 50's , although he worked from 1929 till the mid 60's . VIGILANTE HIDEOUT is evocative of his cowboy roles . Rocky and his faithful stallion Black Jack come to the rescue of eccentric Nugget Clark ( Eddy Waller ) , who is trying to help his neighbors fight the harsh drought by providing them water . There is $25 , 000 in the bank for the purpose of building an aqueduct . Rocky places himself right in the middle of the bitter battle over the water rights . Bad guys led by Muley Price ( Roy Bancroft ) rob the bank , but of course have little hope of getting to far with Range Detective Lane on their trail . Average or better Saturday morning cowboy movie . Surely entertaining enough . Also in the cast : Virginia Herrick , Don Haggerty , Guy Teague and Cliff Clark .
This Republic Picture has Gene Autry and the Cass County Boys accused of bank robbery . To prove their innocence , Gene and the boys are used as decoys to find the missing money . A dude ranch is renovated and who is among the first to check into the Serenity Ranch ; dudes for sure , two rival groups of gangsters with two purposes . . . to hideout and search for the stolen money . Plenty of action ; the usual fisticuffs , horse and car chases plus Gene and the Cass County Boys sing several songs including : " Going Back to Texas " and " The Merry-Go-Round Broke Down " . Where is Texas ? This oater is filmed in Chatworth , California . To be exact . . . where is Robin Hood ? Among the list of players : Sterling Holloway , Lynne Roberts , Adele Mara , James Cardwell and Ray Walker .
Over acted , under acted , moody , dark and depressing . This movie is very interesting if you give it a chance . A young woman ( Angelina Jolie ) falls in love with the man that accidentally killed her brother in a botched robbery . I mainly watched this movie because of Miss Jolie , who is becoming my favorite naughty girl as per her role in GIA . Mekhi Phifer shows great potential for heavier and more acceptable roles . William Forsythe seems quite subdued while Rosanna Arquette deals with going from chemically induced to sober . Fans of NYC and or Jolie will give this a ' yo ' .
Cleverly written with a splash of suspense . Don't even forget about a dark side . People always want more than they have ; more money , more time , more love . . . more life . A group of individual's lives are connected through an addiction to gambling . Kim Basinger is a perplexed writer that has lost almost all of her family's savings . Her husband ( Ray Liotta ) misses her and her daughter ( Carson Brown ) no longer has a college fund . Forest Whitaker needs his NBA bound nephew Nick Cannon to shave points in basketball games to win money . Danny DeVito is a washed-up magician needing money to restart a career . Jay Mohr is a volatile bookie , who is ruthless in collecting his money . Kelsey Grammar is a detective investigating the killing of two bookies . Atmosphere is moody and the pace pulsing . Also in the cast : Tim Roth , Carla Gugino and Grant Sullivan .
Low budget with some better than average special effects . Mrs . Lucy Albright is a sorceress that fashions her outer self out of stitching together skin and body parts of her victims . She checks into a quiet New England boarding house with the full intent of stealing the guest's souls and turning them into paper dolls for her book of memories . Don't expect any gore ; some may say don't expect much at all . . . but STITCHES is really not all that bad for 81 minutes of straight to video . For a low budget flick this film is photographed rather well . There is some over-acting ; but the story is kind of novel . Other cast members : Debra Mayer , Kaycee Shank , Marc Newburger and Robert Donovan .
Some situational laughs as Shane Wolf ( Vin Diesel ) a stout and tough Navy S . E . A . L . goes from dangerous duty to " do-do " duty . Wolf is assigned to protecting a military widow's ( Faith Ford ) five out-of-control kids . Involved in dangerous missions all over the world ; babysitting duty proves to provide its own risks and humorous problems . Absolutely hilarious is Carol Kane as housekeeper Helga . School Principal Claire Fletcher ( Lauren Graham ) , who also has military training , easily sides with Wolf and his awkward assignment . Brad Garrett is perfect as the pompous Vice-Principal and wrestling coach . Sometimes a little too cute , but after all this is a Disney Picture . The rented DVD is a cheap babysitter .
Russell Wade plays an officer signing aboard a ship under the command of Captain Will Stone ( Richard Dix ) . It doesn't take Wade long to witness how the captain uses his " authority " in dealing with resentment towards crew members . Stone becomes obsessed with his power . Wade has trouble trying to convince the crew that their beloved captain is going mad . Special effects good for 1940's . Also in the cast : Edmund Glover , Ben Bard and Edith Barrett .
One of Audie Murphy's last movies is nothing to really brag about . But he is a genuine American military hero and extremely popular . Harsh Captain Bruce Coburn ( Murphy ) leads a group of the Cavalry to accept a shipment of forty valuable rifles : and hopes to avoid Cochise ( Michael Keep ) and the Apaches . Corporal Bodine ( Kenneth Tobey ) starts a mutiny against the much hated Cpt . Coburn and intends to sell the rifles to Cochise instead of going to Mexico to trade them . Cpt . Coburn arrives back to the command post at Apache Wells in shame and loses his rank . In spite of this , he heads out singlehanded to retrieve the guns , capture Bodine and put down a massive Apache attack . Filmed in California and the most scenic location being the Red Rock Canyon State Park . The cast also features : Michael Burns , Laraine Stephens , Robert Brubaker and Byron Morrow .
This is a sequel to 8MM ( 1999 ) , but not a continued storyline . The career of a prominent politician ( Johnathon Schaech ) is about to derail . Everything looks in his favor to climb the political ladder . His fiancée ( Lori Heuring ) is beyond wealthy and her daddy ( Bruce Davidson ) is an Ambassador . Schaech's becoming a congressman is in jeopardy due to an extortionist with revealing photos and a video of the young couple having a sordid sexual tryst with a model / prostitute ( Zita Gorog ) in Budapest . They must delve into the underworld of sex and pornography to retrieve the evidence in order to save the young politician's career , as well as his future father-in-law's . A very strong rated R due to very graphic sexual activity . Not fade away or quick shots of the sex either . So this erotic thriller is not meant for everyone . And it is worth watching again in spite of the lackluster unimaginative ending .
Get a good grip and hang on . Director Brian De Palma gives us another one of those fast paced suspense filled thrillers . And what about Nicolas Cage ? Does he love to act or just show out ? I think Cage is very good at what he does and is manic enough to get your undivided attention . Cage plays a highly visible Atlantic City detective Rick Santoro who is not too good to shake down drug dealers in order to buy gifts for female companions and most of all fund his illegal gambling habit . Santoro finds himself riding out a hurricane at a boxing arena where he has money bet on the champ ( Stan Shaw ) who just happens to be one of his former high school classmates . Oh no ! It looks like the champ has taken a dive . At the same time his best friend ( Gary Sinise ) is a Pentagon security chief who is guarding the secretary of defense who happens to be in the arena . Sauntering in is a beautiful mystery lady ( Carla Gugino ) who is somehow involved with the shooting of the defense secretary . The mercurial detective now juggles three things : finding out why the champ took a dive ; the identity of the mystery woman ; and who in the hell shot the secretary of defense . As Santoro starts putting the pieces of the puzzle together he finds out that his old friend ( Sinise ) is not the " straight ahead " guy he used to be . SNAKE EYES will have your knuckles turning white or maybe blue while hanging on the edge of your seat . Just enough violence and blood to excite and give a jump start to the many of plots . And how confusing can an ending be ? What does it mean ? Pretty decent movie and real good movie if you like watching Cage end up a bloody pulp .
A movie about football and faith . Shiloh Christian Academy has a football team that has not had a winning season in six years . Coach Grant Taylor ( Alex Kendrick ) is down trodden and losing his faith . Facing problems with unhappy team boosters that want his job terminated . His car won't run . And he and his wife face the problems of starting a family . Coach Taylor finds a new outlook on things when restoring his faith and getting his team to dedicate its attention to honoring God . Good things begin to happen and the Shiloh Eagles find themselves with a winning season and a shot at becoming champions . A wholesome , very predictable film that wipes away cynicism and doubt and encourages never giving up , never backing down and never losing faith . Kendrick also directs and shares writing credit with his brother Stephen . Also starring are : Jason McLeod , James Blackwell , Bailey Cave , Jim McBride and Ray Wood . Game sequences are not all that impressive . Before the credits roll there is that unmistakable warm and fuzzy feeling .
Just like putting a shine on the perfect apple . John Moore directs this remake of the 1976 classic starring Gregory Peck and Lee Remick . Same situations with maybe more profound violence . Godson of the President and a recently appointed U . S . foreign diplomat , Robert Thorn ( Liev Schreiber ) , exchanges an orphan for his stillborn baby . Mrs . Thorn ( Julia Stiles ) gradually begins to notice things are just not right with the young Damien ( Seamus Davey-Fitzpatrick ) . Things become a bit grotesque as the nanny commits suicide and is replaced with a mysterious caregiver ( Mia Farrow ) . An observant photographer ( David Thewis ) convinces Thorn that his child is the son of Satan ! My favorite scene is when Thorn meets a priest ( Pete Postlethwaite ) under a bridge in the rain . . . right before the later is impaled . Watching the photographer meet his fate is also very graphic . I wish Stiles had more screen time . This remake is really one worth watching .
Cute . Cozy . A dash of sizzle . Jon Cryer is a high school student , who has devoted his life to photography . He accidentally takes a shot of a young woman ( Demi Moore ) that will become his obsession . Moore plays a singer trying to get her career started . Cryer spends his life savings ( $6 , 000 ) on putting Moore's picture on 175 taxi cabs . The rest is pretty juvenile . Miss Moore at times is down right sultry and I was disappointed that she was not doing her own singing . The voice you hear is that of Chrissy Faith . In my opinion , Miss Moore is the only good thing to happen to this movie . I admit watching it three times and find the goodbye scene at the airport worth the price of admission or rental . A kiss to remember . Also in the cast are George Wendt , Ann Wedgeworth , Jennifer Tilly and Jeffrey Tambor . Look for a small part for Tim Robbins .
Mac Davis plays a devoted fan and the radio voice of his alma mater Nowata High School . After a very long losing streak , the school administration decides to do away with the football team . Davis starts missing the Friday night games and decides to buy up commercial time and broadcast fantasy games featuring a winning version of his beloved Possums . Finally the small Oklahoma town takes pride in their dismantled team . The real Possums are challenged by the real State Champs . The Possums lose again , but score their first actual touchdown in years . This is a charming , down home movie . You actually feel the heart warming and emotional accomplishments of Davis ' character . The action scenes truly represent high school football play . This movie leaves you in a happy , upbeat mood . And is really fun for the family to watch . Davis was very believable . Others in the cast : Andrew Pine , Greg Coolidge , Monica Creel and a cameo by former famed Oklahoma University and Dallas Cowboys coach Barry Switzer .
NASA is in a pinch . A Russian communications satellite is about to crash after an obsolete guidance system fails . The system was designed by Dr . Frank Corvin ( Clint Eastwood ) retired Air Force test pilot . Corvin and his old crew team up to ride to the rescue . The aging astronauts are as humorous as they are fit for duty ; well . The other space " cowboys " are : Tommy Lee Jones , Donald Southerland and James Garner . Garner is a bit of a disappointment among the " cowboys " , but other notables in the cast are : Marcia Gay Harden , James Cromwell and William Devane . This is a fun watch . No great shakes , but really enjoyable .
A clash of leadership skills and methods pit Robert Ryan against John Wayne during the battle of Guadalcanal . The Wildcats squadron is needed to help the ground troops in their advancement . Plus to deal with the Japanese naval and flying forces makes for a very busy movie . A gathering of different personalities makes for the usual , but interesting war picture . Ensemble cast features : Don Taylor , Jay C . Flippen , James Dobson , Janis Carter and James Bell .
Not just another Nick Cage flick . NEXT builds up steam and the tension does not sputter . Cage plays Chris Johnson , who has a magic act in Las Vegas . As Frank Cadillac , he has fifty dollar tricks mixed with his personal ability to see a few minutes into the future . . . his future . An FBI agent , Callie Ferris ( Julianne Moore ) , is certain Chris ' special ability is authentic and she is desperate in recruiting him to help stop a terrorist group from setting loose a nuclear bomb in the middle of Los Angeles . Not only is the Government hot on his trail ; the terrorist want him out of the picture as much as the Feds want him in . Chris follows through with a love-at-first-sight reaction to a beautiful girl in a diner . . . Liz ( Jessica Biel ) . Chris hitches a ride with Liz , who at first doesn't know he is a man on the run . Chris becomes a reluctant hero in a race against the clock and it is so important that he can keep seeing at least two minutes in his future . This is a Sci-Fi action thriller you need to check out . Some fine background music from The Green Car Motels , Cream and Elvis . Also in the cast : Thomas Kretschmann , Tory Kittles , Michael Trucco and Peter Falk . No doubt about it , Biel is HOT !
Be ready to bust a rib and laugh your ass off . In MEET THE PARENTS ( 2000 ) Greg Focker ( Ben Stiller ) was under the scrutiny of his true love's parents . Wacky event endured . Now Pam ( Teri Polo ) and her parents ( Robert De Niro and Blythe Danner ) get to meet the Fockers ( Dustin Hoffman and Barbra Streisand ) . Retired FBI meets sex therapist and sun and fun lover . Crude and sexual humor abound . Polo and Danner have hardly anything do . . . but De Niro , Hoffman and Streisand are hilarious . Stiller remains to be the odd duck so-to-speak . This funny movie may just be better than the first . Hoffman and Streisand definitely bring a new dimension to the mix . My favorite scene is Streisand trying to get a kink out of De Niro's back . Situations are knee slapping . This one is worth seeing again .
Intense thriller . Kyle Pratt ( Jodie Foster ) already distraught from the recent loss of her husband , wakes up on a flight to the States from Berlin on the Aalto Air E-474 double-decker plane she helped design ; and her haunting nightmare begins . Flying at 40 , 000 feet in the state-of-the-art aircraft , she discovers her young daughter is missing . The captain of the plane ( Sean Bean ) and even the Air Marshall on board ( Peter Sarsgaard ) doubts the child ever boarded the plane . Too be exact the whole crew and staff do not recall seeing the little girl board with her mother . Bereaved and disheveled Kyle must depend on her own wits and determination to find her daughter . This suspense-filled thriller demands your attention and the intrigue builds to an explosive climax . Supporting cast includes Kate Beahan and Michael Irby . I was most impressed with the alluring Erika Christensen who plays the timid stewardess . Miss Foster with all her various emotions is still at the top of her game .
Slick and sick . Rough and rowdy . The fetish is fame . This action packed crime / thriller from John Herzfeld starts a little slow and then becomes an inferno . A young Arson Investigator ( Edward Burns ) teams up with a savvy NY Detective ( Robert De Niro ) trying to catch a pair of Eastern European killers that are filming their outrageous crimes in order to make a fortune on selling their tape to the news media . The ruthless and somewhat dim-witted killers are played by Karel Roden and Oleg Taktarov . Kelsey Grammer is steadfast and egotistical in his role as a tabloid TV anchor . Melina Kanakaredes is De Niro's TV reporter girlfriend . David Alan Grier is a hapless mugger . Violence is heavier than the language and sexual content . De Niro fans will be more than satisfied . Although dark , this is a stunning movie .
This gripping thriller is based on a novel by British mystery writer P . D . James . In the year 2027 , the world seems bleak and the future of the human race is in question . It has been 18 years since the last baby entered the world , as complete global human infertility is now the norm . The populus slips into a chaotic state when that youngest person in the world dies . In Great Britian , a former activist named Theo ( Clive Owen ) reluctantly becomes champion of the human race when his former lover , rebel leader Julian ( Julianne Moore ) , persuades the disillusioned civil servant to obtain transit papers for Kee , a young black woman ( Clare-Hope Ashitey ) , who is with child and wants sanctuary with a secretive organization . Also in the cast : Michael Caine , Chiwetel Ejiofor , Oana Pella and Charlie Hunnam . A diverse soundtrack is featured with music by the likes of : Radiohead , King Crimson , Franco Battiato and John Lennon . This futuristic flick is directed by Alfonso Cuaron .
Ridiculed a bit and lampooned a lot ; THIS ISLAND EARTH from Universal Pictures International has undiscovered logic and more intelligence than most early 50's Sci-Fi . The sets were not exactly high dollar , but at least were interesting . Rex Reason plays Dr . Carl Meacham , a well noted scientist , who receives an unusual substitution for electronic condensers he ordered . He then receives a catalog's worth of materials to build a complex device for communications . He receives a strange message from a huge-domed scientist named Exeter ( Jeff Morrow ) , who invites him to a mysterious location to work further on future peace keeping devices . There he meets an old flame , Dr . Ruth Adams ( Faith Domergue ) , and finds this journey is just a ruse . Others in the cast : Lance Fuller , Karl Ludwig , Robert Nichols , Les Sparks and Richard Deacon .
A very impressive movie , almost majestic . The untouchable Bette Davis appears flawless as Queen Elizabeth I . A well intentioned , albeit conniving Sir Walter Raleigh ( Richard Todd ) petitions to see the Queen in hopes of getting funds to sail three ships and promising Her Highness the riches found . The Queen is not so quick with the idea , but she does want him as an assistant to flirt with . Beth Throgmorton ( Joan Collins ) is the lady-in-waiting and the secret object of Raleigh's true affections . I really got into the first half of the film ; then for some unexplainable reason my interest waned . Costumes , sets and scenery are super . Miss Collins is very pleasant to watch . Other players : Jay Robinson , Dan O'Herlihy , Robert Douglas , Leslie Parrish and Herbert Marshall .
This is one of the very best Abbott & Costello flicks . Plenty of slapstick mixed with humorous horror . The comedy duo play bungling baggage handlers that end up close and personal with Dracula ( Bela Lugosi ) , the Wolfman ( Lon Chaney Jr . ) and Frankentstein's Monster ( Glenn Strange ) . A nice looking Dr . Monay ( Lenore Aubert ) tries to seduce Costello into donating his brain to put in the Monster . In support : Frank Ferguson and Jane Randolph . Harmless fun . Take time for a chuckle or two . The finale features Vincent Price as the voice of the Invisible Man . NOTE : Folklore has it that this movie was showing ( 1948 ) in Tupelo , MS when Elvis Presley was fourteen years old and is believed to be the first motion picture he ever saw . The story goes that Gladys Presley did not want her son going to the movies and Elvis ' dad , Vernon , helped him sneak to the theater and watched it with him .
Better than average western directed by Andre DeToth . Cavalry Sgt . Matt Trainor ( Broderick Crawford ) and his detail are helping a stagecoach across a hundred miles of sweltering desert following an Indian attack . Among the riders in the coach is Julia Lanning ( Barbara Hale ) , who is going to visit her brother , an officer at the military encampment a couple of days away . Not far behind is Chief Black Cloud ( John War Eagle ) and his Comanche warriors , who are also in need of water . Trainor and the group find water at an old abandoned mission , where they must fight for the water they found and their very lives . Among Sgt . Trainor's detail are Jim Starbuck ( Lloyd Bridges ) , Rusty Potter ( Mickey Shaughnessy ) , Billy Creel ( Martin Milner ) and Cpl . Floyd ( Jack Woody ) . A young Comanche boy Little Knife ( Johnny Stewart ) actually is sent to bring the cavalry to the rescue . A well written story and very interesting . It is easy to see that Crawford is wasting his talents in this role . Miss Hale is impressive in a movie that has mostly monotone dialog .
A very charming feel-good seasonal tale of a man with strong dreams and expectations . Jason Alexander plays Erector Set inventor , A . C . Gilbert , who is asked by the Government to urge citizens to cancel Christmas during the first world war and buy bonds instead of toys . Gilbert turns his toy manufacturing plant in a war supply plant making gas masks , bomb casings , chemical suits and bayonets among other things . Gilbert has a change of heart and goes with his deepest and long fostered dreams . He goes before the nation's Defense Counsel and gets permission to go back to making his toys . The toy maker still kept manufacturing war supplies , but also turned his own home into a producing center for more Erector Sets . After the war , Gilbert continued manufacturing Erector Sets , Chemistry Sets , Magician Trick Sets , trains and other toys for over forty years . Alexander is outstanding in this role and light-years away from his obnoxious role on TVs " Seinfeld " . Also in the cast are Kelly Rowan , Ari Cohen , Ed Asner and Jake Brockman . Entertaining for all ages .
John Frankenheimer directs this intense story of three teenage killers in New York City's Spanish Harlem and the idealistic DA ( Burt Lancaster ) given the job to prosecute them . Young gang members trying to protect their turf see no use in cooperating with the law . Lancaster plays the part as if he were Jack Webb . ( That is meant to be a compliment ) . This movie also gives Lancaster the chance to work with Shelley Winters . ( Wink , wink ) Also in the cast are Dina Merrill , Chris Robinson , Edward Andrews and the debut of Telly Savalas . Very little actual violence , but some pretty good drama .
The Wolf Man ( Lon Chaney Jr . ) is awakened by grave robbers . After a four years peaceful sleep , he is once again haunted by his curse . He seeks the help of the old gypsy woman , Maleva ( Maria Ouspenskaya ) , who leads him to the ruins of the Frankenstein castle . The Frankenstein monster ( Bela Lugosi ) is freed from a block of ice and befriends the Wolf Man . Soon even pals will have a disagreement . The fight does not last long , for both combatants are washed away in a dam bursting flood . Ilona Massey plays the Baroness Elsa Frankenstein and Patric Knowles is the young doctor trying to cure the Wolf Man .
A whole lot better than most made-for-TV projects . This bio-pic focuses on the life of Robert Kennedy as Senator and Presidential candidate . The story line covers a time span from the 1963 assassination of brother President John F . Kennedy to RFK's own assassination by a mad gunman on the 1968 Presidential campaign trail . The old newsreel footage and current footage could have been blended a lot better . The whole presentation is pretty bland compared to the high energy JFK by Oliver Stone . Linus Roache worked hard on getting down Bobby's mannerisms , but falls short on duplicating that Kennedy accent . James Cromwell does a remarkable portrayal of Lyndon B . Johnson . Also in the cast are : Ving Rhames , Sergio Di Zio and Marnie McPhail . Not so impressive is the numberous scenes of Robert talking to the ghost of his dead brother John played poorly by Martin Donovan . The essence of RFK's vision for a new and better America is there . Politically inclined or not , it is worth your while to watch this version of history .
Authentic backgrounds and based on a true story . William Holden plays a very influential Swedish oil executive blackmailed into becoming a double agent running info between the Allies and Nazi headquarters . Holden falls in love with one of his contacts Lilli Palmer in between dangerous missions . Holden in one of his finest performances . Other notable cast members are : Hugh Griffith , Ernst Schroder and Klaus Kinski . Running time is a little over two hours , but the realism and locales make for a time worth spent .
George Lucas may or may not have exploited his own fame and the STAR WARS fantasy . Definitely not sluggish and sometimes taxing the viewers intelligence . Some scenes seem like Lucas himself ran out of imagination . All this said . . . this prequel of the original STAR WARS trilogy does have enough merit to stand on its own and is no less visually stunning . A Jedi master Qui-Gon Jinn ( Liam Neeson ) and his young apprentice Obi-Wan Kenobi ( Ewan McGregor ) travel to the small peaceful planet of Naboo to assist the beautiful Queen Amidala ( Natalie Portman ) in her efforts to bypass any disputed control by the Trade Federation on the ready to blockade her planet . After a battle the Jedis and popular Queen Amidala make their way to the planet of Tattooine where they come across a young slave boy named Anakin Skywalker ( Jake Lloyd ) who appears to be empowered with the FORCE and possibly the holder of enough information to thwart the evil influence of a challenging pursuit by the Federation and evil Dark Lord , Darth Maul ( Ray Park ) . I really enjoyed the final saber duel . Really the one and only thing I disliked is the stupid character Jar Jar Binks . Just continue forward . . . an may the FORCE be with you . Rounding out the cast are : Pernilla August , Terence Stamp , Samuel L . Jackson , Ian McDiarmid , Andrew Secombe , Kenny Baker as R2-D2 , Anthony Daniels as C-3PO , Frank Oz as the voice of Yoda , Sofia Coppola and Ahmed Best as the voice of Jar Jar Binks . A star studded cast that over flows with talent and loaded with charm and intensity .
After embarking on a class trip to Paris , one student ( Devon Sawa ) has a premonition of the plane crashing . He and a few other students and a teacher end up not taking the flight , but watch Flight 180 explode into a catastrophic fireball . After feeling that death has been cheated the survivors start meeting the grim reaper one by one . Thrills and chills with vivid violence . Also in the cast are : Tony Todd , Chad Donella , Kristen Cloke and Seann William Scott . Excellent horror flick .
Tony Scott is director and producer of this rapid paced and frantic dramatic action flick . This is a selective biopic of Domino Harvey ( Keira Knightly ) , the daughter of actor Laurence Harvey . Domino spit out the proverbial silver spoon and after following in her mother's footsteps in the world of modeling , turned her back on the ways of Beverly Hills and became a bounty hunter . Nothing seemed to dampen her rebellious and fiery personality . . . boarding school , friendships , high school and especially her socialite mother's wishes . Neither genteel or homely , Domino could go places and accomplish things quicker than her fellow bounty hunters that she called family . The violence could be no more brutal . The action could not be more intense . Point of contention : does the story on screen actually depict the one off the screen . . . well , this IS a movie and very interesting to boot . My real reason for watching is the alluring Miss Knightley . The cast resembles a name dropper's contest : Mickey Rourke , Christopher Walken , Jacqueline Bisset , Ian Ziering , Brian Austin Green , Mena Suvari and Edgar Ramirez .
Director Randall Wallace gives us the riveting story of courage and sacrifice as Mel Gibson leads the 7th Cavalry into the first major battle of the Viet Nam War in November 1965 . A harrowing event in the Valley of Death , where 400 American troops face 2 , 000 North Vietnamese soldiers . The fighting is relentless as both sides try to out maneuver the other . The combat scenes are gory and realistic . A strong cast supports Gibson in one of his better roles . Featured are : Greg Kinnear , Sam Elliot , Madeleine Stowe , Barry Pepper , Don Duong and Kerri Russell . This war drama is well produced and memorable . Worth your attention for a little over two hours .
Have no fear . Yellow power is here . The Simpson family makes good on their venture to the big screen . Outragiously funny ! Guaranteed irreverent and hilarious enough to make you slap your granny . Lisa Simpson ( Yeardly Smith ) takes her concern door to door trying to bring more awareness in protecting the environment . Homer ( Dan Castellaneta ) , the dim wit he is , puts Springfield on the brink of disaster by dumping a silo of pig poop in the lake . The contamination is brought to the attention of President Arnold Schwarzenegger and he has the EPA place a massive thick dome over Springfield . Little Maggie discovers a " sink-hole " that allows the family to escape before the community has their way with Homer . The Simpsons make their way to Alaska ; before Marge ( Julie Kavner ) and the kids leave Homer behind to return and save Springfield from being blown to kingdom come . Bart ( Nancy Cartwright ) wishes he has a better relationship with his father . Homer returns to go from goat to hero as he cracks the dome to let Springfield thrive again . And Bart gets to attempt to bond with his dad . Surprisingly worthwhile . Other stars lending voices to THE SIMPSONS MOVIE : Harry Shearer , Hank Azaria , Joe Mantegna , Pamela Hayden and a Tom Hanks cameo .
Wolfgang Peterson directs highly talented Harrison Ford as the President of the United States . Pres . James Marshall continues America's stance to not negotiate or honor any terrorists demands . The President with the First Lady and their daughter are aboard Air Force One when it is high-jacked by Russian operatives . Cold as ice , Ivan Korshunov ( Gary Oldman ) , posing as the leader of a TV crew , begins taking control of the plane with his Commie comrades . A worrisome Vice President Kathryn Bennett ( Glenn Close ) in D . C . tries to cope with the situation . Tension mounts , nails are bitten , hearts start thumping as riveting action escalates . A banged and bruised President proves to hang with the toughest and heroically regains charge of the plane . A finale that will keep you on the edge of your seat . This strong cast also features : William H . Macey , Wendy Crewson , Paul Guilfoyle , Dean Stockwell , Liesel Matthews , Donna Bullock , Michael Ray Miller and Xander Berkeley .
This is an outstanding A & E production with kudos for director Mikael Salomon . A very well written drama chronicling the fall of the infamous Benedict Arnold ( Aidan Quinn ) from distinguished Revolutionary War general and respected advisor to General George Washington ( Kelsey Grammer ) to reluctant traitor . Action packed insight to incidents of the American Revolution . Quinn and Grammer are to be commended . History buffs may want to pick this one apart , but it is well worth watching .
Not only is being former friends dangerous , but also pretty damn deadly . The legendary Sam Peckinpah directs this story of Pat Garrett and Billy the Kid . You can taste the dust ; feel the spurious flying bullets and smell the free flowing essence of non-prejudiced manhood . Garrett ( James Coburn ) is hired by a group of Santa Fe businessmen to take on the job of sheriff and dedicating his time to tracking down and killing his former riding partner William ' Billy the Kid ' Bonney ( Kris Kristofferson ) . Peckinpah makes you feel as if you rode to Mexico and back . The gunfights are so violent and real . And this rendition of the saga of the Kid's relationship with Garrett is very debatable at least . But the characters , the scenery and dialogue keep you involved . The soundtrack by Bob Dylan , who also plays an active small role as " Alias " , is sometimes monotonous , but produces the legendary tune " Knockin ' on Heaven's Door " . The director's cut was released on video fleshing out and filling gaps of the original release . The supporting cast reads like a who's who featuring : Slim Pickens , Chill Wills , L . Q . Jones , Jack Elam , Harry Dean Stanton , Katy Jurado , R . G . Armstrong , Jason Robards and Rita Coolidge aka Mrs . Kristofferson .
Ray Milland directs and stars in this over looked Sci-Fi flick . What will normal people do in desperation ? What will people do when they fear the end of civilization ? Harry Baldwin ( Milland ) and his family have left Los Angeles on a fishing trip moments before nuclear bombs land on several cities , including L . A . The family continues to battle the panic filled highways to reach their destination wilderness to begin a plan for survival . Frankie Avalon plays son Rick . This end of the world film is better than the budget afforded it ; and considered the best of Milland's directorial efforts . Also in the cast : Jean Hagen , Mary Mitchel , Joan Freeman and Richard Bakalyan .
Sigourney Weaver plays Dr . Helen Hudson , a retired psychiatrist that specializes in serial killers . Hudson is agoraphobic and suffers with different degrees of stress and depression . Holly Hunter and Dermot Mulroney are detectives trying to catch a serial killer . Harry Connick , Jr . plays a serial killer behind bars and taunts Hudson as she tries to help the investigators . The killer wants his own fame for duplicating famous murders . The background score will help your nerves jitter . Hunter is not convincing as a police officer . Mulroney's character is as bold as cardboard . Connick , Jr . is quite funny in a cynical way . Weaver conveyed her character's fear and anxiety . And without a change of expression , was bribed out of a pair of her frilly panties in exchange for information about the killer's identity . Dim the lights and enjoy .
This is a morality tale of investigating a military cover up . An explosion aboard an aging battleship is covered up to save face for the Navy . Captain Fred Moosally ( James Caan ) agrees with his superiors that the fatal explosion that killed 47 is to be blamed on a homosexual rift between two sailors . LTJG Dan Meyer ( Robert Sean Leonard ) struggles to convince his captain that faulty equipment an gunpowder on board was the real cause of the tragedy . Meyer was considered disloyal until a congressional hearing forced the Navy to revise its findings . Well scripted and kudos to director Mikael Salomon . This true life drama packs a punch . Special effects were a bit gruesome , but very essential focal point for the story . Also in the cast are : Andrew MacVicar , James Bulliard and Jamie Harrold .
M-G-M's overstuffed costume drama traces Marie Antoinette's ( Norma Shearer ) life from Austrian princess , marriage , motherhood , Queen of France and her beheading . The arranged marriage to Louis XVI ( Robert Morley ) , the Dauphin of France , brought about estrangement and hatred from the French populace and eventually a spark for the Revolution . M-G-M borrowed Tyrone Power from 20th Century Fox to play the Swedish Count Axel de Fersen , who entered a romantic dalliance with Marie . The cast was over loaded with star-power : John Barrymore , Anita Louise , Reginald Gardner , Gladys George , Joseph Schildkraut , Henry Stephenson , Albert Dekker and George Meeker . The 2 hr and 40 minute run time is well spent .
I haven't been impressed with a western in along time as I have with JACK BULL . Terrific acting , great script and tremendous cinematography . The setting is 19th-century , wide open pre-statehood Wyoming . A powerful tale of a horse trader ( John Cusack ) seeking justice for a rival rancher ( L . Q . Jones ) abusing two of his horses . Before finding a judge ( John Goodman ) to hear his complaint , Cusack gives notice he wants restitution within seven days . This inturn causes some havoc at the same time the justice system is trying to make a good impression as the territory is awaiting statehood . You will not like the ending , but you will agree that this is a great HBO project . Cusack really proves to be an all around actor with JACK BULL . His acting abilities seems to be improving movie by movie . What I like about this role is that he wears his hat like Elvis Presley did in CHARRO ! ( 1969 ) . Needless to recognize the similar beginnings of a beard . Was John impressed with Elvis or what ? L . Q . Jones has always been one of my favorites even if he does play a dirty s . o . b . in this movie . Jones of course as you might remember had small parts in numerous Elvis flicks . John Goodman is tight and in control of his role as Judge Tolliver . Also in the cast are : Rodney A . Grant , John C . McGinley and John Savage . Note : Script was written by Dick Cusack , John's father .
At the end of WWII , Victoria Kowelska ( Valentina Cortese ) survives a Nazi death camp and assumes the identity of her friend Karin , who died with her papers and picture of her young son clutched in her hand . Victoria's new identity will have her going to a family estate in San Francisco to be with her ' new ' son Christopher ( Gordon Gebert ) and being romanced by his guardian Alan Spender ( Richard Basehart ) . Alan and Karin / Victoria will be wed , but soon the newlywed bride will get the idea that she and her son are the victims of murder plots . Alan and his housekeeper / lover Margaret ( Fay Baker ) want full control of the entire estate . A friend of the family ( William Lundigan ) will come to the rescue . Director Robert Wise will aptly make the best of what he has to work with . This 20th Century Fox Film-Noir leaves much to be desired .
From United Artists , a very interesting black & white horror flick . Somewhat predictable , but atmospheric and haunting . . . you really want to take the invitation to be chilled . Jonathan Drake ( Eduard Franz ) , a professor specializing in the occult and the eldest male descendant of the cursed Drake family , arrives for his last living brother's funeral and it is discovered he has been decapitated right before the services . This continues the curse , and its a doozy that has lasted 200 years ; the curse is the work of angry head-shrinker Dr . Emil Zurich ( Henry Daniell ) , who survived a South American jungle massacre led by one of Jonathan's ancestors . Kudos to director Edward L . Cahn for making writer Oville H . Hampton's story put a little chill down our spine and satisfy that thing inside us that draws us to horror films . Sometimes you just can't turn away . And especially those oldies in beautiful black & white . The rest of the cast features other B-film stars you'll recognize ; Paul Cavanagh , Grant Richards , Valerie French and Howard Wendell .
This movie builds your anxiety to a minor frenzy . I think the old black and white did not hinder this sci-fi drama that still holds up well today . The creepy sound of the desert wind really sets the mood . The other effects seemed pretty darn good to be in a mid 50s movie . Of course the giant mutant ants don't look as scary as they did when I was a kid ; but they still provide something to cause a squirm or two . Mutant ants crawl up from their burrows in the desert of New Mexico . Another product of nuclear testing . They are hungry and are attacking humans as they search out food . Sounds like a movie that would be full of stupid dialog and over acting . Guess again . Understandable , but predictable script with some decent acting . Great example of early sci-fi and can be enjoyed by young and old alike . The cast includes James Whitmore , Edmund Gwenn , James Arness , Joan Weldon and a smaller part for Fess Parker .
Ridley Scott directs this epic sage set during the Crusades of the 12th century . Balian ( Orlando Bloom ) is a French blacksmith , who is grieving the loss of his wife and young child . Balian is approached by his estranged father Godfrey ( Liam Neeson ) , who is a Baron of the king of Jerusalem . After murdering the priest ( Michael Sheen ) responsible for the beheading of his wife , Balian joins his father and thus is thrust into a decades-long war . Balian will serve and obey a doomed king , rise from common man to knighthood and fall in love with the king's sister , the lovely Sibylla ( Eva Green ) . In time , Balian must protect the people of Jerusalem from overwhelming fighting forces while striving to maintain a fragile peace . KINGDOM OF HEAVEN features graphic , brutal scenes of battle . The running time of 2 hrs 25 minutes does not take anything away from enjoying this film . Awesome scenery and the untapped energy between Bloom and Green cause interest . Other cast members : Brendan Gleeson , Jeremy Irons , Edward Norton , Ghassan Massoud and Nasser Memarzia .
If not for Lou Diamond Phillips this would be a mediocre made for TV western . Phillips plays Bobby Hattaway , a decorated soldier on his way home to the family business and his long time sweetheart . Bobby finds that his childhood friend Stu Croker ( Vincent Spano ) has pretty well taken control of every business in town and holds mortgage on Bobby's dad's homestead and mercantile . Plus he has wed Bobby's sweetheart Connie ( Cynthia Preston ) and treats her like trash . There is hell to pay when the elder Hattaway ( Stacy Keach ) is murdered . Bobby's army buddy ( Tom Schanley ) arrives in time to help take the town back from Croker . Also in the cast : Angela Alvarado , Terry Maratos and Mike Starr .
Director Joel Schumacher preserves his reputation with a script by Larry Cohen about personal morals and hopefully the truth providing some kind of redemption . This is a white knuckle nerve wrecker about a self-serving publicist ( Colin Farrell ) making the mistake of his life by answering a public telephone . On the other end of the phone is a self empowered mad man ( Kiefer Sutherland ) inflicting demands on the fast talking , fast thinking publicity dealer who just happened to be walking by the phone booth he passes every day . The mystery voice on the phone demands the publicist to stay in the phone booth until he tells his wife ( Radha Mitchell ) and the TV watching public of his cheating , lying and making use of others . Of course behind the demanding voice is a sharpshooter that is not afraid to pull the trigger . The senior officer on the scene ( Forest Whitaker ) tries to make sense of the situation while fighting back thoughts of his own past personal problems . At least 90 % of this thriller is made up of witty , threatening and revealing banter between Farrell and Sutherland . And talk about a clever twist to end this flick . Also of note in the cast are : Katie Holmes , Richard T . Jones and Paula Jai Parker . Think twice about answering that ringing phone .
Roy William Neil directs this intriguing tale of the famed detective Sherlock Holmes ( Basil Rathbone ) and his partner Dr . Watson ( Nigel Bruce ) during WWII . Dead bodies grow in number as mysteries challenge the detecting duo in a mansion where they are staying . Underground tunnels , secret passages and baffling clues gives Arthur Conan Doyle's detective a workout . Scotland Yard Inspector Lestrade ( Dennis Hoey ) bungles things as much as Dr . Watson . I really like the dark gray to black shades and camera angles used in this very atmospheric drama . Rathbone is such a master at what he does ; he makes any movie worth watching . Also in the cast : Hillary Brooke , Arthur Margetson , Gavin Muir , Minna Phillips and Milburn Stone .
Different and refreshing . Wes Anderson writes and directs and Bill Murray is at his best . Murray plays Steve Zissou , an internationally known oceanographer and eccentric . . . to say the least . Zissou gathers a crew to track down the mysterious " jaguar shark " that ate his long time partner while filming a documentary . On this expedition , to be filmed as a sequel , are Zissou's estranged wife ( Anjelica Huston ) , an inquisitive journalist ( Cate Blanchett ) and a young man ( Owen Wilson ) , who could or could not be Zissou's long lost son . Co-starring are Willem Dafoe and Jeff Goldblum . The movie is shot as a visual journal and the use of coloring of the aquatic creatures is outstanding . The music used is eclectic itself featuring the talents of Ennio Morricone , David Bowie , Scott Walker , Robert Mothersbaugh , Rod Argent and Iggy Pop . The well written script using an overly serious approach is where the humor shines .
This crime drama became a cult classic quickly . Director William Friedkin presents New York City's underbelly with brilliance . " Popeye " Doyle ( Gene Hackman ) is a colorful NYC Narcotics cop to say the least . He is bold , brash , vulgar and seems to fear nothing . When he plays a hunch it is not always right , but eventful . The tough-talking cop and his partner , and probably only real friend , Buddy Russo ( Roy Scheider ) are on to an international smuggling ring that actually begins in France . Doyle is like a bulldog on a bone , relentless in his pursuit of each and every suspect . One of my favorite scenes is when Doyle is tossing out a lousy cup of coffee as he watches a suspect in a fine restaurant drinking high class coffee . The pursuits on foot and even better the car chases make THE FRENCH CONNECTION a memorable flick . Also starring are : Fernando Rey , Tony Lo Bianco , Harold Gray , Arlene Farber and Frederic de Pasquale .
This is a semi-hilarious mock documentary about a teen beauty contest in Minnesota . Anywhere from hilarious to ridiculous and all points in between . The only thing redeeming is Kirsten Dunst . She knows how to get your pity , concern and loyalty . Ellen Barkin is hardly recognized as Kirsten's drunken mother . Kirstie Alley is pretty darn good as the dirty dealing former beauty queen and mother of the obvious next winner ( Denise Richards ) . Miss Richards ' character is beautiful ; but spoiled , pampered and a bitch . Not exactly an expose , because the behind the scenes back stabbing is assumed to be part of a beauty pageant . Tongue-in-cheek humor . Nevertheless another vehicle for the talented Miss Dunst .
Viktor Navorksi ( Tom Hanks ) is traveling from his war-torn homeland in Eastern Europe to New York City . While in the air , his country has politically changed due to a fiery coup . Since his country ceases to exist . . . Viktor's passport is no longer good , meaning he can not enter the United States . He becomes stranded at Kennedy Airport with no authorization to leave the terminal's international transit lounge . Viktor is treated rudely by the airport supervisor ( Stanley Tucci ) ; and is constantly monitored by security cameras . During his temporary residence , he falls in love with a beautiful stewardess ( Catherine Zeta-Jones ) . As time passes , Viktor is befriended by several airport workers . But the stewardess is the only one that knows why it is so important for Navorski to enter New York City . Hanks and Zeta-Jones are cast perfectly . Also featured are : Chi McBride , Zoe Saldana , Diego Luna and Kumar Pallana . This movie drags at times , but the mixing of romance and comedy makes THE TERMINAL very watchable . How can you go wrong with a picture directed by Steven Spielberg ?
Based on a William Haine's Broadway play , COMMAND DECISION is more drama and dialog than war action . There are no women , no dogfights , no actual combat . . . officers are suppose to be gentlemen , right . Flight commander Dennis ( Clark Gable ) is suffering great loses on bombers he sends out on missions over Germany . Time is of importance to keep bombing locations where the enemy is building jet fighter planes ; but Dennis is facing opposition from his own superior Major General Kane ( Walter Pigeon ) and a group of influential politicians and reporters . A testosterone heavy cast including : Van Johnson , Charles Bickford , John McIntire , John Hodiak , Marshall Thompson , Ray Collins , Cameron Mitchell and Edward Arnold . It would stand to reason this film was to boost sales of War Bonds .
Have you ever watched a dog dance on its hind legs ? And exactly what came of it ? It seems that writer / director M . Night Shamalan had started a chain of movies that left us equally baffled . With THE HAPPENING , he is creeping back with some recognizable fright and chills . This paranoia filled thriller has Philidelphia high school teacher Elliot Moore ( Mark Wahlberg ) and his doe-eyed wife Alma ( Zooey Deschanel ) trying to outrun what seems an unstoppable phenomenon sweeping across the land . Mind boggling deaths erupt in major cities and what is causing this total breakdown of humanity ? Elliot's wife and teaching friend Juilian ( John Leguizamo ) and his small daughter head through Pennsylvania farmland in hopes of finding a safe place to hide from this terrible plight that seems to travel with the wind . Is this an invisible killer that you just can't outrun ? Well photographed and some decent F / X as expected . Also in the cast : Ashlyn Sanchez , Spenser Breslin , Alan Ruck and Jeremy Strong .
Directed and written by the acclaimed Alex Gibney is the 2007 Academy Award winning documentary feature . No matter your opinion of President George W . Bush or the current fighting in the Middle East , TAXI TO THE DARK SIDE is a deliberate and meticulous examination of torture used as a weapon in the war against terror and proof positive that the Bush administration had full knowledge and of it being employed at Bagram Air Force Base in Afghanistan and at Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo Bay prisons . Lighting the fuse of exposure is the disturbing torture and killing of an innocent Afghan taxi driver . Stunningly crafted expose of reckless abuses of government power out of control . Recommended viewing .
War is over . Is it the people you " run with " or just the fact you have a conscious and the will to speak your mind ? Filmmakers David Leaf and John Scheinfeld II present for our approval an evocative glimpse at the all-out efforts of Richard Nixon's administration and J . Edgar Hoover's gestapo-like minions to gag John Ono Lennon . Former Beatle and peace activist Lennon seemed to be an enemy of the United States government and the outspoken rock ' n ' roller needed to be silenced . He and his wife Yoko Ono were wiretapped and kept under big brother's watchful eye as the Vietnam War raged on and TV nightly news told of massacred U . S . troops . Lennon's anti-war efforts led to threats of deportation . This documentary is well put together and sustained with some insightful comments in between archive footage . Featured are : Mario Cuomo , Angela Davis , Bobby Seale , Gore Vidal , George McGovern , G . Gordon Liddy , Geraldo Rivera , Ron Kovic , Walter Cronkite and John Dean just to mention a few . This 2006 film does not shy away from explicit language , violent images or drug references .
This is a provocative , disturbing and sympathetic documentary that is as interesting as watching two speed-trains collide . A typical upper-class family in Great Neck on Long Island is steadily destroyed as Arnold Friedman and his youngest teen-aged son are accused and convicted of sex crimes involving young children . Mr . Friedman , an award-winning and beloved teacher , held a computer class for neighborhood children in his basement several days a week . Upon police investigation , kiddie porn was found in the Friedman home on Picadilly Road . The family obsessively documented their lives by way of home movies . These movies , broadcast news video and interviews with victims , law enforcement and the Friedman family members themselves make this documentary possible . A seemingly reputable family is disgraced with the shocking secrets being made public . You will probably ask yourself why you even watched this film . And like many people , you may even flirt with the idea the whole horrid affair never happened . Watching the extra two hours of extra footage with the DVD really conjures questions .
SMART PEOPLE is a temperamental comedy that puts focus on a dysfunctional family you can't help but like . Complicated characters that can be tolerated because of who they are . Afterall family is family even if every member lives in their own world . Lawrence Wetherhold ( Dennis Quaid ) is a widower and very self-absorbed professor . Misunderstood mostly and definitely not one who has mastered social skills . The professor begins dating one of his former students , Janet Hartigan ( Sarah Jessica Parker ) , who is now an emergency room doctor . His dating is his first since the death of his wife and doesn't sit well with his over achieving daughter Vanessa ( Ellen Page ) . Adding to the mix is Lawrence's adopted brother Chuck ( Thomas Hayden Church ) , who you may say is a lay-about , unmotivated freeloader . Life is only as complicated as you make it . The character interaction is at times hilarious . There seems to be a dry wit that prevails . And you really do care about these people . This movie is by all means interesting with engaging characters . Page is excellent as the sharp-tongued genius . Church is surprisingly more than ordinary . Believable , smart and highly recommended .
Very good Sci-Fi with violence throughout . Alice ( Milla Jovovich ) has been subjected to biogenic experimentation . She is pretty and pretty damn volatile with super-human abilities . Superior strength and dexterity and she is hiding in the shifting sands of Nevada . She joins forces in the desert with Carlos Olivera ( Oded Fehr ) and L . J . ( Mike Epps ) . There are new survivors Claire ( Ali Larter ) , K-Mart ( Spenser Locke ) and Nurse Betty ( Ashanti ) combining forces to eliminate a deadly virus that has been created to turn every human on earth in the living undead . Outstanding F / X and visually exciting with hard hitting action . Ashanti is very impressive . Others in the cast : Christopher Egan , Matthew Marsden , Joe Hursley , and Linden Ashby .
Director Robert Zemeckis presents BEOWULF in a digitally enhanced live action Sci-Fi fantasy . Very visual with intense violence and ' simulated ' sexual sequences . Why wasn't high school English literature this exciting ? If you happen to be a Beowulf purist this movie may cause some agony . King Hrothgar ( Anthony Hopkins ) and his people and magnificent mead hall are being terrorized by the horrific monster Grendel ( Crispin Glover ) . Hrothgar puts out the word for anyone with a strong army to come band with his own soldiers to battle the monster . It is the mightiest warrior of them all , Beowulf ( Ray Winstone ) and his cadre of soldiers to the rescue . The acclaimed hero destroys the demon Grendel and incurs the wrath of the monster's sexy and seductive serpentine mother ( Angelina Jolie ) . The battle will echo through the ages , immortalizing the memory and name of Beowulf . Superior eye-candy . With Jolie at the top of the list ; you have to be impressed with the bloodshed and gore , the dripping blood and oozing entrails . The cast also features : Robin Wright Penn , Julene Renee , John Malkovich , Brendan Gleeson , Alison Lohman , Greg Ellis and Sebastion Roche .
This is a thriller that just keeps stacking on the intrigue and excitement . Powerful and masterful acting . Al Pacino is a high profile detective that goes to Alaska with his partner to help out in a murder case . Hilary Swank plays a young cop that is also trying to solve the crime along with the Alaskan police . After Pacino accidentally kills his partner , he is blackmailed by the hunted sadistic killer ( Robin Williams ) who witnessed the shooting . When Pacino is not playing cat and mouse with Williams , he is trying like hell to get some sleep ; but sleep doesn't come . Pacino is convincing and it is really interesting to see the darker side of Williams . Swank is actually impressive and could have handled a meatier role . Kudos to director Christopher Nolan for the atmospheric chiller . Highly recommended .
Craig Baxley directs the script written by Stephen King inspired by his novel " The Storm of the Century " . Intrigue , mystery and horror . The population of Little Tall Island off the coast of Maine is getting ready for one hell of a storm . . . the storm of the century . A mysterious man ( Colm Feore ) arrives and seems to know the little nasty secrets of the townsfolk . Mother Nature's big blow is not enough . . . the haunting stranger seems to be the cause of murder and suicide . The island is controlled by fear as the stranger threatens not to leave unless the community gives him what he wants . There could have been gore galore , but this well photographed thriller was released as a TV mini-series . The snow scenes brings back memories of THE SHINING . Feore is haunting and captivating . Other stand outs in the cast are : Tim Daly , Casey Siemaszko , Becky Ann Baker and Spenser Breslin . There is a quick glimpse of King on the TV before it is shattered . If you haven't read King's novel of the same name . . . you will now want to .
This sequel to 1995's GET SHORTY has former loan shark enforcer Chili Palmer ( John Travolta ) looking to get out of the movie business and going into the music business . Chili comes to the aid of a recently widowed music exec ( Uma Thurman ) to jump start the career of a newly discovered chanteuse ( Christina Milian ) . Three other people are haggling to get a piece of the rising diva's future fame . There is her recently dismissed controller ( Vince Vaughn ) , who thinks he is a hip black manager ; there is his boss ( Harvey Keitel ) , who is slime persona-fide and a very upscale gangsta-rap producer ( Cedric the Entertainer ) . This sequel is pretty slick ; and to be exact . . . pretty damn cool . Travolta's Chili Palmer usually gets what he wants and knows how to make things happen . Plus he gets on the dance floor again with Thurman . This couple is what you get when you join sly with sexy . Most of the comedy comes from The Rock , an obviously gay bodyguard and Andre Benjamin , of the group Outkast , who is a gun happy minion of a Hummer driving entourage . Milian is very likable and struts her stuff appearing in a duet with Steven Tyler of Aerosmith . Also in the cast is an inept hit-man played by Robert Pastorelli in his last performance before his death by accidental heroin overdose in 2004 . This role was a stretch from the role that made him famous on TV's MURPHY BROWN . If you liked GET SHORTY , you will welcome this cool crime comedy .
Director Hal Ashby's screen presentation of Woody Guthrie's autobiography is cinematic pleasure . Bleak and heartfelt , sympathetic and proud . Guthrie ( David Carradine ) as a young man was trying to support his wife Mary ( Melinda Dillon ) and two small children by painting signs during the Dust Bowl of the 1930s . Just like a multitude of Okies , he left Texas thinking salvation would come from the fields of California . He left his wife and kids with her family and jumped on a west bound freight . Riding the rails with others like him , the protest singer he was gathered more ideas for his mournful and sad songs of protest . As a migrant worker in the San Fernando Valley , he continued writing songs about the sights he had seen and the sorrows he shared . He joined up with Ozark Bule ( Ronny Cox ) on the radio . He not only sang his songs of union organizing , he was proud of his share of brawling against union-busters . His radio job in shambles , Guthrie hit the rails again heading east to New York and a bigger audience to present his songs of protest to . If anything good came from the Great Depression it was Woody Guthrie . Carradine did his own singing which is impressing itself . This movie captured the feel of America and her people during a deliberate and testing time . Also in the cast : John Lehne , Gail Strickland , Ji-Tu Cumbuka , Elizabeth Macey and Randy Quaid .
