Owen Wilson and Vince Vaughn , the stars bringing this vehicle to theaters ( there are other notables in the case , but not with the kind of draw of these two ) , are very talented , and usually pretty amusing . Wilson , for my money , is the subtler of the two , and is more of the leading man , while Vaughn is usually over-the-top in his double-talk , and garners some laughs even when some fall flat . They take the film Wedding Crashers and make it watchable , along with some supporting actors playing strange characters . It's not as wild as one might expect from the trailers , and as a ' date ' movie it's rather predictable . The opening twenty minutes is close to genius , by introducing the audience into this care-free , inspired montage of Wilson and Vaughn crashing the weddings , enjoying the celebrations , and going to bed with many women . It's not laugh out loud funny , but it garners a few small laughs , and it a very good set-up for what seems to be a film in this vein . It's not quite the case - we get a story that sort of goes on auto-pilot ( to put it another way , I've seen a story like this many times over in mainstream romantic comedies ) wherein Vaughn gets dragged into staying for a day with the daughter ( Isla Fisher , perhaps the best overall funny performance ) of the Secretary of Treasury ( Christopher Walken , of all people ) , and Wilson goes along as he tries to woo another daughter ( Rachel McAdams , a beauty no doubt ) who is already in a relationship with a alpha-male guy ( Bradley Cooper ) . This is when formula takes over . While the laughs are there , including a crazy dinner scene ( it's like a 30's screwball comedy crossed with American Pie for this scene , one of the funniest ) , a demented quasi-rape of Vaughn on his first night at the Clearys , and some other amusing parts sprinkled throughout the film , there are flaws . For one , it does go a little longer than it should - a couple of scenes could've been cut , or at least trimmed . At two hours , a romp of a romantic comedy shouldn't feel this over-long ( a lot of it for the story of Wilson and McAdams ' characters , who have good chemistry , but don't have much room to go in the formula ) . Another problem is under-developed , or non-developed characters . Take the character Cooper plays , Sack - he's been with Claire ( McAdams ) for over three years , and yet she is everything that he isn't . He's a one-dimensional villain , someone who is so obvious that it doesn't leave much room for conflict or second guessing about where the film will go . This goes for the Walken character as well , who seems mis-cast in a film where his odd comic genius and timing could come in well , but he doesn't bring much to the table aside from maybe one laugh ( perhaps not intentional ) . Ironically , two characters who score a lot of points when they appear on screen , Will Ferrel as the Wedding Crasher legend Chaz , and Keir O'Donnell as the closet-freak / brother Todd , get very little time to bring funnier bits ( they're stuck , again , in the traction of the screenplay , who do what they can in the time given ) . Wedding Crashers did give a couple of surprises , and it is gleeful , dumb fun for most of the way . But when it comes to the last quarter it starts to drag , the laughs become more diminished , and it becomes more of waiting for the last scene than being entertained . The whole aspect of the lying theme of the film fits in , yet really as story devices . In short , it's a film that brings in its moments well , and gives some good room for Wilson and Vaughn to work in ( Vaughn , whom I've always gotten the least of laughs in the pack of Wilsons , Ferrell , and Stiller in their films , actually makes good on a lot of the set-ups and pay-offs of the absurdities ) . But the script and actors tend to stumble as much as they make it entertaining . or a
I would probably want to give this movie a zero if not for the climax , which involves not really Snakes on a Train , but rather Train IN a Snake . The premise was cooked up far more than likely over the course of a night of beers after hearing about Snakes on a Plane in production ( this , in fact , was released to coincide with that film's release ) . The joke is probably not lost on those who will seek this out ; I don't think there would be a soul out there who would consider this anything as a serious action-thriller effort ( unless on an ironic level beyond the capacity for rational thought ) . It's about a Mayan curse placed on a woman who's damned by her family for leaving with another man , and is soon seen sickened and coughing up green slime laced with , of course , snakes . She and her beau go on a train headed for Los Angeles , and very soon after the more-than-cliché characters are privy to snakes overtaking the train - with the originator woman becoming a snake herself . If it would be worth listing more about the movie I would , but there isn't enough time during the day . All that can be said for the quality factor is that it's almost on-existent ; there are student short films with larger budgets . Maybe that was a wise calculation on the filmmakers ' end , that there would be so many copies sold , just for the joke factor alone , that they would re-coup their budget in the first weekend . Because by looking at the sets ( the trains themselves change randomly in the middle of a scene ! ) , the actors ( if you can call them that , with only one other actor - the one with the very thin hair who hits on the one woman throughout the movie - who benefited from the flick being produced ) , the FX ( also next to non-existent , making the effects in Snakes on a Plane seem like Star Wars ) , and the actual CGI snakes themselves , with the final huge behemoth snake something to behold in sci-fi movie channel terms . This all means , basically , that it is a laugh riot every step of the way ( especially , as cruel as it sounds , when a little girl becomes involved in a snake's " attention " ) , with the very disregard for good taste working well in its favor . This being said , it is also 100 % disposable , like a B-movie sour-flavor lollipop .
I know Guy Maddin directed this short film , My Dad is 100 Years Old , but either acclaim or blame should be rest on Isabella Rossellini's shoulders for this . She knew what kind of picture this would be , and Maddin seems more like a hired hand here than a true visionary . And if anything , the vision of sorts is really distracting and unnecessary and is just really poorly done . I know the intentions are good , and if I had to rate just on intentions it would be much higher praising , albeit in such personal terms . Roberto Rossellini is a great filmmaker , one of the greatest that emerged once the smoke settled from World War 2 in Europe . And his films Open City and Paisan are films that should be rediscovered for years to come as technology overcomes the film industry ( even if it's just in museums ) . But one of his daughter's , Isabella , hasn't done the greatest of tributes , from my perspective , with her My Dad is 100 Years Old short film . There isn't really anything coherent to the picture , which might have been acceptable had it been maybe more focused , so to speak . What I mean is the same pretension that she seems to be commenting on ( although too little too late by the last shot when she calls for the camera to move in front of her directly in profile ) , and done with a very ' this is how it is ' take on things . She makes fun of Fellini and Hitchcock ( the latter in profile , the former played by her ) , as Rossellini himself - or the form of him as portrayed by a huge belly that Isabella recollects was what she remembers the most - rags on anything in cinema that doesn't address morality and the like . Only when Chaplin comes out - also again Rossellini herself playing her along with David O Selznik - does some praise come out . For a film that lasts only 15-17 minutes , it seems like it fills up its time much too smugly and with an air of content at being all over the place . It's interesting to see how the rest of the picture , with its obtuse camera angles and pompous style of editing and framing and dialog , compares with the few precious clips of Open City that are shown , and how more insight into the director is in those clips than in everything else his daughter shows . Now , in full disclosure , I do like Isabella Rossellini a lot , as an actress , and she is a beautiful woman , but taking the controls on a complete tribute project like this nears all too much to the point of disaster . We get a view of a man who is simply all alone , out-casted by a film community that once embraced him , and sullen by the fact that people don't care about his movies after a while , or the kinds of stories and characters he wants to portray . It sounds really good on the outset , but it's not what I thought it would be when I finally saw it - a mess . I would have much rather had seen a full-on documentary on the director instead of some avant-garde deconstructionist short film . A big disappointment from a big fan of the director .
Lawrence Kasan doing an adaptation of a Stephen King novel ; you'd think that the man who was in part responsible for Raiders of the Lost Ark and Empire Strikes Back , and directed a good film or two in his time , would be able to make a memorable work by the author . It is memorable , in it's way , but not really as the author might've intended . Or maybe it is ; maybe it's such a gross-out factor in Dreamcatcher that had King trudge through this . But maybe another problem with adaptating a book like this , another of his I've yet to read , is that it's immense in size and scope ( from what I remember from seeing the size of in in hardcover , a dictionary almost ) . But whatever the reason , Dreamcatcher is a mess , and not just in what pops up on screen from the one-hour mark onward . It starts off promisingly , with a couple of flashback scenes to a childhood setting where the main male characters have a particular struggle , and a ' special ' person is helped by them , and also helps them in return . This has that element of King writing kids that always works well , a tinge of Stand By Me there with an added brush of humanism . Then the story shifts to the friends reuniting in a cabin up in a snowbound mountain . Things seem honky-dory , but they soon turn ugly , very ugly , and then , well , here comes the real juicy parts . What starts off as a story with some interesting fantasy elements involving a ' dreamcatcher ' , something that binds together these characters thoughts somehow , goes off into a crazy alien invasion story . The aliens are dealt with in a very nasty manner , and not in a kind of fun-nasty manner that has been done in other science fiction films or stories . I could deal with the way the aliens first sort of , erm , surface , which involves a part of the body I'd rather not mention here . But then it infects one or two of the others , and it turns one definitely into a kind of bizarre schitzo homicidal maniac who also happens to ride around on the snow on a jet-ski . Then the government gets involved , with Morgan Freeman popping up in one of the very rare times I had displeasure watching him in a movie . He can be the greatest of actors in this day and age , but the character - an obsessive general on the hunt at any cost for the aliens - is beneath him , and any sense he tries to bring to the part gets swept away by the muckedy muck of the story around him . Would I recommend Dreamcatcher even as a so-bad-it's-good horror movie ? Probably not even as that . There were a few moments I could remember , when I finally gave myself away from any sense of reality and turned over to the delirium of the second half of the movie , and it was funny to a degree that was almost cheating but still goofy . But those moments are few and far between . The film overall is a muddle , a lurid take on a story where the characters are set-up OK , and then knocked down or turned on their hinges as what was neat to start with soon evaporates . And one wonders if it's more to blame on Kasdan / screenwriter William Goldman's end , who tried to take on the large-scale scope of King's work , or the actual source material itself . Apparently it was the book that King wrote after suffering from being hit by a car years ago , perhaps as his sort of therapy back to his old writing chops . Which is fine - but for it to be this , and from a man far more talented than such manic , searching - for - scares - other - than - gore tactics like in Dreamcatcher . In short , not a pleasant experience .
John Landis ' Blues Brothers 2000 has a ridiculous plot that goes nowhere ( at least the original had somewhat a plot to get money to save a church ) and is dumb to enough of a degree to warrant it almost as patched-together in a coffee-shop over three nights . Also , for die hard fans of the original , they will feel a great , unavoidable void where John Belushi fit in the original as Jake Blues ( Belushi is dead ) . So that's the disappointment . And there are others , including the inevitable rehashing by Landis and Aykroyd of the past plot line almost to a T with extra fluff like the responsibility factor , whatever that is , put upon Jake and the kid . The car chases , too , are only so-so when compared to the audacity and bizarre originality of the first film's chases ( good for their time , and almost too simple and predictable to do twenty years later ) . But the film isn't totally irredeemable - it almost sets itself up NOT to be by overloading with various Blues icons both old and not so old . So the climactic big performance featuring a who's who of blues and rock musicians is almost worth seeking out the film to see , at least if you're a fan . But it is definitely hit ( very narrow hit ) or very much a miss for original fans of the SNL series and ( compared to this ) absolute post-modern 1980 classic comedy . That it only provides a few solid laughs make it all the more dreary , a sign of Landis's decline from his high peak in the 80's . Cameos include Frank Oz , Darrell Hammond , BB King , Steve Lawrence , Eric Clapton , Erykah Badu , Aretha Franklin , Isaac Hayes , Dr . John , Steve Winwood , John Popper ( Blues Traveler ) , and James Brown as the always awesome Reverend Cleophus James ( who actually provides the funniest part of the film after the end credits ! )
I should say it up front , I don't dislike the R & B of the period , as is given tribute via Dreamgirls . I liked hearing the harmonies of groups like the Supremes or other soul groups ( I'm assuming Eddie Murphy's performance is inspired by a mix of James Brown and Otis Redding , or others I can't think of right now ) . I never heard of Dreamgirls before the movie came out . I decided against seeing the movie in the theaters , not because of any outright bias against the actors or the potential of the songs , but because of the trailer . Sometimes a theatrical trailer can sort of spell out , boldly , what the big picture will be . It was something that didn't appeal to me most of all because of the absolute , dreadful appearance of safe , conventional appeal . One might think the director of challenging efforts like Gods and Monsters and Kinsey might try and make a musical with more verve , more soul , more " UMPH " , if that's the word . And as a director , Condon did pretty much meet that expectation . What I didn't expect , and what ended up annoying me about Dreamgirls , is how much the performances , with maybe the slightest exception , fell flat on itself . It's a subjective thing , of course ; there's been praise to the sky for the work that Jennifer Hudson and others in the film have done in presenting the usual rags - to - riches - then - some - more - trials - and - tribulations musical story . Which is nothing I can really blame anyone on , as the film does appeal for a core audience that can't get enough of BIG vocals , BIG numbers , FLASHY personalities that pop and go into the , well , expected for 2-dimensional parts ( if that ) . But , for the life of me , I could not stand most of the characters , or the actors playing them , in Dreamgirls . Jennifer Hudson has been praised most of all , given accolades as a new rising star following her stint on American Idol , and with vocals that , basically , go to a vocal volume that is impressive . But volume alone does not a good musical performance make ! I never believed her as Effie , not once , except as , in a way , like some big near parody of one of these bigger-than-life and bigger-than-Pete's-sake-ego black women who are so stubborn that it's about as hard as hell to have any sympathy . The character of Effie is meant as the pivotal one , the one whom has the BIG personality , and ends up making a BIG mistake . But Hudson can't fill the shoes , as she just doesn't have the acting talent for it . She was chose for her singing skills , which for her means to belt out every number like she has to reach even the little guy in the back row in Giants Stadium . Aside from the fact , like everyone else , she has to sing such songs that have only so minimal a range with lyrics and tone ( the most prominent number , in the ' break-up ' scene in the middle of the film , stops the film in its tracks , and not in a good way ) . I'm in the minority , but she's one of the worst things about Dreamgirls . But on the flip-side , there's another actor , Jamie Foxx , who despite his actual talents , both at acting and as Ray showed singing , is probably just as ineffectual and , dare I say it in his own way , dull in the part of the domineering manager of the Dreamgirls . There's practically no range for this character for Foxx to play in , and has for of the film the exact look on his face , as , through also fault in the script , goes through the motions as with every other bio-pic of a star group of the past . Only the ending tries to give any dimension , which by the end is far too late and even awkward . Beyonce and the other actress do maybe a little better , which is to say they're adequate in the parts . Only Eddie Murphy , who in a sense is just playing a sort of abstracted version of his egocentric self from many other movies he's been in ( and better ones , ala Bowfinger , also speaking of himself in the third person ) , and for his musical numbers does add a bit of a lift to the proceedings . I almost expected from some of the early Murphy / Lightning scenes that the movie wouldn't be very much special , but at least could be easily watchable . Not a chance ; as much as I would want to admire a movie with soul about the soul era's glory of the 60s and 70s , it lacks the passion that could make it a real contender in a time with so few musicals . The trailer also tempts that this will have some strong dramatic direction . Here , too , Condon falters where there needs to be a stronger vision , and he doesn't pull it off ( the montages , for example , of the rising star variety for the Dreamgirls in the mid 60s , feels as shallow and empty as anything I could imagine in a summer blockbuster ) . Now , a lot of people will like this movie , a lot . Maybe I'm just not entirely in the demographic . But Dreamgirls , for me , makes a fatal flaw for a movie musical - the fun and spirit and melding of what works on the stage to the screen clicks off , and the chance for the unexpected is null and void . It made me feel depressed in its lack of respect for the viewer overwhelmed with clichés .
Maybe I shouldn't be looking to making overt comparisons to the Wes Craven 1977 cult film The Hills Have Eyes , of which this Alejandre Aja filmed remake has done over Hollywood style , and just look at it on terms of just being a horror film in and of itself . But even on its own I found this film to just not work for me , even as I recognized things that I admired about it . And maybe it's because I decided to watch the 1977 original earlier this week that that film is so fresh in my mind that I can't help but make comparisons . However , when you are remaking a film that already has a flaw or two , you can either improve , be on par , or just not be as good as that film , or just be so-so on its own terms . Co-writer / director Aja has a film here that does work for its target audience - the young teen horror fan crowd looking for a quick fix of gore and cheap scares done in a somewhat shaky-hand held camera style . But the problem for me was a little more elemental . For all of Craven's film's shortcomings - mostly by budget and time - was made up for by being a sharply entertaining exploitation flick , building on both the good and evil sides of the characters . This time , Aja is content with making a decent enough set-up for the first half hour or so , and then just plunging the viewer into a kind of checklist horror movie kind of layout . This is not to say he doesn't use the big-studio backup for some good ; the makeup by Greg Nicotero on the deformed mutant villains is very cool and creative ; the gore factor ( not that I was necessarily relying on it for scares , which it didn't really ) was very high and well laid out ; the performances by the family , for the first half of the film , are believable enough with the dialog . But the problem for me lies in that the second half of the film , where Aja could make this good versus evil struggle scary and intense , into being slightly boring . Not withstanding the fact that 80 % of the original is transplanted ( sometimes seemingly with the same shots and angles ) into the remake , the new ideas put into the film also aren't launched off with enough to really engage . And then there are the action / bloody horror scenes , where Aja has his fun pitting these quasi super-mutants against our can't-be-beat heroes ( one of which seems to survive and fight back with an incredible suspension of disbelief for one ) , but its not really that per say . So yes , there's more gore than the first go-around , yes , there are some added disturbing elements ( i . e . a rape scene , not as disturbing as in some films but gruesome enough ) , and yes , the twist factor is turned up to 10 . But with the turns of the horror-film screw , I just didn't get involved , even in separating myself from the original . And the fact that the mutants are very robotic-like in their pursuit of their semi fish-in-a-barrel takes some of the jump out of some of the could-be scares . It will please many , and if you are just a general horror film fan ( and R-rated I mean , it doesn't cheap out on that end ) you'll want to check it out ) . But it's a ' meh ' in terms of it being engaging film-making .
Jackass Number Two may not be as " good " as part 1 , though it may depend on how you define ' good ' . I guess it has to mean more to how much you're fulfilled entertainment-wise by the material . To say that the Jackass boys outdo themselves this time is putting it lightly . Maybe it was around the time that one of them drank horse semen , or when one put a leech on his eyeball , or when one of them blew farts directly into a another with a space helmet on , or when . . . Nevermind . The point of Jackass Number Two is , well , there is no point if you're going at it logistically . If anything by logic these guys are out of their ( bleeping ) minds . Being fodder for seeing-red-charging-bulls , here and there surrounded by a snake or two , I wonder here and there if these guys inadvertently have a death wish in them , or at least the instinct . But on the other hand , Jackass 2 is at it's best for me in showing how people can actually be live-action cartoons - sometimes very X-rated and crude , but cartoons all the same . This was evident for me too already in the first Jackass movie , but this time it's almost all-too-blatant . What are we to think of Wile E . Coyote's reputation when Johnny Knoxville straps himself to a rocket ( though this time just for the sake of doing it across a lake , not for a roadrunner ) , or in what I thought of as a Beavis & Butt-head homage rolling down a long hill inside of a tire ? But there are other things that had me laughing very hard at what they were doing . The old-man / lady get-ups were the best for me , as Spike Jonze ( yes , Spike Jonze ) and Knoxville provided caricatures that are like walking , breathing punk'd creations , with genitals and breasts all askew . Yet through all the stupidity , the insanities , and what sometimes just has me going ' huh ' ( the final musical number comes to mind ) , there is at least a good spirit of the old-time pranksters in them , even as they cheat death and get away from it laughing their heads off at each other . Little bits like riding the bicycle with the one big wheel and small little wheel ( " why did people do this " ) , or the switcheroo of Bam's father in bed , are genuinely clever , if still very stupid things to see . Now , if you're going into this movie without having seen part 1 , it may be a bit naive on your part . It helps to see the first one just to know whether or not this stuff is really for you . Because if you know it is for you , Jackass Number Two is probably the picture of the season . If not , you may end up either a ) puking in your seat , seriously , or b ) walking out within the first twenty minutes . This is the kind of picture that I , who rarely calls for censoring anything , could have been warranted a second look for an NC-17 rating . On the other hand , it'd be wrong of me to say I didn't have a good time for most of the time either , even when a gag or joke was weak .
Probably the best , or most engrossed , I found myself in David Lynch's first short film effort - animated of course - was that in his use of repetition there were more chances to spot things not seen the previous time . This is really in some ways rather disgusting in its own abstracted art-school sense , but it grew on me the more times I saw these ' six figures ' going through their digestive problems . There's a mix of colors used in an animated style that I haven't seen much since I was younger ( it was done here and there on these kids videos I watched , the lower rent ones , heh ) . The alarm sound that blares , what Lynch himself described as the ' sound ' attributed to the moving painting he tried to recreate , is my least favorite part of the short . I almost wished Lynch had gone the Brakhage route , leaving just the images to speak for themselves . What I did really find interesting though on a purely film-student level however was how I liked it the more times it repeated itself , trying to get the viewer to see into what is being done with the ink marks and various blotches of ideas in forms of smoke and vomit . Nothing too outrageous or speaking of the future genius he'd show , but it would've been something I'd given high marks for if I was judging whatever contest he originally submitted this to forty years ago - it definitely carries that appeal .
Maybe I'm a little jaded from Lords of Dogtown following the documentary Dogtown & Z-Boys , and maybe my interest in the film is compounded by the fact that I'm not that heavy into skateboarders - even ones that can do some incredible things like the Z-Boys . But the film here , which has some moments of fine humor and edge and even a little drama , isn't something I would outright recommend unless you already know what you're getting into . For example , if you're the kind of person , male or female ( though probably male as , for the most part , it is a male-dominated activity ) , that shops often at the VANS store , or own many Tony Hawk video games , this is the film event of the year . But for the casual observer of the sport , reactions may vary . The drama , of what is there , doesn't totally pick up mainly until the latter part of the film as the Z-Boys start to gain more notoriety with their shake-up of the skateboarding world . From what I remember seeing , much of the film is set among guys - some very famous future skaters like Stacy ( John Robinson ) and Jay ( Emile Hirsch , who does make an impression with his longish blonde hair and cool demeanor ) - who hang out a lot , and try to one-up each other with their ' moves ' , mostly in swimming pools they sneak into and other grungy places in 1970s surf-side California . Some of these scenes are really funny ; I particularly liked Heath Ledger ( somewhat unrecognizable ) as the head of a skater-shop named Skip . But a lot of this is also a bit aimless , even as it has a quasi-organizing principle . As a much stronger storytelling / visual stroke was in the documentary , director Catherine Hardwicke just tries to make it as ' docu-drama ' as possible , with more attitude than real characterization , and sometimes scenes that come off TOO improvised , if that's possible . Not a bad film in the slightest , and if it's ever a pretty mellow day with some friends who are more into the high-stakes , big-game skater world than I , I'd watch it again . It's just that it doesn't necessarily work either as an affecting tale of a small revolution with the youth in the 70s .
Calling director Jesus Franco a pornographer after watching Vampiros Lesbos would be unfair , but not simply for the face that he's directed many , many films throughout a career of B to Z grade projects . It's also because it would be too easy . The man is , after all , an " artist " , or whatever might pass for one in 1970 . He was 40 at the time and made a film that , for better or worse , is a part of a legacy of sex-horror trash that must be mentioned in any conversation about sexy naked women and some blood and vampires and stuff . It's definitely not a very good movie , and point in fact it's probably too pretentious to see its own forest full of trees . But it does have some kind of power , some kind of very strange intuition that makes it never too boring - and , if you're into a very abstract love / mind-game story of vampire femme fatales then here you go . In Vampiros Lesbos or , you guessed it , Lesbian Vampires , Jesus Franco tells a story that is about as loosely based on Stoker's mythology as one of the dresses is on any given girl in a sultry scene . A lawyer , Linda Westinghouse ( and yes , Ewa Stromberg so looks like Linda Westinghouse doesn't she . . . actually kind of ) , is on a beach away from her man and meets a carefree woman , Soledad Miranda , who draws her into her world : she's the sole heiress of Count Dracula's fortune , and has also been indoctrinated into the " coven " of other vampires , and by a slip of the " wine " she brings Linda in as well . Meanwhile , another sexy blonde is going nuts in a mental hospital where a doctor tries his hardest to figure on how to kill the darn beasts . So , in truth , there is some relation to the original book , much in the same way a hippie living in a sewer eating rats and tripping 40 year old acid is in relation to Jerry Garcia . This is such a work of its time that it might have actually been close to perfection for maybe one day in 1970 or 1971 , while the sun was setting and everything was perfect for Franco and his production team and actresses all tanned and sultry , and then it was gone forever and locked into a time capsule . It's loaded with " crazy " imagery , hallucinatory passages of subjective viewpoints from its female characters - perhaps all an allusion to lesbianism and it keeping women trapped who normally wouldn't be under different circumstances ( ? ) - and even an annoying recurring symbol of a scorpion in a pool ( yeah , we get it , scorpion , Peckinpah , move on ! ) The acting also isn't good at all by a couple of the supporting players , like that guy who plays Morpho with the same stone-faced look or even Dr . Seward . But at the same time , as a time capsule , it holds some pleasures of some minor guilty measure . While its violence isn't directed with much care , Franco is a perverted master of a certain kind of seduction between women on screen , and here he does get some scenes and moments that are creepy and striking and even erotic . I also liked Stromberg and Miranda in their roles , no matter how at-best two-dimensional they were . And the music is both divinely awesome and totally ludicrous with it being funky and smooth and ' hey , Tarantino ripped that off and it is that great ' , as well as being like a putrid re-rendering of that Pink Floyd song from Zabriskie Point's finale played repeatedly to poor effect . Vampiros Lesbos is one of a kind , so one of a kind that it would take someone with daring and possibly dementia to remake it . I both applaud Franco's versatility in attempting something as maniacal and coolly grind-house-ish , while at the same time realizing I could never in good conscience recommend it wholly . It's one of those .
Currently there is a version of Measures Against Fanatics on you-tube , which was how I got to see this short Werner Herzog film from early in his career . It's about horse racing , or rather the people who take care of the horses , and how to , apparently , protect them from the ' fanatics ' of the title . Unfortunately , it's hard to really give a totally quantifiable rating to the documentary , because the version currently available , despite being in excellent picture and sound quality , has no subtitles in English ( and being that I'm not up on my German much at all I could only pick out a few words here and there based on what I've heard in other movies and elsewhere ) . As far as visuals go it's not bad , though there's not a whole lot Herzog can go in photographing such things like horses walking around and their protectors talking ( though it is cool to see one of the horses walking around ) . It seems to mostly be dull even without knowing entirely what the context is usually in , but there are still some noticeable Herzogian moments , like when the one trainer or whomever proceeds to break blocks of wood with his hand . Or with the mere presence of the old man , who always seems to be interrupting the dialog the person answering is having , always with his say . The music is also ironically cheerful , which makes funny in an off-kilter sort of way . It is worth watching , if you're a Herzog fan like I am , though knowing a little German might help add a little extra enjoyment .
Babylon AD means well , and it takes itself seriously enough to not come off too self-parodic , with a few major exceptions with dialog and stylistic choices . Its director , Mathieu Kassovitz , isn't some hack for hire , but someone who does care about the message of his picture as well as the art , of creating a very tangible future of dirt and ugly and gray colors with some super-technicolor sides in New York City , and having an action star as the lead with some moments of actually good acting . He has a vision and he carried it through , but I wonder now having watched the Unrated director's cut ( or what could be the most available director's cut around without sifting through whatever Fox or whomever forced him to cut from the script ) , how much it was studio pressure and how much of it was just second-guessing . This is original in-as-much as one can see some original ideas about it . . . but it's also one of the most derivative mainstream movies I've seen in quite a while . It also veers almost off the deep end towards the very end , which is kind of troubling since that doesn't seem like something forced on by the studios . Action set-pieces and specific , boring usual kind of " WHOA ! " shots I could possibly see ( albeit Kassovitz has claimed the entire affair as a debacle since the studio harassed him from the start , which is hard to argue here ) , but that sort of twist almost makes one grind to a halt - especially when the story itself , when it does make some sense towards the very end , just stops dead in its tracks with one of those very likely tacked-on lines : " Save the planet - yeah , right . " Or maybe not ; maybe this was Kassovit's vision all along , a tale burning with a lot of intelligence for its genre while also leaning towards the generic for influence . To describe the plot , in other words , would be to take it right into a mix-and-match of other futuristic / post-apocalyptic / science-fiction plots : it's Children of Men ( horrid looking future with lots of people living in urban squalor and with seemingly random terrorism rampant in Europe ) meets Serenity ( a " woman " being carried across lines who may just be a " deadly weapon " of some kind ) meets , well , what else could I think of ? At the same time it's also based on a comic-book , which does go to explain what does make the film ultimately work , probably much better than it should . It's a pulp fable told with some intensity and even a few surprises such as Charlotte Rampling and Gerard Depardieu in supporting roles ( Michelle Yeoh isn't quite as lucky , but with less to do ) . The film has such grand ambition , and is filmed from time to time with the kind of brilliance that one might associate with the director of a film like La Haine ( another film with some real social relevance or just something good for our time ) , that it's a shame to see some wretchedly clichéd bits of dialog , some moments of action that lag in that not-too-bad-not-much-good category , and one line in particular involving a " missile linked to my passport " being a laugh out loud line . Topping it is Vin Diesel , a solid star but needing more than what he has here . It's like the rest of the movie : there's depth , their's quality , and their's something really going on . If only there was more , and more originality .
I think after seeing writer / director Michael Mann's the Insider and Collateral , maybe I expected a little too much from Miami Vice . But then , even as an 80's baby , I've never seen a single episode of the original Don Johnson TV show that Mann was crucially part of . His film adaptation of the show will definitely appeal to his main fans , but as a stand-alone action-packed blockbuster thrill-ride , it does and doesn't deliver . It's hard to explain why a film like this should work better , because it does contain enough grit and intensity to be a step above other knock-off type films with rough , smart , intuitive cops who don't take s from no one , and the even more dangerous criminals . But for a film from Mann , who is probably one of only several in Hollywood who can have such an auteur-like status over a production as sprawling and big-time as Miami Vice , there's something that just didn't connect with me like his other films . And it's something that is hard to really say as criticism , but it is a film that is more interesting as a kind of digital action-drama experiment than as a real entertainer . The people on screen might be depicting some kind of close-to-reality type of world where the guns are very real and those on either side don't have overtly tongue-in-cheek jabs at each other . But on the other hand , it's not really that much fun either . Another liability with a film like this , which takes itself seriously enough to try and use the style of its different look and of its two leads , is that the story should be more clear . At the core of this film is a story that was meant , I'd assume , in the vein of the Miami Vice TV show , is more of a B-type story than something big like Mann is aiming for . To compensate , the director's script is so concentrated on keeping to the lines of the tense and narrow ( and occasionally clichéd which is good and bad ) that a kind of un-reality permeates through the characters and the scenarios . In other words the story is not really as interesting as it thinks it is . Nevertheless , the actors as mentioned do carry themselves enough for their parts , with each understanding their character's lack of characterization left mostly for broad strokes . For example , the sub-plot involving Colin Farrel and his romantic interest ( who is also the main drug dealer's beau and business partner ) , doesn't develop much further than allowing for the stylistic flourishes . They do look terrific together on screen , as repeated Audioslave songs pop up with the near cinema-verite angles Mann imposes . But the script doesn't give them much more to do than provide two-dimensional fodder for later in the film . I guess what I mean to say about Miami Vice , for all of its ambitions to rise above the material and be a kind of fresh take on the crime / cop action genre with drugs and SWAT teams filmed in HD , is not up to par with what Mann is capable of as a filmmaker . His heart is in it , but it's one that doesn't seem to be as interested in going a little deeper into the character's psychologies like in the film's previously mentioned , but more into getting tighter angles and tough hand-held night shots that border on becoming distracting . It's a picture in the end that does deliver what it promises to its viewers - sexy scenes , thrilling gun-fights , tense negotiation type moments , rotten-to-the-bone villains and slick good guys - and will probably be a let down if you look for more underneath the surface / think about it much afterwards . . . When I look back on it now months later , not really memorable .
For the first 20 minutes or so of Wassup Rockers , I thought " been there , done that . " Meaning that , simply , Larry Clark has done this kind of movie before , better , more wisely and with some extra depth on the subject of stray kids doing their own thing without much parental supervision . But then , finally , something started to take shape : the film is , if about something , a class tale , with the South Central Hispanics roaming around Beverly Hills just looking for a place to skate and getting into various misadventures ( some funny , some deadly ) . And at the same time , even more than Kids , there's a raw quality to the performances , with mixed results . It's like that docu-drama Streetwise from the 80s with a touch of Ferris Bueller and then put to a soundtrack of rip-offs or sound-alikes of the Casualties . Part of the problem of Wassup Rockers is that it is not too interesting within its aimless structure . Having a film without much of a plot can work fine , they're made all the time in independent quarters in America and especially Europe . But it should amount to something by the end , and by the end of Wassup Rockers there isn't very much of a point except , well , don't go into Beverly Hills for too long if you're Hispanic and looking like a member of the Ramones by way of Tony Hawk . But within this jump-around structure , around some of the random sex scenes and skateboarding and the kind of cool scenes of the kids riding their boards to LA punk rock , Clark does create a fun B-movie . At the least , it's never boring , and if it isn't really groundbreaking or as revelatory or whatever as Kids ( and it isn't ) it does provide something of a small window into something we haven't seen before , or at least I haven't seen before . Not all of the performances are below par , an in fact there's a charm and down to earth honesty to a lot of scenes ( a scene that made me think a lot of Streetwise is when the kid Chico is talking to the Beverly Hills girl in their underwear in her bedroom - this is stripped down to the point of simple documentary , and it suddenly becomes affecting strangely enough ) . And , if nothing else , it works as a B movie , a kids-on-the-prowl story that should appeal most to anyone who likes to just roam around when they have nothing to do when they're 14 or 15 . It's a minor work that has moments of real power .
This little short film / experiment from Lynch is meant to be some kind of home movie-cum-fever dream where the basic act of going out onto a lake with a motor boat becomes like some sort of journey to some unknown destination . It's at it's best an immense jolt of visual splendor , shot on Lynch's hardy digital camera , where one of Lynch's expressed joys as a filmmaker - to be able to make the flow of water a truly cinematic feat - is put to a successful test . At first he just shows images of the boat , with a girl doing a voice-over meant to be very mysterious but somewhat cognitive of having an idea of what's around her ( or it , as it might be ) . Then the boat goes off , Lynch himself ( steering the boat ) says to the camera " we're gonna try to go fast enough to go in to the night " , and soon all there is to see is water rushing past , very fast , and then superimposed is night over day . The voice-over itself is probably the lesser part of the experiment ; Lynch says on the DVD the short is on that he thought there was a story there , so he put on a voice-over track to go with the images . The narration , truth be told , makes it a tinge more poetic , but not necessarily for the better ; I had flashbacks during some of the narrative bits to short films ( and not the better short films ) I used to see in film classes at school . Yet it's a good little effort that Lynch has strung together here at least by way of eye-catching digital video , where everything seems a little extra heightened ( very bright by way of daytime , then nighttime is much darker , naturally ) and the movement of water at such a fast clip , as one might take for granted , makes for some powerful viewing .
The band , an group of eight Egyptians looking slightly stilted and uncomfortable but always professional , are dropped off at the Israeli airport , but there is no bus to drive them . They eventually get one , but it drops them off in the middle of nowhere . They walk to a local restaurant / dive that's about as empty as the rest of the small town - it's the wrong town , of course , as one letter was off in the name of the town of the band-mates inquired about . So it's time to stay overnight in this sleepy little desert town before things get straightened out to their destination . With that simple premise , Eran Kolirin creates an atmosphere that seems like the awkward , piercingly funny but " low-key " ( in other words not overly dramatic ) characters in a Jarmusch film , and despite the ' small ' nature of the story , that there isn't very much to go in its 80 minute running time , a lot can be explored through interaction . This is probably not a ' great ' film , but it is a great example for those skeptical that an Israeli film has to have some political context or subtext or whatever . The only scene that has the hint of unease between Israel and Arab is an already warm , strange scene at a dinner table where an Israeli man recollects singing " Summertime " as everyone at the table joins in . There are looks exchanged here and there , but nothing to suggest unrest of the expected sort . This story could take place in just about anywhere . By aiming things towards the little details of people relating on terms of friendly interaction , of the light dances of affection like between the boy who " hears the sea " and the " gloomy girl " at the skating rink ( probably the single funniest scene without a word spoken , all movement ) , the first-time director creates a little play on people who live and / or work in a marginalized part of the world . That doesn't mean they're poor or ignorant , far from it . But it's a sweet view into people we otherwise wouldn't know much about ( after all , who makes light , wise comedies on the misadventures of a police band from Egypt ? ) The performances are endearing , the music has the ring of not taking much too seriously , and melodrama is kept at a low ( if not , in the underlying sense , melancholy ) . Only a few scenes ( like the running story strand of the officer and the other guy waiting at the pay phone ) fall sort of flat based on the tone already sent .
On facebook there is an event coming up I believe in June which is called " National Man Day " , which will be a day for all men everywhere to feel and act like " Men " , whatever that is . If there are any screening rooms available for this kind of created event , Taken could be a good choice as a movie to screen . It's a preposterous action movie fantasy that has a good dosage of Jason Bourne and surprisingly , and not offensively , some conservative connotations in it . Yes , conservative : where else will we get a France-is-evil tome that also includes a sex-slave trade ( which , apparently , is based on real things going on in Europe right now ) complete with deflowered girls the highest marker - yes , American girls , go to France and you will be sold into the sex trade - for Albanians or whomever the immigrants are with the can-do American government bad-ass with one step removed from Jack Bauer and a penchant for torture when it suits best . Sound not like your cup of manly kill-kick-ass tea ? Then look away and read no more . But if you're still with this , well , you know what you're in for , sort of . This is another vehicle by Luc Besson , as writer and producer , to use Paris as a backdrop for a crazy plot designed to give whoever star it is - usually Jason Statham - a run for his money for the good of the entire audience as super-violent escapist fare . The plot , with Liam Neeson's retired government agent who has a strength comparable to both Jason Bourne and Batman having to go to France after his daughter is kidnapped along with a friend , is of not much consequences as we've seen it in other molds and folds before , sometimes in sleazy packages or straight-to-video deals ( one may wonder where Chuck Norris is when you need him ) . But the plot actually becomes a little more believable , or at least acceptable , because of or in support of the presence of Liam Neeson . He's such an underrated presence today in movies , popping up when a director has the right mind to use him ( yes , he was even pretty good in Phantom Menace ) , and in this case director Morel and Besson have here an action hero who shows weariness and real conflict on his face . He's not the first person you'd think to play Brian , but he's the right person for what he can bring to the part . He's tough as nails but isn't chiseled or completely stone-cold like Daniel Craig . There's something else going on , like he's thinking and makes us think with him as he crashes through glass and kicks and punches and shoots and strangles and bamboozles dozens of gangsters and baddies . He helps make Taken something of a wonderful contradiction : believably unbelievable all the way through . You know this guy can do these things because , frankly , he just can . As my own mother , God bless her , said after seeing the movie : it gives a good enema to the brain . She meant that as a compliment , I suppose .
I'd recommend Stranger Than Fiction , especially if you're a fan of its stars . It also speaks to a good career ahead for first-time screenwriter Zak Helm . That it also is that old , over-used statement - the parts more entertaining than the whole - is maybe in part attributable to an inherent structural flaw in the script . After I left the movie I did think about how a person's will may be dictated or not , or what really carries that man to do what he decides to do , or if he tries to do nothing at all ( which Harold Crick , played by Will Ferrell , does to no avail ) . Because the story itself is about contrivance , their is an ever-looming air of contrivance in the script too . It's hard to explain exactly , and Helm was wise to avoid certain pit-falls , such as really giving a ' logical ' explanation to how the narrator's writing sticks into Crick's head in the first place , or that it might not just collapse once writer and ' character ' meet . But there's still some things that I found a little troublesome - for example , does the narrator dictate the little things that Crick does , or would Crick just do them anyway ? What I mean is , how much is determined by what is written or not . There is also the air of questioning where these characters are outside of their set spots in the screenplay - and Crick , albeit not without some interest is not really the kind of character I would think would make for a great subject for a book by a presumably well-renown , recluse author ( played in the best way possible in the one-note terms by Emma Thompson ) . For the sake of Crick's central change from being very calculated , precisely so , early on , to becoming a man much more based on how he wants to live his life not based rigidly on structure - even in the structure of ' little did he know ' , which is kind of amusing as a writer myself - there is that sort of contrivance anyway . Yet at the same time , individual scenes are very well written though , and given fresh life by the cast . Ferrell here , of course , is showing much more of his talents than usual , at doing much more of a grounded , every-day kind of guy who has the extraordinary happen to him . He's always convincing in the part , even in scenes that are awkward or made to really pull up more of his talents than usual . That I would still have a very slight preference for his comedy roles and skills as a satirist / performer may be just subjective , though this - plus his underrated turn in Melinda & Melinda - goes to relay how he can play genuine just as well as silly and fearlessly stupid . Hoffman , as the literature professor who helps out Crick through his crisis at points , is also very good , and their scenes together were some of my favorite in the film . Gyllenhaal works well too as the romantic side for Crick's change in self . So really , it's a worthwhile trip into what was appropriately called by one critic as ' Charlie Kaufman-lite ' , as it goes to lengths to be an original work , but at the same time one can't help but know how things will turn out in the end , if only from the immense heap of circumstance given clairvoyance , or vice versa , and that it is , in the end , a work out of Hollywood . Marc Foster's direction does go for little odd touches to add to Helm's writing , such as numbers and lines and such on screen in fast fashion to show Crick's mind working in the form of his life early on . And the watch means probably as much as the gold watch did in Pulp Fiction in the sense of what it will lead to for the character . That it doesn't feel though completely satisfying in its sort of original send-up is understandable , but partly forgivable ; it's the kind of work that gives talented actors some fun and variety , and there are at least a few truly laugh-out-loud funny moments .
I had a vague idea of who Bettie Page was , partly due to her appearance in the very wee days of Playboy ( apparently , when she got her photo taken of her and her Santa hat , just that , she didn't know what the mag was ) . The movie , co-written and directed by American Psycho's Mary Harron , fleshes out the key parts of her life well enough . A southern belle of a church goer has some bad experiences and leaves them behind to seek better times in New York City , where she gets into modeling , and from there a lot more . Soon , she becomes the underground pin-up sensation , with bondage the obvious ( and " notorious " of the title ) trait attributed to her . The actress Gretchen Moll portrays her , and gets down the spirit of this woman about as well as she could , which is really a lot of the success of the film . She's not a simplistic character , even if at times her ideas of morality are questionable ( " well , Adam and Eve were naked , weren't they ? " she comments a couple of times ) . Apparently , the filmmakers leave out the later years of Page's life and leave off with her in a kind of redemptive period , leaving behind the photo shoots for Jesus . In all , the Notrious Bettie Page is not much more than a kind of usual bio-pic presented by HBO films , albeit this time with the stamina for a feature-film release . The best scenes that Harron captures are Page in her " questionable " positions , getting photos of her in over-the-top poses and starring in ridiculous films of whips and chains and leather uniforms . This adds a much needed comic relief to the film's otherwise usual nature . It's not that the story behind it is uninteresting , which involves the government's investigation into the ' smut ' that came out of such photos and underground magazines . But there isn't much time given to explore more of what is merely hinted at , with Page and her complexities or her relationships or to sex and the fifties . It's all given a really neat black and white look and sometimes it seemed as if Harron was progressing some of the black and white photos to be tinted more as it went along . It's a watchable view if you're not too knowledgeable of Bette Page , and probably for fans too .
One of the big achievements of Un Secret which must be noted is that the director , Claude Miller , doesn't entirely sympathize with his characters or make them out to be all completely good Jews . They're not . This is a film concerning the holocaust that doesn't just make a blanket statement like " Nazis = Bad " . No , there were Jews who were in denial , and tried to cloud over the horrible fact that was upon all of Europe , and indeed it's when the film takes its most dissecting view at the flaws of these characters that the veneer is stripped away of completely innocent people being swept up in the maelstrom . While Miller obviously acknowledges and shows the horror of anti-semitism in France ( one brief scene in a classroom showing Night and Fog is especially startling ) and of the rise of Hitler , he puts his eye on the Grinberg family and what really happened between François Grimbert's parents ( name changed when he was a kid ) before and during World War 2 . Miller's approach with Un Secret is a tricky one structurally , and it doesn't quite find it's footing until a third of the way into the film . He tries to find a back-and-forth-and-back form of dealing with three periods of time : 1930s , 1950s / 1960s and 1985 when everybody is older and it turns to black and white ( an opposite touch that works , for a moment ) , and it's only effective in about the first five minutes . I became wary of those sudden jumps to the 1985 portion of the film , where we see an old Maxime Nathan Grinberg ( Patrick Bruel ) grieving over the loss of his dog and his son trying to find him , and found it didn't strike anywhere near as well as the 50s scenes . On top of this , after all of the film has ended , that huge chunk of the film with the focus on that first marriage of Grinberg's with Hannah and his very obvious but eventually-acted-on infatuation with Tania ( very sexy Cecile de France ) was far more effective dramatically and tonally than anything else in the film . This is not to say Un Secret doesn't cast a very fascinating look into this particular boy's lack of perspective and of his father's determination to compete on a physical level with the Germans , to almost " be " one in a perfectionist sense athletically , and how this one secret is part of scarred memory , attachment to one's faith and religion and who they are , and love and lust . The cast is generally excellent , with Bruel , De France and Sagnier delivering work with nuance and exquisite , painful emotions that resonate from one into the next scene ( Sagnier is so good she gets us to feel repulsed , or at least taken completely aback , by what she does while in hiding ) . And the moods of joy and despair in a Jewish family circa 1930s and 1940s - and the subsequent self-imposed shame of people in Europe even after the war ended - is captured with some real power and accuracy . But Miller also can't completely fix together his narrative ; he feels the need to jump around as if it will create a really intriguing rhythm , where if he stepped back and told it without sudden jumps or surreal bits like the " brother " in the boy's bedroom at night the film would benefit . There is also a lack of a real resolution ; the 1985 scene just didn't cut it for me as far as an unspoken father / son thing , and despite it sounding conventional a confrontation of the boy to his parents might have brought something more interesting than the uneven subtlety of the ending . A lot of this is so hearth-breaking in its true dimensions and probing of the subject that the only real disappointment is how it doesn't fell . . . complete with itself .
The Merry Gentlemen has the makings , and perhaps even the trappings , of a predictable neo-noir involving a hit-man ( Michael Keaton ) , a detective ( Bastounes ) and the woman that they're both eying ( Kelly MacDonald ) , and the elements of crime floating all about . But Keaton brings to the table as a first-time director an absolutely unbreakable grasp of what makes the scene ( s ) work from an actor's stand-point . Ironically for an actor who usually makes his mark in movies as someone with a lot of nervous energy or something that makes him quirky or mysterious ( i . e . Batman / Bruce Wayne , Beetlejuice , Jackie Brown ) , here he's subdued , almost like Alain Deleon in Melville's movies . He doesn't say much , but when he does you listen , especially as his character Logan has pneumonia or carries a Christmas tree . On his own end Keaton's got his character covered wonderfully . That leaves the other two , and one other actor that should be noted . MacDonald is quickly becoming an example of a perfect character actress . It's hard for me to see her becoming a full-blown A-list star , even a decade or more after she hit the scene in her debut in Trainspotting , but when she comes into a role , usually in the supporting variety ( most recently No Country for Old Men and Choke ) you feel her presence incredibly . She's so vulnerable and adorable , so keen on how her character should be in every moment , as someone who's fragile , been messed with by her husband , but wants to have her space while at the same time being friendly to both the lonely hit-man and the desperate cop . It's hard for me to see a flaw in her performance , and maybe helps elevate things another notch or two . Ditto for Bastounes , one of those actors you swear you've seen somewhere else but actually has only been in one ( or none ) features before this . He , too , makes a mark playing off both MacDonald like at the restaurant or Keaton in a pivotal scene at the tailor . There's another actor I should also credit , though at the moment I forget his name : he plays MacDonald's character's husband , and he appears out of the darkness in a scene , a recovering abuser with a newfound Jesus addiction who tries to win back his wife's heart as she holds a knife to him . It's one of the best , creepiest dramatic scenes I've yet seen this year . And while I praise his and the other principles performances , the rest of the film around them is . . . well , good , watchable , though nothing wholly remarkable . At times Keaton is still finding his footing with style , keeping some shots engaging and others just doing a big pan or reveal where it wouldn't be necessary . It's competent work , though , and I would hope to see something else from him ; at the least he reveals himself such a fantastic director of his fellow actors ( not least of which himself , though as Eastwood shows that's easier done than said ) that he may have found a new calling . It's an A-grade acting job amid a decent little B-movie .
To be upfront , I didn't think the first X-Files movie - Fight the Future - was any kind of great movie , and at best was a very good bridge between two seasons of the show back in 1998 ( very good in that if you're a fan you'll still want to check out the movie repeatedly when it comes on TV , oddly enough ) . So my expectations for the sequel-cum-addendum to the end of the series , a kind of reprieve for those who screamed bloody murder over the lack of a worthy closure , weren't very high despite being a big fan of the show at its peak best ( i . e . early-late 90s ) . Luckily , my expectations were exceeded just a bit ; when it's at its best , I Want to Believe reaches those classic , twisty , dark and noirish and fing weird depths that Carter's creation could reach . This is , in actuality , mostly in the central plotting , which works in cool detective-movie mode as Fox and Scully ( Duchovney and Anderson ) are called back to action , more or less , following the disappearances of some FBI agents . When Carter and co-writer Spotnitz stick to this strange story of Euro body and / or organ snatchers , and their crazy experiments that verge between Silence of the Lambs and 50s B-movie with their methods , the movie works very well , pulling in scenes of thrills and suspense and done with some great verve for chases and snooping around and , finally , wallowing in the horror in the operating room . It's also cast well , with Billy Connelly going for a not-quite camp performance as a pedophile ex-priest who sees visions ( or maybe not , who knows ) , and leads Mulder and Scully and the FBI along to who knows what . It's when Carter and company try and go for more " messagy " ground that it gets slightly shakier . It's not too hard to see the connection of the title itself with what essentially Carter's themes are here , which is believing in higher powers or , at the least , oneself to do something of value . Stem cells are a big part of the movie , and we even get a jokey bit thrown in with a close-up of George W . Bush and J Edgar Hoovers ' portraits in the FBI hallway with the theme music briefly chimes in . This subplot , with Scully pushing against all odds to cure a boy's seemingly incurable ailment , is nowhere near as interesting as that of the main plot , which is juicy and pulpy and at the least is never really boring ( if , sadly , not always with great dialog or delivery from the likes of Peet or Xzibit ) . Luckily , Duchovney and Anderson still got the goods in inhabiting their quintessential characters , and it moves a lot faster and with enough gusto to even keep some non-fans alert and ready for more . This all said , it's definitely just enough worthy for recommendation , and not much more . You'll never see it on a top 10 list , and some might even call it total crap . For me , it's another , possibly final , chapter in the saga of Mulder and Scully , and it works just fine .
How do I talk about a film where I can't even mention its title in this review ( in the IMDb comments the word of the title of this film cannot be put in , unless in the form of fck or sht ) ? I can talk mostly then about how the filmmakers go around the use of the word fck . Fck is the word that gets everyone's ear up , and depending on the context or meaning behind it can get some people riled up enough to do something about it - like reporting to the FCC on violations if done on TV or radio . The hypocrisies and oddities are of course on display , like with the now legendary George Carlin ' Dirty Words ' case where the one and only person to report that the segment played on the radio was wrong was on the Decency board in the 70s . Or , of course , Lenny Bruce , who also had a fight that he ended up losing miserably , however much he paved the way for everyone else in his field . There's also a good segment done on the f word in politics and religion , even in poetry ( I'll have to look through Ulysses now to see where it's at ) . But even with the laughs that are obvious to come with such a given for scandalous material , including various movie clips featuring said word ( Pulp Fiction , Punch-Drunk Love , South Park , Scarface ) , and even with the Presidential utterances and sound-bytes of the word ( Nixon's the most obvious yet still unnerving ) , and even with some of the interviewees really giving some food for fing thought on the subject ( Billy Connolly is arguably the funniest , with HST being low-key and observant , and Allen Keyes and Pat Boone delivering very straight-laced answers ) with the two-side arguments , there doesn't seem quite enough here to be totally satisfying . In fact , the structure , however hokey and joyful in its wicked little ways , has to start delivering on more interesting grounds . Maybe it's just me , but by around the 100th time one's heard the word in such a span of several minutes , the word has already lost all of its power ( albeit given context by a scene of coitus on a music stage , a very controversial story at the time , among others ) , and there should be even more dirt available , aside from the usual historical asides . For example , I would've liked to have seen more on the F-word in music ( where's the MC5 when you need em ? ) , or the section of children , which should be a topic that could at least cover a lot more of the film , especially since the filmmakers obviously want to leave it as something of a climax . . . so to speak . Yet , if you want a successfully shallow , goofy take on the subject that might raise some eyebrows and just be another night watching a DVD for others ( who knows if the record setting 800 times is just another night at the bar for some guys ) , it's worth the rental . I'm glad the filmmakers took the equal-time interviews for those who are in it all-not that it occasionally preaches to the choir - and that the bases covered are given enough coverage to get a full understanding of how such an infamous word can become even more so in the 21st century , under a government that has raised the ante on the conservative agenda within the free speech guidelines , and that the censorship ends up spreading to other areas as well . Bleep , I say .
You know if you'll want to see Shoot ' Em Up by the trailers alone , and probably by some word of mouth , which is probably how it works for ' cult ' films that somehow get left behind despite high box office expectations . Maybe it needs to start slowly in building the audience , because those that see it will like it a lot - like myself - in the guiltiest of guilty pleasure ways possible . Shoot ' Em Up is a tasteless bonanza of excess gun battles , lots of them , in circumstances that cram as many clichés into a big cement mixer , then once put into a solid charged with explosives and let loose into the theater . Sound cheesy ? You haven't heard the dialog yet ! " What's the difference between a gun and a wife ? You can put a silencer on a gun . " Just crude work there , but crudeness can work to a big advantage if it's as self-conscious as possible , and Michael Davis has made such a flick for the audience as to laugh at every illogical escape attempt and outrageous kill from star Clive Owen that by the time the first big action sequence ( which is less than five minutes in , which includes such things as riding on an oil slick and shooting rapid-fire to Nirvana's song " Breed " , among other things that happen then ) you'll know what you're in for . The premise is right out of a grindhouse movie , and in fact might have faired a chance at being included as a double-feature ; Owen is Mr . Smith , a mystery man who has as much power with guns and ammo as he has hatred for , well , quite an arbitrary and petty though understandable thing ( i . e . people who don't turn on their blinkers , mothers who threaten to spank their kids in public , and criminals who rob fast food joints with gangrene feet and piercings ) , and comes across a woman giving birth to a baby . After making the delivery in a send up that rings chillingly and totally uproariously from a similarly visceral scene in Children of Men ( minus the shooting of the umbilical chord , almost for no reason aside for a laugh ) , the mother dies from gun-shot ( naturally ) , and Smith goes to investigate further with the aid of lactating prostitute ( that's right ) Monica Belluci . The foe : ex profiler Paul Giamatti , who has a yarmulke that is never explained and a family at home he never seems to ever see despite it being the kids birthday . Then as the mystery of the baby , and other babies and dead mothers , come to light there's intrigue with a senator , an arms deal , and enough violence ( about 75 % of the film , easily ) to keep the story going along as almost being like a series of MacGuffins . But there is some element of depth , perhaps , the whole gun-trade deal that does seem to make it more significant in substance than last years Snakes on a Plane , which was concept delivered completely through attitude , pizazz , and often perfectly corny humor . Then again , who's paying attention to all of the specifics about what happened with what cover-up or what scandal or who the guns are going to , when there's a spectacular parachute gun battle as Owen and various nefarious guys duke it out ( maybe the best in the whole film as far as comedy and pure adrenaline go , which is saying something ) , and then as he gets to the ground an aerial shot sees the dozen or so people he killed while in free-fall . And the actors are all game , even if one of them ( Monica Bellucci ) is there as simple eye-candy in a one-note performance ; one might almost wonder why there isn't a couple more lactating jokes after her ' style ' is introduced . Quite honestly , I know that it should be something really deranged to enjoy otherwise serious actors like Clive Owen and Paul Giamiatti in roles like these but . . . damn it all if they aren't some really fun parts that they tackle like they're going for Oscar gold ! Owen goes for a turn similar to that of his part in Sin City , only here with more idiosyncrasies , and a much more lethal disposition - not to mention a hilarious running gag involving carrots . And Giamatti , who veers into the danger of making it both too over-the-top and nearly too dead serious for the character's good , usually makes his scenes to chew all the way to the core ; Smith might be the bad-ass , but Hertz is a cold-blooded , wickedly joking mind-fer , and his tone is one that makes it sublimely goofy and rotten to the core . It's probably just as enjoyable as his best work in American Splendor and Sideways , and for certain genre fans it'll be a Godsend . Very fine for a matinée , or very late at night as an excuse to stay up , Shoot ' Em Up is cinematic cotton candy flavored with hot-fudge and tossed down with a super-Cinnabon shake . You won't gain much at all intellectually from it , but who goes to see Shoot ' Em Up for philosophy ( aside from , well , shoot-em-up philosophy ) ?
John Landis's new documentary on Don Rickles , Mr . Warmth : The Don Rickles Project , works best when focused squarely on its star attraction . Every so often Landis gets distracted in telling ( or rather showing other people like Bob Newhart ) go on about the glory days of a mob-run Las Vegas , and it starts to loose a little of its focus . And every so often he takes a misstep with the editing . But since comedy is Landis's strong-suit as a director , anyway , it's fitting that his film works best when his subject is given the full-treatment , either in clips of his performances , his old Johnny Carson appearances , or with some of his adulators telling it like it is : he's one of the funniest stand-up comics of his time . And still today he kiss : watching him completely skewer every single race and both sexes in a Vegas audience is dynamite ( sometimes you just wait for him to drop his microphone in ironic disgust ) . Just hearing the man tell stories , or talk about his wonderful ( and wonderfully Jewish ) mother , or doing lovingly stupid imitations of his wife ( the tongue is what clicks it ) , is entertaining . He's a man who takes his fame completely in stride , but not for granted . He tells of a cruel prank done on the set of Run Silent Run Deep involving him and Clark Gable ; he goes overboard as host of the Tonight Show by breaking Carson's box or whatever , and Carson goes right next-door to the set of Rickles's show , where after he apologizes he says " ladies and gentlemen , Johnny Carson ! " And then the testimonies themselves bring up laughs ( Sarah Silverman comments how Rickles taught her what black people were like living secluded in New Hampshire ) , even if it's just repeating old Rickles lines . His is a very precise shtick where finding the line and only going across it so much is like an art - you don't want to make it into a totally sensationalist exercise , but the audience still has to have a good time at not only others ' expenses , but their own . It's a kind of all-inclusive comedy , be it the schmuck who's 300 pounds and with a dopey wife , or the president , or , of course most brilliantly , Dean Martin . It's not exactly a great documentary , but it's a fine showcase , and the kind of remembrance for one of those old kings of comedy that haven't yet kicked the bucket , like ( unfortunately ) so many in show-biz have in recent years .
Before you start asking - no , it's not porn , gay or otherwise , though those were the first words out of my mother's mouth when I told her I would be going to see this now cult-ish horror movie . This is another example of Lion's Gate acting nefarious with their distribution . They probably aren't as ' wtf'-like as Fox at the moment , but while they bask in their self-imposed glow of Saw flicks and Jason Statham vehicles , they dumped Midnight Meat Train in a manner not unlike ( speaking of Fox ) Idiocracy . The film was technically released in about a handful of ( i . e . 100 ) theaters this summer , practically all of them in 1-dollar joints in towns I've never heard of and nowhere near my digs in North NJ / NYC . It's made $34 , 000 in its theatrical run , which is somewhat impressive considering a ) the total lack of any real advertising , either around the " from the mind of Clive Barker " angle or just that it's a kick-ass-looking horror flick about a guy killing people on trains , and b ) it opened in 1-dollar theaters for a very limited run . So suffice to say it's a bittersweet coda to this dumped-on movie from Lion's Gate that it finally screened for two aptly scheduled Midnight screenings at a theater in Manhattan - ironically costing us all about 8 or 9 dollars MORE than it did those lucky dozen or so that caught it a couple of months ago - and at the same time , thankfully , is a worthwhile midnight-movie . Kitamura's adaptation of the Barker story ( un-read by me ) is a slight throwback to grisly 80s serial killer flicks ( while I couldn't think of one after it ended , with a friend of mine repeatedly stating " it's like Saw , only good " which I could understand , I'm sure there are suggestions open to comparison ) as it unapologetically takes its time showing us unnecessary killing scenes with lots of blood , gore , meat and Vinnie Jones as the killer . It is , in all actuality , a definite must see for every geeky horror buff you might have ever come across , or are yourself . It's about an aspiring photographer ( Bradley Cooper ) who is trying to impress a chic , artsy curator ( Brooke Shields ) with his photographs , but she wants more - more of the actual blood and guts and other things that he hasn't captured yet . After clicking at the right time and right place with a model almost being attacked and raped , she's finally impressed - but she wants more . This leads Cooper to finding a subject coming out of the subway one night : a man in a business suit , crew-cut , and a stare that could cut glass . This is Vinnie Jones , uttering only one word in his entire performance and thus making it perhaps his most bad-ass yet ( which considering that it's " I'm the Juggernaut , Bitch ! " , it's saying something ) . Now , saying that this is a kick-ass genre flick doesn't exactly mean it's a very good movie . It's not . It's got some pretty blah dialog , the characters are only interesting when serving the ( bleeped ) - up nature of the plot , and there's even some poorly shot CGI of the trains moving through the tunnels . You'll also be saying " wtf " every few seconds in the final act , though that's a big part of the fun . It's not for the squeamish : this contains countless bodies strung up by meat-hooks , blood flowing so much that people usually end up slipping hilariously in the train , and even some whacked-out creatures reminiscent of The Descent . . . only , of course , these wait for their flesh in a slightly different manner , and end up raising some questions for the viewer once it ends . Midnight Meat Train is kick-ass for all the reasons that people love pointlessly violent horror movies that occasionally feature the likes of Ted Raimi getting beaten to a bloody pulp with a hook . If you are that kind of horror fan , who wanted something aside from complete unintentional hilarity and abhorrent contrivance with the Saw movies and harkon longingly back to crazy butcher-themed flicks ( and , perhaps , are looking for some influence of Blowup from time to time ) , this is for you . It's certainly , at the least , one of the most overlooked movies in years .
There aren't too many times when I see a film and go , " huh , what ? " , but this was one of them . Maybe after seeing Zabriskie Point I felt much the same way Woody Allen felt after seeing 2001 - he only liked the film after seeing it three times over a two year period , realizing the filmmaker was ahead of him in what was going on . Michelangelo Antonioni , in one of his few tries at making films inside of the US ( after Red Desert , he did Blow-Up , this film , China , and The Passenger , all filmed outside his native Italy ) , I could sense he almost tried to learn about the ways of the country through his own mastery of the medium . The results show that he doesn't lack the means to present images , feelings , tones , colors , sounds , and a visual representation of this era . " A director's job is to see " , Antonioni once stated . Whatever that means , he doesn't disappoint for the admirer of his post-fifties work ( I say post-fifties since I've yet to see any of his films from before L'Avventura ) . What he does lack is a point , at least the kind of point that he could bring in Blow-Up and The Eclipse . You get the feeling of what is around these characters , what the themes are bringing forth to their consciousness , however in this case the characters and the actors don't bring much conviction or purpose . Antonioni , coming from the school of hard-knocks , neo-realistic film-making , does do what he can with his mostly non-professional cast ( those who look most like real actors are subjugated to the roles of the corporate characters ) , but the two stars Mark Frechette and Daria Halprin seem as if Antonioni's under-directing them . Perhaps that was the point . The story's split into three acts , thankfully not too confusing , as Mark escapes his existence around the boiling , dangerous campus life going on in the circa late 60's LA area , and Daria is sent out from LA to drive to Phoenix for some business meeting . They meet by chance as Mark's plane ( how does he know how to drive , maybe a little background info there ? ) and Daria's car meet up , and they spend some time together in an existential kind of groove out in the desert . Aside from a stylistically mesmerizing if bizarre sex scene , much of this act isn't terribly interesting . The two leads are fair enough to look at , but what exactly draws them to each other outside of curiosity ? The ideas that come forth ( in part from a screenplay co-written by Sam Shepard ) aren't too revealing , except for one brief instant where drugs vs . reality is brought up . Then the film heads towards the third act , as Mark decides to do the right thing , under disastrous circumstances , and Daria arrives at her boss ' place , only to be in full disillusionment ( not taking into account the infamous last five minutes or so of the film ) . Although the film took its time telling its story , I didn't have as much of a problem with that as I did that the story only engages a certain kind of viewer . I understand and empathize with the feelings and doubts and fears as well as the self-confidence of the " anti-establishment " , but maybe Antonioni isn't entirely fully aware of it himself . In some scenes he as director and editor ( and the often astounding cinematography by Alfio Contini ) find the scenery and backgrounds more enlightening and fixating than the people in the foreground . Not to say the technical side of Zabriskie Point isn't involving to a degree ( this may make some feel drowsy , as Antonioni is probably far greater as a documentary filmmaker as he is a theatrical director like say Francis Ford Coppola is ) . The deserts , skies , city , and even the faces in close-ups are filmed with the eye of a filmmaker in love with the art of getting things in the frame , bringing us in . The soundtrack is equally compelling , with a master stroke including a sweet Rolling Stones song at one point , and then a crushing , surreal Pink Floyd song ( re-titled from ' Careful with that Axe Eugene , one of their best pre-Dark Side ) in the explosion sequence . If only the performances weren't so one-sided I might find this to be on par with Blow-Up or The Eclipse . It's an unconventional stroke of genius on one hand , and on the other a boring take on what was the hippie / radical movement of the late 60's . But hey , what may be boring for an American such as myself born in the eighties may not be to others outside the US , such as say , Italy . And it does ask to not be discarded right away after one viewing .
This swinging ' 60s comedy of crazy manners was Woody Allen's first screenplay produced - with himself playing a role that he definitely wrote specifically for himself - and it shows how a writer can pour out all idea into one form and make it work , sort of . It's all over the place and not altogether successful , but I liked it . It's a screwball farce about a perpetual womanizer ( Peter O'Toole ) who can't keep one woman walking on another let alone one woman alone . Therapy doesn't help either , as his therapist ( Peter Seller , hilarious in a stupid haircut ) is as addicted as he is . Soon it's all out blitzkrieg of women , from one end to another , and it's a laugh ( almost ) a minute . It does veer on becoming more than a tad confusing - which woman is which ? Maybe one can tell the difference on repeat viewings , on who O'Toole is surprised to see next , who may ( or may not ) be the one who wants to marry him , and who he may pick up at random in night , with or without Sellers's unconventional doctor , and spend the night with . Some jokes just fly over one's head , as they're meant to be fast as hell with the dialog and a little strange with the physical movements . O'Toole , in an odd way , is even more apt at playing a clumsy yet successful womanizer than he was at playing an epic hero in Lawrence of Arabia . Sellers , donning an accent similar to that of his Dr . Strangelove character , is dependably nutty as the doctor who tries his best to help out his patients , but is almost too desperate - i . e . suicide attempt - and finally comes around back to the screwball fold . There's not much of a plot , but it doesn't matter ; as long as you know what to expect - O'Toole and company ( including a first-timer klutz Allen who gets one woman to fall asleep on him with the drink he fixes her ! ) are up to the challenge of making a silly farce that has aged only somewhat decently . It's not really a ' must-see ' , but for fans of the actors , specifically Sellers and Allen ( who share a great scene on a riverbank ) , it's worth the while of a couple of hours with a few drinks .
I need to watch this again . That's something of a compliment , I think . Maybe I shouldn't think regarding a movie - so called - like 200 Motels . It's the kind of picture where the term ' freewheeling rock & roll comedy ' would pop up as an example in the dictionary . As I recall there's nothing by way of plot to describe , except that the ' Mothers ' , Frank Zappa's band that he had early on his career , have to deal with the stress and issues of the road . This is interspersed with live musical performances ( not just music played and then with other music dubbed over it , but live on film , er videotape ) , and some other odd little tidbits . But to use the word ' odd ' with 200 Motels is too kind , and in fact just too bland . Maybe for some fans of experimental cinema it's still too rooted in trying to be funny to really accomplish anything truly groundbreaking . And to others it might just seem like Zappa is whackin it cinematically onto videotape . But it's hard to discount the ' period ' value of the movie too , and I did have quite a few good laughs at some of the ( as a given ) random stuff that occurred throughout . There's even a spot-on cool turn by Ringo Starr as the " fake " Frank Zappa . Also , the music , which is what many will seek out 200 Motels for - not least of which Zappa's fans , of which I am more or less depending on the album - is pretty awesome and delightfully whacked out , even if it's a little much into the ' riffs ' as opposed to Zappa's more well known tracks like Nanook and Montana . The Royal Symphony Orchestra accompaniment allows for Zappa to go ambitious with what he intends , which is not hard at all for him really considering that he IS more of a composer than a typical rock n roll guitarist . If I can't recommend the movie as much as I might want to though it's because it is the kind of experimental 60s-70s ' lets-go-wild-with-style ' picture that does meander in spots , or rather because of its lack of sense if not in the right frame of mind ( possibly one not under stimulants ) it'll seem like trash . I do need to see it again to completely take in what specifically I liked in what scenes . Yet if you happen to come across this by chance in your video store or in some other markets , just read the back and you'll get an idea . If you take the chance and watch it , you might find that it's got some of the most bizarre , deranged , kooky and just plain weird fun type scenes in any non-traditional rock movie ever . That Zappa was a fervent anti-drug musician makes some of this all the more unique , or stupid , or both . This may also put off some of Zappa's fans who like the music but can't stand visuals and gags almost stuck in a time capsule . I dug it though , and I hope to ' dig it ' again .
Russ Meyer loves breasts , and he's a filmmaker , but it's mostly the breast thing . That doesn't mean that he's not good at what he does , which is making raucous comedies where there's a dumb , well-hung klutz ( Charles Pitts , in thankfully his only significant point in his career as Clint Ramsey ) , the dual role of the schizo-girlfriend ( SuperAngel ) and later her re-incarnation as a gas station attendant ( SuperVixen ) , and the enemy of the film , the diabolical , totally evil Harry Sledge ( Charles Napier , a classic part in a long character actor career ) . Much of this is just silly , very silly , and strange , deranged , illogical , and probably would be seen on the surface as sexist . But looking past the fact that there are a lot of naked women who continually throw themselves at Clint , there is something more to Meyer's psychology here . It would probably be something of a big point had the film been used in Zizek's The Pervert's Guide to Cinema : it's like a classic farce - yet still a somewhat truthful farce - about male desire . Take the fact that while Clint is on his ' journey ' - running from the scene of a crime he didn't commit , which was the murder and burning down of the dig that SuperAngel was living in - he continually gets into situations where the women present want to desperately ride him till Tuesday . . . but then there's always another man . There's a fascinating push-and-pull ( no pun intended . . . maybe a little ) to how the men treat the women in the picture . Until Clint agrees to stay with SuperVixen and take care of the gas station does he finally seem to relax , as before with the guy in the car , the farmer , the motel owner , all had women as their next of kin or significant others that were persona non grata . Behind the hilarity that ensues as Clint gets practically raped in a hayloft by a German girl , or when a mute / deaf black chick tries to get Clint to have his way with her in a desert , there is subtext - desire is defined by property . By the time Clint gets to SuperVixen , and finds out her man ran out on her weeks ago , it's like they're suddenly whisked away to the Garden of Eden ( rather , in Arizona , as is one of the funniest sections of the flick ) , as they run around naked in ecstasy . Freud would have a field-day . But one must not forget the Harry Sledge character who , like Hopper in Blue Velvet or Bobby Peru in Wild at Heart , is as Zizek described a larger-than-life , absurdist figure of man's libido . Maybe it was subconscious or not , but there's a lot to do in Supervixens with the idea of potency , or impotency . Harry can't get it up , the truth of it , and it becomes a sudden turn to see Harry suddenly stomp SuperAngel ( albeit , in one of the most illogical scenes I've ever seen in any movie , taunts him for five minutes while locked in a bathroom following a bad sexual experience ) and burn the place down as a means of compensation , an inherent lack of drive leading to the demise of anyone around him . While this seems to go overboard in the last twenty minutes of the film , when he returns in and becomes an ultimate terror upon Clint and SuperVixen , there's probably more one could read into in terms of symbolism than your average Bunuel movie : the dynamite shooting out of a chute , the one stick next to SuperVixen's most private of private spots , and all raised to the level of delirium . The more I thought about it after the movie ended , the more it seemed to make sense , the idea of the ID blown-up in , of all things , a Russ Meyer movie . But this will be moot to most viewers who are just looking for what it there in a Meyer movie - sex and craziness , usually at the same time . As the first of his films I've seen , it's already apparent how equally proficient and tacky he can be : he's a master at editing , and casts his actors like it's a slight step above Z-grade porn . Which , of course , adds to its hysterical attitude , as we see one of the worst male actors of the 20th century play off of girls who rarely have a dirty smile off of their faces ( save for when they're taunting Sledge , or getting caught by their daddies or husbands ) . And because Meyer , in the Mel Brooks sense , rises below vulgarity , his picture works so well even as it shouldn't . It deserves to be shown in grindhouse theaters and be found in the dirty sections of video stores . That it's an unlikely classic to be found in either of those places is hard to deny .
I wouldn't say that Pretty Baby , directed by Louis Malle , has the overall audacity of the main art-house European-directed sexual trip of the 70s , Last Tango in Paris , but it comes close , very close . It's a scathing , unflinching look at the downtrodden women of a 1920s whorehouse in New Orleans . What's most shocking of all , and what Malle understands about such subject matter , is that the best approach with this material is truthful , and to not be exploitive in the sense of manipulative characters ( situations are another thing ) . There's really not much in way of it going through anything specific in being stylized . If anything , as I recall , Malle's style here is to try and not seem apparent much , if that's possible , with a very controlled sense of pacing and how scenes should move . The implications raised in the picture are the sort that would probably get shot down in flames by the ' Religious Right , though mostly around the Brooke Shields character . To say that it's not perhaps a masterpiece is not off the mark . But it's an important work nonetheless , and one that is really hard to forget or ignore once finished . Shields plays the daughter of a working-prostitute , played by Susan Sarandon with total class and southern finesse with the men , but never too un-wise around her daughter . It's the time of jazz , at least jazz coming into a much greater bloom , and sex and general decadence is right there for the taking in such an environment that the ' pretty baby ' of the title resides . She's used to it all though , and Shields plays this character with total bravery - I almost wonder how much she was told of it all , and what she brought as intuition or having to just know the state of mind of her all-too-young character . Malle doesn't keep things totally helpless , as he has a photographer , played by Keith Carradine . He's probably the most level-headed and right-minded of any of the male characters ( aside maybe from the band members who just don't take part in any shenanigans ) . But then comes the problem of morals - Sarandon isn't the one who falls for Carradine , but Shields really . But is it really love , or affection , or just the possibility of leaving he house ? The most controversial part of all of this comes down to this really - underage sex , or rather a form of twisted , really non-consensual sex that ends up just skimming the line of bad taste . But it is in bad taste to show subject matter like this ? It's a tale of perversion , and how psychology ends up getting right into the cross-hairs of it , so such material should be up on the storyline . What's interesting is to see the ' breaking the virgin ' part takes time to unfold , and how it does , and how ugly it all becomes the further it goes along . Shields plays it right though , and her range of emotions for the character is actually stunning , and almost makes Sarandon keep up with what's going on . There's a heap load of nudity overall , including a hot bit with Sarandon and Carradine , but really Malle is after the whole insulated world of this whorehouse , and how being true to oneself ends up clashing with the un-yielding mind-set of those coming in with a wad of bills and a set goal . It skids with being cringe-worthy , and I have a very distinct memory of probably cringing at one point . It's not great , but it's really memorable in the ways that matter .
It was called the classic " unfilmable " line , but Alan Moore and David Gibbons ' Watchmen was film-able , and oddly enough after over 20 years of directors from Terry Gilliam to Darren Aronofsky to Paul Greengrass taking the possible helm the most commercial choice imaginable , Zack Snyder , made it film-able , and indeed a very good movie . How he accomplishes this is fairly straightforward : compress as much as possible of a 12-issue comic book series into a 2 hour running time , cut off certain pieces of fat ( most notably the Black Freighter story which will be on DVD soon anyway as a bonus ) , and keep the structure and character development and stories 90 % of the same . Also , make it about as accessible as possible to a mainstream audience without , possibly , insulting intelligences much . Indeed this is an incredibly faithful adaptation all things considered - " things " being the fact that after reading the book , still ( and I'll sound cliché like many others ) the most compelling and daring and magnum-opus-of-all-time works from Moore and in the form itself , most of the details save for a reasonably crucial bit in the climax were left intact . Snyder knew to not get too much in the way of the story and characters would be a wise move , and it is in the sense that if a work is as rich and satirical and dark and violent and sometimes warped sometimes lucid and fairly tragic like the Watchmen it's best not to get in its way as it goes along . For what it's worth , this is the best Watchmen film that we can expect from Zack Snyder , touted as a ' visionary ' in the ads based on two good but definitely not great films Dawn of the Dead and 300 . Because when he does not let the story well enough alone and puts his " signature " directorial touches on the proceedings , which is mostly slow motion , repeatedly , sometimes in annoying quick bursts that don't add anything of worth to the hyper-realism portrayed , it screams too much ! But , again , this thankfully doesn't happen with the kind of regularity and overbearing force of 300 , and he can sometimes direct action really well . I'd even go as far as to say he's improved as a filmmaker , mounting such an impressive production with a cast of primarily character actors ( matter of fact no real BIG stars ) , by taking the story where it needs to go both for those familiar and / or in love with the book , and for those looking for some solid entertainment . I haven't described the plot yet . Here it is in a sentence , if I can try : it's 1985 , Richard Nixon is still president ( and Vietnam was a victory ) , America is at a close possible WW3 scenario with Russia , and superheroes are outlawed - and one of them , the Comedian , has been bumped off possibly , as masked psycho / bad-ass Rorscach thinks , by a killer of superheroes , leading to an investigation by him and other drama unfolding with the actual " American Superman " Dr . Manhattan and his sort of love interest Silk Spectre . If that's barely scratching the surface of it all then so be it , since this is even in the framework of the film ( and I mean this as a compliment ) dense with detail and motivation and dramas of the personal and big-time Earth scale . Since the storytelling itself , with some of the exceptions I mentioned up before ( another being a different twist done from the book for Veidt's plan ) , is solid and cunning and even featuring a more-than decent selection of songs , what about the cast ? It's a mixed bag , frankly , but one that is at the least inoffensive and at best truly inspired , if perhaps as givens . Jackie Earl Haley , Billy Crudup and Jeffrey Dean Morgan go totally into their characters of Rorscah , Dr . Manhattan and the Comedian , making us feel for them just as we did in reading the text . Outside of that , for non-readers of the book , they're still fabulous performances , particularly for Crudup's very subtle touches in inflection ( perfectly near-noticeable ) and Haley as a tortured soul who sees fit to strike fear into anyone that might cut him down just a single peg ( and , unlike Bale's Batman , I really believed Haley doing a super grunty voice for his character ) . If nothing else , the back-stories with Manhattan and Rorscach , and to a slightly lesser extent Comedian , are little great shorts in the midst of the epic running time , and are supported by these actors bringing their characters full of life and sorrow and so-black-it-stings humor . Goode , Wilson and the actress playing Silk Spectre are not quite as good , and maybe just fall totally flat maybe as the point but are still nowhere near as convincing as the three big guns . Even an unreasonably funny scene like Night Owl and Spectre making love isn't totally convincing because of the acting . In closing . . . Watchmen , worth seeing ? Yes , very much so , especially if you're a fan already , but maybe so as well if going in blind . A masterpiece of a blockbuster ? No . It's got some problems in a few scenes such as with the BAM BAM kind of style that if I were a crankier old critic I'd use as an example of the music video age destroying movies ( it doesn't bother that much , but it still does subjectively ) . It was , happy to say , worth some of the tremendous hype . This being said , if you haven't read the book , do yourself a favor and read it first . Then see the movie . It's an excellent movie to talk about .
Who would've thought that one of the very best adaptations from book to screen - albeit small screen - in the Dr . Seuss realm would be by underground animated filmmaker Ralph Bakshi . By then , Bakshi had gone on from the more personal work of the 70s , trademarked with rough pencil and inking with wild color combos in unconventional stories , to more sci-fi / fantasy fare like Wizards , Fire and Ice , and even a hit and miss attempt at Lord of the Rings . This short work that he produced and directed , probably as a way to make ends meet as much as an artistic statement , is probably one of his most obscure works , but it might be one of his better works because he keeps his ambitions low and his targets simple enough to accomplish completely . What we have here is a story that has a level of appeal for children and adults , and like the recent Happy Feet it will mean different things for different audiences . For either age group , child or parent ( or those who are out to seek any and all works by Bakshi ) , there's some appeal . For kids , it's a bright story of what it means to have a job to do , however petty or ridiculous it might seem . The Yooks and the Zooks are two different kinds of , well , Seuss characters , who each have their own way of spreading butter on bread , one side up , the other side down . Soon there are goofy attempts by a hired Grandfather Yook ( voiced by Charles Durning ) to take on the task of stopping the Zooks from continuing on their bottom-buttered path . There are also some whimsical songs , and even some random moments of strange humor , as can only come out of Seuss . But for the older ones , those who might have any kind of political awareness , Seuss and Bakshi have a simple message to go on , which is the notion of wars being started on the most petty but fastidiously held points of merit . And , as escalating tactics go , pretty soon it's less about the actual butter itself than the point of one side being too different enough - separated by a ' great-wall ' kind of wall barrier - to ever have any kind of peace . There's details like how grandfather , however incompetent he might be to swart the Zooks , gets promoted to general , or how intricate a bomb can be made : and how it's just as easy for the other side to get the same power . It's not only how sharply and aptly Bakshi is in having Seuss's words have their impact , and the wit as scathing as it is poke-in-the-ribs playful and fairly hilarious ( I loved the ending , which I won't reveal , but has its suddenness as a point of absurdity and satirical merit ) , but in fusing in his own methods of style that make this a success . Bakshi , taking a break from rotoscoping , makes the Seuss cartoonish world come to life , and in a manner that presents it not totally smooth and finely tuned but a little scratchy and messy and with the colors usually of the lighter-primary side ( the exception , and a great scene at that , is when grandfather ventures down the staircase to the bomb-making lava-pool area ) . There's something very much alive to how Baskhi gets the Yoots and Zoots moving along , how they use oddball weaponry or machines , and how the timing is less out of Looney Tunes than out of his background as a satirist of culture . He even gets Seuss's songs , which are by turns silly and inane , as entertaining little notes in the story . If you can find this for your kids , if they happen to be Dr . Seuss fans anyway , it's a sure bet to get them into a lesser known but still worthwhile work . It's smart , vibrant , and almost cheerfully discomforting ; second only to Chuck Jones's How the Grinch Stole Christmas as the best animated adaptation of a Seuss work .
I've never been to Turkey , or Istanbul , and I can hold no claims as to what it must be like for a person , American or otherwise , to endure time in one of their country's prisons . But the job of the filmmaker is not necessarily to get the facts down pat and present them as such . It's to present a story and make it appropriate for the dramatization . Oliver Stone , who wrote the script for this and went on to controversy in bringing the true story of Jim Garrison's trial of Clayshaw , Morrison's life with the Doors , and the late president Nixon , knew at 31 that taking what was in the source and bringing it to a life that any audience could understand emotionally was what was important . And he , along with director Alan Parker , deliver this with conviction , if not greatness . The story of William Hayes is ugly , as depicted in the film , and despite the fact that the real Hayes has said the depiction of some of the characters in the film is not as it was , it does not deter it for myself in the pure emotional intake . The story at first does not sound like it will have a happy outcome - Hayes ( Davis , a shattering , torn performance ) tries to smuggle Hash for friends back on long island , gets caught , and is thrown in jail ' as an example ' among others in a Turkish prison . He's abused , and witnesses multiples abuses of prisoners young and old , and once he realizes he won't get out nearly as soon as he thought , he and a couple of other prisoners ( Randy Quaid and John Hurt , both superb in supporting roles ) , plan to escape , or rather ' take the midnight express ' . What occurs from there is what makes up the bulk of the drama , the hurt , and a ' version ' of the truth in the Turskish prison system . The thing to keep in mind in dealing with a film like Midnight Express , is that in cinematic terms , Parker and Stone pull off their goals whether or not they depict the ' truth ' to its fullest extent . They follow the book , and on that count they try their best to bring an adaptation . From that end , I found that it was compelling , if at times almost too heavy and , oddly enough , masochistic . But what comes through strongest , after the outright point of view of the script , are the performances . Hurt is one of only several truly convincing screen junkies in movie history . The actor that plays the burly guard in the prison is absolutely terrifying . And Quaid and Hayes fill their roles finitely . The music , ironically to me , is the one Oscar-winning drag , which sometimes adds pre-80's sounding music that doesn't fit as maybe it could've . But besides that , Midnight Express is overall a work of concentrated drama , that tries to not affect just the American collective conscious , but the world's as well . Years from now , people who have no idea what the prison system in that country or others was like , can at least have an idea , if not altogether to the truth .
I was talking with a friend of mine , much more into martial arts movie than me , who didn't like Kung-Fu Hustle because of the way it went about showing the fights , and even for its goofy humor being too broad . While I could understand the latter part - everyone's got their own sense of humor ( unless if someone's got none , which is dangerous ) - the former puzzled me . What does someone expect , for example , after seeing the trailer ? If anything , director Stephen Chow is successful most in making a decidedly non-serious martial arts movie . It almost reminds me of my youth seeing the Ninja Turtles fight - there too was martial arts , sometimes with well choreographed sequences with real martial-arts fighters fighting in the costumes . But , like that , Kung-Fu Hustle gets it right in being completely unpretentious entertainment . It's a comedy in the tradition of vaudeville and Looney Tunes , with specks of Tarantino , the Marx Brothers ( yes , also vaudeville , but on a different plane ) , and with characters that are left to be , of course , cartoonish , but not characters that are too cruel or unlikeable either . Take the landlady of the establishment that the bulk of the picture takes place . She's played by Wah Yuen as the ultimate bad-ass lady you don't want to mess with on the wrong beat . Namely because of her look , which is that of having been going too long at what she does to take any lip or disruption for her customers . But then when trouble comes her way , she then reveals herself as a screaming force to be reckoned with . And all the while it's done with a wink to the audience , but taken seriously in its own comic-book logic . Chow also acts in the film as well as co-writing it , as Sing , someone who wants to join up with the mob ' the Axe gang ' , but doesn't quite cut it - at least at first it seems . In the midst of this is a romantic sub-plot involving a girl he once knew whom he had to leave behind , and when this is rekindled it strikes up some extra ambivalence , and a little strife between him and his best friend ( Bone , played as a deadpan idiot by Chi Chung Lam ) . This all leads up to a show-stopping finale where Sing finally has to step up to a certain gargantuan challenge against his evil opponent . It's not necessarily a great comedy , as sometimes it starts to show how goofiness can backfire in a couple of scenes . Plus the romantic sub-plot , while very knowing of its own satirical place from kung-fu movies past , is still a little unnecessary at times . But overall it's the kind of film that I would recommend to non kung-fu movie fans ; if you're expecting a work that takes its fights and stunts seriously like my friend did , look elsewhere . But if you want something that takes a grab-bag of ideas and tosses them altogether to become something original , this is the comedy to check out . It's visual effects go along with the tone of the comedy at most times , like a super-fast chase down a road by two of the characters . And even more " serious " fights like the one between the landlady and her husband against the Ax-thugs at night , still has that air of a battered , supernatural martial-arts tongue placed firmly in cheek . It is , for lack of a better critical term , a gas practically from start to finish .
Chan Wook Park's Lady Vengeance ( aka Sympathy for Lady Vengeance , the more apt title ) is the kind of revenge film that would be as satisfying for its intended audience - into raw , underground Asian films incidentally from the director of Oldboy - as it could be for the art-house crowd into films by challenging international directors . It's violent , abrasive , emotional , its story doesn't make sense for much of the first half hour , and is loaded with classical sounding music as its score . It's also touching in the humanity Park is able to capture in the relationships Geum-ja Lee ( Yeong-ae Lee ) has with the people she has connected to , or may connect with , in the midst of the rage and vengeance . Her character has been in jail for over a decade , and once released is out for payback from her former employer . But this is not in the same kind of perpetual confusion , in a sense , as Oldboy was . And this time with the non-linear , puzzle-like nature of the story for the first half , the audience picks up on things here and there , catching glimpses of what Park is hinting at with the darker , deeper tragedy underlying her own crisis of the spirit . Lady Vengeance , while not a great film , has some of the most beautiful , ugly ( in a good way ) , and outlandish stylistic shots seen in screens in a while . Park shows himself as a director of the camera growing from Oldboy ( and especially from the underwhelming Mr . Vengeance ) . I still have the image of my mind of a dream sequence where Geum-ja Lee shoots a dog with a human face right in the head - through its succession of shots , and its comic-tragic tone with it . The scenes between her and her estranged , perplexed daughter are the core of the film , and here Park shows that he can direct children just as well as he can with adults ( especially the confession of mother to daughter through a certain ' interpreter ' ) . When Park's story finally reaches its second hour , and Geum-ja Lee's " plan " takes full shape , the more disturbing aspects of the film really take hold . But what's even more staggering about how this is handed , how the vengeance against the real criminal - a child killer - is doled out is what is NOT shown . As in Olbdoy , the power of suggestion , followed by the shock of the the aftermath , packs a punch few films can . If it doesn't quite reach greatness from my perspective , it's maybe in due to the lengths that Park goes to early in the film , cutting back between present-time and the time in prison , is slightly off-putting . And a scene or two still has me wondering ' huh ? ' ( the finger cut is one of them ) . But overall , this is a really successful work of giving vitality and clarity to what could be really terrible , close to unwatchable material . And any formula that could be present in the story is pulled back into a kind of ambitious turn-around . By the way , the prison scenes are the best to look for , on par with the kinds seen in the Shawshank Redemption .
Quills recalls to me - thanks to a friend's discussion on the matter after having seen both films - of another film about a writer on the brink of being sane or insane , in a world where creative output is encouraged only so far as seen prudent and thus censorship , punishment , and redemption is squashed especially when women are involved . But unlike in the Libertine , where the director , screenwriter and cast couldn't really keep a hold on both the material and the style , and the actual content became muddled under the unnecessary drab of decadence , Quills is a lot sharper on the ball . Directed by pro Phillip Kaufman from what must have been a very good play by Doug Wright , the film is actually entertaining from scene to scene , and it's in turns funny and gripping , tragic and demoralizing , and all the while with that edge that comes in films about controversial artists . And what better subject to have then as part of looking at societal morays than with the man who's own name created the word Sadism ? That it is also headed by a top-notch cast that fills the roles to a T helps pull it off . Indeed the best thing that Kaufman does with his style is to actually not get in the way of the actors and the script , which is what the Libertine director forgot to do . There's so much that Geoffrey Rush brings to the role of the Marquis De Sade - one who is still raising eyebrows of readers to this day - while on the surface it seems to be only a little . It's a very forceful performance of a passionate character , one who almost has a need health-wise to output his ' trash ' , novels and stories about sexual decadence and certain malicious pleasures . But Rush's own strengths and bravado would be only just enough for maybe a little while without some backup . It comes greatly in the form of Michael Caine as the Doctor , who is ordered by Napoleon to come to the aid of a Priest ( Joaquin Phoenix , one of his better performances ) , who is running the asylum De Sade is currently banished to . Caine here perfectly embodies a person who , compared to De Sade , is much more evil and threatening with just his presence as he takes a very young bride , which sends the main shock-wave that catapults the bulk of the picture . It's this dynamic - with Phoenix's Priest ( and Winslet's chambermaid ) caught in the middle - that really gives the film its main dramatic juice . In general , Quills is likely one of those films from years ago that I should have seen at the time it was released , though it got such limited distribution as to not be seen in its original run . And it's one of those films I now regret having not seen sooner . It might not be a full-blown masterpiece ( Kaufman doesn't have the overall awesome power and epic scope that drove his film The Unbearable Lightness of Being ) , but it's still an important work for the actors involved , and it presents some memorable scenes to go with its subject matter . I loved how De Sade went to the extent of writing all over his clothes with his blood , and most especially the sequence where he relays a special story through the walls of the asylum to the others to be transcribed very roughly , as suspense , humor , and danger all coincide in equal measure . It even has a tinge of Clockwork Orange in the contrast between the choice of man , even if its crude and despicable , and the cold , unwavering control that drives lesser men , like Phoenix's character , to delirium . Those who are repulsed by the film may be responding more to what is on the surface with De Sade's lurid works , as opposed to seeing further into the real depths of the story at hand .
Kirby Dick's attitude to material that's a ' no-no ' is to say " yes-yes ! " His previous film , a near masterpiece chronicling the hypocrisy of the MPAA on American film censorship since the inception of the NC-17 rating , served as an indictment while also having some fun . While a sense of fun only springs up on occasion in Outrage he still gets right what needs to be shown : an in-depth look at the rampant hypocrisy of government's ' in-the-closet ' stance . Gay politicians rarely come out of said closet - in the film we see two such promininent figures interviewed at length , NJ governor Jim McGreevey and Massachusetts rep Barney Frank - and Dick's aim with the documentary is to seek out the hows and whys . It's poignant when it needs to be , but above all else it serves up information we as the public should know about figures . It's a truth-to-power assemblage on public figures who , time and time again , have voted against gay and AIDS rights ( it may not surprise some to know it's Republicans who are the ones most in the closet-side ) while denying what people can see outright . Dick frames his doc on two key figures , one being Larry Craig , the disgraced congressman who was caught in a bathroom doing something that , perhaps , was equatable to what he described Bill Clinton as doing in the mid 90s . He propositioned a cop for ' something ' and fervently denied it in public , despite allegations that there had been other incidents in the past suggesting more than likely that he was and has been in the closet . It's been one of the great follies of the past couple of years , and opened up the discussion that appears in the film ( Craig , it should be added , has something like a 16 % voting record on gay rights through his career ) . The other figure , not with as much national notoriety as Craig , is Florida governor Charlie Crist , a " bachelor " who had married once and quickly divorced in the 70s and remained a single man for as long as anyone could tell - not to mention having a chief aid allegedly going with him around the world on vacations ( the trick being that one would go the day before and the other the day after - every vacation for decades ) , and denied up and down being possibly , at all , gay . Despite all matters on the contrary , Crist denies it ( after going through a girlfriend and another wife during and after the election ) , and continues to put fervent anti-gay judges on the state court . Dick isn't out to " out " anyone of the closet - at least , anyone that would rather be kept private . But these are public figures , and the aim is that of This Film is Not Yet Rated : open up the lid , look inside , and see what makes this subject tick to hell . And with Washington and US politics and media , there's so much to mine and Dick and his team do a very good job . Hell , we even get Ed Koch ! Who knew ?
Last Train from Gun Hill has the star power to help back up a storyline that is , on the surface , seemingly too straightforward : a Marshall ( Kirk Douglas ) finds that his wife has been killed . When he finds out that it is the son of a cattle baron ( Anthony Quinn ) , despite his old friendship with the baron , he decides to bring the son to justice , holding him by gunpoint in the town hotel until the train comes to take them off to jail - while the baron has his men outside with their guns poised . There's a touchy element to who the son ( played as a snidely little kid in Earl Holliman ) killed , which was that the Marshall's wife was a Native American . But more impressive in the script , and through John Sturges's steadfast professionalism , is how there's the tension between law and the personal , the immediate draw of a gun draw to solve anything , and the bitterness of real vengeance ( watch Douglas's Marshall tell Rick about how he'll be the only one to hear his own brain cry out as he hangs dying , perfectly acted ) . Although it's likely that Douglas and Sturges were in or made better westerns , this is the kind of work that doesn't age in much a way that cheapens the questions poised or the invigorating style . It's a fairly violent film too , with a couple of deaths by the train tracks at night all the more effective from the taunting build-up and the pay-off in one shotgun fired off , and always the threat much more tension-filled than the result . Granted , when a big fire ends up happening , it looks very much like it's on a sound-stage and without a whole lot of suspense ( save for the typical but strong ' who will get the gun first ' moment between the Marshall and Rick in the bedroom ) , but it's the ambiance of the characters , the dread over this dangerous mix of volatile father and townsman - a better than average Quinn without being too hammy - and a good man driven to vengeance in bad-ass Douglas , and the determined woman ( Carolyn Jones ) that makes it so compelling . There's even a slight feeling of unpredictability in the situation - in a town where reputation trumps what is good and decent , but also where emotions run high as can be , the stakes are high for chance . By the very end it feels like it should be more formulaic , and there are bits where the dialog does come off as brawny ol ' western genre jargon ( look simply at some of the quotes on the IMDb page as example ) . But if you happen to come across it on TV one Sunday afternoon , as I did , it's worth the time to sit and get absorbed by a well done star vehicle .
I first saw Notre Musique at the NY film festival , and responded to it strongly because it was , after going through a slew of his more recent work of the 80s and 90s ( often hit or miss , more miss ) , a very well structured , interesting picture with a very distinct look and feel that balanced the elegiac and darkness with some light . Watching it again , I'm still fascinated most by the first segment ' Hell ' . If this was just a stand-alone short film , I would rank it among some of Godard's best work from the 60s . It's brash , it's seemingly unending , the narration actually does fit the images on screen ( which , from my perspective , is what ends up usually irking me with some of Godard's later work when he does this ) , and all of these images of civilization decaying through war and other disasters , and the machinery and technology used for all of this death and horror , really works to a great effect . Purgatory , the second segment , is often quite good , as it's a really well-balanced mix of fiction and documentary as real life writers and professors and journalists go through issues like Sarajevo , troubles in the middle east , and cinema itself as Godard humorously and sometimes somberly goes through a lecture to some students as he's part of the setting . There's even a perfectly understated , interested performance by the lead Sarah Adler . When the film then transforms into the last act , Paradise , it kind of starts to break some of the power and interest in the previous sections of the film ( I didn't really connect with much of the symbolism , as beautifully photographed as it all was ) . But what ends up really impressing me most about Notre Musique is that I really could understand most , if not all , of what many of these long stretches of dialog were about - unlike in some past , notoriously messy films by the director - and it worked without Godard's way of filming subjects and locations . Julien Hirsch's cinematography , going through the director's vision , is often so striking I'd say it's some of the best that was done in 2004 anywhere . There's still some kind of documentarian's spirit at heart , and it really does work best in the conversations that go on in the film , as lots of subject matter gets covered . This mixed with a partially fictionalized story helps to make something pretty special , if not really sensational , and in its 80 minute running time nothing overstays its welcome . If anything , the film is almost too short by a few minutes . It's a mix of history , politics , poetry , cinema , and the meanings of life and death , and not often does it come off pretentious .
I don't know why though I didn't find Black Orpheus to be a flat-out , blow-me-away masterpiece . Maybe my expectations were a little high ; hearing for years about it from my mother ( into Brazilian music ) , and that it won a simultaneous golden palm and Oscar in 1959 . And for quite a while , despite being directed by Marcus Camus ( French ) , and meant for a worldwide audience , was THE film to see from Brazil and Rio . What is interesting , and occasionally a little frustrating , is how the film is shot actually not too complicated , the camera never does any moves that boggle the mind too much , or go into jump-cuts in editing . It's actually in a kind of documentary / realism ( which was Camus's style anyway ) capturing the lives of the poorer people of Rio and also the living-for-dancing kind of life they lead , keeping some hope . This , however , is mixed with the mythical story of Orpheus , who deals with death in order to save his love . But in a way , not all the time but some of the time , for me , the Orpheus story , despite being integral to the film , got in the way of some of the more exciting parts of the film . Obviously , the chief reason to see the film is for the entertainment value , which is pumped up by delivering dancing , a pulsating musical beat , and what ends up getting filled into the not-too-static framing ; a lot of dancing , and a lot of people , practically all non-actors I'd imagine , delivering the goods . And then the storyline comes in . Orpheus is a bus worker who also has a great gift for romancing through the guitar and his looks . It doesn't help his new engagement that a cousin of a friend , Eurydice , comes into the picture and changes everything - they fall in love , the kind of melodramatic , powerful kind of love that is affecting in its classic-film kind of style . . . and then there's Death , who's following along her trail . It's done as a kind of literal interpretation , and one wonders how things may lead up to a tragic climax . It's woven together fine , but I wasn't as moved by the romantic scenes so much as the others involving the real people . In fact , one wonders what this film could've been , either better or maybe not as good , if it was a straight documentary ala Orson Welles's It's All True about the lives of the poor in Rio who get together to Samba the night away . It's really exhilarating to see the sequences of the carnival , and even the ' rehersal ' that takes place in the smaller part of town . There is also one other scene that had me sit up and take notice - when Orpheus , on the search for Eurydice , is with his ' guide ' being a janitor , he's taken to a kind of voodoo room where spirits take control over people in the midst of a weird dance . I didn't understand this scene , like it was something alien to a far extreme . But it was one of my favorite parts of the film as well , for the power in seeing these real people act in this - for them - ' normal ' kind of act . Maybe I'll like it more on another viewing , for now though I did like it , and would recommend it , and to whom I'm not totally sure . Yet it is one of the seminal films from their country .
The Coen Brothers ( them being Joel and Ethan ) have a pretty good film here ; recommendable to say the least . If it's not one of their very best it might be because it goes for so much within the framework of the Odyssey that it threatens to run off the tracks . But there's a great deal of originality here too , from the KKK musical number to the tommy-gunned cows to the horny-toad mystery following the " sirens " , to a great final hoe-down involving men with fake beards . It's crazy , and it works most of the time . It's an odyssey inspired by Homer , though it isn't exactly " based " on it ; from what I described up above it's really a jumping off point , as if the brothers took what they remembered from the story after reading it in school , and then put on their own ideas for the characters based on who could best play them . The film takes place in 1930's Mississippi where 3 convicts ( Tim Blake Nelson , John Tuturro and in a Clark Gable-like face , George Clooney ) escape to go look for a hidden treasure , but , like in the original Homer odyssey , there are their sidetracks ( sirens ) and villains ( John Goodman does a good job as this villain ) . About the 4th best Coen brothers movie you can find , with some enjoyable comedy and some ironic moments . Definitely fun and with some memorable tunes .
The Fugitive Kind is a hot story of desire and loss and craving and heartbreak between a man and two women set in the deep south . Sounds like quintessential Tenessee Williams , and it is in spurts . Sometimes Williams leans towards being a little preachy , however true ( little moments like when Brando and Stapleton have a quiet back and forth about racism via her painting kind of nails it on the head much ) , but it's his skills at doing melodrama that strike up the coolest beats . In fact , this is one of those super-cool movies of the late 50s that could have only starred someone like Brando , who looks at times disinterested in the scene but at the same time completely engaged , curious , smooth , harsh , and knowing of what life can bring with his trusty Ledbelly-signed guitar . It's not necessarily a towering work for the ages ala Williams collaboration 1 Streetcar Named Desire . But that doesn't mean it should be much under-looked either . As an early effort for Lumet it's also a scorcher dramatically ; he's so good with the actors that whatever little missteps the script might take in pouring on the poetic prose in how some of the characters talk ( there's a scene between Brando and Anna Magnani's characters by some ruin of a spot where she says people used to make love that is actually quite boring ) can be usually forgiven . Magnani especially is interesting because she should be a case of miscasting , which , apparently in later years , Lumet admitted to . She seems low-key at first , but her strengths bloom out tenfold when it comes time to act like the hard-knock-life kind of woman she is , who's in a crap marriage and had a horrible affair with a man who didn't do anything after the summer they spent together . Now she's put into a situation where she does and doesn't want this drifter , and vice versa , and she's sometimes just as cool ( though also quite tough and demanding in that big Italian mama way ) as her counterpart . Meanwhile there's also Joanne Woodard , who has the kind of part many actresses love to chew on ; feisty , outspoken , loud but also emotionally moody to the point that she admirably tries ( and doesn't quite get to ) the heights of Vivien Leigh with her classic Blanche Dubois . Overall , Lumet gets a good feel for the period - and shot in New York state no less - while working with good material and an even better cast . It won't ever be as revered as his other work , and at the same time it's much better than some would give it credit for , where the tragedy acts like another sweaty Southern caricature bemoaning existence and fitting on a bad pair of shoes .
I read one review on here that labeled She's Gotta Have it as Spike Lee's ' feminist view ' . I would agree with this in part because he doesn't show anything - the characters really - on any one side . We see her follies completely . But I think there is a male view going on with his look at these characters too ; after we see how a woman can be all liberated and free of being too restricted with who she wants to love / fool around with , there's more of a sympathy going on for the men too as the situation starts to come down to an essential thing - what does Nola REALLY want ? By the end of the picture , no one can really say for certain , Nola most of all , but all the while Lee has given us a look at romance that is ordinary only in how some of the typical characteristics of men and women are portrayed at times . But really , it's also out of the ordinary on showing the little things that wouldn't get into the common romantic comedy . It's a little too loosely structured and the style isn't altogether great , but it has as much ambition as Scorsese's Who's That Knocking or Bertolucci's Before the Revolution , at least in trying to convey subject matter primarily through style . Not to say the substance is left unchecked - in fact for the most part it's one of Lee's sharpest satires on the troubles of the sexes , and the main characters are a bit more believable than those of the main white / black couple of Jungle Fever . Lee boils it downs to seeming essentials at first - Nola ( Tracy Camilla Johns , not bad at all if not as strong as the main ' heroine ' could be ) is a magazine painter , but really its her romantic life that keeps her usually occupied . We see the various attempts of various male ' pick-up lines ' ( which is pretty hilarious , if dated ) , and then we meet guy # 1 , Jamie ( Tommy Hicks , maybe the best ' real ' actor of the group ) , who is really the nice guy , the kind that any reasonable woman would consider probably marrying sooner or later . But she also has male # 2 , Greer ( John Canada Turrell , with a great , shallow look to him if not overall performance ) , who is a male model who is meticulously egotistical even with folding up his clothes before sex . And then there's # 3 , Mars Blackmon ( Lee himself , in uproariously huge glasses and his name etched out in gold across his neck , surely one of his most wonderful characters played by him ) , who is the jokester , and word-spinner , and always takes a while to get around in a conversation . So around and around she goes , and it's really only until the last twenty minutes when Nola finally has to come down and make the decision - and it perhaps will have to come down to the ' right ' decision - but for what she just can't tell . Part of it is that she just loves sex , which becomes a problem when she invites over the three men for thanksgiving ( not a totally successful scene , mainly due to the dialog and pacing , but still a nice job in awkward tension ) . And also a problem when Jamie , the nice guy , makes an ultimatum for Nola . At the same time in the background there is the unusual tension of a possible lesbian affair with Opal ( Raye Dowell , very good in her scenes ) , but nothing comes to it . Scenes like those , where the sexual and relationship-type boundaries come into question , are really interesting . The self-conscious talking-to-the-camera interview bits range from excellent to just OK though , and sort of mark the quality of the film down a peg , even as the characters get to share some of their inner thoughts ( Lee's being the funniest ) . What then makes Lee's film a big step above any other number of films out there , primarily in the Hollywood mainstream , about a woman who has trouble deciding what to do with herself ? It's two things ; one , that the men are probably just as interesting with what they have going on as her , if not more so for Jamie , and two , the cinematic techniques imposed by Lee and cinematographer Ernest Dickerson . The latter of those two helps make She's Gotta Have it even more of a light-hearted picture than it might have been if just filmed as the script is . We get the images first put to Lee's father Bill's score , which is definitely one of his best after Do the Right Thing . Then the images get a lot of invention on such a small budget , unusually intimate and creative camera angles ( I loved the bit when we see in slow-motion the extreme close-ups of Mars getting close with Nola ) , the lighting often very expressionistic , and sometimes the editing going to playful , odd lengths like the sex scene between Nola and Greer . Sometimes the playfulness and first-time filmmaker amazement is a little much , like the color film sequence , which is beautiful but almost better self-contained than with the black & white grittiness of the rest of the film . I also could've done without the last bit after the denouement where all the actors say their names with the clapper . Nevertheless the stylistic merits add a lot to make it a richer film in context and structure . But if you can seek it out , especially in widescreen ( I saw it on IFC , though I wish I could see the director's cut to see what was cut out , however explicit it might be ) , it's well worth it . It's a small film , yet one that brings up some intriguing bits about what it means to really love someone vs . desire them , and what mind-games go on between men & women , men & men , women & women , and where the middle-ground could be , if at all . A minor independent / debut classic .
This is a little like if Jean-Pierre Melville were forced to do a recreation of No Country for Old Men . Rather than that , it's a Don Siegel picture , which means there's things about Charley Varrick that make it both wonderfully character-centric and rather cold and vicious deep down . The latter isn't necessarily a bad thing ; done right , as here , there's a sinister edge to Charley Varrick the film , not too pronounced , and a lot smarter than other run-of-the-mill crime pictures . It's also , sadly , a little dated , showing some signs of its 70-ness in some small but significant ways ( i . e . how easily it is for Varrick to sleep with Boyle's secretary since all it takes it flowers , or for that matter the hit-man with the passport lady ) . Even the music by the great Lalo Schifrin screams " Freak-out ! " But it's also so well plotted and giving the audience its due and not treating us like fooled that it's hard not to admire it , or even love it in spots . At the least , Siegel is both a skillful director of action ( the getaway from the bank , and the heist itself , are near classic sequences of delirious suspense ) and with veteran character actors . Matthau in the lead is a smart choice . He's an actor who can hide a good deal with his stern exterior , but we can tell there's a lot going on underneath , and with Varrick he paints him as a character always making a deliberate choice , by default almost having to be one step ahead of the other villains or cops , and there's an extra level of tragedy he does brilliantly to subdue when Varrick's wife dies from the bullet wound . Ditto then for other actors like Andy Robinson ( not too far removed from his stint in Dirty Harry but a little weaker ) , Joe Don Baker ( the grinning hit-man with a one-track mind ) , and John Vernon ( again , from Dirty Harry , here a corrupt banker who gets his just desserts ) . It may not have the same kind of finesse that a higher budgeted action picture might have , but for Siegel it should have no less an amount of care for the story than Dirty Harry or Escape from Alcatraz . We might not get Clint this time , but it's still darn good enough to keep as one of those 70s sleepers that you find at the bottom of the bin at the store , a nugget that has future re-used Tarantino lines like " pair of pliers and a blowtorch . " And few movies have as good an ending at a junkyard as here .
Femme Fatale is one of those movies for people who love craft in movies , since it contains nearly all of the styles in the book - slow motion , split screen , use of shadows , reflections , and more that I might have not caught on the first viewing . The opening shot / scene is an eye-opener that makes a great re-creation of Cannes from last year ( though East-West , the movie shown within the movie , was at Cannes in 1999 ) , and throughout , DePalma has a breathtaking visual sweep again , like in his earlier films ; his last three films ( Mission Impossible , Snake Eyes , Mission to Mars ) were mediocre at best and at worst awful . Antonio Banderas , a little better than usual himself , plays a photographer who takes a picture of a woman , which brings forth series of events , double crosses , triple crosses , so on . The woman ( or women ) is played by Rebecca Romijn-Stamos , a hot firecracker of a babe who is in hiding after a jewel robbery , who has more hiding in herself as well . However , despite this being a cinema-verite type thriller with Mamet-esquire plot turns , the ending is a downer on a first viewing and had me turned off to see it again for a while ( is it even needed , despite its connection to genre , one might ask ) . And once I walked out of the screening , I knew that this could've been a great thriller , and it turned out to be in many parts , though I wouldn't recommend it as the definitive DePalma flick . However , upon a second viewing , it does become a bit more enjoyable , like an old bottle of red discovered years later . Those who are fans of him will find this sumptuous , and other film buffs will also have a good time , at least more than a few of the films De Palma's done lately .
The last of the five collaborations between director Don Siegel and producer / actor Clint Eastwood , Escape from Alcatraz isn't a great blockbuster action flick like Dirty Harry or an experiment like the Beguiled . It is more the former , if anything , and a crackerjack example at best of what to do in crafting suspense from the elements of basic despair in the mindset of men . Barely sentimental ( the exception might be with the loss of painting privileges for one prisoner ) , the film is an examination of a cold system put on by hard-bitten prisoners who are stuck by what the character English says is " one huge count . " It isn't a kind of existential struggle like A Man Escaped , nor a big bombastic crowd-pleaser like Shawshank Redemption either . But for its intended audience , which are fans of its perennial heroic star , and for the lean style from director Siegel , it's one always worth a look when it pops up on TV or if it remains sitting all by itself on the video shelf at the store . Basics to know : Eastwood plays Frank Morris , a criminal who broke out of an Atlanta prison and got sent to Alcatraz , the most insurmountable prison ever constructed . But after taking enough guff from the exacting prison warden ( McGoohan looks like he's not entirely acting , as if he's been a warden for years and years , which is why he's one of the most convincing of all movie wardens ) , getting stuck in the horror that is ' the hole ' , and seeing the damage done to fellow prisoners , he takes action through the crumbling wall of his grate . Among certain accepted - and refreshingly well done - prison movie clichés , we get the big fat brute ( Bruce M Fishcer ) , the wise old inmate ( Paul Benjamin , some of his are the subtlest scenes ) , and the determined but weak-in-the-spirit inmate ( Larry Hanklin , a great character actor , one of those like Robert Schiavelli you can spot right away ) . And all the while , the storytelling goes at a pace that never rushes , never pushes against little details with Litmus or the visitors to the inmates . If sometimes it doesn't give a little bit of exposition on some characters - like its protagonist ( we never know how bad Eastwood really is or not , he just is , though unlike a Nicholson he never really exploits any kind of rebel posit ) - and sometimes has a moment of suspense that can be seen right around the corner ( a funny sound while digging , trouble with the disguised dummy heads in the beds ) , the climax practically makes up for any moments of conventionality . Especially if one isn't completely familiar with the real history behind the Alcatraz escape it cranks up to a high degree through the dark shadows of the prison innards and the outside at night . And it's also fascinating to see an indefinite point at the end of the film ; it's the attempt that counts , not the total end result . A cool and effective thriller .
Takashi Miike's Dead or Alive 2 : Birds is loaded with allegory and symbolism , some that works ( like having feathers continually popping up from time to time in the midst of murders , or the sometimes mentioned comet representing wonder in the unknown ) and some that doesn't ( the re-appearances of the wings on the backs of Mizuki and Shu , and the over-usage of archive clips of impoverished people in Africa to emphasize the two hit men's end goal to donate all their money to that ) . But at the core Miike has a very thematically rich film , where the insanity , shame and / or brutality of bloodshed and violence and death are contrasted with what comes before people go down the path of crime - childhood . It's maybe that one is given sight to bloody scenes in person as a child , as Mizuki does when he sees his step-father dying on the bathroom floor dialing on the phone ( one of the great images in the film ) . Or it's just that there doesn't seem to be much of a choice , or out of convenience , it's hard to say . Miike isn't out for easy answers anyway , but after a sort of bizarre meditation on the loss of the innocence we all have in youth , and how it can become uglier and without meaning . It's also , on to of this , a very good story of friendship and ties that bind that friendship going beyond professional duty or consequence . Mizuki and Shu , played by Riki Takeuchi and Sho Aikawa , also from the first DOA ( however not connected by character or plot , only in part by mood ) , are hit men for a hire , and Mizuki , who hasn't seen Shu in many years , witnesses him kill a bunch of gangsters that he was supposed to fire on with a sniper . He follows him , and it leads the both of them , as they're in hiding for suspected / actual murders and money stolen , to the island of their youth . We see flashbacks of said childhood , of fun playing on the beach ( a sweet gag , uncommon for Miike , is when one of the kids is buried in the sand and the other kids run away ) , but also the pain of separating and finding violence among them , like with Mizuki . Nostalgia comes back tenfold , as they reunite with another old friend , and Miike actually crafts sentimental scenes in this middle chunk that work , somehow , because they don't feel very cheap . Then , as if trying to cleanse themselves of their old crime-syndicate ways , they work at a playground helping out kids , and they even put on a demented play involving goofy innuendo with Cinderella and various animals . This play scene is juxtaposed with the sprawling yakuza / triad warfare that breaks out back at home , and it's here that Miike has not only , for my money , the best sequence of the film , but one of his best sequences to date . The play Mizuzki , Shu and the others put on is immature and a little crude , but shown to be all the more innocent and playful when compared to the manic , multiple murders that occur between the two gangs , as bullets fly , blood flows , and bodies contort all over the place as neither side really comes out victorious , or with many members left . It's Miike leashing out his wicked , no-holds-barred style , but also the goodness on the other side of the coin , and it doesn't get much better for a fan like myself . On the other hand , Dead or Alive 2 , following this sequence , gets weirder by the minute , and sometimes not always for the best . With the focused narrative flow given for the Mizuki / Shu story , where they decide to come back to the mainland and keep going with their killings for money in un-selfish reasons , there's another subplot involving , I'd guess , the other killers out to kill them . But it comes off muddled , and even with Miike going for enjoyably crazy images like a midget walking on stilts , or the fate of a character named Jiro , it suddenly felt as if Miike was getting off track of what was working best . But if anything , DOA 2 tops the first one by delivering the goods on substance just as well as the style . Miike is always out for experimentation , with his editing and transitions and usage of a symbolic inter-title " Where are you Going " . And isn't above getting some touching last scenes with Mizuki and Shu on the boat ( Takeuchi , by the way , is one of Miike's best actors ) , even if it feels very sudden , that could be forced by another director but through him feel compassionate to their doom . While Miike and his screenwriter don't quite get deep enough to make this a great film about lifelong criminal friends , and he's still into getting laughs out of depraved acts of violence and bizarre sex ( i . e . that giant penis in a couple of scenes ) , it's surely one of the better yakuza movies I've yet to see to go past its limitations and make it a movie where the main characters aren't just cardboard cut-outs meant for shouting dialog and dying at a clip .
If you're wondering what might be an indication of recommendation for The Monster Hunter ( aka Natural Selection as it's called on IMDb ) , Quentin Tarantino has a quote on the back of the DVD case that reads simply as : " Great ! " And how could he not say that , mayhap , considering David Carradine and Michael Bowen , both co-stars of the Kill Bill movies , appear in two of the juiciest roles of their respective careers ? It's all a big goof , but often very sly and unexpected ; looking at the DVD box you think you're getting a bad sci-fi channel movie with Carradine as a From Dusk Till Dawn type bounty hunter or something . Not quite , kids . It's the story of Willie , a postman who turned into a deranged serial killer ( go figure , it IS a postman ) , and more than half the movie is dedicated to telling his story through interviews with his mother ( she's the best , funniest really , especially talking about his brother Eddie ) , the sheriff , a psychologist ( Bob Balaban , funniest side character ) who talks mile a minute and even imitates Willie ; the redneck hunters who hung around Willy , or sort of knew him , I guess ; the hotel cleaner ; the neighbor , et all . It's shot just like you've seen every true-crime doc on TV , and the filmmakers do it pretty well . But it's surprising to see how good the quality of film-making it with the actual drama ( well , drama , how dramatic can it really get ? ! ) , as there are some images that seem like they could be done not by some cheapo exploitation director but by real true-blue professionals who are making this little excursion into the deranged and backwoods in their spare time . I especially liked the cinematography in the morgue scenes , with the blue a weird contrast to what Carradine's character does in there ( which is rather hilarious and wickedly , um , Christian in a sense ) . But really , much of what makes Monster Hunter entertaining is the wink and nod of the actors to the material , while still making it bad-ass . We know Carradine and Bowen know what they're into , but they play it like pros all the way , even when a ) Carradine as the nut FBI guy goes into a vampire-killing pose in a back lit sun-scape ( my favorite scene ) , and b ) there is a 2nd killer revealed ! This brings it to an even wackier level . With some really rockin music - guest produced by Tom Waits perhaps - and pulled off with enough wit to make Mr . Brooks look like the overly serious sham it is , The Monster Hunter is a little underground sleeper that should appeal to anyone who wonders what it's like in the mind of a serial killer - or a pre-DaVinci Code nut for that matter . Good times for a knowing cult crowd .
In maybe his only time of giving into a commercial project , Luis Bunuel , deliciously notorious surrealist and satirist , took off his usual run of Mexican-produced films of the decade and adapted The Adventures of Robinson Crusoe . On the surface , if one weren't familiar with the director's works at all , it has the seeming quality of being an average B-movie adventure of a man in solitude who is saved by his man Friday and his own resourcefulness . The story of the cast away has ended up having better days , specifically in Zemeckis's Cast Away , as far as with how the actual details of the story unfurl . It boils down to this : Crusoe gets shipwrecked on an island , takes what he can from the ship ( some supplies , actually lots , a few animals ) , builds a camp , and little by little after the novelty of a deserted island wears off he goes near mad in loneliness . That is until the cannibals arrive , dropping off a man whom Robinson names Friday and quasi-domesticates as his servant-cum-friend . This is a story that even school-children know , and has even appeared as a goof on a Peabody & Sherman cartoon . But the fun in watching this rendition of Crusoe is for fans of the director to see what he does with the material . It's not a perfect affair , truth be told , as Bunuel isn't the greatest director of suspense , particularly in the climax . But what is essential for a film with as basic a plot as this to have is an understanding of what can be subverted , lightly and slightly twisted into personal expression . This is nothing new for many of today's famous filmmakers ala Spielberg or Scorsese , but for Bunuel he approaches it in ways that his best fans will be keen to look for and get in nice quantities . For example , as he is known more often than not as a director of dreams ( his best film , Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie , has dreams within dreams in savagely playful fashion ) , we see Crusoe having a dream early on where there's soft gel on the sides of the screen ( maybe to appease the producers , who knows ) , and in it Crusoe dreams of his father pouring sauce or other on a pig , and images of Crusoe in water , cut together and acted in truly classic style . It's probably even one of his better dream sequences , followed up by another later on that features a pretty funny image to boot . Actually , part of what makes Bunuel's Robinson Crusoe so enjoyable is spotting the references to past films - his palm covered with some bugs speaks right away cheerfully to Un Chien Andalou - as well as just mildly absurd usages of animals on screen ( how did the cat have kittens ? ) , and even Christian imagery in simply showing Crusoe with his huge beard , which Dan O'Hearlihy sports proudly for most of the film , and even carrying what looks like a cross ( ! ) but turns out to be the stand for a scarecrow . Then there's also the aspect to the bond between Crusoe and Friday , which is almost a pop-art form of one of Bunuel's own treatises on the division of the classes in many of his films ( i . e . Viridiana and Exterminating Angel ) . In a way it works just as well as a simple story anyway , because Bunuel is able to have his cake and eat it , by having a tale that as stilted it might be in its not-quite-high-or-low budget and form of writing / narration at times is fairly gripping in an ' old-school ' way , as well as enough room to bring out his flashes of brilliant imagery and jabs of surrealism , and even absurdism .
Goosebumps , if not familiar , was a series of novels from the 90s which dealt with various spooky , unexplained , supernatural , and just plain weird stories meant for kids to take in in all its simplicity and imagination ( or re-imagination to put it another way ) . Monster House is kind of like one of the books never written put up on the screen with an extra dosage of some funny moments and lots of visual tricks up the animator's sleeves . It's directed by first-timer Gil Keenan and written by a group that seems like they're more into older-animation ( or at least not usually for the kiddies ) and other comedy by their career rosters . But probably the biggest reason I decided first to see the film was because of the exec producer credits belonging to Robert Zemeckis and Steven Spielberg . I'm not sure what their input was on the film , but it feels like one of those 80s era horror film or adventure type works that they were attached to ( Poltergeist , the Goonies , and a few of Zemeckis's recent horror movie productions come to mind ) . It's a family horror comedy that actually has some characters for kids to connect and root for , with a little more development past the conventions , and a host of supporting characters that are actually as funny for adults and older teens as they might be for kids . And the creativity in the animation department is some of the best I've seen in non-Pixar computer animated films so far . The house itself , possessed by a dead fat woman named Constance ( Kathleen Turner surprisingly enough ) , is quite the marvel that really does make a good chunk of the enjoyment in the picture . The little twists and dark turns inside the house are like the best possible clichés of a haunted house turned inside out with added human-features ( including a good joke about a part of the anatomy at one point ) . When the film goes into its final act and the house then literally lifts off of its foundation after the kids , it really becomes an entertaining spectacle where cliffhanging moments are abound and there's always time for a grin . In fact , it's really something to see how the humor in the film is not overly juvenile or predicated on excrement jokes , but more on behavior and stuff kids relate to - being talked down to , boys clumsiness around girls , and fears of what may possibly be where they'd rather not look . And making up the characters is a very good voice roster including Steve Buscemi as the old man Nebbercracker , Fred Willard & Catherine O'Hara as the parents , a nice crop of talented kid actors ( Mitchell Musso , Sam Lerner and Spencer Locke ) , and others like Jason Lee , John Heder and Maggie Gyllenhaal . Like a good kid's horror book it delivers on some interesting bits involved in the mystery of the crux of the story , while as an animated feature it delivers on being engrossing ( and fun ) entertainment in its execution . It's also a blast , if you happen to get the chance , to see it in its limited run in 3-D . In short , I'm sure if I was younger I would've liked it even more , but as it is it's one of the more successful diversions in animated film this summer .
In Return of the King - which follows the book ( that I have not read , though heard what is in it that is not in the film ) as close if not closer than the past two - co-writer / co-producer / director Peter Jackson brings Tolkien's grand tale of the quest to destroy the ring to an end . The story strands follow along the similar linear paths of the others , and it is done so with an equal worth in entertainment . Frodo , Sam and Gollum's path to Mordor unfolds as almost something of a love triangle for the ring ; Merry and Pippen follow their own tales towards the great battle ; Gandalf , Aragorn , Legolas , Gimli , and all the dwellers of middle earth prepare for the swarm of the terrors of Sauron . There is much praise that should be given to Jackson and his crew / cast on not just the worth of Return of the King , but to what is now the entire saga of the Lord of the Rings as a whole . Though the film does carry quite a load to it ( at three hours and twenty-one minutes it's the longest of the three in theatrical form , and it definitely does go on at least ten to fifteen minutes longer than it should ) , and expands and deflates on the details of some characters ( i . e . Saruman is nowhere in sight in this version , while Arwen gets more than what is from the original work ) , there are plenty of rousing scenes and sequences , terrific battles , and a grasp on the visual effects as a whole that don't let up . In all , ROTK is on the level with Fellowship and Two Towers , making the parts as good as the whole . This is something that only several other filmmakers can make a claim to , that one film does not bring on a let down from the expectations that preceded it . It's the kind of film I'll want to see again , however it would be very difficult to sit through it in one place . ( both as a picture in and of itself , and overall on the three epics combined )
Killin ' Them Softly , what I consider to be Dave Chappelle's non-cinematic breakthrough ( the cinematic could be with Half Baked ) , was a very potent mix of comedy , dealing with some celebrity jokes and great humor involving the hood ( the ' baby ' bit is classic ) . With this special , Chappelle comes off from his hit TV show , and so some of his initial energy could be lacking . It isn't , but one doesn't see exactly the same brilliance here . I mean that though in just the overall sense , that there are a couple of bits that aren't totally consistently funny ( the ' Monkey ' bit , the bit on the 15 year old kidnapped girl ) . Throughout , however , there are bits that really do make it known why Chappelle is where he's at today . For example , his take on why he can't smoke weed with black people anymore ( and the pros and cons of smoking with white people ) is gut-busting , or his take on the Michael Jackson case ( last year this was filmed , by the way , which should be taken into perspective ) , or his lines on how he's dealing with his newfound fame ( and what he'll do with a certain part of his privates ) . He is on fire I'd say 80 percent of the time , and the other 20 percent he's still witty even when the punchlines don't connect . The Chappelle fans who love everything about his show will find much happiness with the DVD , and those who are just casual comedy stand-up fans will still see some of the low-key smarts and absurdities that launched Chappelle in the past half decade .
Sure , the Stranger is one of the ' studio ' projects for filmmaker Orson Welles , and in the story one might think from the story description on this site it might not be his kind of territory ( Welles himself said this was his least favorite of his directed films ) . But it is in the directorial style , and in the performances ( Welles and Robinson most particularly ) that the film is given his ' stamp ' of sorts . And at the core the film is really just a solid thriller , and because of that it has immediate appeal for its story turns , the scenes where the truth and lies are bounced around , and in the exquisitely done climax on the clock tower ( maybe second only to Back to the Future in using a clock tower in a film ) . It is through such typically audience-powerful elements , as well as with a bit of immediately post WW2 espionage , that Welles is able to flow into it his own personality , with little bits of very dark humor and theatrical drama that is , above all else , compelling . In terms of looking at the acting , it's right here that right away Welles breaks from what could've been a good but fairly typical style with the script . Keeping in mind that from the moment he appears on screen the character of Dr . Rankin ( aka Frankz Kindler ) , there's quite an amount of guilt and suspicion he's trying to avoid , from himself less so from him wife and the Detective ( Edward G . Robinson ) . So , Welles is able to really play this for all it's worth ; the smallest glance and minute eye gesture is meant for dramatic effect , and as much as one might be tempted to chuckle how obvious it might be , it works . I did believe , at the least , the pure theatricality of Welles in the film , and he photographs himself and others in this similar way , however much with the film-noir style as well . And with sturdy character actors like Robinson - who is actually fairly more subtle and in a different way of interest than in , say , Key Largo - and Loretta Young , Welles is able to have his players in place . It's no doubt the material could be done by other filmmakers ( it's one of the few of Welles's films that was barely written by him ) . In this filmmaker's hands and eyes , however , it does get some different twists here and there . Through his cinematographer Russel Metty ( later responsible for the Oscar winning cinematography of Spartacus ) , Welles gets some angles and shots , sometimes really sweeping and telling of it being quite the movie-movie ( if one could say it that ) , that other filmmakers wouldn't think of . And I loved the musical score , by Bronislaw Kaper , adding the kind of tone that is often replicated , more or less , by composers of lesser musical scores of today's thrillers , with a nice touch of European in it for the subject matter . So , if you're looking for an Orson Welles / Edward G . Robinson fix and haven't come across the Stranger yet , you may come in for a really pleasant surprise .
Heavy Traffic is , like many of Ralph Bakshi's films , a like it or hate it affair , but for those that respond to it , the film provides many a surprising attack on sensibility , decency , and what it means to get by in urban sprawl . It's almost too personal ; one can see Bakshi or friends of his having gone through some of the little things in the lower ranks of New York City's daily life ( particularly Brooklyn life ) as depicted here . But it's this connection to a personal reality - and then a TOTAL adherence to turning this reality on its head and making it as wild , violent , and sexually deviant as possible - that is the key to the success of Bakshi's film , the best of his I've seen so far . His main character , Michael , is probably loosely based on himself ; a young , would-be underground cartoonist who lives with insanely irate parents ( Italian father and Jewish mother ) , and interacts with the neighborhood he's in with a casual attitude and a little reluctance to join in the mayhem that goes on with such kooky cats . Enter in Carole , a black bartender who won't take s from anyone , who teams up as a business partner , more or less , with Michael to first get cartoons off the ground , then , so it goes , misadventures in prostitution . It all leads up to an ending that isn't expected , though a sort of double-piling of shock and pleasant surprise . Heavy Traffic outlays Bakshi's outlook on life in a skill that could be called animated exploitation film-making . However , it's through this overloading of characters meant to be unattractive , sexually piggish , wretchedly racist ( and , on the other side of the coin , sexist ) , and violent in the tradition of the Looney Tunes cartoons with the worst taste , that the film gets to the guts of the matter . It's a half-embrace , half-attack on a lack of values in a society , and as Baskhi relishes in his excess , he also is criticizing both himself for lapping it up and those in the neighborhood for being such eccentric mother-fers . And , as a satire should be , it's very funny , occasionally uproariously so . Scenes like Michael being pressured to get it on with the girl on the mattress on the roof , and the outcome as a sort of running gag ; the scene with the song Mabeline playing , as Baskhi puts out drawings that are without much color , and look incredible for the reason that there's seemingly little effort put into the animation with the random over-the-top sexual positions ; the little bits in the feuding with Michael's parents , the mother with her Jewish-star knife-holster and the father with his dedication to the " Godfather " , who eats little people in his pasta , over anything really with his family ; and when Michael presents " religious " cartoons to a dying old man , which to any prurient Christian taste is hilariously offensive and , well , cool . Bakshi is so personal at times , with his taste in color schemes , in over-lapping images with film clips , combining live-action and animation ( usually with dancing ladies on one side and a lurid little twerp gawking on the other ) , and even likely real family photos from his own family laid in , that it levels going too far . There's a tendency for self-indulgence , however not always the bad kind , if that makes sense , and one can see how the film can and has been vehemently criticized for what it is really trying to criticize in the film . But deep down , past the creative madman in Bakshi , is also a heart ; his film ends on a touching note , as abstraction turns real and a totally live scene reveals another level to Michael and Carol , as real outcasts who are both totally stubborn , and somehow meant for each other . Heavy Traffic is a one-of-a-kind affair , and the kind of under-the-radar act of an outrageous spectacle that it could only be done in the 70s .
I might be tempted to call the Milky Way a masterpiece , but for all of the excellent scenes that dance along on the edge of being silly , strange , dead-serious , and scathing in attack , Luis Bunuel doesn't make it quite an easy first viewing . It is , alongside Phantom of Liberty , though maybe more-so considering its picaresque flow , a difficult film to follow at times , as the folds go in and out of the two pilgrims on their way to Compostela as if in an ocean current . We see Jesus and his disciples . We see some 15th ( or 4th ) century sermons and heretic slayings and practices , sometimes seeming as mystical as something out of the Dark Crystal . And there's even a duel between two sides of the Catholic coin debating between specifics in the nature of god while fencing furiously . It's what could be defined , if one were looking for an easy label , true surrealism , pointed right at the edge of contradictions , of the daring of the random and of chances taken at the expense of all authority be damned , and at the same time it's a drama of fanaticism and faith in general . What is it to believe and actually buy into these guys , who at their most genial are storytellers and at their worst will burn you at the stake for not going for God in threes versus God as one ? Bunuel , at the least for his admirers , makes an attempt with his collaborator Jean-Claude Carriere , to raise questions in the midst of raucous entertainment . Although Bunuel can be even greater when being devilish and playful ( eg Discreet Charm ) , the Milky Way displays the filmmaker reveling in the history and nature of heresy in a construct that's maybe more daring . One truly can't expect what will come next , as one may see a scene with a priest flip-flopping about whether or not the Holy Ghost is in the communion wafer or not ( and soon thereafter taken back to the asylum ) , and then a scene with a rag-tag group of evangelicals in the woods who may or may not be paying heed to God , or to the Devil , or both , or a chef being questioned about how Jesus walked and then a cut-away to how Jesus really walked . As the two pilgrims go along their way , having their own delirious encounters - missing by a bit being struck by lightning , debating Christian free will , one hoping for a car to crash , which does , and then seeing some angel of death or other in the back-seat , and in their continuous streak of being turned away / kicked out by those who would take them in if not for essential hypocrisies - a pattern does start to form ( if one could call it that ) , or at least the essential pieces to Bunuel's puzzle . A lot of times one laughs at the subtlety and the outrageousness : should Jesus shave , do nuns crucify one another , how much can a priest pontificate about not having sex under any circumstances . But it's actually after the film ends that even more ideas start to come around . And yet Bunuel is so cunning , so deadpan with how he directs the actors - some part of his repertory , some not - that it skims into becoming straight drama , which in that case would make it almost dull ; the film actually faced some ( un-fair ) criticism when first released that Bunuel had suddenly made a film cherishing the things he used to damn . How curious , deranged , and honest even in this part of the appeal , the playing of both sides . While it is fairly well known that Bunuel became an atheist following a strict Catholic upbringing ( one quote of his , also the name of a documentary on the Criterion DVD , is " I'm an atheist , thank God " ) , it's never clear whether Bunuel will take one side or the other . There's things that are fed up about those who go without any question at all , like the little girls reciting verbatim on the stage , but also of what the man envisions of revolutionaries shooting the Pope in a firing line . Even for those who may consider themselves atheists , as Bunuel might have up to a point ( like Scorsese , no matter how much can be sort of dropped , there still remains chunks that stay as part of the auteur ) , and for those who are rigid believers , The Milky Way attempts to open up a discussion of dogma , heresies - many long forgotten before the writers dug them up in research - and why one should even believe if there is no definitive proof . For all of Bunuel's skewering of schizophrenic or quietly sex obsessed priests and moments of pure mystery like the man who first comes to the pilgrims , there is bits of reverence too , like for the Virgin Mary - who at times becomes part of the debate - and it's challenging and refreshing to see nothing left solidly as ' this is this for sure ' . If it may feel a little loose an imperfect on a first viewing it shouldn't detract from everything that can be taken away as pure food for Bunuelian thought .
One of Godard's better films from the 60's , which like a number of his films from his prime era is usually either liked a lot or detested to hell , is almost audience-dividing on purpose . His film is a black comedy that sometimes is ( successfully ) deceptively a bleak drama of corruption of the working man in times of War . Stylistically it is Godard all the way , though one can't disregard the likely significant contributions ( though it may be hard to detect since it IS Godard's mouth all over the pie so to speak ) of screenwriters Jean Gurault ( usually Truffaut's co-writer ) , and ( apparently ) Roberto Rossellini . Rossellini , who was one of Godard's big influences , is countered by what was also a big influence likely on this picture , Samuel Fuller , the king of B War pictures . So one could look at the quasi-split of ideals in the film , of Rossellini's documentary style of telling it like it is , crossed with Fuller's hard professionalism and no-holds-barred view of War . Whomever influence comes through stronger , this is really Godard's show , and has here something that is fairly usual in terms of his challenging styles and criticizing past films ( including Truffaut with his own comments on War depicted in film ) , but also is unique for how it is presented , and makes it a difficult , though rewarding experience . This is the French new-wave equivalent , to put it another way , to Sam Mendes's Jarhead ; you're not sure if this really should be classified as a typical ' war ' film , despite being in a league of other films already in place . One thing that is as fascinating as it is occasionally frustrating is Godard's main male actors , Albert Muross and Marino Mase , are not very expressive , and of course are not really ' actors ' in the traditional sense ( at least at the time they were close to un-professionals ) . But maybe that is what's needed , dumb farm boys who are propogandized into going to fight for their invading , nameless country ; the opening scenes of the list of things the men will get is equally funny and troubling . Then the boys go off to war , and there is a really astute episodic kind of storytelling used , which works considering the short time length . One scene that really stood out was when one of the soldiers goes to see his first film ever , and is almost like some kind of primate seeing a woman disrobing on a screen ( it's also arguably the funniest scene in the film ) . When the boys come home they are loaded with pictures , in a scene that is the one that almost had me questioning if it was either really good or really too long ; the length of the list of pictures is like a litmus test for moviegoers - can you take all of these images , done almost to make a point that's not too clear ? But what makes Les Carabiniers work for me is how it is so un-like other war films that it stands alone on its own terms , like a French new-wave Dr . Strangelove ( though maybe not a masterpiece like that one ) . At times I wasn't totally sure where the satire started or ended , and there is a certain distance that Godard places with his many long-shots getting in as much landscape as tanks and soldiers with their guns . What's surprising is how the tone is always assured , which is crucial considering this is a story told through the side of the invaders this time , men working under their elusive King for land and riches and wealth . One of the best scenes I may have seen in any Godard film is when they have a woman who is at first thought to be ' a friend ' of the soldiers , but then goes off on a Leninist rant . The men are about to shoot her , but can't for a few minutes , as the words she says strike some kind of chord in their primal mindsets . Amid montages of archive footage of planes flying and bombs dropping , there's a scene that would never ever be in any ' conventional ' war picture . There's a real thought process going on here , and even if it's got some of Godard's usual ' f you , it's my style , take it or leave it ' attitude , it's not totally un-accessible either . It's a slim volume of gritty anti-War pathos , and it's maybe a tad under-rated in the director's massive catalog .
One of Wong Kar Wai's most experimental features ( and this is even for old Wong folks ) is one of his earliest efforts , done while in a creative struggle making his epic Ashes of Time . Chungking Express is light and frothy , featuring funny monologues about the importance of pineapple preservation and a charming , aimless usage of Mama and the Papa's California Dreaming . It's about the search for romance in a city that is dark and dingy and full of holes someone could easily fall into . But what makes it so charming , and interesting ultimately in that European art-house way , is how Wong Kar Wai keeps a rhythm to his story that doesn't follow rules , but feels right in a sense like some off-beat song on an obscure album only your hip friend down the block has . I'm not sure who , in the end , I would recommend Chungking Express . Probably film buff friends who enjoy obsessions over pineapple and girls . There's also a very good performance turned in by actress Brigitte Lin , who before this was a ( enormously popular ) pop star , and is slightly used as opposed to cast by Kar Wai as a figurehead , like some flashy , self-conscious symbol of a mystery in and of itself ( blond wig , going about the crevices of town on some criminal mystery , the music playing in tight but sweet strings ) . It's also great to see Tony Leung in an early role that allows him some space for some little notes of emotion we haven't seen in future Wong Kar Wai movies where he's the super-serious or melancholy lover . Not that there aren't moments of the melancholy in Chungking Express , but they're presented like it's the most important thing to the characters , and to the audience is , well , just another piece to their puzzle as a whole character . Little by little we see that this isn't much as a crime film in focusing on these two cops and this odd woman in a blond wig . Or even Fayes character . It's a question of what makes up these characters , when romance throws caution into the wind . I've seen Chungking Express in bits and pieces over the years , and while I will eventually get down and watch it from start to finish , all the pieces together ( not to draw any sort of parallel in what I described and how I view the movie ) stay fresh in my mind . I love revisiting the gil dancing to her own beat to California Dreaming , as if we're in the room too . I also love how Kar Wai flashes so many techniques into his story , the flashes of colors , the combinations and segues of film speeds and a kind of impressionistic style that puts up noir into a more emotional plane . It's one of the director's best .
At a time when I was around 6-10 years old , give or take , I had an obsession with bears . Through nature documentaries , as well as the first inspiration being Winnie the Pooh , something about these creatures sparked my interest at that age . This film , in particular , had a very special place in my life at the time , and I saw it several times in that period . I saw it again recently and was struck by how it really is not the typical childhood movie . The humor in the story , where it's at , is fairly subtle at times or totally unexpected , and lacking in the usual pee-and-fart jokes now a given in most ' family ' films . It also has moments of true terror and suspense , some scenes of which did really keep me enthralled the first times I saw it . And , of course , there is relatively little dialog , being that the two or three male humans in the film don't strike up that much conversation anyway ( as hunters and all ) . So the film's story of the two bears is really based on bringing the viewer to be active in what goes on . If you're a parent reading this , and you're thinking of showing this to your kid , make sure he's not bouncing all over the place ( as I've seen happen in some movie theaters from time to time ) ; this is a film that should be taken in . In this tale of survival , companionship , and the odds of bears and men , the bear cub of the story loses his mother in a tragedy right at the start of the film leaving him orphaned . After this initial shock wears off , the bear meets another bear , a rather large , solitary Kodiak bear , by way of helping him after being shot . This compassion draws both ways as the two become an unlikely pair through certain usuals with bears ( hunting , fishing , mating , etc ) . But there are also the two hunters of the story , also in a father / son dynamic , who in the late 19th century have no endangered species acts against them . And while director Jean-Jacques Annaud , by keeping his story more with the bears ( mainly the cub ) as the focus of the film , the males of the story are not left completely one-dimensional . One of the most powerful scenes still in my memory is when the Kodiak is face to face with one of the hunters , who's been left armless ( gunless I mean ) , having to see the wrath of nature , and in tears because of it . Few films like these have been able to not only to get most of the truth of what its like for bears in the wild in a feature-film ( with one or two facts about bears changed for the sake of the story ) , but that it can appeal for children and not just some cult of a contingent interested in nature films . If a recent movie like Herzog's Grizzly Man paints the all-true picture of what its like for man to be with the bears , this little gem of the 1980's is a portrait of what it's like for the bears themselves . Another highlight - the frogs early in the film ( creepy , especially as a kid ) .
The Cotton Club has a reputation , in the movie world as well as in the history books , as being a notorious heaven / hell for most involved . Desptie it being over-budget and under-whelming at the box-office , what remains is probably one of the director's most provocative turns , with so much thrust into it that one ends up admiring the whole so much that it can be forgiven that it veers into the bulky side of things . It's near-classic pulp melodrama fused with the grace and intelligence of the Hollywood musicals and crime pictures of the period that would come shortly after the events in this film . It's also at times utterly pleasurable as conventional fare that knows what it is , as well as visually flourishing in cinematography and editing to go a little further with the material . It's risky stuff not because of the story in and of itself , but because of the chances Coppola takes with putting so much together . Unlike one of his contemporaries , Scorsese , and his film New York , New York , the Cotton Club even in its most dragging or trickiest points in the narrative reigns high as an original hybrid by giving something captivating on every side of the coin . Acting-wise , Coppola goes for the big ensemble once again ( a trademark of his films in the 80s ) , with the key ones allowing for the director to put a lot into each smaller group . The stars as the drenched-in-formula good looking ' musician-cum-actor ( Richard Gere ) and the girl on the side for one of the big mob bosses in New York City ( Diane Lane ) . the gangsters , all with specific characteristics that gain momentum as the story goes , like Dutch Schultz ( James Remar ) as the possessive paranoid killer , Bob Hoskins and Fred Gwynne ( what a combo ) as certain ' business interests ' entwined with the rest of the mob , and Nicolas Cage as Gere's younger brother , a hot-head racist who wants to take over ; the black actors , singers , dancers , all right out of Harlem and with its own stars ( Gregory Hines , in one of his very best performances / roles ) , and criminals ( Fishburne as a key part of this group ) . And the club itself is something of a character - as principle location - unto itself , as some surreal bastion of escapist glee ( if your part of the audience ) and gangland violence and bad race vibes ( if not ) . Coppola also has the occasional side character , like the MC at the club played by Tom Waits ( made believable all by a cigar ) , to not make either side too top-heavy . Whether one side bests the other or not is arguable . It's hard to say that there aren't some noteworthy scenes in practically every turn , even if they tend to go over-the-top ( like Remar with Schultz ) or almost too much on young charisma ( Lane and sometimes Gere ) . It's a credit to Coppola , at least on that front , that he corrals moments - like the break-up / reuniting with Sandman and Clay Williams , or between the two main stars when they're literally between white sheets backstage at the club - that add up to a lot in the grand scheme of things . His other main concerns , however , are music and the subtle presence of the camera . There's rarely a dull moment with the former , as Duke Ellington and Cab Calloway are presented , if only for fans , as legends unto themselves that even get fleeting glances on screen ( the Calloway number " Minnie the Moocher " is a hight-light ) . And Coppola's tie-in with Stephen Goldblatt and his editors is crucial , albeit using each to their fullest extent depending on the mood . The film moves pretty fast , narratively quicker than the Godfather films , but he only uses montage for pivotal cross-cutting moments , showing the rise and fall of the gangsters with that of the club gaining prestige ( the fall , in the big climax , is as magnificent as it can get in cinema ) , and the technical prowess is skillful and inventive . And all the same , it shouldn't all work entirely , because so much feels like it's about to explode at any moment , and nearly to a point where it edges on the point of being the same thing that Coppola is striving to homage ( shallow , escapist sensationalism ) . There's parallels between the struggles of musicians , criminals , and the others on the sidelines in show-business , and are exploited quite well . All the same it ends up not exactly a ' great ' movie , because the underlying ideas for something much deeper only work up to a point . Still , after a first viewing , and like with most other films from the director ( and , damned if I say it , the producer too ) , I wouldn't pass it up again on a viewing late at night ; it's one of the more shamelessly entertaining pictures of the mid 80s .
There are ways to do romantic comedies , just as their are ways of doing sincere dark comedies set in mental hospitals , and Chan-Wook Park goes to fantastic and unexpected lengths of subverting expectations with truly nutty - and this may be the nuttiest movie to come out of Korea this , uh , month - ideas and visuals being explored , while never skimping on making these people to care about . And yes , the " cyborg " Cha Young-Goon ( Su-Jeung Lim ) , at first seems like a typical nut , or what one might stereotype as . Indeed , as I thought more about it , what Park goes for is almost experimental ; what would it be like to have as the pivotal character of a movie the person in the loony bin who is near unresponsive to other people and who won't eat any food ? At first we're plunged into her mind-set : she's a cyborg , after all , and she marks up her energy levels by her toes lighting up , and takes in such energy by licking batteries as opposed to regular consumption . But she also has a troubled past , though more-so in the memories of her grandmother , whom she was closest with , and who we see in flashbacks was tossed away into a sanitarium , as Young-Goon was eventually , instead of actually dealing with them as real fellow family members . It's hard not to get caught up further into her much more real plight when shock treatment comes around , and that the feeding tubes just won't do any good . From the sound of this it sounds like a really tragic story , and in a way it is . But on the other hand , it absolutely isn't all the same . It's Park's funniest film , loaded with his bravura sense of style that is brutally self-conscious with the camera ( lots of wonderful usages of color from greens to reds to whites and blues and so on , 360 ' pans , high-flying shots , a great split-screen involving two characters in two separate solitary rooms connected by two cups and a string ) as well as with very assured direction . To see someone make films like ' Cyborg ' or Oldboy is to see someone who doesn't mind obviously flashy moments , because there are just as many moments that are more intimate in connection between the characters . But as I said , it's a very funny movie , with the various character in the mental hospital veritable caricatures : there's one guy who got tossed in by apologizing to everyone involved in an accident he wasn't involved in , and one fat woman who when not stealing Young-Goon's food is trying to get static electricity going from rubbing her feet , and random characters doing wacky things in the halls behind main characters talking . There's a big belly laugh at the ' picture book ' of the Cyborg's , where it lists the seven deadly sins , inexplicably linked to the torture and murder of cats in the classic storybook pictures . There's even an actor who comes closest to looking like the Korean Bruce Campbell ! And the scenes with Young-Goon going into super-violent mode as the cyborg and shooting everything in sight ranks right up with the corridor fight sequence in Oldboy as Park at his most staggering in choreographing mayhem . But then there's Rain's character Park Il-sun , who is the counterpoint for Young-Goon , as he's just a crazy thief in on his fifth voluntary commitment . He'll be hopping around one moment , or imagining himself going very tiny so as to not be noticed . But what the two of them share , no matter what , is vulnerability , which soon they see in each other ( or at least Il-Sun sees in Young-Goon ) , with scenes showing either one crying their eyes out actually being earned . It's as much of a credit to the actors as it is to Park that none of this is false sentimentality , and out of the wild comedy there is subtext always present , of the director meeting the willing audience member halfway - it is a mental hospital , and no matter how crazy it can be they aren't tapped out of life completely . This makes up the emotional tie between the two main characters , and the struggle to compromise a mental state that can't be fixed and a more pragmatic goal - eating food - leads to a real emotional highlight . Only the denouement , or what could be considered that perhaps , as there's a nuke / bomb element thrown in with outdoor rain scenes that feel real unnecessary ( albeit there's a tremendous final shot for the film ) , and little bits involving the supporting characters that could be left out ( what's with the guy that won't stop yelling ? ) . Otherwise , this is still prime work going on , daring even , as far as blending together some real surrealistic tendencies with the kind of spirit that went into One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest . It takes guts to put the personal with the wacky , but somehow I'm a Cyborg , But That's OK pulls it off better than any other film I can't think of in recent memory .
I remember seeing this film more than two years ago , and while the entire story is not very memorable ( I could probably not tell everything that happens in it now , which is perhaps more my fault than the filmmaker ) , I have a fond memory of seeing it in visual terms . Kenji Mizogichi , a filmmaker I'm only off-handedly familiar with , has here a very lushly made film , with perfectly constructed sets that spark a tinge of both fable and centuries-gone reality , and costumes that compliment the color photography . And that part , of capturing the images , is maybe the best thing that can be recommendable about the film . For a film about a Princess who was once lower on the ranks in the Emperor's home and becomes the Emperor's love interest , it provides such opportunities for a real vision to set in to guide it all . Mizoguchi provides it with his cinematographer Kôhei Sugiyama in order sometimes for the film to be told almost all on visual terms ( the filmmaker was most prolific in the silent-film era ) . So in the end , even as the story becomes a little cluttered with some scenes , it's never too complex due to the basics that the filmmaker is going for - and probably why it was picked up by Buena Vista distribution in the 1950s - a beautiful scope of Japan's regal side mixed with some of the lower classes . It's like a Shakespearean tale if it was superimposed into Japan and given a touch of that lost-era of color photography that was only matched by Powell / Pressburger's films .
3 Godfathers is beautifully directed , as are most of John Ford's pictures , but I wonder how much the story benefits from having all of the Jesus / Christmas / 3-Wise-Men allegory attached to it . What makes it work isn't so much the religious connotations , which if anything are actually depicted by Ford as hallucinations and mirage-like visions ( the bit where Duke comes across the mule at the end of the cavern is one such moment ) , but in how the supposed ' bad-guys ' are humanized through their arduous trek through the desert and lack of water and through the simple act of taking care of a newborn . While one might feel the shiver of a contemporary ' comedy ' like 3 Men & a Baby as Robert , William and Pedro take care of . . . Robert William Pedro Hightower ( because , you see , the mother named the baby after the three men around her as she faded from life ) , it surprises how touching some of this really comes off , and how the usual ' bad guys will have to get justice ' is kind of turned on its head in the face of innocence . Wayne , Harry Carey Jr . and Pedro Armendariz are bank robbers who unintentionally blow their cover to a friendly Marshall , and are tailed by them more or less as they run out of town into the desert . Following a long sequence that seems like it probably served as inspiration for a similar sequence in the Good the Bad and the Ugly , Wayne and his two guys go through the desert - young guy Carey with a bullet wound - and lacking water and / or proper water tower . Then they come across a derailed wagon , a woman about to give birth , and are saddled with her baby . This could be handled really contrived by any other director , but John Ford takes his time with the direction , drawing out shots of the long walking stretches and tired but determined faces of Duke and Carey and Armendariz , and the sparse setting they're in , and it's sometimes really breathtaking film-making . The only problem then , from my perspective , is the occasional spouts of sentiment , sometimes verging into flat-out sentimentality , peppered by the obvious religious allusions . This works up to a point , actually , when regarding Carey Jr's character who has a lot of attachment to the good-book and quotes from that as much as the baby-instruction book . But only when it gets in the way of the story , and starts to turn it into an unintentional allegory and near Christmas movie , does it get a little silly . And yet I can't disregard how well crafted 3 Godfathers is , how ( dare I say it ) John Wayne fills in this role better than usual , if about as good as he could get with ' Pappy ' Ford at the helm , and some really juicy , memorable cinematic moments in the Western genre . In fact , it's such a well-told story I am almost willing to forgive the film for any of its faults - almost . It's actually kind of , well , sweet , which is rare for a fugitive bank-robber flick which wallows in the horror of nature that is the desert which , in a sense , automatically puts into proper perspective the scope of the Marshall vs . the 3 criminals .
Iron Maiden have a true sense of how to really put on a SHOW ( in caps ) , with their trademark metal brand going out to audience's the world over with the impact of a harrowing horror movie and the gusto of superb theater ( perhaps there's a reason why the lead young girl in Persepolis , in Iran of all places , loved Maiden enough to get it off the black market ) . I was there for their 2003 tour , and comparatively , even at a much smaller venue to see them at , their appearance in Rio in 2000 is no more or less spectacular . They deliver hard-driving heavy metal tunes , some faster than others , with the energetic , awesome Bruce Dickinson belting out the tunes ( pretty much , with some minor exceptions in belting out some complicated lyrics ) with the same power and vocal range that he had on the original recordings . Now , the music here and there , while usually spot on , does depend on its being effective if you really like their 2000 album , Brave New World . In truth , I didn't think it was quite a Number of the Beast or Seventh Son of a Seventh Son ; sometimes even repetitive and loaded with more thought to the words than the music , it's not one of their best , and those songs make up a good bunch that are on this tour . This being said , however ( and what a however ) , when Maiden is dynamite , they are fing dynamite squared . They deliver some of their most acclaimed and loved 80s period Dickonson songs for screaming Brazilians all rocking their heads off in the stadium , and the buzz makes up for any of the faults in the actual performance . And , of course , what would a Maiden show be without Eddie ! It's a damn hell of a good show , in more ways than one , and it should only be a disappointment to the most purist of Maiden fans ( i . e . can only appreciate the 80s stuff ) .
Writer / director Samuel Fuller is not personally attached to the material he presents in Underworld USA in the sense of it being autobiographical . But it is pretty likely , from listening to interviews with him and just from seeing his other work in the noir-esquire realm of motion pictures , that he knew at least the world these characters are in . Or at least he knows what kinds of emotions and what lies underneath certain aspects of lesser pulp fiction - and has a kind of journalistic sensibility that is all his own , telling it like it is from the mean streets of who-knows . It's got an assured eye working the gears , and it by-passes some usual clichés to get at some more interesting bits within some of the conventions . This is in the bones just a tale of revenge , but Fuller wants the little things and moments that make up such a tale , and how the characters can be more realized than might usually be . I liked , for example , early on when Tolly Devlin is 14 and makes a comment to his mother about something in the middle of their conversation - the mother doesn't say anything , but there's a quick , tight close-up of her face to catch the moment . It actually stuck with me longer than I expected , even as the main parts of the scene went along . Another part that really , really impressed me was when Devlin ( Cliff Robertson , not bad at all in a part that gets to stretch his skills somewhat ) , nearing the end of his prison term , and finally finds one of the men who beat his father to death when he saw when he was 14 . The scene is very tense , but somehow very human too , as Tolly has to contend with a dying man that he has to kill with his own hands . Soon , Fuller gets the gears of the story going further , as he vows revenge against the others who committed the crime , making him pull an undercover act to infiltrate the mob to get close to them , particularly Earl Conners ( Rober Emhardt , a plum role for him considering all of his TV parts ) . But he also falls for a woman , Cuddles , played by Dolores Day , and like Fuller's Crimson Kimono , the weight of the main thrust of what Tolly needs is balanced against what he could also have with his possible romantic interest , caught up in the emotional bog he's in . I liked a lot how Robertson tapped well enough into the character to make him plausible , even sympathetic . He understands what Fuller is going for , a slightly more realistic - or more powerful kind of representation in the midst of the hard-boiled dialog and more complicated scenes - as he's playing a character who actually has a past , a childhood shown as shattered and made as the complete context that he has to contend with as an adult , despite women around him telling him otherwise . I still remember plenty of shots in the film too ( not the gun-shots , the camera-work I mean ) , and this is after having seen the film months ago , and the driving musical score from Harry Sukman ( a solid Fuller collaborator ) . That Fuller extracts a good deal of compelling entertainment out of a premise that seems pretty standard and even slight is remarkable , and ranks among the other fine superlative B-movies he was doing at the time .
Jan Svankmajer probably has visions and dreams that few of us would want to have , but luckily for us he's so creative and talented and all-that-and-a-bag-of-chips with a mound of clay and ( in this case ) marionettes that he can put them all on display on film . His version of Faust is sometimes confusing , bewildering , and , as I gathered from not reading the original play or ( sadly ) not yet seeing the Murnau silent feature , not altogether makes a lot of sense . This isn't to say the central premise is lost on me , which is of a man who conjures up the force that is Mephistopheles and sells his soul . This is of course shown at one pivotal moment in the film , but if you think you know what to expect from this outcome or how it's presented you might have to rethink things . If you've seen Svankmajer's other films , however , like Alice , then some of his approach shouldn't seem too far out . . . Actually , it is always very far out , but in an approachable manner , told often in a classical style of cinema that relies often on the unspoken . In this case it's not as non-dialog laden as Alice , as there are often scenes with the marionettes going on and on with their dialogs , and then with the man and the Satan figure him / itself ( whether it's a man or an ' it ' I can't say for sure , as Svankmajer makes it a being who materializes first as some skull , then into a near reflection of the man himself as some crazy theologian ) . What draws one in is the lack of abandon for narrative , and the chances he takes in making it self-conscious . It would be one thing to present the puppets themselves , but the editing is feverish ; cuts go between the puppets , their movements , and then those of the puppeteer's hands . We never see their faces , but we always know someone is pulling the strings . This is key . But beyond simply that , it's just a pure pleasure to take in how the filmmaker mixes the elements , tricks it up on the audience ( i . e . after the marionettes inside for so long , they bust out into the streets without puppeteer's hands ) , and with the stop motion , and the moments of Bunuelian surrealism with the man going between puppet form and reality , and then out in the middle of some field . I can hardly explain more , and it would be better , after all , if he was allowed to introduce himself . Staggering , near masterpiece work .
Howlin ' Wolf , aka Chester Burnett , came out of the deep south , out of the fields of Mississippi , out of a super-religious mother who stuck so firmly to her guns that Blues was " the devil's music " that she never spoke to her son for decades , out of racism and hardship , and made his own original , vibrant kind of music . He wasn't alone , as others like Muddy Waters came into prominence ( and , according to a special feature on the DVD that should have been included with the rest of the doc , had a rivalry for some time ) , and shook up popular music first for black audiences and then slowly but firmly whites . It's a remarkable journey , told with not a whole lot of style as a kind of direct-to-video approach , with a plethora of good facts and some humbling opinions ( one of Wolf's closest musician friends and band-mates , Hubert Sumlin , provides the most entertaining anecdotes as a die-hard blues-man through and through ) . Plus , of course , the music , with some rare performances and even some home movies shot at Chicago clubs , of the Wolf's presence and magnetism coming out in strong forcefulness as he does crazy things on stage like lick his guitar and crawl on all fours . Whatever you want to say about his music it's inarguable that he doesn't get your attention , if only through that distinctive voice that's a sounds like it's been run-over and resurrected as an all-powerful bad-ass . Thankfully , too , in such a short running time , there's a limit of how much drama there usually is in a musician-bio pic . Then again , Howlin ' Wolf wasn't as naughty as other musicians : he didn't sleep around as a ladies's man ( at least , from the doc's perspective , as much as say Muddy Waters ) , was a devoted husband and father , stayed away from drugs and most drink ( he was so against it he openly criticized Son House during a performance ) , and only had his one real stinging problem being a lack of communication with his mother . While one wishes the movie was longer - more detailed , more infused with that pure air of rhythm and blues - what's here is enough to whet the appetite . At the least you'll want to put on some Wolf on the stereo right away or rush out to find some kind of record . He wasn't maybe the # 1 best blues-man in America , but he certainly left his mark like only few others did . This doc is a good tribute to the Wolf's spirit .
Cleo from 5 to 7 ( actually it's 5 to 6 : 30 but how it is sounds better ) is the feminine point of view of Paris , of a discombobulated woman on the edge of a potentially tragic discovery ( whether she might die of cancer ) , and it works because Agnes Varda is in love with the cinema and in love with Paris and in love with her character and star . The passion carries over what little flaws there are - I personally couldn't really stand the actor playing the soldier , though maybe it was some of the writing that came off poorly or self-consciously - and it works as modern film art for what it accomplishes which is one of those rare pure movies for women that doesn't reek of sentimentality or kitsch . It's got some hard issues to face , but it's done in a beautiful style with the camera - itself , as some have noted its own character - and modernity in its thoughts and dialogs . The star , Connie Marchand , aside from being an unusually beautiful blonde ( I almost thought at one point Varda couldn't get Deneauve and settled on a very respectable 2nd choice ) conveys that sense of being young and pretty and possibly talented but also unhappy and disillusioned by what might happen not just with her potential illness but herself in general . There's one short scene I really loved where she's just walking down the street and the point of view goes back and forth , jarringly , between herself and those men ( and men ) of all ages taking a glance or look at her . Is it because she's a semi-famous singer or because she just happens to be a pretty blonde walking down the street ? A similar scene occurs when she goes to a café and puts on one of her songs on the jukebox and everyone goes about their business . Varda , at the least , gets us as much as she can inside her head-space , be it in small scenes like that or something truly grandiose like when she sings the sad song written by Michael Legrand and as it continues and rises it culminates into something too emotional for her to sustain . She tries to explain it as well , which makes it worse . It also helps in Cleo from 5 to 7 that the structure is broken up as it is in the chapters ; another French New-Wave film from 1962 , Vivre sa Vie , may have featured a better structural grasp on the chapter break-up , but here Varda seems to suggest that it's based upon both the limitation that time presents for someone like Cleo and for a post-modern break from traditional narrative . Why be told simply " this is the end of a scene , this is the beginning , this is the middle ? " With Varda , as with others from that age group in France making movies at the time , there were no firm rules except to be true to the artistic self , and as the camera and editing take on lives of their own and the star becomes something more as the film progresses , it to becomes a strong piece of art . Some it dated ? Maybe , it's France over 45 years ago . But its impact remains due to its dedication to its character , to women living lives uncertain and odd , and to Paris .
My first reaction at the end of the film was probably too simplistic a comparison : Harold and Kumar meets Nine Months ( yes , the Hugh Grant / Julianne Moore pregnancy comedy from 95 ) . But the film actually carries off how so few romantic comedies know how - to actually give us a man and a woman to actually give a damn about . More than that , Apatow has matched extraordinarily well the shlubby but funny and down-to-earth skills of Seth Rogan with the vibrant , uncertain but ultimately believably conflicted personality in Katherine Heigl . It's a tough sell with it's premise , to be sure , that a very attractive E ! news reporter like Allison ( Heigl ) and a total stoner almost-bum like Ben ( Rogan ) could hook up over less than 12 hours and suddenly procreate , but there you have it . It's a premise that actually had me avoiding the film , even with the immense hype from critics as well as friends and family , because the footage shown in the trailer didn't seem to be that much to write home about . The actual finished product , however , is certainly the funniest American movie out so far in 2007 , pointed at the age variant of around 18 to , um , 37 maybe , with all of the supporting characters , as well as Rogan and co-star Paul Rudd as Heigel's brother-in-law via sister played by Leslie Mann , very sharp with levels of sarcastic wit and pop-culture references . At the same time Apatow gets some really amazing one-liners regarding Ben's friends joking on each other ( the bearded guy provides the most fodder , but the general attitude is ' hey , f it , lets get stoned " ) , but doesn't lose track of what he's trying to do , successfully . He's out to criticize as well as embrace a culture where responsibility for one's self has to do with how the other in the relationship is comfortable or dissatisfied with the other . And Apatow makes the Rudd / Mann relationship a kind of bittersweet ( much more bitter really ) counterpoint to the rocky start to Ben and Allison's ' shot-gun ' romance . There's silly one liners ( " I live in your phone ! " ) , goofy caricatures ( the gynecologists ) , smart aleck kids who know a lot of " bad " words that provides for some wicked laughs , and the usual mayhem in the delivery room an actual winner in terms of making it partly true and partly farce ( albeit Judd doesn't seem to understand , despite having three kids , what a woman is like throughout the labor process , as reconciliations don't usually happen aside from script contrivances ) . Yet all the while , it's a sincere film , with the relationships shown not as cardboard cut-outs but where the people actually have to deal , if eventually , with the lots in life they've got themselves into . What is it to balance love and commitment , Apatow is asking . There's even one shot that provides a note of discomfort with the characters of Ben and Allison as they have a bad argument in the car , the view being outside of the car in traffic , a distance kept because , and it's a credit to Apatow as a storyteller , we do care about what will happen in this situation . In fact , that's probably one of the best things to say about Knocked Up . Too often in movies , especially of the cineplex fare , the situation is more-so told than an actual story . This is one of those rare cases where the situation , a tricky one to surpass as it's been done ( the ' situation ' of pregnancy , not so much the one-nite-stand part ) , unfolds more as a story , and by the time the ' happy ' ending comes , it's not a cop-out or cheat . And this goes without saying that the actors , as well as the filmmaker , are totally assured with their comic skills , be they subtle ( the dazed look of the bearded " Martin Scorsese on cocaine " friend , even Rudd to a degree can be staggeringly subtle ) , or big ( the " second " sex scene between the main couple ) . Quite simply , it's THE rom-com sleeper of the past few years .
For any Bob Dylan fan this is a must . One gets to see his progression from the new darling of the folk scene ( elevated to the point of ultimate pretension by the line " He has his finger on the pulse of a generation " ) to breaking out the electric guitar for Maggie's Farm in 1965 . It definitely helps to know what the circumstances were with Dylan's presence at the Newport Folk Festival over those three years when watching the film ; if you go into it expecting the director Murray Lerner to spoon-feed multitudes of facts then you're bound to be let down . Only Joan Baez has a scene with some comments on Bob Dylan at the festival - the rest is just concert footage , with some sporadic bits for the announcer and shots and sounds of the audience or Dylan in a car surrounded by fans . As for the songs themselves , they are what they are : it's Dylan in both his prime as a strong storyteller and folk singer and as a burgeoning rock star that got a lot of " pure " fans very angry . The argument can be made both ways with 1965 : taken out of context the performance of Maggie's Farm is one of the most highly charged live rock songs ever recorded , taken in context it wasn't exactly the right time with such a picky crowd . It took guts on Dylan's end though , which is something that does come through consistently in the documentary . I mean this by what he sings about : his range is incredible when it comes to writing lyrics and relaying his stories and ideas , from Medgar Evers to his World War 3 Dream to Blowin ' in the Wind , and then on to something traditional but powerful like Chimes of Freedom . . . leading all the way up to what many consider his masterpiece , Like a Rolling Stone . If nothing else , the performances are essential , even if the film overall works better alongside Scorsese's No Direction Home , which is , of course , the definitive Dylan doc .
I first saw David Cronenberg's eXistenZ when it first was released in theaters in 1999 , and as the first that I saw of his ( in a sense , I was probably like Ted in the sense of not yet having the ' portal ' to his catalog of work ) . It flew mostly over my head in what it was conveying thematically , though I still thought it was pretty cool - not enough to immediately re-watch , however , leaving it on my VHS shelf to dust . Cut to eight years later , and having seen most of the director's films it seemed appropriate to re-visit this little science fiction oddity , which did ( as many critics at the time noted ) get underrated thanks to the Matrix . While the Wachowski's made the better movie , it is of note though that Cronenberg probably carries just as much weight with psychology and philosophy in his worlds , if not more so the former for sure . Plus - as was an unintended bonus having waited this long to re-visit the film - getting into Philip K . Dick works didn't hurt either in appreciating the bizarre but palpable world Cronenberg's created here . It's not just the Three Stigmata book , but also A Maze of Death , that could be called into comparison . Cronenberg's characters are either wise to the fact that the world they inhabit , a kind of futuristic time where it seems more like an alternate reality of the present , or they're closed off from it . The basic gist of the plot reads like pure pulpy PKD : a video-game designer , the best in the world named Allegra ( Leigh ) is on the lam after nearly getting killed at the unveiling of her new system of the movie's title , and Ted ( Jude Law , at first annoyingly whiny , but it's something one gets used to as he is a good actor above all else ) , a PR man , follows along to do what he can . Problem is , he doesn't have a portal for the gaming system to go through , as it's all a bunch of intestinal-type tubes and plugs into the base of the spine . Soon they find safe haven to play the game , but are they really playing it ? Are they suddenly thrown back into reality at a moment's notice ? There is even a twist ending , and then a catch on that ending , that has that great sensation of being jolted back , as Dick could do , but in a more visceral manner as only Cronenberg can handle . eXistenZ is crafty as a thriller , and inventive with the special effects : it's not without some notice that because of the devices and means of teleportation that there's comparison to the Matrix . But there's also a tendency to overlook how stark Cronenberg is in dealing with the violence - where the Matrix is slick and full of technical innovations to match its alternate universe , eXistenZ is shot and cut in a style that isn't too different from other Cronenberg movies , and in and of itself is probably even more graphic than anything Hollywood could easily cook up . This goes without saying , of course , that either film could , and has been , easy fodder for a philosopher like Slavoj Zizek to deconstruct : what is it to suddenly replace what is programed with reality , with free-will , with energy from one's own body ( or , as he says , libido ) into a new construct ? And as Maze of Death also suggested , quite chillingly , how far is the capacity for murder and mayhem and destruction and betrayal when all bets are off ? There's a moment when Allegra keeps saying , chuckling about it as the ski-lodge burns down and there's a tense moment between her and Ted , that ' it's only a game . ' Is that all ? It deserves to make comparisons to these other works not simply to add some puffed-up weight to this review . Cronenberg's film , albeit a little flawed ( it's a little tough to get into the flow of the two leads , who don't seem to have chemistry at first , and only as the " game " goes on does it start to gel completely ) , has the questions to raise to make it as potent a work as anything Dick could come up with , or at least following along on the path previously treaded . And , on top of this , he makes it a fun and wicked ride , with a great couple of scenes for Willem Dafoe ( " is it in the script ? " ) , a fascinating amphibian mutant , and a guessing game that isn't cheaply manipulative . Taking another look at it all years later , in fact , it's probably one of the better films to come out in 1999 .
Sam Raimi knows what he's doing with the Spider-Man franchise . Some will come away from this third installment and disagree , that he's put out an over-long , angry / sad / delirious blockbuster that doesn't reach into the same levels that the first two films did . For me , if anything , Raimi has gone further in the best possible ways : he's made the kind of grand entertainment that he's been working for since the last two films . One thing to remember , of course , is that the Spider-Man movies are each rides unto themselves , with lots of emotional twists meant to get the audience sucked in by its complex human characters and the wild new villains . But this time there's a darker element to it - something that could be comparable to the Star Wars movies - where the old key Spider-Man concept ( power = responsibility ) is really put to the test . It comes in the form of a black gooey parasite-whatever that comes out of the remains of a small comet that's hit Earth . How it got there or why it does what it does isn't so much the issue as what it does to that which it connects to : it brings out what's easier to have as a person , vengeance , lust , greed , and above all a lack of conscience . It's an agent of cinematic contrivance , to be sure , but it's a crucial one for the series as Peter Parker has to come to terms with this other choice - and he's not the only one . There is a good deal going on in Spider-Man 3 , no argument about that . There's three foes of Peter / Spider-Man : Harry ( James Franco ) has gone fully into being a chip off the old block by taking on his late father's technical gear to get his own vengeance ; Flint Marko ( Thomas Hayden Church ) , escapee from prison , who is really the one responsible for Peter's Uncle's death , and succumbs to a particle-changing mechanism and becomes a Sandman ; Eddie Brock ( a surprise , Topher Grace ) , who's not so much a foe as a kind of cocky annoyance to Peter , and who doesn't really become much of a threat until the third act when aforementioned back gooey stuff comes into the picture . And there's some added girl drama with Gwen Stacy ( Howard ) , who comes in as an unintentional block in the way of Peter and Mary Jane's total happiness , albeit as not the main block . There's layers this time to the Parker / Spider-Man saga in that this is the first time we see Spider-Man as the hero of the city , or cheered on as such , and so this time Peter / Spider-Man is in the power position , which then goes on to affect his relationship with MJ . Then there's another line with Harry , who gets short-term memory loss after a fight , and what this brings out between the three of them ( Peter and MJ that is ) . Add on to this the black suit , and its own immense connotation . This is where Raimi has some of his most devilish fun as a filmmaker in years , but at the same time gets out of it on the whole some of those especially poignant and morally questioning points out of comic-books that many take for granted . Of course , it's hard not to laugh as we see the ' bad-boy ' Peter , with his hair ala Flock of Seagulls and attitude to spare . Yet it brings to question what Peter , not just Spider-Man , needs to be for those closest to him as much as with those in the city . And even more than the second film , Raimi and his cast get to some fascinating dimensions with the villains . These aren't just simple mutants or miscreants ; they've got incredible , massively damaging powers , to one degree or another ( Sandman can destroy the most and make the biggest impression , but Venom is the black suit personified as a real monster , and Harry has got only one real nemesis ) , and deep down are damaged themselves with how they've dealt with the real world and personal trauma . Even when Spider-Man 3 edges onto its most cliché and corny material ( including one shot with Spider-Man behind an American flag in his flight ) , it's a sort of earned corniness because it doesn't fail to be amusing , if only in recognizable ways ( recognizable in that we're all used to and respond emotionally to the characters ) , and leads up to somewhere satisfying on a mass-appeal scale . And one more note should be made to the visual effects , which are par for the course spectacular ( what else will one do with millions and millions and millions of dollars ? ) and expansive for the villains - the incredible detail with Sandman - as well as in general what isn't noticed during the fight and action scenes . But to me it's all the more impressive that Raimi and company uses all of these tools to his advantage by not letting them overpower the story at hand . Even during its moments of pure pop-opera and put-on magisterial effect , there's substance that's rewarding and a lot deeper that many in the audience might take for granted . By the end , nevertheless , it's a Raimi picture through and through , loaded with tongue-in-cheek bits and action-packed , high-flying theatrics , and ending on a note that makes the series feel all the more complete . . . . .
There is a bias in my adoration of this documentary , Ingmar Bergman Makes a Movie ( a companion piece to the recently released DVD box set of Bergman's " Silence of God " trilogy , featuring Through a Glass Darkly , Winter Light , and The Silence ) , in that Bergman is one my personal favorite directors from Europe . Each one of his films , even the lesser ones I've seen , are loaded with a passion for the material , for the actors , for the pure theatricality of the drama ( or , every now and then , comedy ) being presented . It takes a little while to warm up to some of his more psychologically and emotionally heavy works , like Through a Glass Darkly , Cries and Whispers , and The Passion of Anna , but after viewing at least , if not more than , a dozen of his films , the serious film lover can obtain as pure and rewarding a catharsis as from the greatest works of all time . And , like the most mature of all filmmakers , he never panders to a film-goer's level of intelligence - what you see is what you got - and either you'll like his films for their level of intense human connectedness or distance and themes , or be put off by the lack of " mainstream " movie values . This documentary , however , should be , if not as special to Bergman fans as to one who might have seen one or two of his films or none at all , a fitting volume of what it's like to make a film . From the very finish of the writing stage until its premiere , Vilgot Sjoman interviews and interjects his questions and his camera at Bergman and the production of Winter Light . Aside from learning Bergman's influences and thoughts on the story and characters ( aside from his personal connection - his father was a Lutheran priest - to the religious nature of the picture ) , the viewer sees the costume testing , the location scouting , the actual shooting process involved in one small scene , looking back once the film's shot , the editing process , and personal reflections on the directorial process . There is even the critics ' responses , which is perhaps the one downside to seeing the documentary before seeing the film it's about - you may be intrigued by the details , but you don't want to get spoiled with information . One of the great strengths of the series of interviews is that Sjoman's questions are direct , concise , and bring out details from Bergman that would be harder for other journalists to conjure up . There is so much information extracted as to what it's like to make a film , to work with the actors , to get the little things right as much as the character's emotions , when and why to cut in editing , the rhythm of a film . For a film-viewer not familiar with Bergman the doc might even turn them on to him simply by his methods and philosophies . And for the fan , such as myself , there is a lot of insight that would be missing from certain books , such as the humor that goes on between him and his actors in-between takes . It's a finite , unique time capsule of cinema , even if you don't think Winter Light is all that great .
This documentary , written , directed , and narrated by German madman maestro Werner Herzog , has very little in it that isn't worth seeing , and at its best brings some of the most captivating , candid , and entertaining documentary footage of the year . The subject matter is an environmentalist / bear nut named Timothy Treadwell , a nobody who became a kind of weird celebrity for living each summer on an Alaskan wildlife preservation with Grizzly bears . He also documented a lot of his time on the island , which Herzog chooses wisely for his film on him . Treadwell may or may not have totally believed a fate like death among his co-habitants would come ( there is one scene where he says he'd die for them , another when he says he's safe ) . But his fate did come , along with his girlfriends , rather grisly as we hear from the details ( which , wisely , we never see ) . One is tempted to comment on Treadwell , as he is ( much as with Herzog's protagonists in his fiction films ) possessive , ambitious , naive , dazed , emotional , but somehow in tune with his own sense of nature and the ways of the world . Herzog himself comments a good deal on Treadwell , when he agrees with him , when he doesn't ( Herzog , as Roger Ebert pointed out , does have a bleak world-view as opposed to Treadwell's overly optimistic one ) . What one can comment on is the execution of the material . We get interviews with Treadwell's close friends ( one platonic , one not ) , the people who found his and his girlfriend's bodies in the forest , and a couple of nearby experts ( one Native American comments on how Treadwell did what they had never done in 7 , 000 years , to cross a boundary that was respected ) . Herzog also gives us majestic , spacious images of Alaskan wilderness , and gives some ample time for footage of the bears and foxes . If not for Treadwell's rather high & low nature ( as a friend comments ) , this might be a very standard documentary on a bear expert . But because of the documentary - or near television hosting footage ( I sometimes felt like I was seeing a nicer , if stranger version , of the Croc Hunter ) - of Treadwell on camera by himself , the film gets another dimension . It's also a help that in combating the grim reality of what became of him ( Herzog's narration is this rather sad , if praising side ) , it's rather funny to see Treadwell in his behavior on screen . In some subtle ways he's in a more ' normal ' state of mind than the rest of us - he loves his bears ( whom , by the way , he gave names to ; he stands his ground against the occasional poachers ) ; he has that mix of sentimentality and rawness that is needed to live for so long in the wilderness . The absurdity of it usually brings the laughs , but even behind them there is always a constant curiosity about him . We learn that he wanted to be an actor , which lead to a bad , near fatal spell before his ' bear ' retreat , acting as more of a spiritual catalyst more than anything else . Even if some of this footage is a little zany , over-the-top , or may go far on his name , it is honest to a kind of schizo degree . We almost wouldn't want Treadwell to be normal , and go figure - Herzog would have no interest in him . In the end , despite Herzog's comments ( which aren't the best parts of the film to me ) , his film tries not to pass judgment on Treadwell , letting his actions and other testimonies speak for themselves . And , if nothing else , it's compulsively ( for a certain movie-viewer ) watchable .
I never watched Space Ghost when it used to air , probably because I literally didn't know what I was missing ( why I didn't watch it I can't remember , maybe it was on too late or it just seemed like the guests were sometimes unknowns to me , even as this wasn't the case at all ) . Now on DVD , I was curious to see it as part of other old shows from Cartoon Network . Seeing it now , it's . . . everything that's fun and smart in a really throwaway-joke kind of way in a cartoon when taking itself perfectly un-seriously . It's a spoof on old 60s cartoons , late night talk shows , hubris , rivalries , and many other things . Space Ghost and Zorak make for a great duo , with the other guy ( can't remember his name now , the masked ' director ' who sometimes sings if forced to in Zorak's absence ) a notable third wheel , even as they're often ready to rip at each other's throats . The comedy is brilliant without even really trying , though I'm sure the writers worked their heads off to get certain scenes down ( other times . . . you can tell they just chucked stuff at the wall , and I mean that as a compliment oddly enough ) . The writing basically makes up for the obvious goof-factor of the animation , which is repetitive and might just be ripped off of the 60s Space Ghost show ( where else will I hear a line like " You smell like a farm ! " ) , and it's probably one of the best ludicrous-type programs the Cartoon Network ever had . It's only my loss I didn't track down this crazy piece of work sooner , or watch it when it originally aired .
I felt a little uneasy here and there watching this flick , mostly due to the fact that I was watching it in a sort of ' viewing room ' on a campus , where a bunch of TV's are set-up and people can watch whatever they want with headphones for the volume . Luckily , no one else entered the room - if so , I would probably have been reported for watching pornography , or snuff-film work , or both . I'm almost surprised this even came in the mail via netflix ( though not that it didn't , apparently , get theatrical distribution here in the states ) . Of the only handful of Takashi Miike films I've seen , this does definitely take the cake . If it's maybe not his absolute best maybe it's part of the appeal ; Miike is experimenting with the viewer's expectations , even his fd up Japanese fan-type ones . It takes the idea of doing a tragic-comedy on a dysfunctional family and turns it on its head , and puts it across the line of what should usually be acceptable with absurdism , and either have the viewer be pleased ( in a manner of speaking ) or utterly disgusted , or both , that they went over the line . And what a family indeed . It starts off as being something , in its own way , almost quirky in the view of a family on the brink . There's infidelity at first - the father ( Kenichi Endo ) , unintentionally video-tapes himself having sex with a certain girl . This is quite the graphic , uncomfortable sex scene , albeit with the most ' sensitive ' parts being blurred , and this cuts right away to something completely different ( if the Monty Python sound rings from reading that , it's not without some coincidence throughout the picture ) , as the father gets hit on the head by some guy with a rock . This guy , knick-named Q ( Kazuchi Watanabe ) , comes to stay at the family's house , where the mother ( Shungiki Uchida ) gets whipped with a cane by her son , who on his way to and from school always without fail gets beaten and robbed by bullies . She's also into heroin , but then later when something happens particular-like with Q , another unnerving revelation is revealed , one without really any explanation for being there . But I realized after a while Miike set it up from the beginning with Q suddenly entering into this world , and somehow for no actual reason being accepted . In fact , if you're looking for reason , you might want to look elsewhere , seriously . It's a look at the disintegration of a family using a medium within its video-work ( I was reminded of Godard's equally un-settling work of original sexually depraved and uncouth family in Numeroux Deux ) , and if taken really as being a serious work you might have to turn it off after a while . This is not something that I could easily do , however , as I had to watch what would happen much like in something in a Lynch or Bunuel film . It's actually not without some merit to compare him with those other filmmakers , as his work pushes the absurdism / surrealism to the brink , where there's no choice left but to laugh at what's going on . Take when the father decides to suddenly jump into his ' reality-TV ' time by taping when the bullies shoot fireworks at their house . Or when things start getting particularly disturbing ( necrophilia , yeah ) and the juxtaposition of father to mother in these scenes is extraordinary in deranged comic timing . After it ended , with the final shot leaving a look on my face like a dog in front of a different piece of food in the bowl , I knew that Visitor Q is a work that goes beyond taking an ultra-serious look at the world of these psychotic criminals - or at the least social introverts and with sexual intentions that go over the edge - it worked a lot better than it might have at doing just a straightforward mockumentary of reality-TV . I'm not sure what the situation of the degrading medium is like in Japan , but by sticking to mocking this family and they're near-silent ' visitor ' , and putting it all through a blender of crimes and misdemeanors that would make some faint on the spot , Miike achieves his goals more or less , whatever they might be . It's got some scenes that don't work early on , or maybe its just so strange to really get into the mood of it at first . Once hooked in , I had as much fun , in the most perverse voyeuristic way , as I did with Ichi the Killer . It confronts the viewer , and should be deliciously shocking and unrepentantly hilarious for years to come . That it's not for everyone will be known right from the first scene .
Kirby Dick is a filmmaker I wasn't aware of before This Film is Noy Yet Rated , but now he is assuredly on my radar , if only for the determination in pulling off his main idea . Like Super Size Me , this documentary has a near-gimmick to it ; Dick hires a private investigator in order to track down the anonymous " parents " who decide why a movie will be rated R over PG-13 , and NC-17 instead of R . This even leads - more intriguingly - into the more deceptive group of appellant board members of the MPAA . So on the one hand the filmmaker has this extremely entertaining , guerrilla-style aspect to his film , with a hand-held camera in one moment in a fast-food place that draws attention to him , and detectives who will go to any length to get results . On the other hand he gets great interviews and clips and history about the film industry in the US and the near fascist style of the MPAA in relation to the several ( corporite ) studios . As a film buff this film already had my interest long before I saw it . For too long the topic of film ratings have both infuriated and fascinated me . Much of what ends up going on with filmmakers's battles with the MPAA to get their R ( and indeed the difference between millions of dollars in grosses ) instead of an NC-17 is staggering . That Kirby Dick get such insight out of the insiders ( two of which former MPAA people , and two who kept anonymous ) , filmmakers , business people , and other types within the industry , is a good help to add to the basic argument that there is some inherent problems with the current ratings system in the country . This is accentuated in comparisons between NC-17 and R rated sex scenes from other movies , and clips from films that received the NC-17 - or close to it - and the inanities and problems filmmakers have to get their whole vision against people who , of course , are not that creative . There are issues of gay sex in movies , how violence is vs . sex in allowance in ratings , and in the end how big business ( and religion ) are behind the scenes if not pulling strings then giving complete influence . All of this as a documentary ends up being pulled fantastically off , as it does at the core what a documentary mostly should - stir up conversation about the topic ( s ) , and at the same time still being entertained to an extent . And Kirby Dick even has a slight Michael Moore tinge to him as he goes full-on after his subjects ; one of which reminded me of Moore's own confrontation with Charleton Heston , as Dick puts himself in split screen with animated caricatures of his callers . But Dick also is smart enough to put such subject matter with good doses of humor . I loved the little animated explanation as to what each rating means ( including dead orphan and Almodovar jokes ) , and as he revealed with a near relish the full facts on every member ( most shockingly the appellate members ) . Even if you just have a casual interest in movies it should be worth your while , and especially if you're a parent - and try not to let the NC-17 rating deter you as it's in part just in spite of the mirror put up to the ratings board itself - it's especially prudent to see . It's got both tongue-in-cheek and dead-serious aspirations , and all the while making Jack Valenti look worse and worse . It's biased , to be sure , but for the right reasons .
Robert Altman makes one of the great films about artistic expression , the utter and complete frustration with it , the dregs of having to go through the motions in a capitalistic society where taste is so subjective that it combs over the fact that an artist needs some recognition . We never see Vincent Van Gogh , via equally frustrated ( though nowhere near as insane ) brother Theo , sell any of his work , and it doesn't help things that as things get more and more desperate , and funds dry up and mental disintegration kicks in , Vincent just starts to snap or look like he'll snap any minute . It's a powerful film not because so much of the full-on drive of the plot , as Altman is infamous for making that the secondary characteristic ( if at all ) of his films , but for the camaraderie of two brothers , of the very intense push-and-pull between the two of them . It also helps that Altman has three very crucial and , ultimately , exquisitely successful assets . First are his two main actors , Tim Roth and Paul Rhys . Both actors make up the brothers as having a similar temperament : anxiety brushed over by a quiet , isolated mind-set . But as brothers , the two of them act them as two far reaching personalities that somehow come back to the other through some form of need . That , in a way , is a subtext to much of what happens to either brother , of a need of acceptance never reached , either through financial gain or reputation , or just through some semblance of sanity or reason for being with the opposite sex . Rhys is perfect as an uptight , shy , but also very conflicted - sexually and sort of existentially - about what to do with his life , and with his poor brother . He has that look in his eyes like he's a solid individual , but seething underneath is rage and discontent , despite his best efforts . He pulls off this emotive being quite well , even if dipping a little into over-acting at times ( he might seem to yell every other scene ) . Roth , meanwhile , gives one of his crowning achievements as an actor , worthy of Pacino . When he's not going totally ape-s in throwing stuff on the ground or painting his or another's face or doing the token ear cutting scene ( it's only a lobe , by the way , sorry to disappoint ) , he seems to be perfectly still with a calm voice , but eyes darting much of the time around . Roth makes Van Gogh less a caricature and more a full-bodied being , as far as can be in an Altman film this understanding of the nature of an artist of the period . You're never sure when he might suddenly snap back , and its equally tense and compelling to see Roth in the scenes of Van Gogh painting , in a field of flowers giving up or when he's transfixed in the act of creating when drawing the prostitute when she's not paying attention . This leads to the second asset , which is Stephen Altman's production design , where nothing is left to the imagination . This , in a way , allows for an almost surreal feeling underneath the veneer of the straightforward . It looks all as if it's shot on location ; even the paintings look like they were on loan from the big galleries of the world . And the third asset is Altman himself , though more over his trust in the material . One might wonder what Altman made his own of the script or what was already there . But it seems very much a move from the director to see how the film opens , which is odd and interesting , as footage from an auction where a Van Gogh fetches tens of millions of dollars goes on , with the audio transposed as if it were on some radio somewhere that doesn't exist in the background during the first scene with the brothers where they argue about money and painting and going to Paris . Throughout Altman is always assured with the lens , allowing his actors total freedom , and in this he evens gets creative as his main subject : watch the scene with Van Gogh in the field of dandelions , as his camera starts to do the small zooms and pans with the surroundings , as opposed to just the actor ( this also goes for when Vincent and his first lady are in the gallery with the long landscape portrait that at first looks like a shot out of Antonioni ) . And Altman never goes for easy or cheesy stylizations when it comes to Vincent going off the deep end - we're given a look at it all as if it's so very simple , which makes it even more effective for his intents and purposes . A tale that acts as a slight cautionary tale for aspiring artists , while also probing a mind so delirious and brilliant that it acts as a tale that offers up many interpretations psychologically and historically , Vincent & Theo is ultimately worthwhile for its collection of superlative scenes , of passion running through even in the smaller moments between characters . And the musical score is affecting as well - think a baroque duet with one side a punk rocker .
In Lake of Fire , a film that Tony Kaye - director behind American History X ( which he wanted to be named under the pseudonym ' Humpty Dumpty ' following a loss of final cut ) - has been shooting footage for over fifteen years , is about all you need to see to know the fundamentalist and existentialist ramifications on the abortion-in-America issue . It covers all of the pro-life advocates , the murders of doctors and bombings of clinics , footage of actual abortions , and even an interview with the real-life ' Roe ' from Roe v . Wade . It covers about as much ground , in interviews and footage of those at rallies and on the street and so on and so forth , that can be covered in two and a half hours . But what builds up Kaye's film to such a potent focus is that Kaye doesn't let out necessarily what his stance is on the issue . I think this was the way to go , and not necessarily because it would be insensitive one way or the other - in order to take as objective a stance as possible ( which , in this case , is so next to impossible because of the subjective point for a woman when it comes time to decide on the pregnancy ) , it works best to let the sides speak for themselves . As it turns out , he doesn't let the pro-choice crowd be the only voices of reason either ; one actually sees , when there isn't total crazy Bible-thumping rhetoric , some sound arguments against abortion . And why not ? It's one of the murkiest of all issues in the annals of history , not just American . And as we learn painfully in Lake of Fire , no matter what the most savage and hypocritical of the maniacs who try and stop abortion practices and doctors ( in the old Malcolm X ' by any means necessary ' mold ) , women will always get abortions if it comes down to it . Kaye's scope is large and all encompassing , with interviews from the likes of pragmatic minded Noam Chomsky and Alan Dershwitz ( the latter's parable about the Rabbi hits it the nail on the head , if there could be a nail in this ) , to intelligent pro-lifer Nat Hentoff , to Roe ( real name Norma McCorvey ) who got converted to being pro-life after setting the stage for all of this in the 70s , to the clean-cut psycho Paul Hill . Then there's everyone in-between , from radio show hosts to priests and pastors ( one of which , an uproarious ' Lamb ' protector ) , and then to doctors and professors . Not one word is wasted , which is staggering unto itself for over two and a half hours . What one sees is the issue of choice in general , but also the nature of zealousness . To be sure , the pro-choice crowd are far less zealous than those who use the bible ( or the Pope or just any thoughts about heaven or hell in general and who they think will go to where or not ) as a blanket of protection . And Kaye's style for this is like that of mourning for lack of disagreeing to agree , and vice-versa and in-between . His cinematography shoots things in a stark , gray tone , while Anne Dudley's music - very akin to American History X - is that of the utmost tragedy . There are many beautifully shot scenes , from close-ups to cut-aways , but one that strikes me the most is during the Q & A at a doctor's office with a woman who is about to get an abortion . As far as the issue itself and how viewers will take to it . . . It's not cut and dry . It won't reveal to you anything that might change your opinion , if it's already steadfast , about the issue . What Kaye does do , and it's a brave feat , is to not candy-coat a thing , to be provocative but not to a point of no return , to make clear what is at stake in what it means for a human being to take a life , any life , and how we approach that . As a man I will never have to make that choice of ' do I or don't I ' in the first trimester . But as Lake of Fire makes perfectly clear , it's a civil rights issue through and through . It also makes for some fantastic cinema through someone as meticulous and exemplary a filmmaker as the ( unprolific ) Kaye .
In what could have been seen as a coup towards the sexual " revolution " ( purposefully I use quotations for that word ) , Jean Eustache wrote and directed The Mother and the Whore as a poetic , damning critique of those who can't seem to get enough love . If there is a message to this film - and I'd hope that the message would come only after the fact of what else this Ben-Hur length feature has to offer - it's that in order to love , honestly , there has to be some level of happiness , of real truth . Is it possible to have two lovers ? Some can try , but what is the outcome if no one can really have what they really want , or feel they can even express to say what they want ? What is the truth in the relationships that Alexandre ( Jean-Pierre Leaud ) has with the women around him ? He's a twenty-something pseudo-intellectual , not with any seeming job and he lives off of a woman , Marie ( Bernadette Lafont ) slightly older than him and is usually , if not always , his lover , his last possible love-of-his-life left him , and then right away he picks up a woman he sees on the street , Veronika ( Françoise Lebrun ) , who perhaps reminds him of her . Soon what unfolds is the most subtly torrid love triangle ever put on film , where the psychological strings are pulled with the cruelest words and the slightest of gestures . At first we think it might be all about what will happen to Alexandre , but we're mistaken . The women are so essential to this question of love and sex that they have to be around , talking on and on , for something to sink in . We're told that part of the sexual revolution , in theory if not entirely in practice ( perhaps it was , I can't say having not been alive in the period to see it first-hand ) , was that freedom led to a lack of inhibitions . But Eustache's point , if not entirely message , is that it's practically impossible to have it both ways : you can't have people love you and expect to get the satisfaction of ultimate companionship that arrives with " fing " , as the characters refer over and over again . The Mother and the Whore's strengths as far as having the theme is expressing this dread beneath the promiscuity , the lack of monogamy , while also stimulating the intellect in the talkiest talk you've ever seen in a movie . At the same time we see a character like Alexandre , who probably loves to hear himself talk whether it's about some movie he saw or something bad from his past , Eustache makes it so that the film itself isn't pretentious - though it could appear to be - but that it's about pretentiousness , what lies beneath those who are covering up for their internal flaws , what they need to use when they're ultimately alone in the morning . If you thought films like Before Sunrise / Sunset were talky relationship flicks , you haven't met this . But as Eustache revels in the dialogs these characters have , sometimes trivial , or ' deep ' , or sexual , or frank , or occasionally extremely ( or in a subdued manner ) emotional , it's never , ever uninteresting or boring . On the contrary , for those who can't get enough of a good talky film , it's exceptional . While his style doesn't call out to the audaciousness that came with his forerunners in the nouvelle vague a dozen years beforehand , Eustache's new-wave touch is with the characters , and then reverberating on them . This is realism with a spike of attitude , with things at time scathing and sarcastic , crude and without shame in expression . All three of the actors are so glued to their characters that we can't ever perceive them as ' faking ' an emotion or going at all into melodrama . It's almost TOO good in naturalistic / realism terms , but for Eustache's material there is no other way around it . Luckily Leaud delivers the crowning chip of his career of the period , and both ladies , particularly Labrun as the " whore " Veronika ( a claim she staggeringly refutes in the film's climax of sorts in one unbroken shot ) . And , as another touch , every so often , the director will dip into a quiet moment of thought , of a character sitting by themselves , listening to a record , and in contemplation or quiet agony . This is probably the biggest influence on Jim Jarmusch , who dedicated his film Broken Flowers to Eustache and has one scene in particular that is lifted completely ( and lovingly ) in approach from the late Parisian . Sad to say , before I saw Broken Flowers , I never heard of Eustache or this film , and procuring it has become quite a challenge ( not available on US DVD , and on VHS so rare it took many months of tracking at various libraries ) . Not a minute of that time was wasted ; the Mother and the Whore is truly beautiful work , one of the best of French relationship dramas , maybe even just one of the most staggeringly lucid I've seen from the country in general . It's complex , it's sweet , it's cold , it's absorbing , and it's very long , perhaps too long . It's also satisfying on the kind of level that I'd compare to Scenes from a Marriage ; true revelations about the human condition continue to arise 35 years after each film's release .
Alfred Hitchcock's Vertigo is probably his most discussed film , and I believe that since it is so controversial - and yet living up to such hype by having a level of mystery , daring and true human interest that is open to interpretation - it gets better with every passing year . It deserves more credit than it gets ( like most of Hitchcock's films ) and though it is well credited with it's intrigue , I think that Psycho ( not that it is a bad film ) gets more credit than this film should get . There are at least a few reasons for this , arguably of course . One , the acting is spectacular including James Stewart in one of his very best turns as the weary , emotionally perplexed and obsessed cop with a slight fear of heights and a ' thing ' for a certain ' dead ' woman . Hitchcock's leading lady here Kim Novak , is equally interesting and ambiguous as the leading lady ( or ladies ) . Two , the atmosphere Hicthcock invokes in this film is just right for the psychological tailspin that Stewart gets into , with the usage of lighting , real San Fransisco locations , and particularly the color green all to perfect , eerie effect . And three , there's Bernard Herrmann's score , on par with the Psycho score though maybe even better as a straight piece of classical music in the guise of tense , haunting movie music . It's also the kind of picture that is a MUST if you've already seen it , or even if not , and it comes around town on the big screen as all the images and dark scenes come into great view . Not one of the more outright ' fun ' Hitchcock films , with the few chuckles plain comic relief , and maybe his best serious work .
The Human Condition isn't an easy trilogy ; it offers up tons of questions that even today have extreme relevance , particularly about man's duty to himself , to love and family , to country , to affiliation by an Emperor or Dictator , and what it is that's so insane about men in the staggering pit of hell known as war . As one can see in the second installment , The Road to Eternity , even what should be simple in a conventional war movie is turned just a bit to see the ugliness underneath . The first half of the film is Kaji , the trilogy's protagonist , in basic training and witness to more brutality towards the weak Obara ( very well cast Kunie Tanaka ) who commits suicide following a string of humiliations that are like Private Pyle squared Japan WW2 , and how Kaji comes to grips with being a very good , disciplined soldier - the likes of which the army wants to control as they promote him - and , crucially , his last night spent with his wife Machiko ( very tender performance from Aratama ) . The second half is Kaji off on the front lines , leading up to a big , climactic battle between Soviet and Japanese forces , which is a total horror . Although Kobayashi only goes so far to make these battle scenes dynamic ( that is compared to today's battle scenes , which have far more money and just a smidgen more gore to work with ) , it's overall another incredible accomplishment , as story and character matter always more-so than grandiose visuals or pomposity . We see Kaji going through another level of change , as he's stripped of his " exemption " status and is now just another grunt in this rigidly regimented military , and where , as is expected but no less mortifying , the Japanese see no sign of victory despite all signs pointing otherwise . As in the first film , Kobayashi delivers moments of beauty , almost at times without trying . I absolutely was floored when the prairie fire scene turned into a desperate chase between Kaji and an escaping Shinjo , where what could have been a basic chase incorporated the fire and smoke and mud-piles into something else entirely . Or , indeed , little moments that suddenly make one's mouth agape , such as the freak-out from a soldier in the midst of the battle foaming at the mouth . If a few scenes might appear to be of the conventional sort ( at least as much as Kobayashi would ever allow in this iconoclast approach ) , they're off-set by the wonderful performances , not least of which by Nakadai . Again he gives it his all , and matures just a little more , and displays a kind of bridge that Kaji is on between the kind-hearted but firm ways of No Greater Love and the , dare I say it , near bad-ass persona in Soldier's Prayer . It's another great entry in an impeccable trilogy , if maybe not quite as awe-inspiring as the final film .
It's a fascinating blend of tense character study , torn love story , and a background loaded with subtext and history that writer / director Bernardo Bertolucci brings with The Conformist . But through the entire length of the film , even if you're not totally vested in interest in the main character ( who , indeed , is meant by design not to be a ' likeable ' protagonist ) , the look of the film , its sweep and style and what most great movies do - sucking you in on the side of composition , mood , and music - is worth recommending . The film stars Jean-Louis Trintignant , an actor with a cool exterior but something very uneasy underneath the surface in almost all of his scenes ( which perfectly suits the character he plays ) . Based on Alberto Moravia's novel of the same name , Marcello Clerici is a fascist , or at least part of the fascist ' clique ' of sorts in late 1930's Italy . He's a secret officer who gets assignments to track people down and either kill , or collaborate as it were . He has some skeletons in his closet , to be sure , and in one of the most striking and powerful scenes of the film , he recalls a particular incident in his youth that stayed with him , if only in the back of his mind ( I won't reveal it , but it comes as something of a shock , not so much in its outcome , but how Bertolucci approaches directing the scene with the Chauffeur and the kid ) . Going along with this sort of ' clique ' that Marcello sticks in , he has a young wife , who loves him but is not really his equal on any sort of intellectual or even emotional basis . The actress playing her , Stefania Sandrelli , conveys this mostly ' ignorance is bliss ' attitude that helps the film allow some lighter-than-air moments ( i . e . the ' Dance of the Blind ' sequence , a masterstroke to be sure ) . For some reason or another , which does become more obvious as the story goes along ( and ties into this non-linear structure Bertolucci works with intelligently ) , Marcello seeks out and visits his old Professor , an anti-fascist , and his beauty of a wife , whom he becomes somehow smitten with ( the two character actors in the parts , Enzo Tarascio and Dominique Sanda respectively , hit all the right notes , even with the subtext of scenes ) . After the sort of climax to all this , we move ahead several years later , when Mussollini is gone from power , and there is one last scene with Marcello that really made me sit up and take notice . I'm sure Bertolucci was fairly faithful to the original text ( having not read it I can't say for certain ) , but he keeps a challenging ending for the audience - a lessor filmmaker might have Marcello come to some kind of clean-cut catharsis in the wake of the end of fascism . Bertolucci doesn't have that , and he and Trintignant keep it true to the character and his personality , which sort of brings to a head not so much a story resolution , but just one of something simpler about society - what does this sort of upper-class conditioning do to a person after a while , especially if there is this certain level of detachment that Marcello has . In the end , he's truer to the film's title than anything of his own real ' beliefs ' . But going aside from the solid philosophical & / or political debate that could go on from the themes raised in the film , going back to the pure film-making aspect of The Conformist , one can sort of sense this as being like a ' test-run ' of sorts for Bertolucci to work solely with the masterful Italian cinematographer Vittorio Storaro ( of Apocalypse Now fame ) for their following masterpiece , Last Tango in Paris . In some small ways , at least for Storaro , The Conformist paints even richer details and strokes of light and dark and shadow than in Last Tango . And the two have a sense of not sticking directly to one set way of filming either , which is very good . There will be a scene like when Marcello and the Professor are talking in the Professor's office , and Marcello pulls the shades down completely on one window and leaving the other open . This creates a stark , almost baroque contrast between the two of them that works well just for mood if nothing else . Then there is also the factor of how Bertolucci gets his camera moving , often in urges that would seem unnecessary or too ' artsy ' for other filmmakers - the dance scene , for example , brings a viewer to move with the dancers , but ever so slightly , and then the frame is filled with these moving bodies and it's a truly virtuoso sequence . Even a scene that might be fairly standard for say an action film director , when the chase through the snow covered forest happens , the use of the hand-held camera isn't going too cheesy - if anything it really heightens all the tension that has been building since the start of the film ( most of the time the camera's on dolly tracks or some other form , then it switches and it adds a different sort of intensity to the proceedings ) . Although Bertolucci and Storaro won awards from the National Society of Film Critics , I see it as a fairly big snub on the Academy's part to not have given Storaro a nomination . On top of that , there's other factors that add to the collaborative effort of Bertolucci's success : there's the emotionally excellent Georges Delerue score , and Ferdinando Scarfiotti's cool production design ( later also a production designer on Last Tango ) . In the end , along with the technical side , it's also the story , and the character ( s ) , that add to the appeal of the Conformist . It's a lot to take in on a first viewing , but it doesn't disappoint for the fan expecting good things from the young Bertolucci .
In one of the more under-seen films of the late 1980's , at a time when Oliver Stone was riding high with Platoon and Wall Street ( and before his opus Born on the Fourth of July ) , he co-scripted and directed this look at the world of radio , specifically one radio host in the middle of Texas . This man is Barry Champlain , in a once-in-a-career turn from Eric Bogosian , who wrote the original play and also co-wrote the script . Barry is like a mix of Howard Stern and one of those pundits you hear on the radio stations many of us might turn off . He's got ideas on his mind , opinions , and he's not only un-afraid to speak them , but also to stand up against the phone callers . The callers , indeed , are the driving force in the film , as Barry has to combat against the mindless , the obscene , the racist , and the purely absent-minded . As this goes on , he also has to contend with his boss ( Alec Baldwin ) and a hit or miss deal to go nationwide , outside the confines of the Southern way station he's in . While after seeing the film I felt curious as to see how it would've been done on stage ( I'd imagine it was a one-man show , as Bogosian has had several on the side ) , the direction of the film is phenomenal . Stone has been known , almost typecast , as a director who loves quick cuts , the limitless effects of montage , and effects with the styles of camera-work and other little tricks , that give his films in the 90's a distinctive , almost auteur look . But in the 80's he had this energy and feverish quality to the look of the film , and wasn't as frenzied as the other films . In order to add the proper intensity that is within the studio and head-space of Barry Champlain , he and DP Robert Richardson make the space seem claustrophobic at times , gritty , un-sure , and definitely on edge . The scenes in the middle of the film , when Barry isn't in the studio , are fairly standard , but the style along with the substance in the radio scenes is among the best I've seen from the Stone / Richardson combination . And one cannot miscalculate the performance of Bogosian , who can be obnoxious , offensive , angered , passive , and everything that we love and hate in radio show hosts . There is also a funny , near distracting supporting role for Michael Wincott as Kent / Michael / Joe , who prank calls him one night , and the next gets invited to the studio . These scenes are a little uncomfortable for a viewer , but it does get very much into the subculture head-space of the 80's that Barry is as intrigued as he is critical of . The stoner may not ' get it ' , but as he says to him " it's your show " . Indeed , it's hard to cover everything that goes on within the talk , and there is a lot of it . But it's never boring , and like Champlain himself , it's not easy to ignore . And when Bogosian goes into his climactic tirade on air , with the background panning around in a continuous 360 spin , it becomes intoxicating , and a reason why freedom of speech is so powerful . Stone has been synonymous as a filmmaker of hot-button issues , who takes on subjects that were or still are controversial , and gives them a life-force that isn't always great , but is all his own . Here his skills and ambitions don't get in the way of Bogosian's - it's boosted , if anything , making an extremely skilled vision of what is essentially a near one-man show , which in and of itself is already well-written .
If there was anything Akira Kurosawa did wrong in making Dodes'ka-den , it was making it with the partnership he formed with the " four knights " ( the other three being Kobayaski , Ichikawa , and Konishita ) . They wanted a big blockbuster hit to kick off their partnership , and instead Kurosawa , arguably the head cheese of the group , delivered an abstract , humanist art film with characters living in a decimated slum that had many of its characters face dark tragedies . Had he made it on a more independent basis or went to another studio who knows , but it was because of this , among some other financial and creative woes , that also contributed to his suicide attempt in 1971 . And yet , at the end of the day , as an artist Kurosawa didn't stop delivering what he's infamous for with his dramas : the strengths of the human spirit in the face of adversity . That its backdrop is a little more unusual than most shouldn't be ignored , but it's not at all a fault of Kurosawa's . The material in Dodes'ka-den is absorbing , but not in ways that one usually finds from the director , and mostly because it is driven by character instead of plot . There's things that happen to these people , and Kurosawa's challenge here is to interweave them into a cohesive whole . The character who starts off in the picture , oddly enough ( though thankfully as there's not much room for him to grow ) , is Rokkuchan , a brain damaged man-child who goes around all day making train sounds ( the ' clickety-clack ' of the title ) , only sometimes stopping to pray for his mother . But then we branch off : there's the father and son , the latter who scrounges restaurants for food and the former who goes on and on with site-specific descriptions of his dream house ; an older man has the look of death to him , and we learn later on he's lost a lot more than he'll tell most people , including a woman who has a past with him ; a shy , quiet woman who works in servitude to her adoptive father ( or uncle , I'm not sure ) , who rapes her ; and a meek guy in a suit who has a constant facial tick and a big mean wife - to those who are social around . There are also little markers of people around these characters , like two drunks who keep stumbling around every night , like clockwork , putting big demands on their spouses , sometimes ( unintentionally ) swapping them ! And there's the kind sake salesman on the bike who has a sweet but strange connection with the shy quiet woman . And of course there's a group of gossiping ladies who squat around a watering hole in the middle of the slum , not having anything too nice to say about anyone unless it's about something erotic with a guy . First to note with all of this is how Kurosawa sets the picture ; it's a little post-apocalyptic , looking not of any particular time or place ( that is until in a couple of shots we see modern cars and streets ) . It's a marginalized society , but the concerns of these people are , however in tragic scope , meant to be deconstructed through dramatic force . Like Bergman , Kurosawa is out to dissect the shattered emotions of people , with one scene in particular when the deathly-looking man who has hollow , sorrowful eyes , sits ripping cloth in silence as a woman goes along with it . Sometimes there's charm , and even some laughs , to be had with these people . I even enjoyed , maybe ironically , the little moments with Rokkuchan ( specifically with Kurosawa's cameo as a painter in the street ) , or the awkward silences with the man with the facial tics . But while Kurosawa allows his actors some room to improvise , his camera movements still remain as they've always been - patient but alert , with wide compositions and claustrophobic shots , painterly visions and faces sometimes with the stylization of a silent drama meant as a weeper . Amid these sometimes bizarre and touching stories , with some of them ( i . e . the father and son in the car ) especially sad , Kurosawa lights his film and designs the color scheme as his first one in Eastmancolor like it's one of his paintings . Lush , sprawling , spilling at times over the seams but always with some control , this place is not necessarily " lighter " ; it's like the abstract has come full-throttle into the scene , where things look vibrant but are much darker underneath . It's a brilliant , tricky double-edged sword that allows for the dream-like intonations with such heavy duty drama . With a sweet ' movie ' score Toru Takemitsu ( also responsible for Ran ) , and some excellent performances from the actors , and a few indelible scenes in a whole fantastic career , Dodes'ka-den is in its own way a minor work from the director , but nonetheless near perfect on its own terms , which as with many Kurosawa dramas like Ikiru and Red Beard holds hard truths on the human condition without too much sentimentality .
I was so glad I finally got to see this online ( again , via you-tube ) , because it's an incredible shot of comedy from the sharp-as-a-Jewish-tack mind of Mel Brooks . It's like Brooks stumbled into an avant-garde theater showing an underground short , like a slightly more sophisticated Brakhage short . Which makes it all the more uproarious , because these sorts of films DO take themselves way too seriously as art sometimes ( sometimes the symbolism is deep and meaningful , but other times , as Brooks's old man comments that it's meaning is junk ) . We also get the insight that it's , of course , a " dirty picture " as he sees two amorphous shapes come together and " bond " in the ways that only abstract images from avant-garde filmmakers can do . But of course the director Pintkoff is in on the joke too , and shapes his movie in order to suit Brooks's lashings , despite the ' others ' in the theater that just want silence . I think maybe a part of me just found it funny , in the first few minutes I mean , because it was Brooks doing such an over-the-top Russian caricature . But there's many , many great zingers in there , the kind that provided me the same belly laughs I had from the classics the Producers and Blazing Saddles . Though for some , since it's onlt 3 minutes long , there won't be much in the way of " story " to get in the way . It's just a cranky old man fobbing off on 60s experimental film-making - and an old man that could criticize anything any day of the week and make hilarious !
Castle in the Sky ( full title Laputa : Castle in the Sky ) is another in the extraordinary works in the cannon of Hayao Miyazaki , who is arguably the master of fantasy in animation , worldwide . It's plot should be able to read through easily , at least for anyone who's seen the main conventional point of either the Dark Crystal or Lord of the Rings ( probably the former is a little more accurate ) . A princess has to get to a location with a sacred object - in this case an rock-amulet - and take it to the main power source on Laputa , a secret castle that can barely be said to exist except in rumor . She goes on an adventure with another curious party , a boy , and the two of them have to contend with pirates and a nefarious man in a suit along the way . The twists are turned on a familiar premise at every step , however , because Miyazaki lets his imagination and influences spring out all over the place . We get vines and clouds and Superman-inspired robots ! What Castle in the Sky promises is what it delivers full-throttle ; it's action and excitement for a family audience ( and it's not to sound patronizing ; dudes in their 20s and gals in their 30s will love this as much as the little ones who sought out Spirited Away and Totoro so ) , and humor in bits and pieces as well ( maybe not as much as Totoro , or skewed in a surreal way like Mononoke , but it's still there in a light tone with the pirates ) . And the design overall should capture everyone's fancy ; from the Goliath ship to the little details of the robots to the expanse and crevices of Laputa , to what looks like it MUST have been special visual FX animation , it's all mind-boggling and mind-blowing at the same measure . It might not be Miyazaki's ultimate triumph , but it's still great film-making , a triumph of imagination to deliver on a tale of good vs . evil .
Michael Curtiz's Angels with Dirty Faces can be considered a full-blooded , no-holds-barred genre classic for a few reasons . One of it is how well he depicts the " hero " worship of street-tough kids who look up to the next generation of super street-tough and street-wise hoodlums . The Dead End Kids - an actual gang of sorts who acted in this and another movie - look to James Cagney's Rocky Sullivan since , first and foremost , he came out of the neighborhood and the very building that they hang out of ( the initials , along with those of Sullivan's boyhood friend turned Priest Jerry , are carved on the wall ) . But also there's the persona of Rocky Sullivan , a guy who wont take no s off of cops OR the criminals , and will do things his way or a highway burned to a crisp . And , perhaps underneath this , for all of the ruthless things that Rocky Sullivan does , he's honest . There's a genuine quality to him while he occasionally lies , cheats , steals , whatever as a 1930s era gangster is want to do . This is what makes it extra powerful then when , right before he's sent to the electric chair , the Priest asks him to lie outright and act like he turned yellow for the Dead End Kids and others to see how he turned out . Apparently there's another version of this ending where this didn't happen , and oddly enough I prefer the version I saw with the turning yellow . This is not just because of Cagney's performance , which already up until now is just about legendary in proportion . There's an underlying message with it being the priest that asks this of him . Now , part of this has to do with them being friends and that there's this trust between them . But there's also the fact that it's a priest , a man of the cloth , using God and his will and life-after-death as a means to get some scaring back into the kids as opposed to the usual hero worship . It doesn't matter that the kids aren't told the truth , but that Jerry will know that it wasn't true , but puts up the front anyway . This is a classic ending that works on multiple levels . Speaking of Cagney , there's no way one can say they are a fan of the star without checking this out . Here is one of the quintessential performances of all time in ANY gangster or crime picture . This lends itself , of course , to the fact that Rocky Sullivan is such an interesting character as the dark half of the face that was Rocky and Jerry as kids ( one could see a similar split take shape in an underlying or existential sense in Scorsese's movies of this ilk ) . But it's Cagney that imbues it with real guts and tenacity ; he knows this guy so well that he doesn't have to break a sweat at doing a big dramatic scene , such as the big shoot-out at the end , or even in the smaller scenes where he doesn't take lip from Bogart ( also in very fine form , seeing two giants face off is an added bonus ) where little facial markers and moments make it so memorable . He's a natural at this because simply he sets the pacing just right for the scene and rolls with it to the logical end . One can see process being worked out right on the screen but with the seemingly effortless grace of a class act . It's also , I should also add , a very cool story , one that even as it's set in the late 1930s loses little of its resonance for today ; a story like this could just as easily be shot in the same environment as say the City of God underworld in Rio , where one rises up through the ranks with some ferocity and also a little help from crooked cops or politicians , and then the next generation already lining up , and one or two good apples in the bunch . Oh , and it's got very fast and cutting action scenes , which never hurts when done right .
The luscious saga of Michael , Dwight , Jim , Pam , Janice , the whole ball of wax , is one of the great comedy successes of the past decade . It might not quite be Seinfeld , but it's close , and in its own way this revamp of the British TV show ( with Ricky Gervais here as executive producer and occasional writer ) is similarly groundbreaking . Almost all of the dialog is improvised - I think Steve Carell said once that he has an earpiece to feed him lines here and there - and the writers they do have for the show are some of the finest around ( some crosspolination , if that's the word , from the likes of the Daily Show like with Larry Willmore ) . Plot - there are a bunch , as I am beginning to learn bit by bit going through the past seasons . Unlike many a sitcom , the storyline and continuity does matter , but if you were going into a random episode in season 2 or 3 you might be able to follow along . It's all about the characters , really , and how the personalities one grows accustomed to stay true even when things shift a bit . It's also a great time with the documentary form - not so much mockumentary , even though there are some days where the camera crew get some looks thrown their way , be they ' turn it off ' or ' get a load of this ! ' And , of course , all the players are brilliant . Steve Carrel has become a full-blown star thanks to the show , and it reveals a lot of his depth as an actor ( yes , they give Michael a soul from time to time , aside from being the incredibly awkward-inducing-feeling boss at Dunder Mifflin ) . A lot of times you get the feeling you're seeing Michael say something to the camera-person he's said before , but no matter what it's still hilarious , because Michael is a sincere fellow . What that means for his co-workers is something else ( ever watch " Diversity Day " ? or Sexual Harassment day ? or all the days ? ) . At times you squirm in your seat like in a grand-guignol horror movie , as everybody else , relatively more normal than Michael ( or not , as case might be ) are stupefied by the extremes Michael will go to . And yet Carrel can also pull it off fantastically when actually being somewhat human , adding that side that doesn't make him just a complete jerk . It's tricky , and it's why he's always never going to be dull on the show . Ditto for Rainn Wilson , who can keep the same deadpan expression all the time and knock it out of the park . A lot of times just seeing him get a prank pulled on him is like watching a sun rise - the most beautiful thing imaginable ( shall I compare Schrute Farm Beets to a summer's day ? ) . And Jim and Pam , aside from the facet of a relationship on TV that isn't contrived or put through the wringer , seems to be just another piece to the ensemble , not a dominating factor like it might be on another show ( and contrary to how the buzz was beforehand , the two of them hooking up ends up not being the most fascinating crux of the show - Mike and Janice , on the other hand , whew ! ) So , The Office . . . one of the great comedy shows . . . not much else to say . . . get back to work !
Ingmar Bergman's dramatic forays capture what is very essential to great dramas - the key emotions should be expressed like poetry , flowing to a rhythm even if it's somber and tragic . He uses this emotional logic with his actors for this comedy of manners and the heart ( pre-Seventh Seal ) , where he has his screenplay wonderfully unfold the character's amusing feelings on love , sex , and dealing with the opposite gender , all the while making sure his players know the words and the music . Here he has Gunnar Bjornstrand , a regular later on , as a lawyer who has a son and mistress , but also pines for an actress who may not fancy him as much as she used to . Harriet Andersson , also a regular in other Bergman films ( a key one being Cries and Whispers where she played the dying woman ) , appears as a young , joyful woman , who even gives the lawyer's son , a priest , a bit of lust here and there . In fact , Smiles of a Summer Night is Bergman's most joyous film , though that's not to say there can't be grand moments of joy in his dramas and reflections on god . But in this film , he shows how he is a filmmaker quite competent to skillfully accomplish a story of real people in real romantic whimsies , and at times ( such as a quick scene on a bed with two giggling , laughing girls ) reveals his views on humanity are truly not as bleak as some might think . Assuredly a must watch for fans of the director , yet one may want to watch a couple of his dramas if they're just starting out on his films ( depending on the mood - personally , this would serve as a great pick-me-up as opposed to the stark Cries and Whispers ) .
What can I say that hasn't been said by others who have come across this essential document of the survivors of the holocaust ? It goes beyond any kind of rating ; watching the people on screen tell their stories , and re-connect with their haunted roots , is about as captivating as it can get , genuinely so , enough to not want to look away . The stories from the five survivors is just enough to make it a crucial piece of history , of something that will survive past their years as their own talked-of memories of what they saw , the people they saw murdered including their families , of being stripped of humanity and more deeply for their souls . The actual footage of almost ten years ago of inside camps of Auschwitz and Bergen-Belsen is equally powerful to see . But it's another that other interviews are included with the likes of an ex-Auschwitz Nazi doctor who didn't go along with his other sadistic colleagues ; the American soldiers who were appalled to discover what they thought contained German prisoners of war to be thousands of Jews ; the one US Congressman ( at the time ) to survive the holocaust . The history of this period of the early to mid 40's has become abstracted in the view of society , something so enormous it's even more staggering that similar practices go on in other countries today . The notes of what Hitler did is given notice in the film , but the facts are more as a back-drop for what the Last Days focus is . By director James Moll going in for these women's stories , of what they lost and tried to regain , is just as important to see in its own light as Schindler's List as a dramatization of the facts . It's not too much a wonder it got the best documentary prize at the Oscars . Executive produced by Steven Spielberg ( speaking of ' Schindler ' ) and the Shoa foundation .
To Catch a Thief is , as some others have noted , a kind of antithesis to Alfred Hitchcock's own Psycho . It's not that Hithccock put any more or less work into them ( although I'm sure ' Thief ' had a higher budget ) , but they reveal to sensibilities that aren't remotely similar . I mean this though as a compliment ; Hithcock's film is lavish and lush with colors of those beautiful locations and settings on the French Riviera , and made as a fantastic vehicle for its two stars , Cary Grant and Grace Kelly . It's almost an ode to glamor of the period , and to a outlook on this particular story that's necessary . Another director could have made a decent thriller , maybe a very good one . But Hithccock is after a kind of art here that has " POP " in big capital letters ( not the Andy Warhol type , something more to his liking ) . It's a lot of fun , too , which is the most important thing , as it allows for the two stars to play off on one another in the style that I'd compare to Bogart and Bacall in The Big Sleep , only here they aren't trumping the convoluted story . Matter of fact , this might be one of the least-probing or psychologically complex of Hitchcock's prime thriller ; it's about Robie , a reformed cat burglar ( also called the Cat ) , who is accused of a string of new jewel heists by a copy-cat ( no pun intended ) in France and goes on the run to clear his name - by spotting over Frances and her mother's plot of jewels . When will the burglar strike again ? To say that it's not very psychologically probing is maybe half correct ; we do get a few rich scenes where Jessie or the French girl Danielle try and figure on what kind of guy Robie really is ( Frances quips coyly , " The Cat has a new kitten " ) . But like in North by Northwest , it's not really about getting too deep into the thick of things , save for the aspect that Robie is reformed after doing his tour of duty in the world war . Hitchcock is more interested in behavior and the finesse and class and , of course , sly humor that his actors play with the material . And mentioning North by Northwest , it's important to note that Grant is tailor made for this kind of part , where he's charming and suave and knows just how to dig in that extra line in the right moment , and of course we ( us males ) want to be him . And Kelly never looked more gorgeous , a fine counterpoint for that great vista that she takes Robie to midway through the picture . This isn't to say that with all this slick , studio film-making that Hitchcock loses his way with suspense . On the contrary there's some great work here on that front , too , from the chase going up the hill , to that one big gasp with a certain murder at night , all the way up to the climactic scenes , it's really some of the Master's best work . Just don't go expecting it to be a SHOCK fest .
Here is an example of film-making elements coming wonderfully together , in a package that can entertain the usual moviegoers and give the movie-geek his or her money's worth . That it is also perhaps the most well-rounded of Tim Burton's films , with enough does of comedy , drama , and movie-within-movie stylings , to fit two movies is an added plus . He tells the story of Edward D . Wood Jr ( Johnny Depp ) , who may or may not be the most well-known bad filmmaker ever to exist with enough humanity and care to not make it at all parody , even if there is comedy interspersed . His story is one that is actually quite the same of most filmmakers , who want to make it somehow and have big dreams and lofty visions . Though taking into account Wood's preclivaty of wearing women's clothes ( particularly the angora sweaters ) , hanging out with transvestites and other undesirables , and his best friend is a thought to be dead ex-horror icon ( Martin Landau as Bella Lugosi , in a richly deserved Oscar turn ) addicted to methadone , the path of his story is rather unconventional to say the least . But the style of the film is quite ingenious , with rich and cool black and white photography , a finely moving and appropriate score ( though not by Danny Elfman ) , and touting an all around best-in-show cast . Depp especially has a lot of fun playing this man , who may or may not be close to how he was in real life ( from what I've read about him it's a fairly close depiction ) , and his portrayal of Wood is not at all cheating and is , in some scenes , really touching . The ones that stick out for me are the ones with Landau at his house , and filming his one scene from Plan 9 From Outer Space , but the ones with him on his ' sets ' , filming such drek with the passion and ambition of the greats , is really refreshing to see . Ed Wood is quite the biopic , showcasing Burton in another maturer form outside of films like Pee Wee and Batman , but with the same knack for entertainment . After all , how can you dislike a film with Tor Johnson , Elvira , and Bill Murray desiring a sex-change operation ?
Though if you try to find it now it will only be as a collectible or as a used item on ebay , Bart vs the Space Mutants was one of those great , if fairly simple , RPG games from those early days of video games - make that before things went past 16 megabytes or whatever it was . The simple task of the game was for Bart to kill as many space mutants as possible , without getting killed off or losing some by way of the X-ray glasses Bart used . It was before the show became as sophisticated as it would some two or three years after the game first appeared , so the humor is a little on the crude side ( maybe more than a little ) . But for kids it's a really cool trip in going through the motions of the game - if sometimes a bit difficult - and as a die-hard fan it's quite a alien-ridden treat .
A possible candidate for the quintessential David Cronenberg movie , this was one of the ones that put him on the map ( one of them , I say , as he had a few 80s movies before the big studio hit the Fly ) , but still speaks like few sci-fi surreal satires can do . It's chilling for some of it , and outright disturbing for most , once or twice you might feel the inclination to laugh at the absurdity of what Cronenberg and his make-up team put together , but it's really a situation where reality becomes crossed with perceptions of reality ( and , cough , hallucinations , cough ) and the real thing . Warhol called it the Clockwork Orange of the 80s , but one could make other comparisons , maybe more prevalent , like Altered States or Philip K Dick or Jodorowsky or Burroughs ( a bit of a connection , in terms of the process of a sort of machine programmed in or through disgusting elements , to Naked Lunch ) or even to today's own torture-porn situation in horror movies . They're all there for the taking to group with . But Cronenberg stands alone with this one : it's an extremely personal film for the director , while also never losing sight of what makes the strongest science-fiction crawl under our collective skins . James Woods , in a role that requires him to go from his typical smarmy self to a man in the grip of a perpetual mind-f , plays Mas Rent , who owns Civic TV - not anything very respectable , just a weirder , dirty cousin of Weird Al's UHwho comes across a transmission on one of his pirated wavelengths for a program called Videodrome . He thinks that all the torture and mayhem in the program is faked , and that it's brilliant in its low-budget form . He wants it , the real Videodrome tape . But what he doesn't know is that it's all for real , and that the makers of the " show " in Pittsburgh are dangerous folk . Soon he gets embroiled into the fold , starts seeing himself hitting women , reaching into his stomach to scratch with a gun , ' plays ' videos with his innards , and becomes a killing machine . At first this seems too much , but Cronenberg is a master at making this a multi layered examination : there's the media element , as Cronenberg was a student of Marshall MacLoughan ; there's the fetishism , and how that can become manifested through contact with the skin and , of course , the flesh ( it starts with just a cigarette burn on a breast ) ; and of course the surrealism , where like somewhere between Kafka and Lynch there is no discernible line after a while between what is not really seen and experienced and what is actually going on . All bets are off . If it's daring by itself in examining the nature of all of these things ( and I don't even imagine , I know , that this will be just as exhilarating on a repeat viewing ) , then the special effects are equally so . The first time you see Woods sitting on the couch , with the hallucinating turning slowly into just a little itch or burn on his stomach into a full gaping would , it never looks fake . Which makes the whole hallucinatory angle so rich and palpable - you feel yourself cringe right along with Max as he plunges his consciousness to the whims of men and women telling him what to do through TV and other forms . Ironically , the movies of the present in the horror world - one wonders if this is more than the usual movie fodder for the likes of the ' torture porn ' kings like Eli Roth and the Saw filmmakers - don't have anywhere the finesse and power in how the special effects convey the psychology and mood of the situations . Meanwhile , Cronenberg also makes Videodrome perhaps his best film technically , with his camera becoming part of the surreal and fetisihistic , subtly so , like when Woods and Harry have their sex scene , slow and carnal , and it backs up from them to reveal that they're in the chamber-room of the Videodrome . Or how it comments on the mania that's building in Max's head as he sits and waits for the speaker to come out in the climax . Videodrome remains some twenty-five years later a visceral movie-viewing experience , a film that many will pass off as just your typical Cronenberg fare . It's a lot more : it's like a weird , definitive statement on the things that are most of concern to Cronenberg , at least in the bulk of his originally written work . How does one make the distinction between what's imagined or thought and what is right there whipped on the flesh ? It's thought at one point in Videodrome that Max has a brain tumor . Sounds like an explanation , but after a few minutes it changes from being a plot gimmick to a sad fate . Long live the new flesh ? What about the dying flesh ? It's an extraordinary film , and I can't wait to watch it through fingers covering over my eyes ( and peeking through ) during the more disgusting parts .
I've only seen a couple of other of Louis Malle's films , but I'm sure I'll want to see more after getting to see this in its revival in theaters . It's an ironic , tense , a little aloof and engrossing thriller that plays on a couple of expectations if not all . At times I almost felt like I was watching a darker , dramatic French-noir version of Curb Your Enthusiasm ; you're cringing in your seat at times because everything , at least for the first hour , seems realistic , and the inter-cutting between the three plot-lines ( Julien in the elevator , Florence on the streets , the lovers-on-the-run at the Motel ) . You know something bad will happen , as par for the style Malle is working in ( it's his first film , one can / can't tell if they didn't know beforehand ) . But it interested me , and kept me in my seat , how I knew things may unravel as they should in these films , and I found myself having to root for someone in a sea of anti-heroes . I mention Curb Your Enthusiasm as there is a sort of everyday occurrence that basically kicks off the plot ( in tune with the genius title of the film ) , as Julien Tavaneur gets stuck in an elevator after getting rid of Florence Carala's rich husband ( Moreau's character ) . Two kids , one more dangerous ( if a little inexplicable , Louis ) than the other , steal his car and stay at a Motel , where they meet a genial German tourist . Out of bad luck ( as it is a running theme of the play ) , he kills the German , and things get more out of hand for everybody . In fact , the plot is rather thin , leaving room for a ) suspense tenseness in the elevator scenes ( and later in the interrogation scene , superbly lit ) , b ) narrative musings by the calm Moreau , or c ) troubles of the kids . These narratives are handled well , along with the typical police procedural , and it leads up to an ending that may not necessarily have a message to it . It can't be as pat as ' crime doesn't pay ' . Moreau , in a classy close-up , says things that struck a chord with me , as did many parts of the film . It may be fate , as par for the naturalism , but is there something behind the cool veneer ? The only downside for me was with the performance of the actor who played Louis . I didn't think he gave enough to what is indeed a rather small-minded character . The actress who plays his girlfriend fares fine , but he is one of the keys to the film , and I felt a little uneasy watching some of his scenes later on in the film . But still , any fault ( s ) I had with the film were minuscule when looking at how it is overall . This is one of those films that for pretty much the whole way through had me in its grip ; I've rarely felt that watching a ' film-noir ' before , but I did feel a very small kinship to another love / lust / cold-murder film , Blood Simple , which leaped off of some of the conventions we all know and admire in these films . And the contribution from Miles Davis , who is to ' cool ' as the Beatles are to love & peace , can't be over-estimated . If Moreau gives the film a kind of downtrodden , wandering and wondering soul , and Malle gives the right look of the film with the great Henri ( Le Samourai ) Decae as DP , Davis backs up everything else . Sometimes his fast , overwhelming notes come through ( mostly as on-the-set background music ) , and his slower music is landmark stuff , but what's surprising is that he can also add suspense , like to the elevator and interrogation scenes , and the mood is inescapable . I wouldn't be surprised if more than a few filmmakers who saw this film were inspired by Malle's use of free-flow jazz to add to the ' cool-ness ' of the picture ( not that he was the first of course , but it can be spotted in many films , in particular Herrmann's score for Taxi Driver ) . I have a feeling this may be the kind of film that will play better on multiple viewings , and for now I'm content to say it was a very well-spent trip .
Martin Scorsese's Taxi Driver is a riveting , disturbing and powerful masterpiece of a film that gives new meaning to the word " snapped " . The scenes , quotes and characters are legendary and so is this film giving breakthrough performances to Albert Brooks , Jodie Foster , and of course , Robert De Niro . De Niro plays Travis Bickle , a disturbed taxi driver who drives his taxi all around new York City going crazier every day . He also meets Iris ( AKA Easy ) played by Foster who is also disturbed , but in a not as good way . And what the story leads up to is one of the most memorable pieces of cinema ever . The film is great , the score by Bernard Hermann ( his last ) is excellent , and the feeling , and atmosphere is perfect . So , " are you talking to me " ?
Pearl Jam have proved themselves to be one of the enduring rock and roll bands of the 90's - still together , still making moving , combustible music that finds that perfect edge of hard-rock while still appealing to a massive audience . For its own cult group , which is rather big in and of itself , a DVD like Touring Band 2000 is a given to buy and soak up multiple times , but for the casual PJ fan it's worthwhile also . Classics like ' Daughter ' , ' Better Man ' , ' Even Flow ' , and some of my other favorites like ' Animal ' and ' Rocking in the Free World ' are among the lot of over two dozen songs included . The added treat is that the songs are NOT inter-cut with interviews , like other music DVD documentaries , and that they are from various concerts giving the wide range of material . I even dug the grainy style of filming , which could get under my skin , but stays above the line of incompetent , amateur filming . The style matches the energy and attitude that pours out of PJ with every song . However , one should get the DVD for its added bonus : bonus music videos , including one in particular for a favorite off of Yield - ' Do the Evolution ' , one of their very best videos directed by Todd McFarlane . To have this on video somewhere is a big treat .
Jim Henson as a filmmaker sometimes doesn't get as much credit as for his main innovations with the Muppets and establishing them throughout the years as the head producer of the Henson company . But behind the genius puppeteer that he was , he was also very good at creating a style that was all his own , whether it was with the original and enlightening fantasy films he made in the 80s or with the Muppet movies . Part of what crosses over from his time with the Muppets with this rarely seen short film , Time Piece , is the pure sense of tongue placed firmly in cheek . The theme of time is one that many art films deal with ( not the least of which Bergman ) , but this film is like a collaboration between the crazier silent shorts of the 1920s and Chuck Jones . I laughed many times during this film , but it's also a marvel of - of course - timing , but also at getting the right rhythm with the images . It goes without saying that its directness in the editing , with its tempo always on step without going overboard , is some of the best I've ever seen in a short film . Little moments end up making the best parts of Henson's film , where no real story emerges aside of himself sort of being witness to the follies of the world in a very crazy manner . And it's also an exercise in repetition - a few times the one spoken word of the film pops up ( " Help " ) - by Henson , and it's always very funny . But the comic timing is explored in little themes Henson had in later films , such as food , with one of the real laugh out loud bits being when Henson and the woman eat at the table as they one-up each other . Or seeing the delirious pathway in Henson running around towards the end ( being chased , no doubt , by archive footage ) . It all ends then , to put it mildly , down the toilet ( literally I mean ) . This is a surprising film with as much invention that can be fused cinematically into its concept - showing time as being very musical in a sense , and possibly breaking the balance that it usually keeps with day to day life . It's an early gem , and its quite a stroke of luck to find it on-line or through a rare 16mm print ; one of the true unfortunates in being unavailable to the masses and other fans of Henson .
