I found this film to be nearly intolerable . John Cassavetes in many ways was a love him or leave him director . His films were never easy - - he definitely required his audience to work , not sit passively and let his films quietly come at them . I don't mind this approach to film-making , but I do require that the rewards I receive are worth the effort I bring to the experience . Not so here . " The Killing of a Chinese Bookie " simply wore me out , until by the end of the movie I could not have cared less what happened to anyone in it or to the story itself . This is Cassavetes at his self-indulgent worst . The only thing I liked about this movie was Ben Gazarra , who I've always thought was a fine and overlooked actor .
I've been having my own little Altman revival over the past months , watching all of his available movies in chronological order , both his masterpieces and his duds . I'm up to 1987 , and I think I may have finally found it - - that elusive thing known as Robert Altman's absolutely worst film . If you know about Altman , you know that all of his movies were an experiment to a greater or lesser extent and that some of them misfired dismally . In re-watching them with a fresh eye , I've found that none ( not even some really bad ones , like " A Wedding " , " Quintet " , or " Popeye " ) misfired quite as egregiously as " Beyond Therapy " . A farcical romp lampooning modern-day ( for the time ) romance , sexual preferences , neurotics and the analysts who are crazier than they are , " Beyond Therapy " has nothing to recommend it . The two leads , Jeff Goldblum and Julie Hagerty , make their characters instantly unlikable and never recover . Tom Conti and Glenda Jackson are probably the best members of the cast , as two whacked out therapists , but the parts they're given to play feel random and arbitrary . Christopher Guest basically plays the petulant gay man he would reprise so classically ten years later in " Waiting for Guffman " . I don't know how Christopher Durang's stage play would read in a different context . It seems paper thin judging by this version , but knowing Altman , I have a feeling he dealt with the source material liberally , and who knows how much of Durang's original play remains . This film certainly has Altman's footprints all over it , and in this case that's not a good thing .
Saying that " Friday the 13th Part VII : The New Blood " is god awful is like saying the sun rises in the East . It's just an objective fact , and there's not anything anyone can possibly say to refute it . I have about as much energy to muster up a comment about this film as the filmmakers had in creating it , and believe me , that's not much . This movie doesn't have one redeemable quality about it - - the acting , writing , directing and editing are remedial . My friends and I made movies as good as this in college goofing around on a Saturday with nothing more than a camcorder . Even the " kills " ( to use fanboy parlance ) , which I'm assuming are the primary motivating factor behind most people watching this at all , are dull and unimaginative , and gorehounds will be supremely disappointed , as they're censored to the point where you don't see much of anything at all . After Part VI , I didn't think the " Friday the 13th " series could get much worse - - this movie proves that there's always the opportunity to achieve a higher level of incompetency .
Martin Scorsese's deconstruction of the golden Hollywood musical is a meandering disaster . " New York , New York " is damn near unwatchable . It tells the VERY slight story of a jackass saxophone player ( Robert De Niro ) who falls in love with a nightclub singer ( Liza Minelli ) and proceeds to emotionally abuse her until her life is miserable . De Niro is consistently one note in his performance , creating a character without a single redeeming feature . In his early scenes , I think we're supposed to be charmed by him , and by extension understand why Minelli's character would fall for him in the first place - - unfortunately , he comes across more as a creepy sociopath than anything , Travis Bickle with some musical talent . Minelli's role is utterly thankless , but she's absolutely the only thing that kept me watching . The last 40 minutes of the film is practically a Liza Minelli concert . Her character has vaulted to film stardom and left her loser husband in the dust ; Scorsese devotes what feels like half an hour to a movie within a movie featuring Minelli in one of those epic ballet scenes that always derailed Gene Kelly musicals . It does the same to this film , but the diversion was welcome , since it meant we could enjoy a nice break from De Niro . The movie grinds on for 163 ( ! ) minutes . At the 120 minute mark I wanted to cry . At the 150 minute mark I was beaten into submission by indifference . By that point , the film had been going on for far too long , yet at the same time I couldn't believe it would be ending in 10 minutes because it didn't seem to be moving toward any kind of resolution . Scorsese seemed to be unaware that this story had already been told - - maybe he'd never heard of " A Star Is Born . " More likely , he was paying homage to that film , but he created something that on its own terms has no reason for existence .
Oh , Robert Altman , I love you and may you rest in peace , but DAMN did you make some bad movies . I've been re-watching Altman's entire oeuvre on DVD lately ( or at least the movies available ) and have had to seriously reconsider my ranking system . I had thought that " Quintet " was the nadir of his 1970s film career , but I had forgotten just how atrocious " A Wedding " is . But then I re-watched " Popeye " and think that there's a new serious contender . It's almost like after making " Nashville , " Altman set out to one-up himself in bad movies , and see just how much worse each could be than the one before it . ( Though I have to exclude " 3 Women " from this - - a remarkable film ) . " Popeye " is an example of what happens when Altman's rambling style goes completely wrong . The film is a shambling mess , with not much discernible plot , and it's almost the exact opposite of the cartoons on which it's based . Those were little jewels of narrative economy - - even a movie made for kids needs to be well written . Robin Williams is a riot as Popeye , and his constant muttering is easily the best thing about the movie . It's also worth watching to see Shelley Duvall in the role she was born to play , and she does it almost too well , making Olive Oyl just as annoying in human form as she was as a cartoon . The Harry Nilsson songs are terrible , and they're not really even songs . Characters occasionally walk around sing / talking , but the songs , like the film , have no structure and just sort of end . Ray Walston , as Popeye's pappy , infuses the film with some verve , but he enters the picture too late to save it . The set looks like the leftover remnants from " McCabe and Mrs . Miller " ( look for a blink-and-you'll-miss-it reference to that film in a whorehouse ) , and I think many of them were resurrected for " Waterworld . " The thing with Altman's bad movies , though , is that they're so confidently and spectacularly bad that they almost become entertaining . The ending of " Popeye " is a disaster , but it's so fascinatingly disastrous that you can't look away . That's almost more of a testament to Altman's skill as a director than any of the brilliant classics he made .
" Shadows and Fog " is surely one of Woody Allen's weakest films , right up there with " September " and " Hollywood Ending " ( though nothing Allen has done equals the awfulness of " Anything Else " ) . " Shadows and Fog " is Allen's homage to the German Expressionist style of film-making , all stark and stylized light and shadow and . . . you guessed it . . . . . lots of fog . But you can tell Allen got caught up in the technique and the parody and forgot to make a movie that anyone would care about . Luckily , he made " Husbands and Wives " the same year , so things weren't a total wash for him .
Joshua Logan turns the Pulitzer-Prize-winning stage musical into a lumbering , charmless film . You can tell he doesn't know what to do with stage material , because his instincts to open the film up and take advantage of stunning South Pacific locations ( though who knows where it was actually filmed ) fight constantly with his tendency to bathe every musical number in highly stylized and saturated color . Everything feels inert , nothing about the film moves , and nobody seems to be having a good time . However , we do get Mitzi Gaynor as a consolation prize , who fights all the odds to deliver as perky a performance as Logan will allow . This is one of those movies you could watch and come away from having no idea what made the source material so beloved .
Niki Caro's follow up to her wonderful " Whale Rider " is full of good intentions , but it's a poundingly monotonous film . Charlize Theron plays Josey Aimes , poor mother of two who goes to work in a northern Minnesota mine where women are decidedly not wanted . She and her female co-workers suffer all manner of mistreatment from the men , before Josey takes a stand and brings a class-action lawsuit against the mine , the first sexual harassment class-action suit in legal history . This film obviously follows in the footsteps of " Norma Rae " and " Erin Brockovich , " though you can tell it makes an effort to stick to the gritty realism of the former rather than the slick phoniness of the latter . It's a gloomy film that makes northern Minnesota look like the last place on Earth I'd ever want to live . The color scheme is all blues and grays , and a crusty layer of snow covers glum-looking houses and trailers . Caro gives us a cartoonish version of events despite the gritty realism of the film's setting , in which nearly every man in Minnesota is presented as a leering animal , and in which every woman is dowdy and downtrodden . Any attempt at realism is thrown out the window , however , in the film's last quarter , in which we're witness to a ridiculous court-room scene that looks like something lifted from an entirely different movie , and ends with a cheesy , " Dead Poets Society " climax . For all of her efforts , Caro has failed to make a film even remotely authentic . Arbitrary plot twists occur out of thin air ( like the sudden redemption of Josey's father or her mother's decision to walk out on him ) . The timeframe isn't clear . The entire movie seems to take place over the span of a week . The acting's o . k . , but really there's only so much the actors can do with such a weak script . And poor Frances McDormand is saddled with a thankless role , that of the token dying character who the script hurries into a wheelchair only so that she can make a maudlin surprise appearance at the end of the film . If you watch the documentary that's included on the DVD of " North Country , " in which the real-life women who lived this story discuss their experiences , you will realize just how inauthentic a film this is . As one of the women says ( the one on whom Theron's character is based , in fact ) , there were only a handful of men who were the aggressors ; there were lots of normal miners who left the women alone . But you don't see that in the film , because Caro is too busy pushing with all her might every emotional button she can find in a shameless effort to win our sympathies . " Norma Rae " was able to get it right , so this film doesn't even earn an " A " for effort .
" Cover Girl " is a lacklustre WWII musical with absolutely nothing memorable about it , save for its signature song , " Long Ago and Far Away . " This film came out before Gene Kelly really hit his artistic stride , and while there are evidences of his burgeoning talent here , mostly he plays sidekick to Rita Hayworth . And there's the problem . Rita Hayworth is gorgeous , no doubt about that . But she's simply not a compelling screen presence . I've always found myself wanting to like her more than I actually do , and this movie is no exception . She's simply not a very good actress , and she's not even a very good dancer . Good looking as she is , there's something vapid about her , and this movie suffers because of it .
David Fincher's contribution to the " Alien " series is a completely unpleasant experience . It's grim , dour , grungy and depressing , filled with ugly characters who we don't learn anything about and therefore don't care about . As they get picked off one by one by the alien , we're moved to feel nothing more than that Fincher is automatically going through the motions . There's no thrill in this film , as there was in the first two films . There's also not a scare - - neither psychological nor visceral - - to be had . This sequel brings nothing new to the story - - after " Aliens , " the creators of this series should have put it to rest , because there isn't much more material to mine from this particular concept . And one of the things that bothered me the most about " Alien 3 " is its inconsistency . How can Ripley be impregnated with an alien for weeks before it hatches from her , whereas every other single creature infected before her ( even including the dog in this one ) hatches an alien seemingly within hours ? You can't change the rules on us and not expect us to rebel .
" Wedding Crashers " just isn't that funny , though I think it wants to be . After a dazzling , energetic initial fifteen minutes or so , the movie settles into a hum-drum , routine comedy formula and never recovers . Owen Wilson is low-key and pleasant enough to carry it through , but Vince Vaughan creates a grotesque caricature that ceases to be funny early on . There are lots of subplots that could have made the movie a cut above average , but none of them go anywhere , and an actor like Christopher Walken is utterly wasted in a disposable part . Come on , if you have someone like Walken in your movie and you can't find anything funny for him to do , you've got serious problems . The film goes on far too long , and its final quarter gets downright depressing before everything resolves itself predictably in a corny finale . I thought this was supposed to be the funniest movie of the year - - must have been an unusually unfunny year .
A grueling film . Don't worry ; the two protagonists , played by Halle Berry and Billy Bob Thornton , eventually find a sense of peace and redemption . But , and this is a big " but , " not before both of them suffer through the most ridiculously heavy-handed series of tragic events ever committed to celluloid , which actually begin to become funny after a while ( let's see , maybe one of them can develop a brain tumor now , that will REALLY get people's tears pumping ) . It's kind of like Dick Cheney's shooting accident ; you keep wondering how worse it can possibly get before the boundaries of credibility disappear all together . Berry gives a fine performance , if fine performance means she was convincing shoving her boobs in Billy Bob Thornton's face ( convinced me ! ) Her performance during her Oscar acceptance speech was better than anything you see from her here . Thornton , for his part , is good , but he's always good . The finest scene in the film comes when he drops his bastard of a dad off at a retirement home and decides never to visit him again ( there , that's this movie's idea of a happy ending , if you're wondering ) . And before there was " Brokeback Mountain , " Heath Ledger proved to the world that , hey , maybe he can act after all . Too bad his character's in the movie for about ten minutes . This is one of those movies that a liberal white Hollywood fell all over themselves to honor so that Spike Lee would shut up about how there are no movies for black people . I agree with Spike - - African Americans are woefully underrepresented in today's movie marketplace . But come on , we can do better than this , can't we ?
You can tell that Al Pacino was determined not to let the 8th chance of an Oscar pass him by , so he throws everything he's got at the Academy voters in this hammy performance as a cranky , blind veteran . Chris O'Donnell gives a blank-faced performance as the preppy college student who's paid to care for the blind dude for the day , but boy doesn't he get more than he bargained for , and isn't Pacino's irascible geezer a hoot as he shows O'Donnell a good time ? Why director Martin Brest needed two-and-a-half-hours to tell a story that could have made a half-hour sitcom is beyond me . Oh and guess what . . . . . Pacino won his Oscar . Michael Corleone is turning over in his grave . . . .
One of those epic all-star comedies in the " It's a Mad Mad , etc . " vein , with a bunch of rushing around and chaotic blundering that's supposed to tickle us with how funny it all is . Well , it's not very funny , or at least I didn't think so , and the fact that it was taken seriously enough to snag four Academy Award nominations ( let alone one for Best Picture ) mystifies me . Featuring a bunch of recognizable stars who have all done much better elsewhere , like Carl Reiner , Theodore Bikel , Brian Keith , Eva Marie Saint , Paul Ford and , most notably , Alan Arkin , who for what it's worth gives the film whatever chutzpah it has .
George Clooney was clearly trying for screwball nostalgia with this sports comedy , but what he actually put together sits on the screen like a lump of lead . Clooney stars as a professional football player back in the days ( 1920s ) when no one cared much for professional football . As an attempt to bring some attention and fans to the sport , he cajoles a popular war hero and college football star ( college football happens to be the rage ) to go pro . Eventually , the two become rivals when the college star transfers to an opposing team . Meanwhile , the editor of a newspaper learns that the war hero's story is a fraud , and sends out a feisty reporter ( Renee Zellweger ) to expose him . All of these ingredients are meant to mix into an antic romp , and Clooney , Zellweger and John Krasinski ( who plays the war hero ) try their damnedest to be madcap , mugging shamelessly at the camera at every opportunity . But the movie grinds along painfully , and you can practically see the sweat beading on the actors ' brows as they work overtime to make the material funny . Krasinski is miscast as an all-American war hero ; there's something a little too bookish and dopey about him to make him believable . And Clooney and Zellweger have absolutely no romantic chemistry - - they're given roles that , say , Gary Cooper and Barbara Stanwyck would have played if this were a screwball comedy from the 1930s , but they work up no heat and deliver almost no laughs . No expense was spared on the period look of the film , and Randy Newman for once provides a tolerable and playful score , but everything else about the film is a dud .
The word " innocuous " was invented to describe movies like this . Hugh Grant plays an 80s pop star has-been who has the chance to write a song for a hip young music star and perform it with her at an upcoming concert at Madison Square Garden . The thing is , you see , he can only write catchy music , but he sucks at writing lyrics . If only someone could drop into his life out of nowhere with a knack for song-writing , all would be hunky-dory . Lo and behold , Drew Barrymore drops in , in the guise of a neurotic disaster who shows up to take care of his plants , and an unlikely song-writing duo is born . " Music and Lyrics " is so formulaic that even the actors seem bored with it . Of course Barrymore must be persuaded that she can write lyrics even though she swears that she can't . Of course the two must get in a fight and go their separate ways , only to get back together in time for a big finale . Of course , Grant must declare his love for Barrymore by writing a song - - lyrics and all - - for her , proving to her how much she means to him . Meanwhile , nothing about the movie is especially funny , yet neither is anything egregiously bad . It's just THERE , and I guess that's one of my biggest complaints about it . And is anyone but me weirded out by the age difference between Grant and Barrymore ? Couldn't a funny , interesting movie have been made from the same premise without making them romantically involved ? But that would have taken a bit more imagination on the part of the screenwriters , and really , who can be bothered when there's money to be made off of something we've seen ad nauseum before ? The best parts of the movie are the opening and closing credits , that feature a mock music video from Grant's 80s band . It's hilarious , and proves that the 80s can't really be parodied because they were a parody to begin with . Don't spend $10 on this . Rent it instead .
It was probably inevitable that " An American Tragedy , " in its evolution to screen , would become more about the doomed love affair of Montgomery Clift and Elizabeth Taylor than the moral and ethical dilemmas that really form the foundation of Theodore Dreiser's novel . After all , doomed love is a bigger sell , especially when you have the romantic faces of Clift and Taylor swooning together in extreme close-up . I'm not a fan of doing book to movie comparisons . I figure that film and literature are two different art forms , so I shouldn't compare their rendering of the story anymore than I would compare the same story as presented in a painting as opposed to a ballet . So I tried to take the film on its own merits ( admittedly difficult to do , since I watched the movie on the same day I finished the book ) , but even at that , I think the movie falls short . Clift plays George Eastman , poor nephew to a rich , socially elite family in a small New York state factory town . He's been invited by his uncle to come and work in the Eastman factory , giving him an entre into a world of luxury that has always been out of his grasp due to his family's humble position ( they run a mission and preach on the streets ) . George strikes up a love affair with Alice Tripp ( Shelley Winters ) , a girl who works with him in the factory , but his attentions for her quickly fade when he becomes interested in Angela Vickers , another member of the rich set , played by Liz Taylor . Complications ensue , and George finds himself and his situation spiraling drastically out of control , with an ending more tragic than he ever thought possible . George Stevens directs the film with a sure hand , and there are some breathtaking displays of directorial skill . For example , one that stands out in my mind comes when the camera focuses on a radio reporting a possible murder , while the young , rich kids with whom George has struck up a friendship goof off in the water in the background . There are also some great uses of dissolve editing , though the technique is somewhat overused . But there are many problems with the film , notably its pacing . Much time is spent on George's love triangle with Alice and Angela , while the script races through the trial and George's ultimate fate , as if the screenwriter realized he only had two hours to tell his story when he'd already wasted an hour and a half on front-end material . Rushing through the end blunts much of the story's original intent and power , as that is where the majority of moral questions arise . Also , the character Shelley Winters plays is so drab and mousy , that one doesn't understand why George would entangle himself with her in the first place . But Clift does a great job with the lead role , delivering a performance of raw nerve . It befuddles me somewhat as to why this movie is quite so acclaimed . I can only imagine that its reception has to do with cultural moods at the time it was released and that it just hasn't aged well . It came out in 1951 , a big year for literary adaptations ( " A Streetcar Named Desire " and " Death of a Salesman " were both given big-screen treatments that year ) , and you only need to compare " Sun " to " Streetcar " to see how short it falls at capturing the essence of a true literary classic .
" Halloween : H20 " makes an obvious effort to return to the franchise's roots and recapture the qualities that made the first one so good . It doesn't come close to succeeding , but it does manage to become , in my opinion , the second best of the series , though that's pretty faint praise . There are some creepy scenes early on in this film ( the one in the deserted rest stop bathroom , most notably ) , but this movie really exists for the sole purpose of having Jamie Lee Curtis kick Michael Myers's ass , and the catharsis in watching her do so is worth the price of admission . There are some obligatory killings , but they go for gruesome rather than frightening , which was not John Carpenter's approach . But when Laurie Strode takes matters into her own hands and comes after Michael with guns blazing ( so to speak ) , hold on to yourselves - - violent tendencies seem to run in this family . The producers of this movie use a bigger budget to add some modern " scary " sound effects for atmosphere and fill out John Carpenter's original score with a sweeping orchestra - - it's like John Williams ' version of the Halloween theme . The whole thing feels like it's running on an I . V . drip of pure adrenaline . But fans of the series , or at least of the first two films , should enjoy it . LL Cool J is totally wasted in the token black character role , and Janet Leigh makes a pointless appearance as well , but listen for the brief strain of Bernard Herrman's " Psycho " score in one scene with her .
A rather innocuous collaboration between Joseph Cotten and Orson Welles , the final and weakest of the trio of films released by Welles ' Mercury studio ( the other two being " Citizen Kane " and " The Magnificent Ambersons " ) . " Journey Into Fear " plays like second-rate Graham Greene , with Cotten playing an American munitions dealer who finds himself the target of an assassination attempt by a group of Nazis . Much of the picture takes place on a seedy steamer intended to carry Cotten to safety . The film's got some nice touches , and there's a pretty exciting shoot-out finale that's something right out of Hitchcock , but the overall package isn't that memorable . Welles has a supporting role as a Turkish police chief and Welles regular Agnes Moorehead appears as a grumpy French woman . Cotten , the go-to actor for playing Americans stuck in the middle of foreign intrigues , wrote the screenplay .
A word of advice before sitting down to watch " King Kong " : make sure you've gone to the bathroom first . You might also want to make sure you have an emergency supply of snacks and some bottled water in case you find yourself weakened from malnourishment about half way through . I issue a challenge to director Peter Jackson : make a movie that clocks in at under three hours . I just want to see if he can do it . Come on , if you can't remake a movie with as little story as " King Kong " in under three hours , you need to hire yourself a new editor . Thank God Jackson doesn't make television ads , or we'd have a four hour commercial for Domino's Pizza . Special effects fiends might just drop dead from bliss during " Kong . " Everyone else might find themselves looking at their watches . Jackson has approached this fable with the same dogged seriousness he brought to his " Lord of the Rings " trilogy , but it seems awfully unnecessary in this case . He and his fellow screenwriters have freighted their beauty and the beast tale with a lot of psychobabble about fate , bravery , honor and other such nonsense . As the film making team headed by Jack Black ( who gives the film's best performance , by the way ) lands on Skull Island , a young crew member named Jimmy ( yes , Jimmy ) is talking to an older crew member about Conrad's " Heart of Darkness . " " It's not really an adventure story at all , is it ? " he asks . " No , Jimmy , it's not , " the other replies . Gee whillickers , I knew we were on shaky ground from that point forward . And what was the point of Jimmy's subplot anyway , or any of the other subplots ? Jackson spends about an hour of our time developing all of these characters and dropping these portentous hints , but as soon as they hit the island and all hell breaks loose , he throws everything else out the window and brings on the giant bugs . Then we get another hour ( though it felt much longer - - - I think I grew some grey hairs along the way ) on the island , during which we watch " Jurassic Park 4 : The Dinosaurs They Didn't Find the First Time . " For a while , it's fun to watch how Jackson will one up himself in one outrageous set piece after another , but it all grows monotonous before long ( let's see , how many giant grasshoppers do we still need to kill ? ) At one point , my wife leaned over to me and whispered , " They haven't even gone to New York yet . " My already numb butt gave a whimper of dismay . I needn't have worried though . It seems that even Jackson realized he had spent way too much time on Skull Island , so we whip right through the New York sequence and get Kong on top of that Empire State Building as quickly as we can ( though not until he and Naomi Watts have re-enacted the ice skating sequence from " The Bishop's Wife . " ) Some people have called " King Kong " too much of a good thing . I just call it too much . Some of the scenes are amazing , like Kong's fight with a bevy of T-Rex's . Others , like the dreadful oogie-boogie moments with the island natives , teeter on the brink of plain awfulness . And Jackson needs to resist the urge to turn absolutely every single moment into an action scene . When the character of the writer , played by Adrien Brody , realizes that the boat with the film crew is setting sail with him still on it , he tries to get off and we get an action scene . Then we get an action scene when they land on the island . Then an action scene when they're kidnapped by natives . Then action scene after action scene while they're fighting off dinosaurs and bugs . Then an action scene when they capture Kong . Then an . . . . . . . . you get the idea . I half expected Jackson to give us an action scene revolving around Watts walking down to the convenience store to buy some milk . I thought a lot of the effects looked pretty cheesy . And shame on you Mr . Jackson for killing off the token black guy and the token Asian guy on the ship's crew . Have we made no social progress since 1933 ? The truly entertaining parts of " King Kong " are truly entertaining . And the bad parts are fun to laugh at for a while . But before this movie is over , you may just find yourself wishing that the damn gorilla would just die already .
Not one of Woody Allen's more memorable films ( I can't really remember a single scene from it , except for one in which a crazy neighbor chases people around with a butcher knife ) , " Radio Days " is Allen's paean to a more innocent time when radio , rather than television , brought people together . The film , in both tone and visual style , is drenched in nostalgia , but it's too episodic to be involving as a story . It's like a Woody Allen essay sprinkled with one-liners more than a narrative film . There are a lot of recognizable faces in this , but few large roles , so most of them don't register much .
How much you enjoy " Pineapple Express " may depend largely on how funny you think Seth Rogen is and / or how high you happen to be when you watch it . I wasn't high , and I think Seth Rogen has eked about as much mileage as he can out of his doofus schlub routine , so needless to say I didn't find this film to be an instant comedy classic . There were plenty of moments that made me laugh , but usually they were the result of some minor and silly throw-away line of dialogue that felt improvised , making me want more of that . Which is why I was frustrated and rather depressed that most of the film consisted of hard-sell , aggressive gun / fistfights , car chases and other stock material normally found in buddy action movies . There's a hilarious and potentially classic addition to the stoner comedy buried somewhere within this bloated film that occasionally makes its appearance . But only occasionally . And I wasn't prepared for how graphically violent the film was going to be . It tries to play all of this awful violence for laughs but doesn't succeed . The humor just feels queasy and uncomfortable instead of outrageous . Though I did receive quite a bit of catharsis from seeing Rosie Perez crushed by a car .
Barbara Stanwyck and Gary Cooper give funny , sexy performances as a gangster moll and a nerdy professor , respectively , in this lightweight Howard Hawks offering from 1941 . Stanwyck plays Sugarpuss O'Shea , girlfriend of a thug ( Dana Andrews ) who finds himself in hot water after a dead body turns up . She needs to hide herself away so that the police can't come after her for questioning , so through a twist of fate she ends up in a male boarding house where Cooper and his group of colleagues are hard at work developing an exhaustive encyclopedia . Libidos start to rumble , and the men delight in their new-found housemate , all but Cooper , who's determined to commit himself to his important work and not answer the call of the wild . Stanwyck proves too much for him , as of course she would for any red-blooded male , and the two fall for each other , which makes her situation much more complicated , as her gangster boyfriend has decided that the best way out of his mess is to marry her ( wives can't testify against husbands according to the law ) . " Ball of Fire " was not as zany or inspired as I was hoping it would be , or as it could have been given its premise . The likable group of actors who play Cooper's colleagues are responsible for much of the film's humour . They act like shy teenagers who have never seen a woman before , and fall all over each other to win Sugarpuss's favor , putting a flower on her breakfast tray or getting in arguments over who's best equipped to help her zip up her dress . Stanwyck and Cooper do generate some heat , and Stanwyck in particular has some wonderfully cute moments , like when she tries to kiss Cooper but has to erect a little footstool out of books because he's too tall for her to reach . But I wouldn't say that this movie is anything especially memorable . Rather , it's a completely serviceable comedy that doesn't really distinguish itself from any number of other serviceable comedies from the same time period .
Alas , it appears that , based on other user comments here at IMDb , I am in the minority on this film . I found it to be tedious and exhausting , and the effort I put into sticking with it far outweighed any sense of closure I received from it . Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu appeared at the screening I saw and introduced his film as the final entry in a trilogy that includes " Amores Perros " and " 21 Grams . " Inarritu , in a comment that surprised me , said that his intent with this trilogy was not to focus on politics or social commentary , but rather to look at the modern family and what it means to be a father , son , mother , daughter , etc . This may have been his intention , but I don't feel that over the course of three entire films Inarritu did say much about these issues . Instead , he has painted a portrait of the world as he apparently sees it as a pretty bleak , uncaring and unforgiving place to live . I thought " Amore Perros " was so pessimistic as to border on nihilism ; " 21 Grams " came closer to finding a sense of peace and redemption among the general human crappiness . " Babel " sticks closer to the sentiments of the first film than the latter . " Babel " is of course about communication , or more exactly miscommunication , in the modern world . It's a theme that has engaged the interest of many a filmmaker lately - - the idea that technology has made instant communication so much easier , yet people seem to be more than ever incapable of understanding one another . It's a conceit that greatly interests me , but Inarritu doesn't exploit its potential here . " Babel " consists of a monotonous series of scenes in which people shout , storm , fight and talk over one another , always in a hurry to be understood without taking the time to understand . Very well , point taken . But Inarritu makes this point within the film's first half hour - - you only need see one or two scenes of this kind of frustrating verbal gridlock to understand what he's trying to say ; after that , the frustration just mounts without any kind of pay off . People are mean to one another , some are unbelievably callous ( I didn't buy for a second that the group of tourists who accompany Brad Pitt and Cate Blanchett's characters to a remote Moroccan village after Blanchett is accidentally shot would be so uncaring as Inarritu depicts them ) . In Inarritu's world , all authority figures are to be justifiably feared , as they go around beating everybody up and pulling guns on innocent people . There's no nuance here ; Inarritu pounds his message into you . For example , he obviously feels strongly about the mistreatment of illegal immigrants , especially those from Mexico , but instead of engaging in an intelligent debate about the topic , he sets up such an implausible , not to mention one-sided , scenario in this film that you can't help but agree with him . The biggest disappointment in " Babel " is his failure to fully utilize a couple of wonderful actors he has assembled . Cate Blanchett is utterly wasted as the caustic American wife whose shooting sets off the chain of events . And Gael Garcia Bernal likewise gets nothing to do as a hot-headed Mexican whose attempts to run from border patrol creates a sad ending for one of the major characters . Brad Pitt does better than expected with the frenzied , frustrated husband of Blanchett . But these people have no history . We know virtually nothing about anybody in the film , yet are expected to care deeply about what happens to them . Maybe that's part of Inarritu's point - - that we're all connected to one another even if we don't know it , and that the world has become so small that there are no longer such things as strangers in it . But this is a film narrative , not real life , and you can't build a compelling one out of anonymous characters . After " 21 Grams " I thought I was warming up to Inarritu , but this film has sent me back to the detractors ' camp . He certainly knows how to put a movie together , and he finds engaging ways to tell his stories . But his attitudes and approach to the modern world are so depressing and fatalistic that his films push me away rather than draw me in .
I have to admit that I remember very little about this romantic comedy that introduced Hugh Grant to American audiences . A girl on my college dorm floor desperately wanted me to watch it ( she was very into all things English ) , so I obliged , but believe that I fell asleep through part of it . So I guess there you have my review . This took the " Full Monty " slot at the 1994 Academy Awards . The little indie comedy from the UK that developed a following and found itself in competition with major Hollywood products ( like " Forrest Gump " ) . I have a feeling I'd watch it now and find it pretty unremarkable .
I read a book a couple of years ago called " The Confessions of Max Tivoli , " about a man who ages backwards . The book was nothing special , a moderate diversion at best , but what it did do well was explore the emotional and psychological conflicts the main character faced as he watched everyone around him - - including his love - - lose their youth while he gained his . That same kind of conflict is the missing ingredient in " The Curious Case of Benjamin Button , " and without it , this wisp of a story doesn't add up to anything . This film is a three-hour journey with a blank slate of a character who doesn't seem to react much to the things that happen to him . Yes , Benjamin Button ages backwards , but the film never establishes how Benjamin's life is any different because of this quirk than if he had aged traditionally . The gimmick offers a lot of excuses for cool special and makeup effects , but otherwise this is just a long and rather boring episodic story that doesn't have anything to say about its characters . It's time for the world to face that fact that Brad Pitt is simply a limited actor , and it's a mistake to put him at the center of any film that relies on a complex performance to make it work . The same thing was wrong with last year's " The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford , " but that film worked despite Pitt's presence , largely because good actors were cast in all of the other roles , and they created interesting characters to compensate for the dull one at the film's center . The same is not so here . The only other actor who gets a meaty role to play is Cate Blanchett , and though she looks lovely , she's simply not given the material with which to create a memorable performance . Taraji P . Henson , who plays Pitt's mother , just does the strong Southern mom routine that Sally Field already created in " Forrest Gump . " The best performance comes from Tilda Swinton , who has a tiny role as an enigmatic woman who shares some intimate moments with Benjamin . She was so fascinating that I would rather have left the movie I was watching to follow her story instead . That's never a good sign . It's hard to believe that the David Fincher who made last year's endlessly fascinating " Zodiac " helmed this film as well . While " Benjamin Button " is nowhere nearly as maudlin as it could have been ( and probably would have been in someone else's hands ) , it's downright gloopy compared to Fincher's other works . The sentimentality is not helped by Pitt's thunderous voice over narration that's full of machine-made homilies , the kind that start with phrases like " The funny thing about home is . . . . " or " Sometimes the people that mean the most to us . . . . " The film is as technically accomplished as they come , every scene pretty as a picture . But one wishes that Fincher and company had spent a little less time making their film look nice and more time fleshing out a story that would engage our interest for nearly three hours .
One of the string of movies Josef von Sternberg directed for his muse , Marlene Dietrich . It seems like all of these movies can be identified by a particular scene or image that sets them apart from the others . " The Blue Angel " had the iconic image of Dietrich in top hat and tails ; " Blonde Venus " is the one where she performs the " Voodoo " night club number wearing a gorilla costume . The plot is pure nonsense - - the point of the film is , of course , Dietrich herself , and your enjoyment of it will depend greatly on how enamored you are of the famous star . I actually thought Dietrich's sex appeal increased with age ; she looked hot and sultry in " Witness for the Prosecution " and " Touch of Evil , " made in the late 1950s . There's no reason not to see " Blonde Venus , " but I myself am not much of a follower .
It gives me no pleasure to report that the fourth film in nearly eight times as many years from that most roguish of Hollywood's rogue directors , Terrence Malick , is mostly a failure . Give the guy a break , though . When the first three movies you make are unequivocal masterpieces , you're allowed to stumble . All of the devices Malick has employed in previous films to turn what would be sweeping epics in the hands of any other director into feverish internal character studies are present here . But in " The New World , " they curiously have the reverse effect . Instead of drawing us into the minds of his characters , Malick keeps us at a distance , and his film remains too enigmatic for us to fully appreciate . The biggest problem with this movie is its non-committal tone . According to history ( though granted , there are many different accounts of the Pocahontas story ) , John Smith was pretty much an ass , who left Pocahontas behind because he didn't really want her - - - in another account , he's forced to leave America because of a severe injury . Malick turns the Smith / Pocahontas story into a star-crossed lover's tale , with Smith the smoldering hero who turns away because he wants to protect Pocahontas from a world that won't accept her . Except that once she is taken in by the colonists , she's treated just fine , which makes one wonder what the big problem was to begin with . Malick uses his usual ruminating voice overs to draw us into the minds of Smith and Pocahontas , but this time around their thoughts don't communicate anything of much importance . Malick's version of the tale feels tidied up and sanitized , lacking in any dramatic conflict . When Smith meets Pocahontas again in England after a long absence , something about their exchange brings closure for her , and she is able to forget Smith and commit herself to her husband and child - - - but what that something is remains a mystery , for neither the screenplay nor the performances convey it . And Pocahontas's death feels rushed through ; surely Malick could have trimmed one or two meandering scenes of tree and sky earlier in the film to give it a better sense of symmetry . The performances really disappoint too , but I'm not so sure that's the fault of the actors as much as it is the writing . They're not really given robust characters to play , so no one registers all that much , not even Q'orianka Kilcher , who's supposed to be a lifeforce to which everyone is drawn . " The New World " probably warrants a second look , and I suspect I may come away admiring it more after I see it again . Malick's films aren't easy , and that's what I like about them . It's just that he's been on such firmer ground before that this movie fell way below my expectations . Immediately after leaving the theatre after seeing " The Thin Red Line , " I knew that I had just witnessed a masterpiece in real time . Leaving the theatre after " The New World , " I knew that I was just leaving .
Solid if unremarkable screen version of the Broadway play , starring Marlee Matlin before anyone knew who she was and William Hurt at the height of his mid-1980s popularity . The film is sensitive and well-acted , but it never completely sheds its stage origins , and it has that faint whiff of school assembly lecture that many movies preaching tolerance for minority groups have . Matlin delivers a brave performance in her screen debut as a deaf student who falls in love with a professor ; Hurt is said professor and delivers what he's asked to . Also with Piper Laurie as Matlin's over-protective mother .
George Lucas , what hath thou done to " Star Wars ? " Alas , only die-hard " Star Wars " fans will be able to enjoy this first prequel , and even they may be hard pressed to muster up an ounce of interest in this inert story about trade disputes and underhanded politics that doesn't make an ounce of sense until you've seen episodes II and III . Admittedly , " The Phantom Menace " gets better after you've seen the rest of the series , but on its own merits it's a pretty shaky effort . Lucas proves that he has virtually no skill in directing actors , as normally good performers like Liam Neeson and Natalie Portman sink like lead weights under terrible dialogue that no one could do anything with . ( And don't even get me started on Samuel L . Jackson , who looks like he would rather be doing his laundry than appearing in this film ) . Lucas gives his actors no help either , as " Menace , " and indeed the entire second trilogy , may as well be animated , and more often than not an actor is stranded in a sea of computer-generated graphics with nothing to react to . This computer-generated world looks nothing like the world created in the first trilogy , and that inconsistency is one of the most distracting things about the prequels . There are things about this movie I do like , though . I like the scenes with Anakin and his mom ; I like Darth Maul ; and I liked the pod race scene . Everything else feels like what it is - - necessary but unengaging set up for the REAL story that doesn't pick up steam until parts II and III .
A Norma Shearer soap opera about a free-spirited woman and her alcoholic attorney father ( Lionel Barrymore ) who stand together against the disapproving snobbery of their family . Shearer falls in love with a thug who her father defended in court ( Clark Gable ) , and finds that her father's talk about the second chances due to troubled souls does not extend to them when they're dating his daughter . The pair enter into an agreement : she'll stop seeing the thug if he'll stop drinking . Things take appropriately outlandish and melodramatic turns when Shearer's former fiancée ( Leslie Howard ) gets involved , kills Gable , and finds himself being defended in court by who ? . . . . . you guessed it , good old Barrymore , who just has time to finish an impassioned plea for the man's life before dropping dead . Whew , that's a lot to pack into a 90 minute film . There's not much of note about this movie except for the good performances of Shearer and Barrymore ( though she was better in the previous year's melodrama , " The Divorcée " ) and its frank treatment of alcoholism . Had this come out a few years later , after the Production Code was firmly in place , the film would not have even been able to admit that alcoholism existed .
Actor Barry Sullivan kicks things off in " Tension " with a pre-credits monologue spoken directly into the camera , in which his police detective character explains his method for getting criminals to trip up and give their crimes away - - he applies pressure to them slowly and steadily until they have no choice but to snap , just like the rubber band he plays with as he speaks . The self-awareness of this opening sequence carries over into the entire film , making this one of the more humorous entries in the film noir cycle . Richard Basehart plays a man tromped on by his floozy wife ( Audrey Totter ) , who gets so fed up with his inability to stand up for himself that he decides to create an alternate identity and use it to create the perfect murder , killing his wife's new lover . At the last minute , he can't do it , but the guy turns up dead anyway , shot by Totter , and now Basehart's in a fix . How can he explain to the police that he had planned to murder this guy , and had gone through all of these deliberate preparations for doing so , but didn't actually do the deed ? Basehart plays his role well , nimbly managing the leap back and forth between the nerdy drug store manager and the mysterious cosmetics salesman that comprise his two identities . But the film is hijacked right from under his feet by Sullivan , who gets most of the film's funniest lines , and Totter , who plays Basehart's wife as the quintessential femme fatale . She's so appealingly sexy , sharp and lurid , especially when compared to the wholesome , bland Cyd Charisse , who plays Basehart's new love interest , that you almost end up rooting for her to come out on top . This film noir is no big deal , but it's an awful lot of fun .
I read the E . M . Forster novel between viewings of " A Passage to India , " and found that my impression of the film was somewhat diminished the second time as a result . But there's an old-fashioned splendor to David Lean's style of film-making that I love , and so I very much admire this film despite its faults . Judy Davis and Peggy Ashcroft play two English ladies , one young , one old , who travel to India in search of a true Indian adventure . While exploring the mysterious Marabar caves with a doctor who both ladies befriend ( Victor Banerjee ) , something enigmatic unhinges both of them , and the doctor is accused by Adela ( Davis ) of attempted rape . The resulting trial brings the already simmering tension between the English and Indians to an angry boil . Forster's novel is deeply complex and psychological . The film only skims the surface of the inner lives of its characters , and focuses instead on the more tangible plot points . As a result , the movie doesn't make as much sense as the book , mostly because we never fully understand Davis's character , and it's on the inner workings of her mind that the whole story hinges . But the film does successfully ask the same question as Forster's novel , which is not how can the English and Indian cultures integrate , but rather whether or not such a thing will ever be possible . " A Passage to India " does have all of the elements that immediately identify a film as being of David Lean's canon : the exotic locales , the traditional Hollywood feel , the glorious Maurice Jarre score , and even if less than in the novel , a level of character development that is frequently lacking in big-screen epics .
Harrison Ford runs and Tommy Lee Jones chases after him in this big-budget film adaptation of the popular television series . This is a Hollywood action movie for the thinking man , where you can tell that at least as much thought went into characterizations as into the numerous technical stunts . One of the film's strongest ingredients is the chemistry between Ford and Jones , all the more remarkable since the two actors don't actually appear physically together on screen very often . Jones , especially , steals the show , and I remember sitting in the movie theater at the time of this movie's release thinking that he would at least be nominated for an Oscar ( which he was , and which he won ) . So , good movie for its genre . . . . but an Academy Award nomination for Best Picture ? I don't know about that . . . .
Pour yourself out a nice big boatload of gravy to go with this gigantic slice of holiday ham . . . . I love this movie , and I'm not ashamed to admit it . I don't even feel like doing a critical analysis of it , or talking about the acting , or anything of the kind . It's not even a good movie , really , and it suffers from that ugly 50s look from which so many movies from the decade suffered , when they thought the way to compete with television was to build enormous screens and cram them full of saturated color . . . Michael Curtiz and company make only the barest attempt at adhering to anything resembling a plot , and what plot there is could hardly be called coherent . This film was one of the last gasps of the " Let's put on a show ! " genre , as well as one of the last shameless attempts to tearjerk a WWII recovering audience into submission . This movie contains more corn than Nebraska , and God love it for that .
Those who want to learn the history of Marie Antoinette will not find it in Sofia Coppola's film . This movie raised more questions than it answered for me . I didn't know much of anything about this famous French monarch , other than that she was eventually beheaded ( which is not shown in the film ) and that Norma Shearer starred in a 1938 version of her story . I did a little bit of reading about Marie Antoinette after seeing Coppola's movie and decided that Coppola took much too frivolous an approach to the material . Many of the details about Marie Antoinette's life as first wife of the dauphin and then queen are present , but if you don't know her story before watching the film , they may slide right past you without notice , even some quite significant ones . Coppola doesn't provide an historical context in which to place the film's action ; therefore , we understand that certain things are important without understanding why . Why , for example , do the French end up hating her and Louis XVI so much ? What mistakes do they make as leaders that drives their country to such a desperate point ? The film ends with the king and queen fleeing the palace of Versailles - - there's a heck of a lot of story left to tell after that event , but it's not recorded here . I suspect Coppola was trying to put us in the queen's place - - she was a young , immature girl who was thrust into a position for which she was not emotionally ready . In the film , politics bore her , and she would much rather buy clothes and gossip . The job of running a country remains a vague nuisance pushed into the background . But this point of view approach backfires . We don't learn enough about what's at stake to ever feel especially concerned about Marie Antoinette or what happens to her , and the character itself isn't vivid . So why am I ultimately recommending the film ? Because it's lively , colorful and extremely well directed . It reminded me of Kubrick's " Barry Lyndon " : there's no substance to the movie , but it's so meticulously detailed in its production design , and it so faithfully recreates the rituals of 18th Century France , that it's absolutely fascinating on those terms alone . I enjoyed the anachronisms Coppola brings to the film : Kirsten Dunst , playing the title role , and Jason Schwartzman , as Louis XVI , speak in a slangy American dialect that doesn't even attempt to convince us that either of them is European ; in one scene , during a flashy montage showing Antoinette and her female cohorts enjoying the frivolity and excess for which she was so notorious , we get a glimpse of Converse sneakers discarded in the background ; and most notably , most of the soundtrack consists of contemporary pop tunes that comment on the action , and if they frequently take the burden of telling the story away from Coppola and her actors , they're also a lot of fun . Ultimately , " Marie Antoinette " resembles one of the many gooey , decadent candies that the queen consumes throughout the film - - completely lacking in substance , but lovely to look at and perfectly suited to satisfy a craving for something sweet .
Roland Joffe's period film is breathtaking to look at and listen to , but it's directed with a heavier hand than his breakout film from two years earlier , " The Killing Fields . " I had trouble with the casting too . Jeremy Irons feels right for his role , but it's tough to accept Robert DeNiro in period films - - he's such a remarkable contemporary actor , and he's created such iconic representations of modern urban life , that he feels out of place in something like this . The film is a feast for the eyes and ears though , with Chris Menges , who had won an Oscar for photographing " The Killing Fields " , adding a second trophy to his mantle for his work here ; and Ennio Morricone providing an instantly classic score .
Wes Craven's horror classic holds up remarkably well , and remains a truly scary movie . Freddy was always a more chilling villain than Michael Myers or Jason Voorhees . Whereas the other two went about their ritualistic killings like zoned-out zombies , Freddy delights in his , and enjoys the fear his victims feel as he toys with them before he murders them as much as he enjoys the murders themselves . And he's just physically scarier as well : he runs , darts around , can pop up anywhere as anything . Wes Craven's genius in this entire series was the plot hook that has Freddy only able to murder in his victims ' dreams . This allows Craven fantastic , surreal set pieces , that really do manage to capture the feelings that nightmares have in actuality . One of the best in the horror genre .
I find this holiday made-for-T . V . movie to be one of the more charming of its kind , maybe because it's not as well known as " Rudolph " and " Frosty " and other holiday perennials . In this one , Santa ( voiced by Mickey Rooney , who also did Santa honors in " Santa Claus Is Comin ' to Town " ) decides he's had enough of Christmas and those who don't appreciate him and cancels the holiday . Mrs . Claus ( voiced by Shirley Booth ) decides it's up to her to prove to Santa how much everyone still loves and admires him , so she sends off two elves on an around-the-world fact-finding mission to compile evidence of a belief in Santa and what he stands for . From there , the plot goes all over the place and nothing makes a whole lot of sense , but it's all harmless enough . The film's biggest selling point , of course , are the miser brothers , Heat and Snow , who each get a showstopping burlesque number complete with mini back up singers . I wish these two had been given a Christmas movie of their own .
One of those movies you always remember as being better than it actually is . " Vacation " tells the story of Clark Griswold ( Chevy Chase ) leading his family across country on one of those most dreaded of dreaded events - - the Family Vacation ! It's episodic in nature , moving briskly from one disaster to another , some of them very funny ( the death of a miserable aunt played by Imogen Coca is a highlight ) to the downright disturbing ( a brief stay with some incestuous hillbilly relatives ) . Some scenes deliver bigger laughs than others , but none of them sticks around for very long , so even the dead parts move by fairly quickly . Having been on a cross-country drive myself with my family when I was a kid ( from Illinios to California ) to go to Disneyland , let's just say I could easily relate to this film . Beverly D'Angelo is smokin ' hot as Chase's wife , and a young Anthony Michael Hall is hilarious as his adolescent son .
A WWII yarn about a German prisoner ( Oskar Werner ) who volunteers himself for spy work in the front lines during the waning days of the European conflict . He's sent off on a mission that also involves another German spy and an American radio man ( Richard Basehart ) . While carrying it out , he suffers a crisis of conscience , torn between his allegiance to his home country and his belief that the best way to help his people is to help the Americans wipe out Hitler's regime . " Decision Before Dawn " is an entertaining spy thriller that benefits from its authentic , on location shooting amid bombed out European villages . But it could have been a much more interesting film had its moral conflicts been given more air time . It then would have been like something from Graham Greene . Unfortunately , Werner's crisis isn't shown to us as much as it's told to us in a few moments of voice over . Werner himself gives a good performance with the material he's given to work with , but it's tough to shake off the feeling of missed opportunity that surrounds the role . Speaking of Graham Greene , the film's finale is a chase through the rubble of a German town , and it's reminiscent of " The Third Man , " but this one feels slightly dogged when compared to that other film's sense of funhouse excitement . Also starring Gary Merrill as the leader of the American mission , and Hildegard Knef in a brief but memorable role as a possible romantic complication for Werner .
Hokier and jokier than its predecessor , " Raiders of the Lost Ark , " " Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom " gives us a pretty good idea of what Steven Spielberg would be like if he were hopped up on amphetamines . " Raiders " felt like it was full of non-stop action until you see this movie , which barely pauses to catch its breath . It's not as good as " Raiders , " but I always enjoy it . Kate Capshaw is the film's biggest liability - - in the scene where she's being lowered into a fiery pit and Indiana is trying to save her , I always root for the fire . But the film has dazzling set pieces , some of them , like a breakneck race through a mine shaft , that rival or even outdo those in " Raiders . "
I barely feel qualified to write a comment on this forgotten Disney live-action film from the mid-1980s , since I've only seen it once , and that was back when it first came out . But I do remember liking it , and it's probably worth a re-watch for those who saw it back in the day , and a first watch for those who've never seen it . It's notable for featuring a very young John Cusack , before anyone knew who he was . It seems to me that Disney had a pretty good track record of live action films during that decade ( " Never Cry Wolf " is another forgotten one ) but that few of them have had any staying power .
I'm utterly mystified at the cult of idolatry that has developed around this solid but not overly memorable prison film based on a Stephen King short story . " The Shawshank Redemption " came out of nowhere in 1994 to be nominated for 7 Academy Awards , and I have to believe that it's the film's underdog story that has helped it to develop such a following over the years as much as it is the quality of the film itself . There's nothing egregiously wrong with it , but it's overly-sentimental and obvious film-making from a director who has done nothing but make too serious film adaptations of Stephen King novels . I think it's become apparent over the years that Morgan Freeman is a one-trick pony when it comes to acting , but at the time he wasn't quite as well known , so the wise sage role he plays here seemed good enough to get him an Oscar nomination . However , it's Tim Robbins who really deserves the most praise as the man wrongly imprisoned . The less said about the actors who play the various prison personnel , the better - - they're all played as horrorshow goons . The original Stephen King story was an entertaining bit of pulp , but Frank Darabont tries to turn it into something that the story just isn't - - namely , an epic story about one man's struggle to free his soul . As a result , where the story felt sleek and satisfying , the film feels sanctimonious and bloated .
Jack Nicholson delivers a wonderful performance - - back when he was still playing characters other than Jack Nicholson - - in this well done but awfully gloomy film from Bob Rafelson . Nicholson plays Bobby Dupea , a worker on an oil rig with decidedly anti-social tendencies , who returns home to make peace with his dying father . Once there , he's confronted with the cushy , privileged life he left behind , and we learn that he turned away from a promising career as a concert pianist . What I like most about " Five Easy Pieces " is its ambivalence toward its main character . The film does not try to turn Bobby into some sort of noble hero , who shuns the establishment in order to uphold his own principles . He seems much more like a spoiled rich kid who can afford to be a slacker because he's never lived without a safety net . He fails to pursue a musical career , but more because he's lazy than because of anything that career would represent for him . And his treatment of his girlfriend , played heart breakingly by Karen Black in one of her many fascinating performances , is unnecessarily cruel . She's so dumbly loyal that mistreating her is the equivalent of mistreating a dog . But still , Nicholson is able to make us like Bobby , and to understand at some level where his anti-social behavior comes from . He is unable to tolerate the arbitrary rules and restrictions of bourgeois life , and a famous scene in a diner when he tries to order a tuna fish sandwich with toasted bread and ends up in a complicated argument with the waitress provides just one illustration of how Bobby perceives the world from which he is running .
Boys behaving badly is the subject of this pretty funny adolescent comedy . Three uber-geeky high school seniors are invited to a party they otherwise would never get invited to because they promise to bring the booze . Their struggles to actually get to the party comprise most of the film's action . End of story . " Superbad " is plenty naughty , but it's actually fairly tame for the genre . Even " Porky's " from more than twenty years ago felt more adult than this movie . The film's R rating comes almost entirely from its rough language , of which there is plenty , but there's little else to offend . This comedy is in the tradition of the recent spate of " sensitive " adult comedies like " The 40-Year-Old-Virgin " and " Knocked Up " in which guys learn to treat women with respect and maturity is something other than a four-letter word . I had two major complaints with " Superbad " : one is that I can't stand the actor Jonah Hill , who unfortunately gets the bulk of the movie's screen time ; the other is that I'm also tiring quickly of Seth Rogan , and his and Bill Hader's antics as the most irresponsible cops in the world provide the movie with its least funny moments , and serve only as a distraction from the much funnier and actually sort of sweet story about three teenagers ' coming of age .
The material in " Steel Magnolias " teeters dangerously on the brink of " Terms of Endearment " territory - - maudlin , gloopy and shamelessly tearjerky . But it's saved by its cast , who are able to keep things palatable . The most praise must go to Sally Field , who's perfectly suited to play the tough-as-nails Southern mom who must face losing her daughter , and her breakdown scene in the cemetery after they bury her is a small tour-de-force . Field refuses to let the sentimentality of the script overshadow her performance - - it's a terrific piece of acting . The film also features that tireless work horse , Tom Skerritt , hopelessly under-appreciated as an actor , along with a female cast that includes Shirley MacLaine , Olympia Dukakis , Dolly Parton , Daryl Hannah and Julia Roberts , Oscar-nominated for her performance as Field's sick daughter .
I was actually slightly motion sick after leaving this film , so my final impression of it is somewhat marred by that , but overall this was dumb summer fun at its best . I was the right age for the transformer toys , but I never really got into them . However , having played with them is not a prerequisite for enjoying the film . These kind of movies crack me up . They are so obvious in their intentions to traffic in the gut emotions of an audience not used to thinking very critically about what they are watching . This film , like most of Michael Bay's films , is a gussied up military recruitment ad , the kind where all of the soldiers in it are muscled and oily , and where they do a lot of walking toward the camera in emphatic slow motion . There are girls in the film ( two of them , to be exact ) , but they're basically just guys with breasts and nice legs . The government is to be feared and distrusted , because they keep secrets from the American people ( like the fact that the Hoover Dam was really built as a facade to hide alien robots and their belongings ) , while the military is heroic and manly . To make itself feel relevant , the film even throws in some action scenes set in the Middle East . It was refreshing , though , that for once all of the chest-thumping is not reserved solely for the United States , but rather for the human race in general . The message in " Transformers , " other than that geeky teenagers have the stuff soldiers are made of , is that the human race isn't so bad after all , even if we have a lot to learn .
Watching this first pairing of Spencer Tracy and Katharine Hepburn , it's easy to see why the two became a legendary screen couple ( and real-life couple for that matter ) . They seem perfectly suited for one another , and you can't imagine either of them with anyone else . But it's hard from a 21st Century sensibility not to be appalled at this WWII-era George Stevens dramedy . Tracy is a sports writer and Hepburn an international reporter for the same newspaper . They meet , marry and fight when she won't abandon her career to settle down into dutiful motherhood . In the end , she gets her comeuppance and realizes that what she wants more than anything is to learn how to separate eggs and make coffee . Try to forgive it its decidedly un-feminist message though . This came out at a time when the culture was particularly threatened by the idea of women supplanting men in areas traditionally reserved for men , and it wouldn't have been good for soldier morale for men to think women back at home could carry on just fine without them . And at the very end , Tracy does come around and tell Hepburn that he doesn't necessarily want a barefoot and pregnant version of a wife any more than he wants a career-oriented wife who will put her work before her home , but rather wishes she could be something in between . As things play out in the film , this comes as too little too late , but it's a sophisticated attitude for the time and makes the movie much more relevant today , when women are being forced to juggle multiple roles . Overall I enjoyed this movie , but I thought it was strangely directed by Stevens . I usually enjoy his 40s comedies , but his instincts feel off here . The way he chooses to shoot scenes many times seem in tone to be at odds with what's actually happening in them , so I wasn't always sure what was supposed to be light-hearted and funny and what wasn't . A striking example of this comes in the scene in which Tracy comes back to Hepburn's apartment after their first date . It's supposed to be an erotic and sexually charged scene , but it's shot like a film noir , with Hepburn silhouetted against brightly lit windows and the room in sinister shadow . There's a ponderousness to Stevens ' direction that serves as a sneak preview of his prevailing style in the 50s , when he started to make socially " important " movies . A solidly made but uneven film . If you're expecting a frothy comedy you will be disappointed .
The first third of " Atonement " is superb . We are introduced to a group of affluent English aristocrats whiling away their summer hours at a massive estate . One of them , Cecilia ( Keira Knightley ) , is nursing a raging case of sexual attraction to her childhood friend and now family gardener , Robbie Turner ( James McAvoy ) , while another , Cecilia's young sister Briony ( Saoirse Ronan ) , spends her day writing a play which she plans to perform for a family gathering later that evening . Everyone is bored and listless in the summer heat . Briony , prey to an overactive imagination , keeps witnessing a series of increasingly serious moments of intimacy between Cecilia and Robbie that she isn't old enough to fully understand , and finally a false accusation by her is responsible for sending Robbie away from the estate in handcuffs . Everything about this part of the film is brilliant . The director Joe Wright ratchets the sexual tension to an almost unbearable pitch , and I was on the edge of my seat waiting to see what would happen . But then the story and movie switched gears , and it lost some of that narrative momentum it had been so wonderfully building . The second and third acts of the film , while accomplished , do not deliver on the promise set up in the film's first part , and the movie never really succeeded in sucking me back in . When we next see Robbie , he's wandering through the desolate battlefields of WWII France , pining for Cecilia and nursing a chest wound . Wright shows off mightily in this part of the film ; there's an astounding ten-minute tracking shot that depicts the allied forces on the beach of Dunkirk that will have cineastes slobbering . But like Robbie's mind , this part of the film starts to wander aimlessly , and even while I was admiring the sheer planning that went into this amazing shot , I couldn't help but wish that Wright would just get on with it already . Finally , the film circles back to Briony , four years older and working as a nurse tending to the wounded . She's suffering a tremendous amount of guilt for the wrongs she's only now beginning to understand and wants to reach out to Cecilia ( from whom she's now estranged ) and Robbie to offer her apologies . I've not read the Iam McEwan novel on which this film is based , but even I could tell that this is where the screenwriter , Christopher Hampton , had the most trouble adapting the novel to the screen . Much of what " Atonement " is about becomes clear in this last act , as Briony ages into Vanessa Redgrave , a successful novelist who has finally written a novel that works as an outlet for her devastating feelings of guilt . We begin to realize here that " Atonement " isn't as much about the love affair between Cecilia and Robbie as it is about the act of writing and the power of words . Briony learns as a little girl how difficult words are to take back once they've been said ; as an adult , she learns the ability of words to help us deal with regret . One particular scene that takes place between Cecilia , Robbie and Briony is a fiction inserted into their story by Briony the novelist ; it's the story as she wishes it had been rather than as it actually was . Briony the woman can't change the past , but Briony the novelist can . This is a wonderful idea , but unfortunately the screenplay doesn't quite know how to communicate this in cinematic terms , so it's told directly to the audience by Redgrave in a monologue at the film's conclusion . Redgrave is a luminous actress , but her soliloquy feels awkwardly inserted into the film . As for the other actors , they all do fine work . The young actress Saoirse Ronan is especially good , and James McAvoy proves further that he's becoming one of the finest young actors working today . But the screenplay sort of abandons him and Knightley after its first half hour or so to a warmed over version of " The English Patient , " and the strong impact they both make early on dissipates gradually . I admired " Atonement " for how it looked and the ideas it had to express , but I think it's an uneven film that doesn't entirely work .
My wife loves this movie , mostly on the strength of Jack Lemmon's wild performance , but I have to admit that I've remained resistant to its charms . I don't DISLIKE it , but I always have trouble understanding how it pops up again and again on various lists as one of the funniest comedies ever produced . Of course , much of my lack of appreciation probably has to do with the fact that cross dressing comedies have become a dime a dozen now , but were virtually unheard of at the time this film was released . And even more notable , Jack Lemmon's character actually kind of LIKES pretending to be a woman , so this film manages to work in some fairly ahead of its time gender politics into its mostly escapist comedy trappings . But the film is hampered by too much Marilyn Monroe , who was just a terrible actress , like it or not . The woman could not act , and no amount of sex appeal ( though I think she had very little of that as well ) could change that fact . Still , my reservations aside , the strengths in this film mostly outweigh the weaknesses . Billy Wilder delivers a sharp script even if his direction seems to be at cross purposes with the movie's comedic elements , and Tony Curtis gives a hilarious and dead-on impersonation of Cary Grant that rivals Lemmon's manic antics in its pricelessness .
The illegal immigrant dispute between the U . S . and Mexico has been such a hot-button topic lately that I never think about illegal immigration being a problem between the U . S . and Canada . " Frozen River " uses that very issue as a backdrop for its story about a desperate single mother ( Melissa Leo ) in upstate New York who turns to illegal smuggling as a means for making money to buy her and her two sons a new home . It's a sombre , indie-vibe film , one of those movies where the color scheme is predominantly gray and brown and the action is set in some location you can't ever quite believe summer visits . Just in case we didn't understand the significance of the film's title , director Courtney Hunt inserts shots of a literally frozen river periodically throughout the movie . The whole thing is probably authentic but it's also pretty depressing . I'm thrilled that Melissa Leo received a Best Actress Academy Award nomination , because she's a hard-working actress who's appeared in a number of striking roles that have gone without recognition . But while I thought she was very good , I wasn't wowed by her . The film's final moments , in which Leo's character finds redemption , felt false to me . I guess the movie needed something uplifting to balance out its bleakness , but I didn't buy that this mother , whose actions throughout the entire movie were motivated by the instinct to provide for her children , would then agree to leave them in the hands of someone she barely knows while she goes off to spend four months in jail . Misty Upham , who plays Leo's partner in crime , gives a quietly remarkable performance .
Square military courtroom drama from that squarest of square directors , Rob Reiner . Tom Cruise and Jack Nicholson challenge each other to a yelling match , with Nicholson squeaking by for the win . Demi Moore practices her ability to look pensive and concerned . Kevin Bacon pops up and proves that there's life after " Footloose , " while Keifer Sutherland ( ick ) is also on hand , proving that there's life after . . . what ? . . . . " The Lost Boys ? " Still , for the kind of movie this is , it's pretty entertaining . Was clearly the space filler at the 1992 Academy Awards , as it managed to get nominated for Best Picture without nominations for either directing or writing .
A cute and diverting Disney film that pokes fun at other Disney films . Amy Adams does fine work as a cartoon princess named Giselle who is banished to that frightening , sinister world otherwise known as New York City by an evil queen ( Susan Sarandon ) who doesn't want her marrying her dashing stepson , Prince Edward ( James Marsden ) , and stealing her crown away from her . Giselle winds up in the care of Patrick Dempsey ( who's come a long way since his days as a gigolo pizza delivery guy in " Loverboy " ) , an uptight divorce attorney who doesn't believe in true love . Giselle of course , in true Disney princess fashion , believes in nothing else , and the two fall predictably in love , much to the dismay of Edward , who has followed Giselle to New York . Much of the humor in " Enchanted " revolves around contrasting fairytale mannerisms and beliefs to the , shall we say slightly more jaded , attitudes of modern-day New York . Giselle and Edward are both completely lacking in irony or sarcasm , and don't understand feelings like anger or scorn . They both also have a habit of breaking out into big production numbers at the most inopportune times , which provides the film with its highlights . When Giselle wants to clean up a messy apartment , she enlists the help of God's creatures , just like Snow White did so many years ago , but the ones that show up here are pigeons , rats , roaches and an army of flies . It would be easy to dismiss Adams ' performance as unchallenging , but I think it would take a lot of skill to carry a movie like this , and she does it well . Marsden is also quite funny as the pompous prince with gleaming white teeth . Demspey is kind of droopy , while Susan Sarandon hams things up as the wicked stepmother . The film grows rather tiresome by its conclusion ; the filmmakers can't resist a CGI showdown between the queen ( in the guise of a giant purple dragon ) and our lovers . But overall it left me entertained .
It's no surprise that Billy Wilder , the man who gave us the ghoulishly funny " Sunset Boulevard , " would be drawn to this macabre but witty Agatha Christie play . " Witness for the Prosecution " is very minor Wilder , and would probably go unremembered today if not for the wonderful performances of husband and wife team Charles Laughton and Elsa Lanchester . Both seem to understand better than the stiff-backed and Brill-creme-haired Tyrone Power that the material is not to be taken too seriously , and it's a ball to watch them trade barbs back and forth ( she plays nurse to his ailing prosecutor ) with twinkles in their eyes . The story itself is shamelessly manipulative - - Laughton's character suffers from a heart condition that threatens to kill him in the middle of the trial , for God's sake ! - - yet it worked at keeping me in suspense despite myself . And may I just say that Marlene Dietrich appears in one of the most bizarre performances I've ever seen on film . Won't tax your intellect , but will probably tickle your funny bone .
" High Noon " is a text book on how to edit a film brilliantly , but it's awfully cold and impersonal as a movie . It creates a tremendous amount of suspense , but the whole movie is gimmick , and the suspense is empty . As most people know , it takes place in " real time , " so there are lots of cut aways to clocks underscored with thumping music , and montages of reaction shots of all the principal characters looking pensive . But stripped of its novelty after a first viewing and the fact that its gimmicks have been ransacked countless times by other movies over the years , there isn't much to revisit . I suspect Gary Cooper's acclaim in this role came from people who were tickled to see an iconic movie actor playing an iconic movie type , rather than because he created a flesh-and-blood human being that anybody really cared about . He's not required to do much but look resigned and stoic , which to his credit he does well . But I don't know how much of a PERFORMANCE it is . It's cool to like " High Noon " because it's been interpreted as an attack on McCarthyism , but that's not enough to make the film relevant today . It's certainly not a bad movie , and I get why it's viewed as an important one . Movies like " High Noon " are necessary , because they introduce new ways of doing things and add new phrases to film language . It's just that , with some historical perspective , it's obvious that it wears its schematics on its sleeve .
Julianne Moore is a wonderful actress . In " The Prize Winner of Defiance , Ohio , " she gets no big showy scenes , no moments where she acknowledges her own talent by ACTING . There are no breakdowns , crack ups , manias or histrionics . The movie goes down easy and , once the DVD player has been turned off , is just as easy to forget . But I woke up the morning after having watched this movie thinking about Julianne Moore ( and no , not in THAT way ) . I realized that this disarmingly unshowy performance had a powerful impact on me ; through an accumulation of small , quiet moments and carefully crafted acting choices , Moore creates a full-bodied , rich and entirely satisfying character out of material that threatens at every step to descend into irretrievable schmaltz . It's a small miracle of acting . Unfortunately , Woody Harrelson does not fare as well . His blustery , childish and pathetic father is believable only about 50 % of the time . The movie is almost ridiculously one sided , and it's only Moore's expert and disciplined handling of her role that prevents the mother from coming across as too good to be true . The material is gooey and sentimental , but it's surprisingly less sentimental than I feared it would be . And anyway , sentiment like this I can forgive , since I'm bound to be a slobbery sentimental mess about my own parents some day too .
After scoring big with " Annie Hall " and " Manhattan , " Woody Allen had a bit of a dry run in the early 1980s with the forgettable " Stardust Memories " and " A Midsummer Night's Sex Comedy . " " Zelig " found him back on track , and feels like a return to the screwball hijinks of his early 1970s films . Allen films " Zelig " as a documentary , and takes as his subject the life of a man who is able to blend in with his surroundings . Allen himself plays Zelig , and keeps everything - - both his performance and the film's tone - - utterly deadpan . There are a ton of funny one-liners and sight gags , but they're played completely straight . " Zelig " isn't one of Allen's most ambitious films , but it's very funny and is many times better than most of the movies he's making today .
A fun movie that doesn't try to be anything more than what it is - - an amiable comedy . Mel Gibson can actually manage to be tolerable when he's playing charming , which he does here . James Garner is perfectly cast for quite obvious reasons . And it's nice to see Jodie Foster lighten up and play a feminine character for once - - up to that point , her resume had been quite serious . For some strange reason , I distinctly remember Siskel and Ebert being infuriated that this film won an Academy Award nomination for Best Costume Design . Ah , to live such a charmed life that something like that constitutes a major gripe . . . . .
" Now , Voyager " is THE ultimate Bette Davis melodrama . She plays a frumpy , dowdy spinster ( they basically put some glasses on her and mess up her hair a little ) who blossoms into a strong beauty and ends the film swooning into Paul Henreid's arms as she delivers the famous line , " Let's not ask for the moon , we already have the stars . " It's actually a ridiculous movie , but who the hell cares ! The plot makes no sense , but the film seems to know its plot makes no sense and charges forward anyway . Of her noble sufferer roles , this was Davis's best , and she never disappoints . She has tremendous chemistry with Claude Rains , and the funniest moment in the film comes when he , as her doctor , talking to her about her time in a mental institution , says , " I thought you came here to have a breakdown , " ( or something to that effect ) , and she replies , " I did , but I changed my mind . " Gladys Cooper plays Davis's stifling , overbearing battle-axe of a mother , a role Cooper cornered the market on . And director Irving Pichel throws in some nice directorial flourishes to distinguish his film , such as the shot of Cooper , very disapproving of Davis's emergence from her shell , looming in the foreground with her back to the camera , forbiddingly drumming her fingernails against the wall while Davis busies herself in the background . No composition could more clearly communicate the relationship these two women have to each other , and it's all the more satisfying , therefore , SPOILER ALERT when Davis inadvertently sends the old biddy flying down the stairs to her death . But all that messy business is forgotten by the film's end , Davis triumphs ( as if anyone doubted she would ) , and all's right with the world . Ahhhhhh . . . . . .
The last good old-fashioned musical of the 1960s , " Oliver ! " is of course a musicalized version of Charles Dickens ' classic novel " Oliver Twist . " If the bouncy-jouncy treatment eliminates much of what is dark about the book ( and which the 1948 David Lean version nicely captures ) , it makes up for it in colorful and splashy production numbers . At this time in Hollywood , studios were trying to make big musicals but in an arty way , copping trendy cinematic conventions to tell hopelessly stage-bound stories - - thus it gave us " Camelot " and " Funny Girl " and other gangly products . So it's refreshing that no effort was made to make " Oliver ! " the least bit cinematic . It looks and moves like a stage production ; the sets look like stage sets . Therefore , the movie retains everything that made the musical good in the first place . Luckily , and smartly , the film also decided to retain Ron Moody in the central role of Fagin , recreating his Broadway performance , rather than wedge some big-shot movie star into the film who would look ridiculous mouthing the words to someone else's singing voice . The score , one of my favorites , sounds terrific , and most of the songs are kept intact , with the addition of one written specifically for the film , " As Long As He Needs Me , " which has subsequently been integrated into stage productions . Some of the show-stopping highlights include the " Consider Yourself " number , Fagin's " You've Got to Pick a Pocket or Two , " in which he teaches Oliver how to be a crack petty thief , the " Who Will Buy ? " dance sequence , and Nancy's boozy song , " Oom-Pah-Pah , " which serves a different and more effective purpose in the film than it did in the stage version . Carol Reed , known for his stylish Graham Greene screen adaptations " The Fallen Idol " and " The Third Man , " does directing honors here , and he won the Best Director Oscar for his efforts , most likely because the Academy felt guilty for not awarding him for much worthier efforts ( the exact same reasoning landed George Cukor an Oscar for " My Fair Lady " four years earlier ) .
After having seen many Bergman films , I finally got my hands on this , considered by many to be the master's masterpiece . Not really about the children Fanny and Alexander ( as the title would suggest ) so much as about the entire Ekdahl family , this film is meticulously detailed and highly autobiographical . It looks absolutely fabulous ; cinematographer and Bergman regular Sven Nykvist outdoes himself with his crystal clear compositions . Bergman's directorial style is at times a bit too static ; he lets his camera sit motionless far too frequently , fine when focused on a face or tableau , but uninteresting when simply filming a group or room from long shot . But overall , he is in complete mastery of the material . I saw the full-length , five-hour television version , and the first half of this is flawless . Documenting the Ekdahl family Christmas , the death of Oscar ( Fanny and Alexander's father ) and their subsequent move to the home of their stepfather and religious tyrant , this part of the film is compulsively watchable . The characters ( with the exception of little Fanny herself ) are painted with detailed strokes by the acting and writing , and Bergman uses his production design to great effect , juxtaposing the sumptuous interiors of the Ekdahl's home with the ascetic house of the stepfather . The movie floundered a bit for me , though , in the second half . Here Bergman indulges his preoccupation with many of the themes that he's visited so often before ; because of their familiarity , they came across this time as pretentious and tired . The existential longing , the fear of death , the blurring of personas : how many times can you explore these same themes and keep them interesting ? Perhaps if I had not already seen so many Bergman films I would have fared better here . As it was , I found myself checking my watch frequently in the film's final hour or so . But the overall impression I took away from this film was that I had seen an important work by an important film maker . I still think " Persona " and " Cries and Whispers " are better movies , but " Fanny and Alexander " is a must see for any Bergman fan , and really for any fan of cinema , period .
Eeesh , what a tough movie to sit through . This two and a half hour movie left me sweaty , exhausted and hollowed out . In its own way it's an extremely well done film , but I don't know that it's an experience I want to repeat . Director John Cassavetes follows a few months in the life of a family whose mother and wife ( Gena Rowlands ) is suffering from mental illness , and the movie consists of one long scene after another of her cracking up , or trying not to crack up , and the various family members ' reactions to her cracking up . Peter Falk plays the husband and father who thinks that mental illness is just some silly nonsense his wife should be able to stop if she just tried hard enough . Rowlands has the showier role , but Falk is the revelation here . His depiction of a husband who blusters and shouts to hide his overwhelming sense of helplessness and fear is superb . Cassavetes's camera is relentless . We watch Rowlands suffer again and again in long takes and intimate closeups . There are times when you simply want to look away from the screen to help this poor woman preserve a shred of dignity . The highlight of the film ( or low point , depending on your point of view ) comes when Rowlands's character returns home from a stay in an institution , and her family works overtime to convince themselves that everything's fine when the audience can see clearly that everything is not . Bruising is the best word I can think of to describe this film .
" The Awful Truth " is a wonderful screwball comedy from that most fertile period of screwball comedies - - the 1930s . Cary Grant and Irene Dunne are a terrific match as a dueling husband and wife , each determined to prove to the other that he / she can live without him / her . Until they discover " the awful truth " : they're made for each other . Grant and Dunne have tremendous chemistry together , and Ralph Bellamy received his sole Academy Award nomination as the film's straight man , a macho Western man's man , about as far away from Cary Grant as you can get , who has a hankering for Dunne . And not to be outdone by " The Thin Man , " there's even a cute dog thrown into the mix , given cute doggy things to do by director Leo McCarey . McCarey , who had some experience directing the Marx Brothers before helming this , shows his flair for physical comedy , but he keeps a pretty tight reign and doesn't let the movie get too carried away by its own zaniness . In fact , he's able to give the film a rather serious tone running constantly underneath its silly surface , and I think that's probably why we remember this film now when we've forgotten so many other throw-away comedies from the same time period . There's something rather sad in the feud between Grant and Dunne ; there's a very realistic bitterness that develops between the two , and their characters walk that very thin line between love and hate . They could have a beautiful , passionate partnership , but don't quite know how to pull it off . Of course the battle of the sexes is here plumbed for its comic potential , but it's not difficult to see how this movie could be played seriously , rather reminiscent of " Dodsworth " , in which case we'd be remembering it as a fine example of 30s drama rather than the comedy that it is .
It will be interesting once the current wretched Iraq war is a distant memory to go back and watch the movies about the war that came out while it was raging on . " In the Valley of Elah " joins a list of other films about the Iraqi conflict ( or conflicts in the Middle East , in general ) that have tanked at the box office . Audiences have sent a clear message : We do not want to see movies that remind us about a terrible , depressing war that we can't do anything about . In " In the Valley of Elah , " Tommy Lee Jones plays Hank Deerfield , retired sergeant in the U . S . Army , who sets out on an investigation into the whereabouts of his son , Mike , when Mike returns from duty in Iraq and then goes missing . It's not long into the movie before the charred , dismembered remains of Hank's son are found in a field not far from the military base . Hank runs up against first the infuriating , squabbling bureaucracy of the local police force and the military police , who argue over jurisdiction , and then the indifference of both when it's determined that the crime is a military matter : the local police are glad to wash their hands of yet another homicide that promises to go unsolved , and the military wants to sweep the case under the rug as quickly as possible to avoid bad publicity . Hank's only nominal ally is Detective Emily Sanders ( Charlize Theron ) . Her doggedness in sticking to the investigation into the murder of Hank's son arises partially from her first chance to work on an important case , partially from her desire to do the right thing , and partially because she feels for Hank - - she has a son of her own . " In the Valley of Elah " is part police procedural drama , part character study , part angry diatribe against America's military institution . As the investigation progresses , Hank discovers some unpleasant truths about his son and some of the atrocities he committed while in Iraq . Likewise , his fellow troop members become implicated in his death , despite Hank's firm belief that a man's Army buddies would never do something like that to one another . The movie argues that these young men who are being sent to Iraq to " preserve our freedom " are absorbing a devastating psychological toll that no one wants to admit is there , not their families , not their friends , and certainly not the military itself . Jones , as Hank , is extraordinary , and Hank is fascinating . He's the kind of life-long military man we instantly recognize . He's quietly chauvinistic to his wife , a wonderful Susan Sarandon , and doesn't even tell her about the truths he's uncovering about their boy . When he stays in hotel rooms he remakes the bed to his satisfaction . He's a man so rigidly in control of himself that one of the only signs we see of the distress he's in is that he nicks himself shaving . One of the things I liked best about the film was its suggestion that people like Hank share as much responsibility as anyone for the toll foolish military leadership takes on the American public . He's doggedly macho , patriotic and unquestioning , a deadly combination . His wife blames him for the death of both of their sons ( an older son , also military , died ten years earlier in a helicopter crash ) , claiming that neither would have ever found acceptance as a man had they not gone into the military . He has an unshakable illusion of the military as a place of duty , discipline and honor . That nick he receives while shaving is like the first minuscule crack in the foundation of his belief in an institution to which he's pledged his life . It's heartbreaking to watch this man lose everything in his life that up to that point has given it meaning . I give co-writer / director Paul Haggis a lot of credit for making such a tough-minded movie while we're smack in the middle of a conflict that is taking people's children away from them . We've become especially sensitive of late to criticizing the military for fear that we won't be supporting the troops who comprise it . Haggis sensitively keeps the distinction intact , but he's not afraid to admit that there are soldiers coming back from the war and doing terrible things because they don't know how to readjust to civilian life . They're not coming back heroes , no matter how much we want to believe they are - - they're coming back hollowed out husks of who they used to be . Stylistically , the film is rather drab . Haggis takes a quiet and somber approach , as if the slightest loud noise or quick movement will detract from the elegiac tone he creates . Even the color palette is drab , all washed out blues and institutional grays . We know he's a director capable of style ; " Crash " was , if nothing else , stylish . But unlike that film , which was so schematic and over scripted that the actors couldn't breathe in their roles , " In the Valle of Elah " feels much more organic and understated , as if the characters are finding out truths about themselves as they go along rather than truths imposed on them from the heavy hand of the writer . The film teeters on the brink of sentimentality only a couple of times , but mostly it stays lean and tough . I really didn't expect to like this film as much as I did . It's haunting , thought provoking and one of the best films I've seen yet this year .
Viggo Mortensen has been allowed to shed the silly , macho , grizzled locks and attitude he was forced to don for three long years in a row for the " Lord of the Rings " trilogy , and has finally been given the chance to play a real character , that of Tom Stall , steady-eddie dad and husband , who may or may not be hiding a shocking and violent past . Mortensen is terrific in this movie . It's one of those performances whose quality could be easily underestimated , because it's not a flashy role . No doubt at the end of the year , he will be overlooked for a bunch of actors who chew the scenery in phony Hollywood biopics , but such is the way of popular entertainment . Mortensen deserves accolades for this movie , and I hope other directors are paying attention to him . David Cronenberg's " A History of Violence " is a disturbing reflection on the pervasiveness of violence in our culture , the tendency to turn to violence first as a means of settling conflict , and the vicious cycle a reliance on violence can cause . In other words , violence breeds violence . I don't know that Cronenberg necessarily has anything new to say on the subject , but he has fashioned a haunting and memorable movie from the theme . Maria Bello was considered by many to be woefully overlooked for her performance in " The Cooler " from two years ago ; my hunch is the community will make that oversight up to her this year for her performance as Tom Stall's wife . It's refreshing to see a wife / mother character who is required to do more than suffer nobly . Bello creates a vivid , strong , three-dimensional picture of a wife who has her entire world pulled out from under her and the steps she takes to deal with it . It's also nice for a change to see a movie where the violence matters , and has consequences . When violence occurs in this movie , it is quick and startling - - there are moments when I wanted to look away from the screen . It just barely avoids being gratuitous , though , because it's not treated lightly . Part of the importance of the film's message is seeing what a bullet will do to a human face . Cronenberg approaches the material in a typically strange fashion ( though this is one of the more accessible Cronenberg films ) . It varies widely in tone : the tense , brooding atmosphere created whenever criminals are part of the scene ; the almost funny picture painted by Cronenberg of an idyllic American small town , complete with bouncy music and a quaint main street ; the action movie quality that takes over whenever Mortensen's character springs into action . I'm not sure Cronenberg is entirely successful at blending these disparate elements , but I can appreciate what he was trying to do , and I felt that he was always in total control of his movie and made the finished product he wanted to make . So far , the Oscar-bait season of 2005 has been an unusually ripe one for tough and relevant films . Maybe the industry is finally reacting to and the depressing , dispiriting hole American has fallen into since then at the hands of the Bush Administration . The last period of social and political unrest in America resulted in some of the best films ever made . Could we be on the verge of another period of greatness ? Here's hoping .
This is one of the lower-tier teen comedies from the 1980s , and it's not as well known as movies like " Sixteen Candles , " " Pretty in Pink " or other films about high-school angst , but it's one of my favorites . Terry Griffith , aspiring journalist , gets an early taste of sexism when an article she writes for an internship contest is passed over for an obviously inferior article written by boys , so she poses as Ralph Macchio and signs up at a rival high school , hoping to submit her article there and get it accepted . Things get complicated , as such things do , when she falls for a nerd who's actually kind of cool when you get to know him , and she becomes the target for the high school bully , played by William Zabka , who created a cottage industry out of playing the blonde jock high school bully in teen movies from the 80s , and who coincidentally also tormented Ralph Macchio in " The Karate Kid . " Terry doesn't know much about being a boy , but never fear - - her little brother , who names his penis Spike , does , and he teaches her all the basics , like how to scratch her balls .
Ugh , what a gut-wrenching movie this is . Peter Bogdanovich avoids the maudlin histrionics that could have marred this story about a young man suffering from a fatal disease that leaves him horribly deformed . Eric Stoltz is remarkable as the young man , Rocky Dennis , and it's entirely thanks to him , and to his charm as an actor , that we fall in love with Rocky and are heart-broken to see him die at the end . Cher is equally as good as his mom , who sees nothing ugly in her son and feels nothing but ferocious love for him . I will always remember a wonderful scene in this movie , in which Rocky is trying to explain colors to a blind girl ( played by a lovely and young Laura Dern ) and does so by giving her items to touch - - a hot potato for red , cotton for white , ice for blue .
Take him or leave him , one can't deny the tremendous screen presence of James Cagney . " The Public Enemy , " which launched Cagney into the Hollywood big time , doesn't so much tell one cohesive story as much as it offers a series of vignettes linked by Cagney's sheer star power . Cagney is Tom Powers , childhood hoodlum who grows up to become an adult hoodlum and meets his end as part of a bloody gang war in 1920 Chicago . The film is positioned as part morality tale , part public service message . A title card at the film's opening announces that the filmmakers in no way mean to glamorize the gangster life , while one placed at the end announces a call to action on the part of the American public to bring an end to the seedy underworld portrayed in the movie . And to the film's credit , despite stylish direction by William Wellman and an intensely charismatic performance from Cagney , it sticks to its promise . The film has an invigorating energy , but it never once glamorizes Cagney or his lifestyle . There are a number of truly memorable moments in this film . Of course the famous grapefruit scene has gone down in film annals as one of them , but I was most struck by the film's shocking finale , in which the body of Cagney is dropped off at the front door of his home while his mother happily changes the sheets of his bed upstairs , thinking that " coming home " means that her son is coming home alive . Another dazzling segment is the one in which Cagney seeks revenge on the gang that killed his best friend . We see him staking out the pool hall where they have gathered , with a truly frightening and psychotic expression on his face . Then he walks through the rain directly toward the camera until his face fills the frame . After he enters the pool hall , we hear shots and a man screaming while the camera stays focused on the exterior of the building . Cagney then emerges , wounded and staggering through the rain . The whole segment feels much more violent than it actually is , because of the effective use of camera and sound ( which was in its infancy , but which Wellman uses superbly ) . Most of the other actors come off poorly next to Cagney , because his style of acting was so different from the conventions of the time . Donald Cook , playing Cagney's war-hero brother , overacts to the hilt , with one foot firmly planted in silent films . A couple of females are thrown in as eye candy , but absolutely no attempt is made to develop their characters . Joan Blondell is cute and sexy , but Jean Harlow is dreadful . How this ugly , clunking , horrible actress ever achieved stardom is beyond me . And as frequently happens with pre-Code cinema , I was taken aback by material that you never think of appearing in films from this time period . It makes overt fun of gays and Jews , frankly addresses sex , and , most strikingly , makes a parallel between gangsters and soldiers , claiming that both murder but for different reasons . Ten years later a comment like that would NEVER appear in a Hollywood film , and movies wouldn't be comfortable criticizing war again until the 1970s . " The Public Enemy " is rough around the edges . You can still feel the various artists involved trying to feel their way around the new era of motion pictures , and as a result , parts of the film are uneven . But it's a striking and remarkable movie that , despite limitations placed on it by the time period and the technology available , packs a gangster-sized punch .
With " Pillow Talk , " Doris Day established a mini-genre of her own that would last well into the 1960s , the wholesome sex comedy . These films offered healthy doses of man-and-woman lust but couched them in bubble gum colored sets and silly complicated sitcom plots that made them palatable to the suburban housewife audience . Still , Doris Day deserves kudos for creating a new kind of 50s heroine , one that looked like the dutiful cookie cutter housewife but had a mind of her own and a saucy tongue to go with it . Her strong-willed independence threatened the uber-masculine appeal of her leading men ( Rock Hudson , Cary Grant ) , but did it in such a comical , likable way that audiences loved her rather than hated her for it . " Pillow Talk " is funny and mindless , not a bad combination if you're in the mood for it .
This delightful Buster Keaton comedy is probably his best known film . In " The General , " Keaton plays Johnnie Gray , engineer on the train that gives the film its name . Johnnie , as one of the title cards explains , has two loves : his train and his girl . When the Civil War comes to Marietta , GA , Johnnie does everything he can to be first in line to enlist . But when he's refused by the recruiters ( they think he's more valuable to the Confederacy as a train engineer than as a soldier , but don't tell him that ) , he falls into disgrace with his true love and her family . Then his beloved train is stolen by a bunch of Yankees , and he's off to rescue her , rescuing his other love in the process and redeeming himself in the eyes of her and her father . What impresses most about " The General " now is the sheer size and scope of the film . 80 % of the movie takes place on a moving train , and we're talking a real-life moving train here , not a model or set . The stunts Keaton plans for himself are life threatening , and it's thrilling to watch him pull them off with effortless and acrobatic aplomb .
A friend of mine was hesitant to see this movie , because she'd heard that it pushes the agenda that divorce is never a good option for dealing with marital problems . I don't really know who told her this , and I hope this same reason isn't keeping others from seeing it . This isn't at all what I took away from the film . It certainly communicates the idea that divorce isn't easy , on either the parents or the kids , but I don't feel that it pronounces judgement on those who turn to it as an option . " The Squid and the Whale " is a sad - - though at times very funny - - look at what divorce does to one family in 1986 New York . Jeff Daniels plays the dad , a pompous , arrogant writer whose feelings of commercial failure ( he teaches literature at a university ) cause him to act intellectually superior to everyone he meets . Daniels is almost too good in this role ; he reminded me way too much of people I actually know who are like this . He's the kind of guy who would be deadly at a dinner party , because there's no such thing as a casual or flippant remark in this guy's presence . He analyzes everything to death , and isn't content until everyone's opinion matches his own . Laura Linney plays the wayward mom , blamed for the break up of the marriage by the dad because of a string of affairs she carries on . Her guilt keeps her from being able to discipline her sons , especially the oldest , who treats her horribly . Linney's role is smaller but in some ways much more complex than Daniels ' . Her character has to take responsibility for her infidelity but still make the audience sympathize with her . Caught in the middle of this mess are their two boys . The oldest quickly allies himself with his dad , and walks around regurgitating his father's opinions on every subject , rarely pausing to form any of his own . The younger son , more sensitive and tired of being intellectually brow beaten by his father and older brother , sticks closer to the mom . No one is totally to blame , yet no one is completely innocent either in this honest and frank film . Noah Baumbach has made no secret of the fact that it is based on his own adolescent life , and it has that confessional feeling that movies in this genre frequently do . There are awkward moments when this doesn't totally work . The ending for one is rather ham-fisted , and a scene between the oldest son and his school therapist seemed awfully pat to me . But the acting and the sharp writing make up for these weaknesses , and the movie manages to be poignant without ever becoming maudlin or overly sentimental . See it for the performances of Linney and especially Daniels , who has been proving his versatility as an actor over the last few years .
As I catch up on the movies released in 2008 that did NOT receive Academy Award nominations , I find myself more and more convinced that the Academy seriously botched things this year . How in the world did the Academy NOT nominate Kristin Scott Thomas for her riveting and heart-breaking performance in " I've Loved You So Long . " Thomas plays Juliette , a woman who's been released from 15 years of prison after killing her own son . She's taken in by her sister , who was a teenager when the two last saw each other . Now the two have to start virtually from scratch , as strangers with a common past . Juliette is withdrawn and lifeless , at first justifying the label of cold , merciless child killer that the world wants to pin on her . But as the movie progresses , we see life return to her , and we learn the reason that led her to do what she did . That reason is revealed in the last moments of the film , but what impressed me about the movie , and about Thomas's performance , is that I almost no longer cared why she had done what she did by the time I found out . I still wanted to know out of curiosity , but I don't know that it would have changed my opinion of the character . She was clearly a warm , kind person with the capacity for great love . She clearly was struggling with demons she didn't want anybody to see . Thomas does an amazing thing - - she makes us care deeply for a woman who doesn't ask for or want our sympathy , and this despite the fact that we know she did something most of us , without knowing the circumstances behind the act , would count as unforgivable . Just watch Thomas's face when she visits her ill mother for the first time since going to prison , a woman withering away with dementia in a nursing home , or her face when her sister's family and new-found friends surprise her with a birthday party , and tell me that Angelina Jolie deserved a best actress nomination instead .
A lovely adaptation of the Evelyn Waugh novel that nicely captures Waugh's original tone of loss , regret and elegiac nostalgia . Matthew Goode plays Charles Ryder , a young Englishman who falls in with an aristocratic family and soon finds himself at the center of its swirling dysfunction . The film explores the role family plays in shaping the kind of people we become , and the temptation to return to the lessons of our upbringing ( here represented specifically by Roman Catholicism ) even if we never fully believed the things those lessons taught us . And running underneath all is Waugh's elegy for an England that no longer existed after it emerged from the ashes of a great war . All of the actors are very good , especially Matthew Goode and Emma Thompson , who plays the family matriarch and brilliantly illustrates the unique hold mothers can have over their children .
Samuel Fuller could make whacked-out movies like no other , and " The Naked Kiss " was his most whacked out of all . Constance Towers plays Kelly , a hooker who we see in the film's opening sequence shaved completely bald and beating up her pimp . She takes $75 dollars from him or , as she makes sure to point out to him , " exactly what I've got coming to me , " and then proceeds to put on her wig and makeup while seductive music plays and the opening credits roll . From that moment on , we know we're in Fuller-land . Kelly arrives in the quiet suburban idyll of Grantville , and hooks up with her first and last trick , the town's police captain . After that , she decides to wipe her slate clean , and she becomes a nurse in a children's hospital . But she can't escape her past . When she's accused of killing her fiancée , the town's founder , golden boy and Korean war hero , in a fit of rage after finding him molesting a young girl , Kelly's reliability and reputation is called into question , and her life hangs in the balance . Along with her pimp , Kelly will pound around on a couple of other people before the film is over - - notably a whore house madame who tries to seduce one of Kelly's co-worker friends into a life of prostitution - - but Kelly is basically a good and decent person who believes in justice stripped of any sentimental or phony pretensions . Her fiancée's status and privilege don't prevent her from seeing the pervert underneath , and her love for the children and her young , naive co-workers is fierce but rough ; she'll just as soon slap some sense into someone as she will hug some sense into him . The character of Kelly is a refreshing creation , and both she and Constance Towers , who brings her to life , hold this film together when it otherwise might have been a mess . I think Fuller's weakness was as a writer ; parts of " The Naked Kiss " are hampered by ridiculous , overheated dialogue and melodrama of the most maudlin order . But he was such a striking visionary that his films always work on the strength of style alone , and that , coupled with Towers ' performance , make " The Naked Kiss " something fascinating to behold . Fuller was always interested in the outcasts and misfits of society . You can tell he didn't have much use for the civilized mainstream . In " The Naked Kiss , " his camera lingers lovingly on the crippled children in shots that intentionally evoke impressions of war veteran hospitals . And Kelly leaves Grantville at the film's end , not because the town shuns her - - on the contrary , once they realize she was telling the truth , she's the new town hero - - but because its hypocrisy disgusts her . The implication is that she'd rather remain an outcast than be accepted by a society that she abhors . " The Naked Kiss " is crazy , frenzied and trippy . It's deliriously nonsensical yet makes a pointed statement in that unique way that only Samuel Fuller could pull off . Check it out .
Jacques Tourneur used his vast reserves of creativity to turn small-budget films into fascinating movie-going experiences . If " Out of the Past " is one of the best films noir to be released in the 1940s , then " Nightfall " must be one of the best from the succeeding decade . Aldo Ray plays James Vanning , who , with his doctor friend Edward Gurston ( Frank Albertson ) , finds himself in the wrong place at the wrong time and ends up knowing the whereabouts of a bag of stolen money , wanted mightily by two bank robbers ( one played with droll relish by Brian Keith ) . Fate , always a principal character in any film noir , brings James together with Marie Gardner ( an impossibly young Anne Bancroft ) , a fashion model who becomes his girl Friday . Meanwhile , an insurance investigator ( James Gregory ) working on behalf of the robbed bank has James's number and comes calling . All of these characters finally collide in a memorable and rather grisly ending . " Nightfall " is tremendously stylish and playful . It very much resembles Tourneur's earlier noir , " Out of the Past , " in its thesis that a man can run but never hide from his past . But it also reminded me of " On Dangerous Ground , " Nicholas Ray's strange offering from 1952 , in its juxtaposition of a shadow-filled urban environment filled with anonymous ( and perhaps dangerous ) strangers with the wide open ( and no less frightening ) spaces of the country , where anything can happen and no one will know . I don't know if Aldo Ray was considered a good actor at the time , but he does a terrific job here - - who better to play an American everyman caught up in a sticky web than this all-American jock of an actor ? He and Bancroft sizzle in their scenes together , and one of the movie's highlights comes when they are racing away from one of Bancroft's fashion shows with the bad guys in hot pursuit , and Ray , frustrated by the fact that Bancroft can't run in the impractical gown she was just modeling , picks her up and runs with her into the safety of a cab , after which she leans against him and says , " You're the most wanted man I know . " This scene and line got laughs and applause at the screening I attended , but you could tell that people were laughing with the film and not at it . This film is one of the highlights of the noir genre , and I highly recommend catching it if you get a chance .
JoBeth Williams made one of the sexiest moms in history in this funhouse chiller from Tobe Hooper and Steven Spielberg . I was all of seven years old when this movie came out , and the image of her in panties and an over-sized t-shirt gave my young mind plenty of fantasy material . Ahem . . . . oh yeah , and there are ghosts in this movie too . Plenty of them . They come in the form of trees that eat people , possessed and evil stuffed clowns and dead , decomposing bodies that come barreling up through your kitchen linoleum . All of the special effects are pretty nifty , and hold up well considering the film's age . And there's a terrific score from Jerry Goldsmith . The whole thing feels much more like a Spielberg film than a Tobe Hooper film , and many suspect that Spielberg played a much larger role in directing it than has ever been admitted .
Before he was known for the " Lord of the Rings " trilogy , Peter Jackson made this fascinating movie about two friends who submerge themselves in a fantasy world of their own creation with horrifying results . I know I'm in the minority , but I wish Jackson would go back to making movies like this . His love of special effects is clear even in this film , but the effects work at the service of a story about actual people living in the actual world , and the results are far more compelling than anything to be found in all 50 hours of the " Rings " trilogy . Before she was a household name , Kate Winslet appeared in this , and gave a marvelous performance .
This filmed version of one of Shakespeare's most famous tragedies is likely to be about as good a version as will ever be produced . Director Franco Zeffirelli had warmed up the year before with the Burton / Taylor version of " The Taming of the Shrew , " but here he nicely transitions from the frantic comedy of the former to the darker and sadder tragedy of this story about star-crossed lovers ( played by Leonard Whiting and the famously big-bosomed Olivia Hussey ) . Zeffirelli infuses the film with the same kind of restless energy that was feeding the youth movement in 1968 , so this is one Shakespeare film that feels completely relevant to the time in which it was released . The film has beautiful production values ( the scene at the ball is a work of art all by itself ) and of course that famous musical theme . It shows reverence for the original text but doesn't feel stage-bound or stodgy ; yet neither does it feel like a product of trendy 60s cinema . And unlike the Baz Luhrmann debacle that passed as a version of " Romeo and Juliet " about 10 years ago , the actors in this version seem to both understand their characters and the lines they've been given to read .
The charm of James Bond films have mostly eluded me over the course of my 31 years . In fact , I've only seen one other as far as I can recall ( " Octopussy " - - and by the way , how did that movie ever get released with THAT title ? ) and I remember virtually nothing about it . I don't think I'm missing much . From the isolated moments I've been able to catch on T . V . here and there , Bond movies look pretty awful - - not , mind you , awful in the tongue-and-cheek , isn't-this-fun kind of way , but awful in the I-wonder-what-else-is-on-T . V . - right-now kind of way . Well , Daniel Craig may make me a Bond convert , at least for the next few films . " Casino Royale " is a blast - - it's an action-packed adrenaline jolt of a movie , full of beautiful people and beautiful locales , and it's a testament to its ability to entertain that I didn't once look at my watch during its 144 minute running time . Daniel Craig looks like a bulldog , runs like the terminator , and has steely blue eyes that usually match the color of whatever body of water he happens to be standing in front of at the moment . The moment he appears on screen , you get the sense that he's out to quash once and for all all of the naysayers out there who assume that he'll make a lousy Bond . And boy does he . He could take on Roger Moore and Pierce Brosnan at the same time with both hands tied behind his back . Sean Connery maybe would give him a run for his money , but I suspect Craig would still pummel him severely . As for his sex appeal , I'll leave that to the ladies to assess , but if my wife's reaction to Craig's entrance half way through the film in a tuxedo is any indication , he's not lacking in that department either . It's almost laughable how regressive these movies are . Women are treated as nothing more than objects to either seduce or save , and Bond usually refers to the lead female in this as nothing more than " the girl . " I bet feminists hate James Bond .
This gloriously turgid melodrama represents Douglas Sirk at his most high strung . It eschews the soft wistfulness of " All That Heaven Allows " and the weepy sentimentality of " Imitation of Life " and instead goes for feverish angst and overheated tension . And of course , it's all captured in vibrant Technicolor . The cornball story has something to do with a friendship between Rock Hudson and Robert Stack that becomes a rivalry when Hudson snags the affections of Lauren Bacall , but who's really paying attention to the story ? Dorothy Malone won a Best Supporting Actress Academy Award for her splendidly over-the-top performance as Stack's sister , who takes the family business into her own hands when no one else will . A highlight of the film comes when this high-spirited wild child breaks into a frantic dance in her bedroom , unable to bear the restraints placed upon her by middle-class propriety . As so frequently happens in Sirk movies , the scene is both unintentionally hilarious in its absurdity and yet strangely moving in its effectiveness . Sirk came closer than anyone else to turning pure camp into high art , satisfying the philistines and the high brows at the same time within the same films . His was a unique talent and I don't know that there's ever been another film maker quite like him since .
I wouldn't have thought from previews that " Roger Dodger " would have an ounce of romance in it , but it does . The scene between Elizabeth Berkeley , Jennifer Beals ( both very good by the way - - who would have thought ? ) and Roger's nephew is incredibly sweet and touching , but without being overly sentimental or cloying . Campbell Scott gives a fabulous performance as Roger , illustrating how broad his acting range is . My only complaint with the movie is its incredibly annoying cinematography . All of the compositions are cluttered and claustrophobic , sometimes so much so that the main focus of the shot is entirely obscured . And this trend toward hand-held cameras needs to be stopped . I think directors feel that hand-held cinematography lends a gritty , realistic point of view to their films , but more frequently it serves only to distract . But a fairly minor quibble about an otherwise very good film .
" Frankenstein " is really nothing like the Mary Shelley book on which it is based , but it instead takes the story and makes it something all its own . Gone are the philosophical and allegorical qualities of the novel , and in its place is a much simpler tale about man's responsibility to the things he creates and the dangers inherent when Mankind tries to play God . Like " King Kong " two years later , " Frankenstein " manages to create an incredible amount of sympathy for its villain . Like Kong , Frankenstein's monster doesn't ask to be unleashed on the civilized world ; it's not really his fault that he doesn't know how to function in it . There are gorgeous moments in this film , like the scene when the monster communicates with a little girl by the side of a lake , all the more effective because the scene quickly transitions to one of horror . And as is typical for films released in the very early days of the 30s , this movie looks better and more technologically advanced than many films that came out in the succeeding decade . The camera is more fluid , there's a more imaginative use of light and shadow , and the effects , especially in the scenes where Dr . Frankenstein brings his creation to life , and later when the angry mob has trapped the monster in a windmill and is burning it to the ground , are quite good . " Frankenstein " is considered one of the great all-time monster movies , but it's not scary so much as it is sad and fairly moving .
One of those small , quiet films about human behavior that utterly captivates through the strength of its writing and acting . It could have been too quaint for its own good , full of self-consciously eccentric characters , but it's not . Instead , it's warm and inviting , full of the kind of characters you wish you could just stay with after the movie's over . Peter Dinklage plays a grumpy misfit who moves out to a solitary town in order to be left alone . But the outgoing assortment of fellow misfits he meets won't let that happen . Dinklage is good , but Bobby Cannavale , as a goofball who won't ever shut up , and Patricia Clarkson , as a sad and lonely painter , are the stand outs .
Dick Powell exchanges his dancing shoes for the film noir anti-hero's characteristic fedora in this fiendishly inventive 1944 entry based on the Raymond Chandler novel , " Farewell , My Lovely . " Many at the time questioned Powell's ability to pull off this tough-guy role , but he does just fine with it , thank you very much . His Philip Marlowe isn't as much of a hard case as the Sam Spade inhabited by Humphrey Bogart in " The Maltese Falcon " ; he doesn't have the same imposing physical appearance and he doesn't try to strong arm anybody to get what he wants . He uses a caustic tongue in place of a fist , and if he gets intimidated , scared or ruffled , you'll never know it , because he's always ready with a sarcastic comment to complement his cool exterior . In this movie , private detective Marlowe finds himself mixed up in a murky and byzantine scheme involving a jade necklace and a blackmail plot . Meanwhile , another case has him searching for a missing person , a Velma Valenti , one-time lover of a big ox named Moose Malloy ( Mike Mazurki ) . Gradually , Marlowe realizes that the two cases are connected , and he does his own share of scheming to make sure he's not the dupe that everyone involved seems to want him to be . Claire Trevor appears in a fabulous performance as one of the best femmes fatale ever to grace the genre . She has much in common with that other classic femme fatale from 1944 , Barbara Stanwyck in " Double Indemnity . " She also gets the film's best and most suggestive line - - when talking about a male " friend " and his desire to be a sculptor , she tells Marlowe , " He couldn't get started for fear of failure . " You've got to love film noir for lines like that . Anne Shirley gets saddled with the sweet , wholesome good girl role that all of these films must have in order to balance out the evil vamp ; she's about as uninteresting as you'd expect her to be . Director Edward Dmytryk adds all kinds of flourishes to the film to keep it visually appealing : imaginative use of key lighting , those angular shadows so common to films like this , a bizarre nightmare montage when Marlowe is tripping on heroin . Whenever Marlowe blacks out ( which is often ) , oily black fog comes curling out of the edges of the frame to engulf the screen . Dmytryk maintains a firm but light grip on the material and keeps his film just as playful as it ought to be . For coming so early in the film noir cycle , " Murder , My Sweet , " like " Double Indemnity , " is pretty cynical and bleak ( though it has a much happier ending than the other film ) . It's a high-water mark of its genre .
Do not dismiss " Persepolis " as only being a cartoon . It's animated in the sense that it's not live action , but it's more serious minded and sophisticated than many a live action film out there . Marjane Satrapi wrote the source material on which this film is based , and she's its main character . It documents her troubled coming of age during a period when her home country ( Iran ) was experiencing a severe identity crisis . Sent to Europe by her parents when the Iraq / Iran war makes simply living in Iran dangerous , she finds that the land of democracy and bounty that Europe promises is largely a myth for people like her , looked down on as foreign and barbaric invaders . In the end , she prefers living under a militant regime to the " freedom " of the West . " Persepolis " is quite tragic , really . Americans have become so conditioned to think of all Iranians as radical Muslims that we've forgotten it used to be a progressive country not that different from America . Those who are being oppressed now should not be blamed for the choices of their leaders . Would any American want to be held accountable for the attitudes and behavior of our president ? But Iran is still home to these people , and they do the best to make of it what they can . The film is beautiful , with stunning and artistic animation . It's cheeky , and there are many humorous moments , but it will also break your heart .
A visceral , kinetic and exciting film from Roland Joffe ( whatever happened to him ? ) . Set against the bloody backdrop of Cambodia during the civil war that saw the surge of the Khmer Rouge , " The Killing Fields " tells the story of an interpreter ( the non-actor Haing S . Ngor ) who befriends an American journalist ( Sam Waterston ) and then descends into the nightmare of Cambodia while Waterston sits helplessly in America wondering if his friend is dead or alive . It's one of those liberal films Hollywood loves to make , that asks us to feel guilty about our cushy American lives even as people in other countries are being butchered . It's not heavy handed or manipulative though , and Joffe films the whole thing with a journalistic approach that fits the subject matter and lends the film a documentary-like quality . Ngor , who had never acted before , is amazing , and though Waterston gets top billing as the most recognizable actor , Ngor is the film's true star .
" Mean Streets " is the film that put Martin Scorsese on the map and established him as a serious talent to watch . In many ways , Scorsese has simply been remaking the same story ever since this one , but I think that " Mean Streets " ( along with much of his 1970s work ) has a much grittier and authentic quality to it than the movies he's been making in the last couple of decades . " GoodFellas " and " The Departed " are certainly expert movies , and they're wildly enjoyable , but you can tell that Scorsese's primary motivation in these films was to entertain , while in his 1970s movies he was passionately driven to tell particular stories . Featuring soon-to-become Scorsese regulars Robert DeNiro and Harvey Keitel , both delivering top-notch performances .
" Fury " is a ferocious movie from Fritz Lang about the impulses that drive mob violence . It belongs in the same category as films like " The Ox-Bow Incident " and " 12 Angry Men " and other movies that show how a group of normally decent people can turn quickly to animals when they smell blood . Spencer Tracy plays Joe ( read " average Joe " ) , who finds himself in the wrong place at the wrong time and ends up sitting in a country jail , pegged for a kidnapping he didn't commit . The townspeople get wind that someone has been arrested for the crime , and they want to exact their own brand of justice , not much caring on whom they carry it out . In a spectacular sequence , they storm the jail , burning it down and killing ( they think ) Joe . But Joe manages to escape , and the fury he feels at the way they treated him fuels his own feelings of vengeance , until he becomes as ruthless as those he denounces . Lang's movie is unique in that it poses a particularly interesting moral dilemma . The men and women who are on trial for murder ( for Joe keeps the fact that he is alive a secret , just so he can see them hang ) truly did act like murderers . The fact that Joe survives is no thanks to them ; it was pure luck that he escaped . Yet can Joe really let men be punished for a crime they didn't technically commit , and if he does , is he any better than they are ? " Fury " is not an easy movie . There aren't tidy answers to the conflicts ( though there is the obligatory happy ending demanded of films from this time period ) . Sylvia Sidney plays Joe's soon-to-be bride , and provides the film with its moral conscience . She's the prosecution's ace-in-the-hole witness , able to both identify the members of the mob and attest that it was Joe who was locked up in that jail cell . But as she begins to suspect that Joe is really alive ( thanks to some clever clues that Lang places throughout the movie ) , she begins to experience a moral crisis of her own . All of this is told in Lang's typical high style : terrific use of camera work , sound , music . The frenzied mob scene is a coup de cinema , and Tracy gives a taut and disciplined performance in the central role . There's also a very interesting comment on the power of visual media that plays a large role in the prosecution's evidence during the trial scenes . One has to conclude that this was a response to the importance of the motion picture newsreel that had by that time become a staple of the film going experience and would be paid homage as an art form of its own 5 years later in " Citizen Kane . " " Fury " is a terrific , lesser-known film from the 30s .
" No Country for Old Men , " the Coen brothers ' screen adaptation of Cormac McCarthy's nailbiter of a novel , is doggedly faithful to its source , which will please fans of the book , but which is also what limits it from achieving greatness . As it is , the movie will probably and deservedly be remembered as a minor classic , but that's due more to its execution than it is its subject matter . It's as accomplished as " Fargo , " still the Coens ' best movie in my opinion , but it doesn't carry a powerful message the way that film did , or have any characters who make a lasting impression . Josh Brolin plays a Vietnam veteran living in Texas sometime in the early 1980s who comes across a satchel of money ( $2 million to be exact ) at the scene of a drug deal gone bad . He takes off with it , his arrogance leading him to believe that he will be able to outsmart whoever comes looking for it . Who comes looking for it is Anton Chigurgh , a relentless psycho who's as untraceable as he is unstoppable ( played by Javier Bardem ) . Tommy Lee Jones plays sheriff Ed Tom Bell , who provides the film with a voice over narration in which he laments the state of the world and the awful nature of crime in his day as compared to those of his dad and granddad , both sheriffs before him . In McCarthy's novel , all of this is told in clipped and deadly serious language , and it all feels more full of philosophical import than it is ; it's not until you've put the book down and start thinking about it that you realize how lightweight it is . I was interested to see if the Coens would bring any depth to the material that wasn't inherently there . They don't . Therefore , the movie is supremely engrossing and suspenseful , and I hung on every scene and image they put on the screen , but it didn't feel like an important movie to me . On the other hand , who says that every movie has to be important ? The Coens bring some of their trademark ghoulish humor to the film , which was welcome , because I thought McCarthy could have lightened up a bit himself in the novel . The film feels oddly unemotional , mostly because all of the principal action revolves around characters who aren't remotely sympathetic ( including Brolin's , who's a bit of a jerk really , when you think about it ) . The warmest character in the film is Brolin's wife , played in a lovely performance by the Scottish actress Kelly McDonald , but her part is tiny , and the character herself has little to do other than look perplexed or suspicious . I thought Bardem lacked the menace necessary to pull off Chigurgh , who's more of a supernatural representation of evil than a real character ; I couldn't help but think what Benicio Del Toro could have done with the role . And Woody Harrelson pops up miscast as a hit-man , in a role as pointless in the movie as it is in the book . But again , all of these weaknesses were things the Coens inherited from the source material . They've made the best movie possible of McCarthy's novel , and " No Country for Old Men " easily joins " Fargo , " " Blood Simple , " " Miller's Crossing , " and " The Man Who Wasn't There " at the top of their canon .
" Juno " is this year's " Little Miss Sunshine , " a tiny film with a gigantic heart . Ellen Page plays Juno ( NOT like the city in Alaska , as she makes very clear at one point ) , a sixteen year old who acts tougher and older than she really feels and who finds herself pregnant after one experimental romp in an easy chair with her best buddy , Paul Bleeker ( the terrific Michael Sera ) . She decides to give the baby to a thirty-ish yuppie couple ( Jennifer Garner and Jason Bateman ) living in a sprawling McMansion who haven't been able to have a child of their own . The rest is a sweet , very funny and refreshingly unpredictable comedy about what it means to grow up . There are dilemmas in " Juno , " but they may not be the dilemmas you're expecting . Diablo Cody has written a sharp screenplay that's fair to all of her characters . It was so nice for once to see a young , married , successful couple portrayed as something other than yuppies from hell , and both Bateman and Garner do wonderful work with their characters . Page is a revelation ; this is one of those films that's so self-consciously quirky and in love with its own style that it could have been disastrous if not played just so , but Page nails the main character beautifully . She allows us to see Juno's vulnerability , and that's essential to the film's success . The film , unlike so many others , acknowledges that teenagers aren't equipped to deal with adult problems , and that there's a lot they could learn if they were only receptive to it . I give the film great credit for portraying Juno's parents ( J . K . Simmons and Allison Janney ) as something other than buffoons or losers . And Simmons and Janney as actors have some of the film's best lines and moments . Only someone with a heart of stone could leave this film without a lump the size of Alaska in his throat . And , can I just say bravo to the filmmakers for including a terrific opening credits sequence . Am I the only one who's saddened by the fact that movies don't seem to have opening credit sequences anymore ?
When Martin Scorsese is at his best , no one can do a gangster movie like him , and " Goodfellas " is him at his best . Mind you , I don't think it's his best film ( for me , that title belongs to " Taxi Driver " ) , but it's a hugely entertaining and rollicking film that spends its first half making the world of mobsters look like an enticing fantasy and its second half making it look like a living hell . There are fierce performances from everyone , but though Joe Pesci was singled out for his outrageous depiction of the ultimate hot head , the film would not hold together without Ray Liotta's commanding performance at its center . Lorraine Bracco's performance as a naive dense wife who turns into an enraged shrew of a wife is like nails on a chalkboard , but I'm guessing she delivered exactly what was asked of her . The film features rapid fire editing and a soundtrack that won't quit , but in the hands of Scorsese , elements like this feel like more than empty stylistics .
" Murderball " is an inspirational yet completely unsentimental documentary about quadriplegic rugby . Yes , you read that correctly . But if you're coming to this movie in the hopes of learning a lot about the sport , be warned - - - it's not really all that much about rugby , but rather about the lives of the men playing it . We are not asked to feel sorry for these men , or pity them . In fact , that's exactly what they don't want . What " Murderball " gets across more than anything else is how much like you and me these guys are ; they've had to adjust to a new way of living , but they're essentially the same . They trash talk each other , brag about their sexual exploits , goof around , make fun of one another . Watching them is like watching any team in a locker room . As one of them mentions , when people hear that these guys are playing the Paralympics , they immediately think Special Olympics , which is not the case . These are men with physical , not mental , handicaps . The film really focuses on three characters : Joe , coach of the Canadian team , who struggles to relate to his pre-adolescent son , who himself has no interest in sports ; Zupan , who has become the poster-boy for quadriplegic rugby , and whose reunion with the friend who caused the accident that paralyzed him is addressed in an offhand manner ; and to a lesser extent Keith , recently paralyzed and just released from physical rehab , who we see painfully trying to come to terms with the reality of his situation , and for whom rugby offers the opportunity of reclaiming some normalcy . " Murderball " made me feel condescending many times . I would see one of the men maneuver his wheelchair down an escalator or jump into a swimming pool for a swim and think , " Wow , they can do THAT too ? " I already knew that quadriplegics can lead perfectly self-sufficient and fulfilling lives , but it didn't hurt me to be reminded of that . The funniest moment in the film comes when it's time to show the how-to-get-back-to-having-sex instructional video that is part of the quadriplegic's rehab . You can tell the guys in the movie thought it was one of the funniest parts too . A terrific film that , unlike the year's most beloved documentary , " March of the Penguins , " actually manages to answer more questions than it raises .
I was in college when Princess Diana died in a sensational car accident , brought about by a flock of determined paparazzi . To be honest , I didn't pay that much attention to the events going on across the pond . I was really no more than a child for much of the time that Diana was capturing the imagination of the American people , so I didn't fully understand her allure , and I certainly didn't understand , or care much , about the politics of the royal family . So watching " The Queen , " Stephen Frears ' wonderfully fluid account of the few days following the death of Di and its impact on the royal family , I had the uneasy feeling one gets when he realizes that something of extreme cultural importance has happened right under his nose without his realizing it . I had much the same feeling during " Hotel Rwanda . " It's the " I didn't realize all of THAT was going on " experience . I don't know how accurate " The Queen " is , and I don't know that anyone save Her Majesty herself could know for sure . Certainly it's an awfully one-sided movie . In Frears ' version of events , Tony Blair single-handedly saves the monarchy from the vitriol of the British people . It's only through his dogged determination that Elizabeth grudgingly lets go of her royal principles and gives the people what they need - - that is , a sign that the royal family is comprised of a group of people with actual blood in their veins and feelings in their hearts . Michael Sheen , an unfamiliar actor to me , plays Blair beautifully ; his performance goes beyond mere mimicry and conveys both the exhilaration and overwhelming sense of responsibility felt by a man who happens to find himself in a job for which he happens to be perfectly suited at one of the most critical moments in his country's history . But though everything is greatly slanted toward Blair , the film does a good job of cluing us in to Elizabeth's point of view as well . Here's a lady who inherited a job she did not choose , and who by the very nature of that job is turned into a media spectacle against her will . It's important to remember that during the moments when her and her family's callousness toward Diana and her death borders on the inhuman ; in their minds , Diana played a large role in her own death , and payed a fair price for the stardom she received in return . In Elizabeth's mind , the way the British people behave smacks of hypocrisy ; they cry out for blood for the media that caused Diana's death , yet want to hang the royal family for not putting themselves and their grief on display . Navigating the tricky waters of this tricky part is one of our greatest living actresses , Helen Mirren . Because I like her so much , it gives me great pleasure to say that her performance lives up to its hype . She gives what is so rare in films these days - - a tour de force of expert acting . Just watch her face and gestures throughout this film for the tiny nuances that speak volumes . Mirren has been buzzed about as the front-runner for this year's Oscar race since this movie opened , and for once I find the buzz completely justified . The Academy has a chance to show the world that it can , against all appearances to the contrary , recognize true art and talent when it sees it , so of course they'll probably botch things and give the award instead to a glamour puss who will look better on the cover of " People " magazine . But Mirren I'm sure will be the winner in many people's hearts regardless . Frears keeps things moving along with quick editing and a fantastic , staccato score whose effectiveness rests on its judicial use . There's something disorienting yet exciting about watching a movie about people who are alive and well , and still serving in the same roles as their fictional selves on screen . In some ways , " The Queen " feels like it should have come out last year , when a number of other relevant , terse and immensely engrossing films flooded the screens . Though if it had , it would have been one great film among many , whereas this year is has quickly risen to the cream of the crop .
A man and woman wander around the baroque corridors of a fancy hotel . He keeps insisting that they met the previous year and that she promised to run away with him . She keeps insisting that she doesn't remember him and made no such promise . There are other people at the hotel , notably a man who may be this woman's husband , but for all intents and purposes these two interact in a world of their own creation . All the while , the man intones in voice over about the hotel's mirrors , chandeliers , doors opening on other doors and hallways leading to other hallways . Is the man a messenger of death , come to claim his prize ? Is the woman suffering from some type of mental breakdown ? Is the movie an allegory for the journey an artist takes in bringing to life his creations ? Is it about opportunities missed ? Is it about the game of love ? Could it be all of these things , or none of these things ? In the end , is the movie " about " anything ? Is it about whatever we want it to be ? Does is matter ? " Last Year at Marienbad " may sound like an academic slog to sit through , but I was surprised to find how deeply engrossed I was in this film , even if I can't with any confidence tell someone else what it's about . You will be frustrated instantly if you try to watch this movie in the traditional way . But if you instead give yourself up to its strange rhythms , and approach it more in the way you would approach an abstract painting or a poem , you might find yourself enjoying it quite a lot . This is a film where narrative is secondary to recurring images and sounds . It's one of the most beautiful movies I've ever seen . Not only is the hotel itself magnificent , but director Alain Resnais uses his actors like chess pieces , decking them out in black and white clothing and placing them strategically around the frame to create striking compositions . There's something incredibly eerie about the film , and its look has much to do with that - - we feel as if we're spending time in a haunted hotel , surrounded by ghosts . In its use of camera-work and shock editing , it reminded me of Stanley Kubrick ( and especially of " The Shining " ) and the labyrinthine , dream-like narrative brought to mind David Lynch . Like a lot of abstract modern art , I think " Last Year at Marienbad " is about whatever you bring to it , and in that way it's fascinating . I wouldn't want my cinematic diet to consist of nothing but movies like this , but I'm so glad movies like this exist , because they push the boundaries of the medium and help it to grow as an art form .
Bernardo Bertolucci's stunning early-1970s classic looks absolutely beautiful nearly forty years later . It tells the story of a fascist in 1930s Italy who is assigned to root out and assassinate anti-fascists . As the story develops , we learn that a childhood event played a large role in shaping this man's perception of himself , and that the life he is leading is largely a lie . The story Bertolucci tells is odd and compelling , but what kept me glued to the television screen was the film's mesmerizing visual style . Bertolucci collaborated with cinematographer Vittorio Storaro , and it's not an exaggeration to say that they create some of the most beautiful images I've ever seen in a film . One might expect Bertolucci to adopt a sombre color palette for telling such a gloomy story , but that's not the case . On the contrary , he opts for lush colors , striking contrasts , and stylized lighting to create a slightly surrealistic environment that's one small step removed from reality as we know it . A truly remarkable movie .
By and large , child actors of the 1940s were a nauseating bunch , so how wonderful that we have Natalie Wood's performance in " Miracle on 34th Street " as a document of just how adorable a child actor could be . Natalie joins hands with Edmund Gwenn ( who just IS Santa Claus ) and runs easily away with this holiday favorite . On the downside , Maureen O'Hara gives a performance that wouldn't be out of place in a high school play , though John Payne shows off his manly cleft chin to fine effect , but neither of them matter , because this movie belongs to Santa and his little helper . It's a surprisingly unsentimental and even cynical movie for its time . Despite its happy ending and magical elements , it really does a good job of capturing the dead materialism of Christmas and a culture that has become too sophisticated for its own good - - - and this was in 1947 ! Movies like this are timeless for a reason - - they were relevant then , and they're still relevant now . Aside from " A Christmas Story " probably my favorite Christmas movie .
A long time ago , in a galaxy far , far away . . . . . There was a boy who was only two years old when the original " Star Wars " film was released . He doesn't remember first seeing the movie , but he also doesn't remember life before it . He does remember the first " Star Wars " themed gift he got . . . a shoebox full of action figures from the original set . He was too young to fully appreciate how special that gift would be . But years later , he would get what to this day goes down as one of the best gifts he's ever received : another box full of action figures , ten of the final twelve he needed to complete his collection . It's now legendary in this boy's family how the last action figure he needed , Anakin Skywalker , stopped being produced and carried in stores , and how this boy went for about ten years ( until he got into college ) trying to track one down and finally bought it from someone on his dorm floor for a bag of beer nuggets ( don't ask . . . it's a Northern Illinois University thing ) . I can't review " Star Wars " as a movie . It represents absolutely everything good , fun and magical about my childhood . There's no separating it in my mind from Christmases , birthdays , summers and winters growing up . In the winter , my friends and I would build snow forts and pretend we were on Hoth ( I was always Han Solo ) . My friends ' dad built them a kick-ass tree house , and that served as the Ewok village . They also had a huge pine tree whose bottom branches were high enough to create a sort of cave underneath it , and this made a great spot to pretend we were in Yoda's home . I am unabashedly dorky when it comes to " Star Wars " and I think people either just understand that or they don't . I don't get the appeal of " Lord of the Rings " or " Star Trek " but I understand the rabid flocks of fans that follow them because I am a rabid fan of George Lucas's films . I feel no need to defend my opinion of these movies as some of the greatest of all time . Every time I put them in the DVD player , I feel like I'm eight years old again , when life was simple and the biggest problem I had was figuring out how I was going to track down a figure of Anakin Skywalker . Grade ( for the entire trilogy ) :
Perhaps the saddest thing about " Brokeback Mountain " is that , though the story begins in 1963 and ends roughly in the early 80s , Ang Lee's film could have been set in the present day and not much would be different . Homosexuality has become almost stylish in America's urban areas , but out in the heartland , where men are still meant to be MEN , I can still see how homosexuals could spend their entire life in the closet for fear of being completely rejected , if not worse , by the society around them . " Brokeback Mountain " put me in the mind of last year's " Million Dollar Baby " in its approach to controversial subject matter . Like Clint Eastwood's film , " Mountain " avoids becoming an " issue " movie . The point is not whether you think homosexuality is sinful , or that all gay people are damned to hell , etc . The point is about whether two human beings who share an emotional connection should be able to act on that . And I would think someone would have to have a heart of ice to come out of this film and not recognize how tragic it is that two people who obviously care as much about each other as the two men in this film do should have to live in fear of expressing their bond . The film also put me in mind of " Baby " in its style - - spare , quiet , unsentimental . The most important thoughts and feelings are conveyed through what remains unsaid . Heath Ledger and Jake Gyllenhaal give sensational and , for two straight heartthrob Hollywood actors , quite brave performances . Ledger especially is a revelation . Nothing he's ever done up to this point , with maybe the exception of his brief performance in " Monster's Ball , " prepared me for his work here . He has a tough role , as Ennis Delmar , the character he plays , has an instinctual inability to show emotion of any kind . You can see in Ledger's face that his character thinks it's unmanly to expose himself , so his Ennis is all clenched jaw and swallowed words . The only emotion he expresses is violence ; whether it's anger , grief , despair or even lust , his first instinct is to lash out and cause pain . Gyllenhaal's Jack Twist is the more gregarious of the two , and the more willing to take risks with their shared secret . Ennis is more grounded in the reality of his environment . He accepts an occasional escape with Jack up into the mountains as more than either of them have the right to expect . Jack , on the other hand , as he says at one point in the film , isn't able to get what he needs from a secret meeting every couple of years . He wants a full committed relationship with Ennis , and is too rebellious to let the cowboy culture in which they live prevent them from having that . His character comes across as restless and reckless . You're left wondering whether Jack is attached to Ennis specifically or just the satisfying of desires that Ennis makes possible , until the film's final moments , when you realize just how important a role Ennis played in Jack's life . Meanwhile , the two principal actresses , Michelle Williams and Anne Hathaway , deliver bravura performances in small roles , conveying loads of emotion in a facial expression or gesture . Watch Williams's face when she sees her husband , Ennis , locked in a kiss with Jack . Or watch Hathaway's when Ennis calls her near the end of the film to talk about Jack , and you realize that this wife who appeared throughout the film to know nothing about her husband's clandestine personal life seems to know a great deal , and has been hurt considerably by it . Ang Lee nails the good ol ' boy culture of the American west . One has to think that screenwriter Larry McMurty also helped in this department . Like his " The Last Picture Show , " " Brokeback Mountain " paints a desolate portrait of deserted Western towns . These are essentially ghost towns , even though they're full of people . Boredom and stagnation are the norm . Men are men and women are women . Gender roles are strictly assigned and there's no deviation . In fact , one wonders at times whether or not Ennis is strictly gay , or whether he forms a bond with Jack because he's the one person with whom Ennis feels safe to be freely emotional without the fear of judgement . At times , it seems as if Ennis is drawn to Jack not because he's a man , but because he's another human being who seems to understand him . It's really amazing and heartening that a film with this subject matter is finding such mainstream appeal . It remains to be seen how much of an audience it draws outside of the urban areas . It would be nice to think that Americans everywhere will be able to put aside preconceived attitudes and be able to appreciate what is essentially a tragedy about two caring human beings , but that's probably too much to hope for . But even if this film makes a few people across the country think twice about passing judgement on people different from themselves , it will have served a valuable purpose .
" Nashville " is a whirling dervish of a movie that comes blaring out at you from the first moment of its opening credits and never really lets up . Like much of Robert Altman's best work , it's not necessarily about any one thing , but is rather about a bunch of little things . It's a film that is as much about a general spirit as it is a grand theme - - its anarchic tone manages to convey both what is best and worst about American culture . " Nashville " is so in tune with its time , and it feels so immediate , that it's been forgotten today , when other much more " manufactured " films from the time are fondly remembered . It's somewhat understandable - - it's an ugly film , though in this particular case I mean that as a compliment . The actors in it don't look like actors , and Altman incorporates real locations and real Nashvillians ( ? ) into his film in all their unattractive 1975 glory . The sets don't look dressed , the costumes are hideous , all of the interiors look like they're illuminated by unforgiving fluorescent lights and the exteriors exude humidity and sweat . Watching this film is like flipping through a family photo album and making fun of the leisure suits and awful hairstyles . But " Nashville " is one of the most consistently relevant films to have emerged from the 1970s , and I wish people would rediscover it . As the mysterious Hal Philip Walker , who provides the film with its running commentary , might say , " When more people vote for ' American Idol ' than in the latest presidential election , that's politics . " Our obsession with fame and celebrity seems only to increase , and , perhaps because of the sheer pervasiveness of our media , Americans seem less able than ever before to think critically about information and images being presented to them . Kenny , the assassin in the film who shoots Barbara Jean at the finale , seems to be attaching meaning to her that she doesn't warrant ; right before shooting her , he looks from her to a giant American flag behind her , back to her . He seems to be making some connection ; the way the shots are edited asks asks us to make connections too . What exactly does Barbara Jean stand for ? What does the American flag stand for ? Barbara Jean isn't a politician , but she has almost the same amount of influence , maybe more , over her followers . Under what obligations does this put her , if any ? I half way suspect that if Oprah Winfrey ran for President today , she could win . So is Oprah an entertainer , a politician , or some strange hybrid of the two ? Altman has never been interested in answering questions , only asking them . One of the best things about " Nashville " is its ambiguity . It " feels " American , but I can't put my finger on exactly why . Maybe because it's confusing and at times infuriating and at other times beautiful , sometimes sad , sometimes hilarious , but always glorious .
