This film is awful , the only part in it I remember is a guy melts . This stinker , which is direct to video , which should give you clue how bad it is , uses the Death Wish name for some unsuspecting fool , like my self , to rent it and be victimized . Thus making me a vigalantie towards the makers of this criminal act . No story , very little Charly , even less of a budget , and some stupid crime scenes equal a . Try watching test patterns they got to be better than this .
Too long , and not much of a story . There is scenes in this film , that one ask what does this have to do with the story . Good acting will go only so far , and with out a story the film dies . Do not even rent this one .
Taped this late night movie when I was in grade 11 , watched it on fast forward . I sugest you do the same . I though it would be and action film , but went to a cort tv type movie . In the end it fits in with the early 70's social activest type films . Glad I missed that era .
The only reason I did not give this film a 1 , is the beginning . After that , this film is bad as the title sounds . Out of desperation for entertainment I rented this one , believing the last sequel was the true ending . Minus the stupid story which drags this series on like Jason himself who just does not die there is many other weak points . What bothers me more is the low , low , production budget . I know the other films were done on low budgets , but todays low budget films look like I filmed it with my dad's camcorder . Over bright , video looking etc . Over acting , and extra plot twists make this film look like a low budget Show Case original ( that is a low budget Canadian cable channel ) . Awful computer animated special effects , could they get any more phony . The little creature running around described in one word cheap . The music is identical to Show Case's . This film barley rates a . Die Jason . . . Please just die !
I gave this film a 2 , and I watched about half of this sappy film . The Rocky who over comes great obstacles films ie Mask , Karate Kid , and the Jessie Owens story , have been done over and over to the point of over kill . Like action films which have the reputation of seen it , did it , done it before approach , this film has the originality of Rambo 6 . Maybe , the movie industry should go back to 1970's ending where everyone dies , or things don't work out , for a change . I love plot twists or a memorable scene I have never witness before , but to do a film where I can predict to the last detail what will happen next is boring . Maybe , thats why people cheer for the bad guys in wrestling now because of the sake of change , the Hulk Hogans , with their white hats on , is a event of the 80's . Like heavy metal , and Rambo this film belongs in the 1980's .
Spoiler Big budget , special affects , etc . where great , but this movie has no story . 1 . How could John Conners be born if they erased all the future events . 2 . Watch Linda Hamalton run around like some 60's activist , not real . 3 . The black sciencetist who suddenly decides to help them with Skynet , how sappy , and kills himself . 4 . The kid in the movie is annoying , you wish the Terminator got him . 5 . If Skynet did not invent the chip it would have never existed . This story is too melodramatic that it kills the science fiction end , and creates some sappy feel good movie . Not for me , or any science fiction fan .
Some people will calls this film a chick flick , I prefer to say it is geared for a teenage women audience . With this in mind I fould it awful . Too sappy , predictable and reminds me of the low budget Bartell Drive inn movies . The all girl band headed out too the beach is toooo predictable . Their characters at best get across as cardbord . The tough girl etc . Even for an escapist movie , where the viewer turn his or her brain off , this film's script is too thin . I watched this with my wife late night , and could not care less for the conclusion . I left not really wanting to know about what happens too the band , or their love interest . For a film I found soaps have better wrighting . This film probably was done quick , on the cheap and it shows . Stay away unless your only other choice is Isthar at the video store . 3 Out of 10
No story , sums up this no brainier action film ; I forgot about this film until I saw an old pay tv trailer for this film . Linda Hamalton does her usual non acting , and uses sexuality as her only acting tribute . She is not that good looking either to play that role . In the end Tommy Lee took the money and ran with this film . There's worse films out there , but they sure are hard to find .
This one sits on the shelf besides Double Impact and gathers dust . Its a toss up for which film is worst , but I give it to Death Warrant . A few exciting fight scenes . He never would have made it out alive , but its a movie . Reminds me of Tango and Cash , and I did not like that one either . Don't even rent this one , but my dad seems to like this one when he watch it late one night .
When I was a little kid they had these Trucking driving country and western movies . The great smokie Road Block , Convoy , etc . Many years later I watched some of this crap on TBS , boy did I not miss much when my mother made me go to bed early . Well , I have gotten older and watched this dog on TBS , and I still could not keep awake . Some movies like a bad wine will turn into vinegar with time , and that is what this film is or at least a sleep aid . Keep on Trucking , I am happy I missed the 70's .
I agree with the other users comments that this film is pointless . I found this movie lacks any feeling , or emotion . No one cares how this movie ends . I do not know if it was the directors fault or the script . My wife likes it , and it could be lost to the male audience . This film is neither scary or tense . I did not like the preview , and it represents this movie well . Another forgettable movie that will someday fade away .
This awful film , has no story , originality , or interesting characters . The only part I liked of this film , was the date that watched it with me , my future wife . That was better than the time I saw Planes Trains , and automobiles when someones date was talking to me and her guy was getting angry . Well , I better not get too off topic , but there is not much to mention about this film except it total sucks , and is forgetable . Forgetable is the best discription for this stinker .
I think this movie had a hard time to beat the first as the first was so entertaining . A lot of the scenes were from the first and rehashed . It was a lower budget movie and was filmed in Alberta Canada . I do not know why they even bothered with this movie . They obviously could not contend with the first . I did not see this in the theater , I think it was a direct to video here . There are some tense moments . The one bright spot was the crazy acting of Jake Busey . He sure takes after his father . It is too bad that he didn't have more of a story to work with .
I thought this would be a hard hitting Martin type movie . In the end , a movie about social content than an ugly real film like Mean Streets . The film is sappy ; the scene where the gangster lends the car to the boy . I wish they put this in the preview , instead of how they fraudulently portrayed this mean hard hitting film . It is still well acted , just misleading ; the preview made me feel ripped off . It is more of a social conscious film instead of a gangster movie .
This film had no point or purpose to it . The viewer has no idea of the motive of the bad guys . Why were they doing this ? The film was slow and took forever to unfold . I kept saying " this movie is so slow and boring . " I do not know why I went to this one , maybe to compare it to the Franker's version . I wouldn't waste my money , save it for video . Then at least you can forward through some of the boring movie . I should of known better than to go see a Denzel Washington movie . I do not like any of his films . A lot of the scenes did not make any sense and seemed to be out of place . I do not know if this was the director's intension , but some scenes ended so abruptly . In the original , at least you get to eventfully see what happens . Be ware of men who have such close relationships with their mothers just like Psycho . The viewer is left not understanding the ending . It was a stupid remake .
Williams runs at the mouth in this over serious comedy . Rude and crude , and insulting over humorous dialog . Maybe , Andrew Dice Clay could do better . Over rated , his comic bit , like in a club , sounds more like a tirade at the post office than humor . No Caddy Shack , with the cholate bar in the pool humor . Instead , the movie reminds me more of insults at work . The ending is serious , and one needs to see a comedy after watching this film .
This film is done on a higher budget than Dr No , but did not have the blank check as the future Bond films received . It's a bit dated , and introduces characters for future Bond films . It introduces the Bond gagets , but they are lame compared to the newer films . The beginning is excellent , but like in a lot of old films , the story drags trying to over explain itself . Robert Shaw plays a good character , and introduces the watch strangler gismo . The viewer is introduced to Specter , the criminal organization which is involved in the early Bond trilogy .
Well this Canadian stinker done by the Canadian film development corporation had a great concept . I remember watching this film , after I finished grade 11 , with my dad , and I thought what a great concept . I think of all the movies I've forgotten over the years , and this film is burnt into my memory . Electrocute annoying people by the phone , this would be great for thoes annoying telemarketers who usually phone during dinner . Well , that's besides the point , like most of the Canadian Film development movies of that era this film has an ok concept , but lacks in budget or effects . I like the opening scene with the kids running in the subway , its a good mood setter . It has a great concept like Scaners , and it looks like it too could have been filmed in Monteral .
It's too long , and stupid . It could have been a comedy with that scene with Joe Pesci being whipped . How could he have a straight face while filming that scene . Funny part John Candy plays the only believable straight role in this film . I did fall asleep before this one ended . No before you ask , I am not with the government , who is trying to spread some misinformation ! I do not know what's with Oliver Stone , but after this , and some of the scenes from Any Given Sunday and Nixon I am surprised this guy doesn't do a film on UFO " s .
This film has some strong and weak points . It has a plot right out of TJ Hooker ( for those people in the 80's ) and some stunts out of the Duke's of Hazard . One does not have to think hard to watch this movie . The beginning part of the movie is lame , the characters , 70's style , wow look at this acting , and multi cultural cast resembled perfectly the 70's PBS show the Blood Hound gang . How lame , and dull edged , along with no imagination could they make this . They try to grab the younger audience with everything rap style , which is in stark contrast to racing NASCAR Burt Reynolds fans . This rap I just don't mean the music but lingo is so 90's , and been around since 88 is losing its shock , its become more of a fringe . It reminds me of the PoP tart commercial we see in Canada , I was waiting to see a PoP tart in one of the cars and the lead actor make that weird noise . Some of the stunts where out of CBS , Dukes of Hazard , ie . the bridge whatever the guy won in cash would never cover the cost of his under carriage or axles . Then the movie turns into Grand thief auto Vice city , I am sure they had this in mind . It picks up and becomes a little more believable . Then the 70's driving film style took over and saves this film , movie like Cannonball , The Driver etc , and I really enjoyed the fun of it . Especially the 2 stunt drivers in the Charger , and Camero who look and act the real deal . It was real ; they could not beat these cars with today's toned down imports , but the import could handle the corners better . Then the movie turns into Smokey and the Bandit style with its trick at the ending , along with a very Dukes of Hazard ending , they even mention the name Dukes , where just like in the show surprising no one gets killed . 5 or 6 out 10 .
When I watched this movie again I did not realize how little football is actually in this film . This film shows the reality of the football business , and price one pays both physical and mentally in pro sports . I would call this film more a drama then a comedy . The personal side in Elliots life drags in this film , and kills it .
My wife wanted to see this James Bond movie , because we saw all the others . With hesitation I rented it . The first half of this movie is awful , yuck , it has a few funny , Brithish dry wit spots to it , but horrible . The second half saves it , if you can actually endure the first half , it's stupid funny . The British humor is actually good , it is so over the top , especially the ending with the bubbles and cowboys . Better than Austen Powers , and I see where they got the idea from , with this film . In the end
Well , this film is like a Stallone moive before its time . Action packed , with a huge gun fight conclusion . Better than the Wild Bunch , but this film ages poorly . Not a classic Western , but a TBS late night movie .
I saw this film , when I was 12 , with my dad . Not a bad movie , but when I saw it earlier I thought it was good , but my recent viewing of this film I find it cheesy . The beginning is ok , but the rest gets a little unbelievable . My dad read the book , and said this movie is far off from the the truth . In the end , I give it a
Run of the mill action thriller . I did not mind Eagle Eye , however I found the movie predictable . Parts of the movie were great other parts were lame . The movie has the Hall 2000 computer problem . One has to see the movie 2001 to see the connection . When I saw the ending , I thought you had to be joking . Lame ! Just not lame but super lame . The movie's ebb and flow is a . I would never buy the movie , but I would rent it . Go to the cheap theater to see Eagle Eye . A date movie where you are more interested in your date than the movie . My wife enjoyed the movie . I guess she didn't see the movie 2001 . Julianne Moore's voice is quite recognizable as the computer . Can you imagine a computer that could control everything . I think the world would be in big trouble as computer have no grey areas .
This is not a great movie , and will age badly ; I liked this movie ; it makes me laugh , but it is done cheesy in a 70's way . Michael Douglas is a great actor and saved this film . The other lead should not quit his day job . The restaurant scene is great , especially the part where he describes his copier business . Rent it ! Do not go to the theater for this one .
Most College movies can be described as lame or stupid . This is one of the few that stays out of these two categories . This film starts out stong , and for the 90's I give credit for handling real life taboos of drugs , drinking , student radicals , and eating meat . Crap goes on all the time , but when I was in University in the 90's the radical fringe made the place more like a jail than a learning establishment . Being resented for your background , or life style of wearing leather , eating read meat , and drinking beer . I never could understand why everyone else has to live their way , and why they have too name call and shout all the time . ( Sometimes , I found some of the students turn the place into a kindergarten . ) ( EQ vs IQ ) Anyway , this movie is a protest to the PC establishment , and is funny . When one pokes fun at another , and these PCers can not take a joke ; you get the huge reaction that the prankster wants . The problem with the last quarter , unlike Animal House , the movie wimps out , instead of having one very big prank at the ending .
This film is an improvement over the first . The acting improves , and William Peterson shines in his role . The writing , and directing remains average . Nothing stands out special in this film , and I would rent it on a 99 cent day , at your local video store . .
A good episode , but not the greatest . I wish there was a little less drag time with the show . The Jenn and Rallings people were at it again . I feel this is going to be one of those right-wing conspires plots . I find that a little too politically correct . Easy plot device to blame people in suits . I could be wrong and the show has me in for a loop . I hate predictable TV . The end of the show hit me for a loop . Wow unpredictable . Like Supernatural the show changes cast quick enough which keeps the story fresh . I wonder what Beck will do with the new information ? . My wife thinks the Ravenwood bad guy plays a good antagonist .
I guess CBC is trying not to lose anymore viewers to HBO , and came up with this . Most of the budget is spent on the first episode , and the show hurts because of this . Watchable , decent budget , good acting , which is a big surprise for the CBC . Michael Ironside is a strong actor and it was nice to have a realistic watchable show on TV . I still can not believe I watch a CBC show , other than Hockey . Maybe , I will watch PBS next . Worth viewing .
This movie has its moments , and would be hard to make in the 90's with poltical correctness . It is a mix of locker room junior high antics , and stright out macho hot dog ski types . There is funny moments and the movie is choppy , but what do you expect for a 80'S party movie . I enjoyed it , but this movie is not for every one . I think every one knows a few people who behave like party animals , and if you don't like party animal types stay away from this one .
Hey is that the real Wil Clinton who did that movie review ? I tried to email , but there is no forward adress . That is besides the point , Primary Colors was not liked by the critics , I believe the media likes Clinton and viewed this as a swipe at him . If the media likes you they will help out , but if they hate you like , ie Dan Quale watch out it gets very relentless . In the end , I found the story silly , and entertaining ; what saves this film is the acting . Bill bob , and John's performances where exceptional ; John is the most charismatic actor in Hollywood , and his charisma makes him the idea politician . He shows the Hypocrisy of politicans , their self absorption , drive for power , and belief they can be above the law . Lie and hide their baggage , and expose others . The film is a 3 , but John turns it up to a 6 , my wife likes it more , but I find the tongue and cheek direction too much . This film hit a never with me , about the distrust of politicians , with their lawyer answers , flip flop on issues , and hidden agendas . This film reminds me of a Eastwood movie saying " Don't ps on my back and tell me its raining " . In this light , the satire plays well .
Not a bad movie , but not a great one either . I think the movie might be based off what I read in the paper here in Canada . The story is about how torture creates more hatred . Questions US policy with the war on terror . I have mixed feeling . What do we do with terrorists ? Dealing with evil people always gets ugly . Well directed and acted . I wonder how close the movie is to real life . I wonders what was omitted ? What was added for dramatic effect ? a bit of a downer to watch ! stars . Film in a dark lighting to create the depressing mood . A very dark film . The acting is done more like a stage play than a movie . I like the full circle ending . I get the point .
My wife loved this show . I always hated it . My wife thought the dolphin was cute . I just could not understand how the kid knew what the dolphin was saying . EEEEEEWha just sounded like gibberish . Anyways as a kid I liked police shows more . My wife is a animal lover . If you love animals then give this show a 9 . If you love police shows give this show a 3 . A is a good rating . Many people like the Flipper song . Was the show filmed in Florida ? My Cockatoo Teddy would like the Flipper noises . My bird probably could make those noises too . Maybe they will make a show about a Cockatoo next ? Who solves mysteries ? My wife would watch it !
Not a bad movie . Eastern promises has the BBC style of British films . Crisp , and straight forward is the movie with a mix of Cronenbergs brutality . Hands being chopped , violent fights , and the ugliness of prostitution is portrayed in this movie . I grew up in a Slavic culture , and the movie address the frankness , hardness of the culture with the mix of joking and friendship . The film reminds me of the many family event I have attended . Brovo for the films research ! The film unravels a few mysteries , but has a disappointing ending . The reaction I had for the ending is That's it . What a disappointment . I knew the ending was for dramatic purposes I guess I am so use to the more TV style of rap up endings . . Maybe 7 . A good rental .
Not a bad film , but there is so many action hero films out there . This film has some neat fight scenes , and cool bad guys . It is too much at the ending , but what the hell . I give it a six , what is Van Dame doing lately anyways .
Good special effects for 81 , but nothing special for todays computer graphics ; one can see the influences in present movie making . The idea is sappy , and the acting is ok , but the effects is what I like in this film . Worth watching , and this film has a message about over development . Ahead of its time . I would give this film a . I find a lot of the early 80's film quality gritty , this film and the Howling appear very dark on my VCR .
I remember when I was in grade 8 , people where starting to buy VCRs , and owning one was a big deal . Dad rented one , and we picked out movies . Borderline was one of them , I thought it was pretty cool . Watching this film 19 years later I found it predicable , and a little lame . No way his truck could keep up with a Trans Am on the highway , why did the guy , with the T A , go off road where the truck has the edge . My friend Gord mentioned this , and I thought yeah . Anyways , no surprises here , but watchable .
It is like watching a documentary . I watch the History Channel all the time . I love watching War documentaries . This film is like a War documentary with acting . I found it quite accurate on the accounts of what happened . I love the raid . They even have the fake Edie on this one . Way too Cool , what a raid .
They often show this movie on the Canadian History channel . I do not mind it , I remember , when I was 6 , my dad made me go to bed after watching the beginning of this film . For years I remember that , I guess it just stuck out in my memory . A few months ago I watch the whole film . Not a bad film , but far from great . B actor Rober Vaughn is a bright spot . Worth watching , and for a older film it ages well .
One of Heston's better performances , and overall watchable . Well directed , but the effects , script , and acting is dated in spots . I would watch the whole movie on TV , but would not stay up for it . Average movie nothing special here .
This film is ok , and Bill Paxton plays a good role . However , this film steered away from the facts . The explosions were too close , it was the British who actually did this mission , and the story gets a little too unbelievable . There is tension , drama , and a message of what a good leader is . These attributes save an otherwise unbelievable film .
Well , a OK movie . I did notice some old USFL footage from the 80's the NFL would not want to be tied with this film I guess . I recognized a few old USFL teams if one looks closer at the film . The Boston / New Orleans Breakers , Mephis Show Boats , L A Express ( I believe the quarter back was Steve Young ) , and The New Jersey Generals ( I believe the quarter was Doug Flutie ) . A couple of teams I could not recognized . Back to the movie , directing at a good pace , and well acted . The gambler Pacino is a sad and unlikable character . The movie is a down beat film with the message of gambler appetite for destruction and pushing life too hard . It is never winning 20 its losing 200 . The end is about life choice and one is what the protagonist does .
Not a bad Christmas movie . ' Fred Clause ' was well directed and acted . The story is OK . Vince is funny at times , similar in style to a 80's Bill Murry via Stripes . Fred Clause is funny for moments and also serious with the family message . I like the part where infamous brothers talk about their famous brother counterparts . Frank Stalone , S Baldwind etc make cameo appearances for troubled brothers . I like the ended which shows a trouble Kevin Speacy , and why the villain has it in for Santa Clause . The presents do get delivered and Christmas is saved is a predictable ending , but a lovable ending . . OK Christmas movie .
Spoiler ! ! ! Toilet junior high humor . I like this sort of humor , but such humor is either hit or miss . The grandma on speed was funny , along with the cops part . Other stuff was gross , or like the dog scene stupid . I heard so much hype and found the movie not able to live up all the praise . I hated the band , I was wondering if the bad singer getting shot was ment to be funny or relief ? I will let you the reader decide . Rent it , if there is nothing else left in the video store . Better than being stuck with Ishtar ; I still never had the nerve to rent that one . Comedy is hard to do , and I found this style of movie gets graded the hardest . PS The Pizza guy was a twist , and was funny near the end ; they should have used him sooner . The end , was weired as they come .
Friday the 13th is not a bad movie , but not a great movie either . Friday the 13th is just an OK movie . The beginning of the film is strong and scary . The first 3rd of the movie is interesting with Sam Winchester off supernatural looking for his sister . The character just acts like Sam would from the Supernatural series . Then , the viewer loses interest when the story becomes bogged down with character development . I read once they make the characters annoying in the Fridaday 13th series because if the audience become to attached to the characters the audience gets to disturbing watching the film . There where some scares , and tension with the movie . However , I have seen a few of the other 13th movie and a few of the scene in the new movie become predictable . The movie was worth going to I would give Friday the 13th a , or a . I would call this movie a rental or cheap night movie . They still managed to give present film an 80's feel like the older Friday the 13th movies .
Boy , it is hard to make a post , with my firewall going up all the time some jerk must be trying to hack me . Anyways , that is besides the point . The guy who wrote and directed this film , I believe it is an East Indian name that I can't spell , has a bad tendency of writing films that have great previews , but disappointing endings with no conclusions . Another film like signs . The story dragged , and the characters were over evolved . This would be a great short story , but not a full feature film . The movie is plausible . Maybe , they should have an aftermath at the end of this film . Like Signs were the aliens could not open doors , but travel from another planet the Village is another hard too digest film . A DVD at home not a outing . .
Not a bad movie but a b movie indeed ! The sexual comments and bad acting at the beginning makes for a b movie . Then the movie becomes another version of the Blair Witch Project . The first part of the movie is slow with sloppy acting then boom we got a scary fast pace horror movie . With the running around and confusion going on the script become believable . I found the first half of the movie is a . The movie's second half is a 9 on the scare meter . In total I give the movie a . A good movie rental or pay per view . The ending is very Blair Witch Project ! This movie is done on the cheap and will make a mint .
Not a bad movie , the company I was with at the movie wasn't . I found the movie tense . The story is believable , there is some very cold people out there . Help and wit is sometimes needed in life . Moore plays a very mean person , perfectly . Her most believable role to date . The more times they show it on TBS the more times I like it . Sutherland does a good creep also . I wonder if these actors behave this way in real life . The movie is a bit graphic , not for kids . I wonder why Michael Douglas always gets into these bad sex situations . ( Fatal and Basic ) Watch it on TBS . Give it a grade of 70 % I would love to see part 2 . Maybe Moore gets her revenge .
This film I saw 9 years ago , isn't that bad . A bit dated , and the acting looks old . Still a strong story , that could be retold today . Must have been great in 74 . One of the better disaster movies , I remember as a child in the 70's . I would rent it , but not get over excited about it . Good cheap night film !
This film is nothing special , it is just more the same . With some new twists . The shark is very hungry and Broady's older son wants to hang out with the teenagers they all are into boating , and take the chance of becoming potential shark food . I was rooting for the shark in this one . Its not bad , it's watchable , but far inferior to the original . I would give this a 6 out 0f 10
I rented this movie after see parts 1 and 3 . This film is alot better then part one considering its on a higher budget , better acting , and it looks like they had more time to film and edit it . As a result , the acting , editing , and directing is less choppy . The mechanics of this film is done well , and a few scenes cause you jump . No surprises in this one , it is a done by the numbers horror film , better then most low budget films of the 80's . I give it a rating of six .
I agree with the last guys comment . The show is like Seinfield . A lot to do about nothing . Bad and strange predicaments and how the lost characters deal with the weirdness . I love the flashback about the belt . The greecer hair and jackets . I bet the missing the Grey Cup due to lost tickets had to happen in real life . I been through missing tickets before . I would feel enclosed living a small town where everyone knows everyone . The dollar store jewelery prove such ! In the end , I wonder why they throung in the Lacy part of the show . Maybe a little real life there . People love gossip . I guess you have to be careful who you kiss . poges for the Lacy episode .
Bad Kid . Everyone knows one and no one wants to babysit one . Brent ends up having to babysit the kid from , and is having a hard time doing so . Hank's budgie story is hilarious . Hank's story scares Brent even more . Lacy can not help when Brent is overwhelmed by the task at hand . Brent's mom comes to the rescue . Using the voice and threat authority mom saves the day . for this show . Hank is good supporting humor for this episode . No one has a good thing to say about the kid ! I wish e could have seen him . Maybe not seeing him made the show better . Well I won't babysit after watching this show . Rent season one . Oh baby is one of the better show for season one .
Its fresh , exciting , and funny . This film after Blood sport made his carer . A simple story , but wow its true escapism and that's what action is about . I really like this one the fights could be described as incredible . A really memorable bad guy is in this film . Rent it .
Brent is such a good goalie that he saves the bad Dog River team from being worse . The rival team challenge Brent to leave the team with a bunch of endorsements . The story is interjected with a woman coach theme . Humor done Dog River style ! Brent stays with the loyalty of his town . The Dog River what's there name ties the game , which is as good as win for them . A decent story . 7 gas stations out of 10 . Hank is very Hankish in this story . Have I wrote 10 lines yet ? Nope I have not ! Now have I ? Nope I think they need a budgie as a regular character for the show ? Maybe a parrot ? I love the show believe I got 10 lines now . Darn not yet ! Yes and Cornor Gas rules .
If anyone reading these comments has the TV channel showcase , they you have probably seen the old movie Scanners . Supernatural Nightmare is a mix of Scanners and the movie Carrie . The plot is a mix of what happens to mom and trying to stop a unbalanced person with telekinesis . Supernatural has the usual balance of the two lead protagonists . A blend of the good looking girl , and the realism of the price the protagonist has to live with the sacrifice of dealing with the supernatural . How do they live ? Are they rich as they do not need jobs . Do they get down time ? I hope next season the show answers these questions . ! I wish they just keep showing the show on the same time slot in my area ( Winnipeg ) .
Richard Gere never ages . He seems to have a problem with his wives in movies ; they do not fair very well . I would not be surprised if this was a remake of a French film . It had an European style to it . Richard Gere plays the loving husband and Diane plays the wife that has too much time on her hands . The reverse of fatal attraction . A bit long . When events spin out of control , it leads to a tragic fate . This film is suspenseful which Richard is great at .
The Shinning meets Darkness ! If one has seen the other 2 movies they will understand how this movie is made . The first of this movie is scary . I found the last 25 % a bit over the top . A nastier version of the first with a more meaning feel to it . Evil lies , devides and leads to insanity is part of this story . The acting and directing is perfect and believable . A couple of scares in this film that made me jump and I never jump . at least in the last couple of years . Is it scary , one girl cut infront of me when leaving the movie house biting her nails and headed for the bathroom . Entertaining . 7 screams out of 10 . What with the test pattern ? Did anyone get it ?
Well casted and directed . The movie has a strong cast . Many of the minor ( mi 5 and the cops ) characters have very anal attitudes , which get across as very analytical . The minor characters behavior and facial expressions show way to up tight attitudes . Being so wounded tight all the time everyone creates a need to vent sooner or later and that is why those picture in the vault were so incriminating . The movie is about dirty secrets . The pickle these people were in . Nothing is so easy and when the robbers were found out by mistake and even bigger pickle is created for them , and the robbers created a bigger pickle for the others by their reaction . I get the film's message . Brilliant ! Stay clean and stay out of a pickle . M5 bought the robbers off in order to stop the damage . .
The most non-serious of all the episodes of Supernatural so far ! I repeat so far ! A tongue and cheek homage towards the throwback of black and white horror movies . Wolfman , Dracula , and The Mummy are characters in Monster Movies . The camera angles , acting style , character names , credits and even the awkward acting take you back to the old time black and white horror film . I love the shows comic parts . Dean is overly silly , and Dracula is just as silly with the pizza coupon scene . Does he kill because he is lonely or is he lonely because he kills , is another silly line from the shape shifter . One problem with the concept . Doesn't a shape shifter have to touch someone gain their form ? OK show .
The Ruins preview is dishonest for portraying the movie as awful . A interesting storyline entwined with good character development . Amazing special effects which make the film . I like the surprise problem , of what or who the movie antagonist is . Why was it there . To protect the sight ? What happens when someone leaves the sight . There is a whole lot of questions . Too bad the viewer could never understand what the villagers were saying . The Mexico vacation bit with the drunk girlfriend is way too real . I like how the movie ends . tropical drinks for The Ruins . Rent the Ruins or go out on date night . A lot of fun . I think we will see a few of these actors in many more films .
I like documentaries , and the documentary style of Greengrass is fresh ! The only negative is the bouncing camera work , I find it disorienting , and the bouncing gave my wife a headache . Using the real life people gave a documentary feel . No PC or political agenda just the actions of real people . The heroic behavior of everyone trying to save the country from the attack had to be told . The part with the controllers in the tower and the J Sac command gave realism similar to Black Hawk Down . Worth renting . I will never forget that horrific day , with the death of so many . I was shocked to see a few people at work happy about it . I guess this shows the evil in this world and how ugly evil is . . A movie onto itself .
I liked George's acting as James Bond , but my wife thought he lacked the charm , and humor of Roger Moore . The story is great , and we can see why Bond should not get married . I liked the music score , and Telly plays a bad Blofeld ( I thought he would be European ) but my wife differs on this . I would not poop on this movie like many others do , but I do not like the beginning .
This film is not as silly as " The man with the Golden Gun " , but not as serious as " For your eyes Only " this film is in the middle . I thought the film drags in the first half , but my wife disagrees . It has all the Bond saves the world excitement , with huge explosions at the ending . This film introduces the Jaws character to infuse some new blood for the Bond series .
The story is very strong , and has the Michael Mann " You belong to the city " feel for it . Tom Cruse is the lesser of two lead actors in order to fit the role of Vincent . Tom , if I can call him that like I really know him , is a high mileage actor . Tom is good at his trade , but after using up similar characters over the years needed to re-invent the Tom Cruse persona . Maybe , next movie one might see an even darker Tom ; ( AKA a Nazi in a war movie , or as a evil spirit in a haunted house ) only Tom will know . " Collateral " has a Miami Vice or Heat feel that mixes a Alf Hichcock story with plot twists to it . A great date movie , when I was 17 or 21 and dating say my wife , as the girl friend of course , this movie would be great . Too be fair I need to watch this movie another time to give it a accurate rating , but I would tell everyone to go see it at the Drive In or Theater before Collateral is ready for on demand or DVD rental . 7 or . Tom email me and tell me what your going do next I am excited .
I thought this sequel was just as good as the first . Michael J . Fox is great as the voice for Stuart . I could not figure who was the little bird til the end . Melanie Griffith did a terrific job . I was surprised to see James Wood as a voice of the falcon , but as soon as I heard the voice I knew who it was . He always plays a great bad guy . The story is great as it continues from the first . It was different enough from the first that it was a good sequel . I believe kids will enjoy this film . It is great family entertainment . It has something for everyone .
" The day before " episode thesis is about character back ground and development for the shows main characters . The two main protagonist Jake Green and Hawkins are centered on this show . One learns of Jake's past with Ravenwood , and Jake trying to help his friend out . Jake's troubles direct him to Jericho in need of money . On the other hand , Hawkin's we no little of except , he is a highly trained weapon , who knows about the upcoming disaster , and wants to save his family . I like the show . A few slow spots . . The Ravenwood incident will always haunt Jake and he will have to face the past in a latter episode . Jake's problems are small compared to what ever Hawkins must face . Next season will be interesting .
I was watching this film , on the history channel Eastwood is great , and one never loses interest with the story . A done it , seen it before film , but a pleasure to watch for its craftsmanship . I give it a . Rent it , if nothing else is at the video store .
The surprise of 2008 , the critics downplayed this movie . Surprisely the movie is much better than the reviews . The only thing that would of made this movie believable is they needed German accents . Cruise was just too American sounding . The part I liked best about the movie is that it gave the viewer the feeling of what it was like to live in a police state . The better movies are always the ones that follow the events closely . Real life movies are always better than fiction . This movie is a 7 or . Worth seeing in the theater . The actor ( Tom Wilkinson ) from Emily Rose is in this movie . He plays the German that plays both sides . A lot of British actors in this film . If the plan would of worked , I wonder if the war would have ended sooner .
A good summer comedy ! Yea ha . A good comedy relaxes me and makes myself laugh . It did both . Turn your brain off before you go in . I like the south , and how the south can laugh at itself . That is a sign of good character when one can laugh at oneself . I get the inside joke about hotdogs and sundaes , but I never been there to see if that is part of the Nas Car experience ? The movie is very close to the show in plot and characters . a bit more adult oriented and Rosco is a meaner , lynchier Sheirf , unlike the show . Reynolds plays a good boss , but has a small , with a small s , to it part . The car is the best part . The Atlanta reaction to the car is great . A rowdy Winnipeg crowd loved this movie . . Watch the end credits for the out takes .
Boy , did this guy have a great relationship with women , he could single handily start the feminist movement . At least this movie is honest . The guy's demons where rage , and jealously . This movie is better than average , but drags in parts , and a few scenes were of little use to the story . The acting was not the bad , but Goodfellas is the evolved version of this film .
It is nice to see a new idea in Hollywood . The warewolf concept is over done , and this movie does a fresh twist to the concept . The movie is original and fun to watch . Jack is one of the best and does this film justice , and the story's twists keep the viewer jumping . This has the businessman bit by a wolf and shows the affects it has on the individual's life . I will say no more or I will ruin this film .
What happens when science goes too far . Abomination of nature is created and this film shows the tragic results of this . This film goes down hard , and found it too much . This movie is heavy and too much for myself , but entertaining too .
The first 2 Bond movies where done on low budget , and Goldfinger was the beginning of high budget Bond films . M introduced high tech gagets , the story did not drag with long conversations to fill in time , and the movie had the over the top stunts that make these film ssucessfull . If it was not for Sean Connery acting in the first 2 films this series would have never servived . Watch Connery play golf in this film , and you will see the killer edge that he gives to these films .
This film is sick , you bet it is . Many people will be repulsed by this work . I myself found this film on the edge of sick to brilliant . It goes through the issue of cannibalism and one eats to live and the morals of surviving on the expense of others . Good criticism of society and we may not eat each other , but we do victimize each other daily . Guy Pearce and Robert Carlyle back up a very strong cast . If you can get over how strange this move is you will find it integrating , or at least I know I did . For history bluffs this movie is influenced by the events of the Donnor party . The movie was marketed for gen x and probably the high school crowd , it is not for every one
The Police look at events in a very cynical way , and after watching a movie full of scum bags in it , you can not blame them . Who told the truth what is the truth the answer is they all lie , the story is in the middle some where . Funny how I watched the movie with it drug culture and hedonism . There is no surprise with the negative results ; just waste which this film portrays well . I heard the Devil's best ploy is too show the dark side of humanity in such a dark light , that one feels hopeless . This is why I am happy about my clean living , and do not feel bad when other knock my MTV generation .
After an unpleasant birthday party for my future father in law , my girl friend and I went to my house to watch tv . On A & E they had this interesting WW 2 movie . I do not know how realistic it is , but it sure has an entertaining story . Undercover German Jews , British special forces , and a mole have too execute a black bag operation . Pretty cool , to watch George Peppard run around with a flame thrower . Not the usually sloppy acting for a 60's ww 2 movie .
Long films usually bore me , this is an exception . Yes a few parts could be cut out , but the length is there to tell the full story . It has a 80's Miami Vice rock videoish style of music with the story . Al does a great role along with Steve and the strong supporting cast backs ups the lead actors . The intention of the director is to show a violent , gritty , and corrupt film ; this perfectly reflects the drug world and the people who associate with it . The ending is a bit lame , but the film wants a impressionable ending .
This movie entered the theatres two years after it was made . The hair styles , clothes , and attitudes were very 80's . Farmer Ted was extremely funny ; I loved how he danced . The actor who played the rich jock did it perfectly . The Chinese student was hilarious . It is nice to see good people actually get things there way . The world is far from this .
When I watched the preview I was turned off . While channel surfing I found this on TBS . The film put me into a good mood and I laughed . Russel as Captain Ron is hilarious . Only Russel could pull of this role . I can not explain the humor , but describe it as a Russel comedy . 7 or .
Spoilers ! ! The original is a classic that I have seen one too many times , which made Arnold . The second film , left its science fiction roots , and became a special effects film , without much of a story . A lot of films have plot holes , but how could John Conners exist without the first film happening . No bratty kid , social cause and effects ( ie the security guard why don't I kill , the science guy change of mind ) , Linda Hamilton giving a PC social lecture , and effects with no need like the truck scene . T3 had to change from the first 2 , and this makes it a strong film . The over the top action scenes add humor for the film . Arnold acts more like a machine , and becomes a strong secondary character ; smart move for Arnold . It shows he can step back for the good of the film . Arnold's computer behavior is comical ! Most science fiction has philosophy , and this film deals with fatalism . This film answers the question why does John Conner exist . As a result of fate , the second film only delayed the inevitable . One must deal with their fate . Chaos theory with free will creates order to chaos and events unfold . The strongest part of this film is the believability with the science fiction . In 1984 , Sky Net takes over , was science fiction , but with the net , and the grid cyber war , it is possible . This would damage the financial , power , communications system etc . I watched a show about cyber war on the Learning Channel , with what the NSC could do and with Sky net and the virus it is plausible . Add the sci-fi , time travel and anything is possible . The ending is mind blowing with fatalism . 7 or 8 out 10 .
This film represents 80's comedy , perfectly mixed with action . Ilove this film , especially the part where De Niro is mimicked by thethat guy from CNBC . I love this film , the story is goofy , and I lovehow the other bounty hunter , the FBI guy , and the bondsman allget it . The helicopter scene is a classic . Rent it , watch it , and liveit .
Everyone knows a jerk . Brent's cousin Carl comes to town to show off and is real cool . Brent who is generally a nice guy does not like his cousin . Why ? There is something jerkish about him . There is a talent show and Hank just bombs . I like Hank . In the end , Brent's cousin acts up , and shows his true nature . Everyone in town sees the true nature of Carl come out and understand Brent's reluctance to like Carl . A jerk is a jerk sooner or later I guess . The writer must be writing from real life experience . I find the story hits too close to home . Everyone knows a Carl , and regrettably hates the nice act or con job a jerk can do . What the h we can just call Carl a phoney . stars for this talent show .
This is a movie with a mix of Pulp fiction with Good Fellas . A British version of the 2 movies , with dark British humor . I loved this film and laughed so hard my wife looked at me a couple of time and elbowed me to stop it . I love dark humor and this film is full of it ; this movie is not for the politically correct crowd , its more a back lash to the violence in the media people . Brad Pit plays the role of a crazy perfectly , and has this on going joke where you could only understand half of what he says . You would get this joke if you lived or visited Nova Scotia or some place similar ( I have ) or got relatives who speak in a heavy English dialect . Its the same language but you can only make out about half of what is said . Pitt's character puts all the events into full swing of 5 different stories which meld into one , like Pulp Fiction . This film has shooting , boxing , butchering , and very nasty dialogue , with a good story to boot . Great film and I do not want to give away the story , my wife hated it , and wondered when it would end , but I could probably watch it a second time , and my wife will wonder if their is something wrong with me .
I did not know what to expect with this film . Just another action film ? Just another horror film ? Maybe , just another thriller ? No . . no and no ! Cellular uses technology , with mystery . Such events can happen ; technology will bring many new events like this movie to real life . Humor is added with the beach crowd . If the viewer likes Hitchcock style of movies I would recommend cellular . PS nice to see some new faces in movies . Much better watching a better budget film , than the whole budget going to one actor , and a poorly made movie . 8 phones out of 10 . PPS the ending credits shown on the LCD of a phone was ingenious .
When will it be ready ? When its done ! This is a great portrayal of Michal Angelo . Heston's high water mark , and this is hard to out do . Even with the films age it does not look dated . Much better than other movies form this time period . This is a movie with a message . Rent it or even buy it .
I like this episode . I believe one of the plot devices in Time is on my Side will be used for future episodes . Franinstein , is a awful concept . I like how the brothers devisions is a for shadow of what is happening to the characters . Dean is so street smart . I like how Dean outsmarted the Dr Evil guy . Well for this show . One of the grosser episodes . a few tributes to a couple of movies here . Will the Trickster ever comeback ? Will Bella comeback next season ? There is so many lose ends we need a season 4 ! PS The fridge part was so eerie . I like how Dean just hate the doctor . Dean dose not want to be just a evil as the things they hunt .
21 is a . The movie 21 has a compelling story , which is well acted , and directed . I love watching well executed movies . Will the protagonist get his money for college ? Is the professor an evil man ? How evil is the security firm ? These questions and more will be answered in the next couple of hours when viewing 21 . I enjoy watching Kevin Spacey who always plays a good creepy role . The only part I hated about the movie was when the pizza delivery guy interrupted the flick ! When does it take a hour to get a pizza , when the place is 10 minutes from my house . Well , that is besides the point . Worth downloading on payperview ! Payperview is cool and way cheaper than video rentals . I did not even have to take the movie back . Worth seeing on payperview . 21 is a or in IMDb terms a .
After the huge disappointment with Raw Deal , a fresh new idea came to action films . An alien that hunts humans for sport . Carl Weather ( Appolo in Rocky ) teams up with Arnold in this action adventure . Arnold is such a good physical actor that in the end with his Conan scream make this film a thriller . A director does not need much dialogue in a script when the visual is considered more important . The direction in this does not need it . This film will hunt you down , and I give it an 8 .
The 70's was the era of the police shows . Police story , Police women , Street's of San Fran , and SWAT were a few . Working evenings and not being able to sleep I started watching Kojak , and started reliving my childhood . The show is better than I remember for having some realism . The show's producers must have done research . Dated in spots , and has a TVish formula , but still good . I like the Crocker character . Everyone seems too grumpy on the show . My wife says the introductions of females in the work environment may have a calming effect on the work environment . ( could be a possibility ) The characters do show a soft side . Worth watching late night if one can not sleep . Beats Elim a date . . Only if I could stay awake for a whole show . My wife likes Kojak's sayings .
Every body loves a Clown is a good show for starting the second season . The show introduces new characters , while the Dean and Sam characters develop , and the clown itself is a great bad guy . The new characters add new life to the series . Jo and Dean have a sexual tension which is obvious . Jo is not over taken by Dean's demeanor ! Ash adds comic relief with line's like being the serious up front party in the back comment . Bobby and the mother is the new anchor to replace John . The Sam and Dean conflict is great which shows that Sam is a little smarter than Dean . Dean's super cool behaviour is killing him . Believe me shock and pain will get to you , I am a lot like Dean , and Dean breaks with his behavior towards the Impala . Dean still has his defensive wit with the I feel like a soccer mom with the mini-van to replace the car . I really hated the evil clown , we all know a evil clown was going to hit the show one day , and I enjoyed the clown getting it . Winchester Boys are about 10 or 11 and 1 in the win column . I believe the Trickster is the only one to beat them . .
The plot devices ' In my time of dying drives the second season . The devices are : What is with Sam ? What is with the big secret ? Dean's guilt because of dads death . In my time of dying has two stories . 1 Dean is like the character Sam of the movie ghost . There is a reference to the movie in this show . The 2nd story , the viewer learns more about the yellow eyed demon , and how much the demon wants John to die . I just bought the 2nd season and notice the other episodes tie in with this first one . I wonder what season 3 will be like ? Is Sam a changed person ? Will Dean be the same person again ? Will the series die with the death of the Winchesters foe ?
My wife loves this film , and I found it more then a romance movie . A intriguing story , of deception , death , the after life , and greed . This is a great film , with character you care about , suspense , romance , and a fresh script . This film made Patricks carrier , and after this film he chose a few films that killed his chances of acting in higher budget films . I believe if he picked a couple more scripts like this one he would be on the same level as Tom Cruse . I think the politically correct 90's found him too macho for their tastes , and it drove him to do that film about India which helped kill his carrier . In the end this film is a little about what Patrick could have been , a true international star .
I love " The Invaders " . What a great show ! For 1967 " The Invaders " aged well . Many good science fiction story lines . The Spores was a great episode with Gene Hackman . I think Invasion of the Body Snatcher got a few ideas from the mentioned episode . Great stories and with a cool concept . A man knows of an Alien invasion but no one will believe him . The show reminds me of Supernatural . I wonder if they will ever remake " The Invaders " . Maybe they can you Jensen Ackles as David Vincent . I give the series an . Only if those aliens did not vaporize when they die the show's problems would be easy . There is never any proof ! Buy the box set . Is it 10 lines yet . Now it is .
The comic relief episode . I love this episode ; while watching Hollywood Babylon my wife kept saying Michael which is my name to everyone of Dean's antics . Ie stuffing his face while saying this is great , listen to the headphones , and being an excited big kid during the tour annoying the heavy kid beside him . The show pokes fun at all the hooks Hollywood uses like the guy in the woods , the blowing wind , creaking doors , the stupid one liners etc . The best part is the mockery of the Hollywood producer who getting show ideas while people are dying . The classic scene is the moment of silence for someone who died and no one cares displays the over importance of big egos in the industry . The ending is silly . ! Catch the summer reruns for the one .
I love this film about the last day of school . This film is too realistic for the writer to just make it up . Sure some of the stuff could be spiced up and some of the character could be merged , but the comments and events remind me of a good story I heared form some friends while we go camping . The freshie day , and the high school jerk etc make this story one of the best . It is directed so well you get the feel you where there , and the script make one under stand what's in the minds of these people . I bet the writer was the chacater Mike in the movie , just call it a wild guess , but it makes sence . I will not ruin the story , but if you love pranks , funny coments , and crazy people you gotta see this one .
Poor Gordon , ever knew a guy who was a jerk who just did not get it ? Well , the character Gordon is the poster boy for I just don't get it ! Dean and Sam suffer with the emotional trauma of their dad's death . Dean is not facing the huge burden of the trauma and latches onto Gordon . Sam being smarter in his own way , gets hit for addressing Dean's problem . Dean who saved Gordon early on kicks Gordon's butt . Gordon acts and fights in true jerk form . Dean like myself hits Gordon when tied up too a chair , and says now I'am better . Does Gordon learn after this ? No ! Gordon will always place second against the Winchester boys . The real story for ' Blood Lust ' is the story of the two brothers dependence on each other . I found the crux of the story is where Sam and Dean learn / grow from each others character flaws . The flat character Gordon who is hateful is a contrast of what the Winchesters are not . . Gordon should have just left the Winchesters alone .
Redford and Newman go beyond good acting , and their names apitamise greatness . With a great script these actors know no bounds . The Sting is a classic that never shows its age . It was the first movie I ever saw , at age 4 , when the family went to the Drive-In . This movie could pass being made last year . A script with twist , bends , and dives ; with characters you love and ones you hate . Acting that is believable , and historically accurate . The best performance of Robert Shaw's career , he outshone Redford and Newman . This film is exceptional , and one of a few movies ABC showed for around 13 years after its release .
This film is unforgettable , and I give it a 10 . This is a murder mystery with a twist where the man who needs his name cleared tries a experimental drug which gives the user other peoples memories . A lot better than Matlock , seen it done it before story line . Quite the surprise ending , and watching the drug's affects make me cringe . Rent this one .
