Spoiler ahead ! ! ! ! ! Very slow , boring , pointless tale about a man ( Willis ) who is the sole survivor of a train wreck . He's contacted by another man who is born with bones that break easy ( Jackson ) and is told by him that they they are alike - - just on opposite ends of the spectrum . There ! I've just saved you 1 hour and 45 minutes of tedium . The story has no ending , no point at all and bores you to death by drawing out every single scene to its absolute limit . Also there's a twist at the end which was real stupid and didn't shock me at all - - mostly cause I was so bored with the characters I could have cared less . Willis acts like a zombie the entire movie , but it's not really his fault - - the script is pitted against him . Jackson actually makes his horrible dialogue sound realistic - - a credit to this man's acting ability . Penn is excellent as Willis ' wife . She's not in the film much , but when she is the film kickstarts to life . The actor who plays their son is only slightly less annoying than MacCauley Culkin was - - take some acting lessons kid ! A truly dreadful film . Avoid at all costs - - unless you're suffering from insomnia - - this will knock you out !
Rich and lonely Trish ( Lily Tomlin ) meets and falls in love with Strip ( John Travolta ) who's at least 15 years younger than her . They both have issues - - but do they love each other enough to battle those issues together ? Believe me - - you won't care ! I had forgotten that I saw this . I was 16 when it came out and this ( inexplicibly ) has an R rating . I had always loved Lily Tomlin and wanted to see it . In fact at the time this came out Tomlin and Travolta were ( purportedly ) madly in love with each other in real life . It turns out that was all a publicity stunt to sell the movie . Anyways , I conned my mom into taking me to see it . Wow - - was THAT a mistake ! Talk about dull ! My mom and me literally kept dozing off during the movie . By the end ( which is REAL stupid ) I actually was giggling at how hopeless this movie was . It bombed badly and years of therapy helped me block it . But . . . it's come back to haunt me ! Tomlin and Travolta CAN be good ( given the right material ) but this script was just so tedious and dull that even they couldn't pull it off . Travolta is as good as anyone can be . Tomlin REALLY tries but she's hopelessly miscast . She only got the role because director Jane Wagner and her were ( and still are ) lovers . I ( sorta ) want to see this on DVD to see if it's as bad as I remembered . I've heard there might actually be a DVD release of this in the works . That would be kind of cool . A 1 all the way .
Young , naive Bud Eagle ( Arch Hall Jr . ) travels to Hollywood to find fame and fortune . He meets sweet , innocent Vicki ( Nancy Czar ) who immediately gets him on a TV show . He becomes a rock star overnight and unscrupulous agent William Walters ( Arch Hall Snr . ) signs him up . BUT he is using him , giving him no money . making him drop Vicki and Eagle discovers that life in lonely at the top . You can probably figure the story out from there . Terrible by the numbers story offers no surprises . The dialogue is awful , the acting dreadful and the direction is just pathetic . Hall's singing isn't bad , but the songs themselves are mediocre and the way the singing parts are shot are hysterically funny . Plot holes galore in this one - - at one point Vicki invites Bud to a skating rink where there's no one else but them - - - yet a spotlight follows her along when she's skating ! A sequence with three idiots ( who make the Three Stooges look restrained ) " kidnapping " Bud is SO bad my jaw dropped ! This movie is so badly made on EVERY level it's absolutely fascinating to watch . I actually got impressed watching it - - it fails so completely on every level ! The ending especially had me in hysterics . Not a good film by any means but worth watching . A camp classic !
Young , unstable beautiful Victoria ( Maria de Aragon ) falls in love with young , hunky doctor Craig ( Peter Carpenter ) who's caring for her rich , sick father . She plans to inherit all his money when he dies . Then Dr . Craig is being blackmailed and needs a lot of money FAST ! And Victoria's father is near death . Did I mention Victoria was unstable ? Sleazy piece of garbage . The script is silly to put it mildly with a REAL stupid ending ; terrible direction in which characters speaking aren't even in the frame - - one whole conversation is only shot from the waist down ! ; annoying , horrid 70s music which doesn't even remotely fit the on screen antics and just unbelievably bad acting by EVERYBODY ! It's truly astonishing to see how badly EVERY scene is acted - - you just stare at the TV screen in disbelief . The movie is chock full of unpleasant characters , plenty of gratuitous female nudity and cheap sex - - including a hysterically bad sequence between de Aragon and Carpenter . As for the actors themselves - - they were all hired for their looks and bodies - - not acting ability . Virtually every female member of the cast has multiple nude scenes and even Carpenter bares his butt briefly once or twice . The DVD of this makes this movie look better than it deserves . The picture and sound are crystal clear and the colors are strong and vibrant . This could be used in film school - - an example of how NOT to do a movie ! Also this isn't really a horror film - - just a stupid , sleazy " drama " . Bottom of the barrel - - I give it a 1 .
That was the tag line used to sell this movie back in 1973 . It played at mostly drive-ins along with " Last House on the Left " and " The House That Vanished " . This triple feature was so incredibly popular it kept playing at drive-ins into the mid 80s ! Never saw " House That Vanished " but " Last House . . . " was sadistic trash . This is boring trash ! A " horror " film about inmates at a sanitarium who are getting a little out of control . Young , beautiful nurse Charlotte Beale ( Rosie Holotik ) comes to work there . She finds a new administrator under control - - Dr . Masters ( Annabelle Weenick ) . The former one had been killed by one of his patients . But things are fine now . . . or are they ? There is a plot twist in this which you'll probably see coming from a mile away - - but I still won't reveal it . This has a nice murder at the beginning and turns into an all out bloodbath at the end - - - but everything in the middle is dull ! It just has a bunch of horrible bad actors portraying mental patients - - and very badly too . Padded endlessly with repititous scenes , pointless dialogues , horribly unfunny " humor " and some really gratuitous nudity . Basically a 30 minute feature dragged out to 90 minutes . There is some good acting by Holotik and Weenick and also Betty Chandler as Allyson - - but that's about it . ALMOST worth seeing for the incredible gore at the end . . . ALMOST . For drive-in cultists only . Otherwise avoid .
A woman ( Sylvia Kristel ) seduces a 15 year old boy ( Eric Brown ) . They have sex . . . but it's all tied into some stupid plot or something . Easily one of the most disturbing sex comedies ever . Does anyone realize this movie is making light of child molestation ? I suppose it's OK cause it's a teenage boy - - if we had one with a man seducing a teenage girl there would ( rightfully ) be outrage . Sorry , but having it done to a boy doesn't excuse it . It's still sick . I realize Brown was of age ( he was actually 18 when this was made ) but he LOOKS 15 . I just find it disturbing that some people find this OK . Plot aside the acting sucks ( Kristel is beautiful - - but can't act ; Brown is easily one of the worst child actors I've ever seen ) and the constant nudity gets boring and isn't even remotely erotic . I saw this drivel at a theatre back in 1981 . I was 19 and with my 14 year old cousin ( who could easily pass for 18 ) . HE wanted to see it - - I didn't but I decideD what the heck ? We got in and I actually bought tickets for three teenage boys who were obviously underage . My cousin thought is was boring and the three other kids left halfway through ! Let me make this clear - - three TEENAGE BOYS left a movie with tons of female nudity ! That should give you an idea of how bad this is . I'm surprised this was ever released . A 1 all the way .
Darren Silverman ( Jason Biggs ) falls in love with Judith Fessbegler ( Amanda Peet ) a horrible , cruel , controlling woman who forces him to dump his two best friends . . . Wayne ( Steven Zahn ) and J . D . ( Jack Black ) . To get him back and " save " him , they kidnap Judith , fake her death and try to hook Darren up with sweet , lovable , soon to be a nun Sandy ( Amanda Detmer ) . Easily the worst comedy of 2001 - - and this is only February ! Very crude ( how did this get a PG-13 ? ) . Also this film has a very low view of women . They're either total bitches ( Judith ) or total morons ( Sandy ) . Men come off slightly better . All the jokes deal with pain , humiliation , violence , bodily functions or center around sex . None of the jokes are funny and you hate all the characters ( with the exception of Sandy ) . Acting - - Biggs is so passive and blank you could care less about him - - another bad performance . Peet is truly vicious as Judith - - - but it's a one note performance ( not entirely her fault . . . the script sucks ) . Zahn and Black are repulsive as Biggs ' pals - - but we're suppossed to root for them . Detmer gives the one good performance , but not enough to save the movie . AVOID AT ALL COSTS ! ! ! ! ! A truly painful film .
Gord ( Tom Green who also directed and cowrote ) is a 28 year old loser who moves in with his parents ( Rip Torn , Julie Hagerty ) while trying to become a successful animator . His father is constantly swearing and screaming at him so he tells a counselor that his father sexually abused ( " fingered " ) his younger brother Freddy . This is played for laughs incidentally . Basically , this is one of the most disgusting comedies ever made . It's vile , unfunny and just has the most horrible sequences I've ever seen . They include : an old man in a walker being knocked down ; Green masturbating a horse ; Green cutting open a dead deer and wearing its skin ( ! ! ! ) ; horses having sex ; a little boy getting hit by a car with blood all over him - - he is later hit in the face with a baseball , over the head with a bottle and chopped up by plane blades - - all for laughs ; a man falls down , breaks his leg and , while he's screaming in pain , Green licks the bone sticking out of his leg ; Green helping a woman give birth , biting off the umbilical cord and swinging the baby around sprewing blood all over . . . this is all within the first half hour ! ! ! It just gets worse and worse with tons of disgusting humor , loads of swearing and talented actors like Torn , Drew Barrymore and Hagerty struggling to maintain their dignity . Torn especially has it bad - - at one point he bares his behind for laughs . Sad . There are two good performances - - Anthony Michael Hall as David Davidson and Marisa Coughlan as Betty - - a woman in a wheelchair who gets sexually excited when Green beats her feet with a bamboo stick - - this is shown three times . The whole movie ends with a truly desperate , pointless ending which tries to throw in a little moral lesson ! I almost stopped watching five times out of pure disgust but braced myself . This is a truly offensive , sick and revolting film . Every print should be locked in the studios vaults and never let out . The worst comedy EVER ! ! ! ! !
A bunch of untalented kids act out a play on Christmas Eve for the parents . Also , two of the girls do some sort of speech . Of course , the film is silent so . . . why was this done ? We can't hear any dialogue so we have no idea what's going on . I suppose this has some historical interest as a film and of what ( supposedly ) happened in homes on Christmas Eve . But it's entertainment value is nil . The only good thing is it's 5 minutes long ! A must-miss .
! ! ! SPOILERS ! ! ! Supposed comedy musical about a pathetic young woman ( Rachel Griffiths ) ruled by her monster of a father ( Johnathan Pryce ) . Then her father has a stroke and she learns how to become strong and self-sufficient . This is one of those films that takes place in an impossibly small town in Wales , is peopled by " lovable " eccentric characters ( including the obligatory gay couple ) and has a saintly young girl who has to die so the main character can find herself . The plot is old and depressing ; the comedy is either cruel or unfunny ; the songs are sparse and badly done and the Welsh accents render most of the dialogue incomprehensible ( this film NEEDS subtitles ! ) . Boring , predictable , depressing . Why is this film getting so much acclaim ? AVOID !
Rich high school girl Britney Harvers ( Susan Ward ) has a dead mother she misses and a lousy stepfather who hates her . He dies in a plane crash and she's left all his millions . But cruel , obnoxious school girl Maya King ( Leila Arcieri ) claims Britney's stepfather was HER father and she deserves all the money . . . Pointless " sequel " to " Wild Things " . It's basically the same exact plot with a few ( minor ) twists and turns . . . . just done with a bad cast and a terrible script . If you've seen the first you don't need to see this - - you already have . It even copies the infamous threesome sex scene from the original ! ( Trust me - - the original is better ) . This is just made to show young , attractive women in bikinis - - wet ones preferably . I'm giving this a 2 because it has some good points . Everybody looks good ( Ward and Arceri are beautiful and Joe Michael Burke has a nice body ) ; the settings themselves are lush ; there's one good performance by Isiah Washington and a nice score . But you're constantly one step ahead of this movie and it gets annoying . See the original - - you'll be much better off .
Some white stuff from the ground turns animals giant-size on a remote island . Soon a bunch of people are battling giant wasps , chickens , earthworms and rats to get off the island . It sounds interesting but this is actually a pretty pathetic adaptation of ( according to the credits ) " a portion of Food of the Gods by H . G . Wells " . The sound you hear now is Wells spinning in his grave . The dialogue is just DREADFUL ( some of the lines were so bad I couldn't believe I was hearing them ) and the script is just silly . As for the acting - - Marjoe Gortner was bad but Belinda Balaski and Pamela Franklin ( looking fantastic in her last film to date ) were very good despite their lines . The bit where Franklin tells Gortner she wants to make love to him ( when they're holed up in a house surrounded by giant rats ) had me helpless with laughter ! It's also really sad to see two fine actors - - Ida Lupino and Ralph Meeker - - reduced to crap like this . Their performances are very bad too - - Meeker the worst of the two . The special effects are mostly horrendous - - the giant chicken will have you howling and the wasps are ( very ) obviously superimposed . However the sequence with the giant earthworms was VERY bloody and admittedly a high point . And some of the rat effects weren't bad . Also there are a number of extremely bloody attacks by the rats - - I'm really surprised this got by with a PG . The attacks are the only reason I'm giving this a 2 . And when the attacks aren't on the movie is dull dull dull ! Scattered unintentionally hilarious dialogue does not compensate . Worth watching for the attacks - - otherwise a boring , silly and sad film .
The title refers to a drug used that make men appear dead . . . but they can be revived . In 1872 London , Sir Joel Cadman ( Basil Rathbone ) is experimenting with the brains of others to cure his comatose wife of some brain ailment she has . He uses the " Black Sleep " on his victims and , after they've been used , keeps them chained up and disfigured in hiding . But his assistant Dr . Ramsey ( Herbert Rudley ) is horrified by what he's doing . . . What a mess ! Boring and plodding done on cheap sets with some truly laughable dialogue and questionable scientific conclusions . Also this film has Bela Lugosi ( as a mute butler ) , Lon Chaney ( as a mute strangler ) , Tor Johnson ( mute also ) and John Carradine ( who , unfortunately , is not mute ) totally wasted in small roles . Only poor Lugosi tries to act - - Chaney , Johnson and Carradine ( understandably ) don't look like they give a damn . Rathbone walks through his role . Only Rudley and Akim Tamiroff give good performances . This movie has a great horror film cast and totally wastes them on a truly stupid script . This gets a 2 for the cast only . I seriously had trouble staying awake ! Avoid .
A horrible biography of composer Edvard Grieg's early life . It was shot on location in Scandanavia . The scenery is just beautiful and the music is fantastic - - even the songs ( based on Grieg's music ) aren't bad . The problem ? Everything else . The story is just non-stop clichés ; the movie is way too long ( 2 hours ) ; the dance numbers are badly staged and hysterically lousy and the acting . . . let's put it this way . . . Florence Henderson gives the best performance ! Grieg himself is played by Toralv Mausted . Ever hear of him ? Didn't think so . There's a reason for this . Also there are over FORTY songs shoved into this movie . Like I said , they aren't bad , but it gets to be a bit much after a while . I'm giving this a 3 for the scenery and music but everything else is hopeless . Easily one of the worst musicals ever made . Too bad - - the scenery is truly gorgeous .
MGM hodgepodge of Jimmy Durante throwing a big party for everybody in Hollywood . No major stars show up - - we get the Three Stooges , Laurel & Hardy , Durante and Lupe Velez . I didn't recognize anyone else - - they were probably unknowns ( for good reason ) . The movie contains annoyingly unfunny jokes and some truly dreadful songs and choreography . The only things that save this from being a total disaster are Laurel & Hardy's " battle " with Lupe Velez and a wonderful color Disney cartoon called " The Hot Chocolate Soldier " . It's a beautiful , very colorful cartoon that gives the movie a huge boost . Otherwise , the movie is a colossal bore . There's no director credited - - what does that tell you ?
SPOILERS Two teenage girls - - Mari ( Sara Patton ) and Paige ( Martha MacIsaac ) - - are tortured , raped and killed by a sadistic gang led by Krug ( Garret Dillahunt ) . They include his son Justin ( Spencer Treat Clark ) , his brother Francis ( Aaron Paul ) and bisexual Sadie ( Riki Lindhome ) . They end up staying in the home of Mari's parents ( Tony Goldwyn and Monica Potter ) . Also Mari has survived her attack and gets to her parents . They , in turn , torture and kill Krug and his gang . OK - - I thought the original was a sick degrading film . . . but it DID do its job ( scare the hell out of you ) . It was made on no budget and had a documentary style feel to it making it hard to shake off . Also some of the acting was good and TOO realistic . Naturally this unnecessary remake screws everything up . It's glossy and professionally made so you're always aware you're watching a movie . They also cut down on the torturing of the girls ( I'm saying that as a good thing ) . However the acting is so bad it's hard to take this seriously . Paxton and MacIsaac are just dreadful - - although MacIsaac DOES try . Paxton was always blank - - always ! Even when she's being raped she doesn't react ! ( By the way , the rape is tastefully done - - there's no nudity and ( to me at least ) it was obviously being faked ) . Dillahunt is just as bad as Krug . David Hess in the original was ugly , mean and downright frightening . Dillahunt looks great ( he's even all pumped up ) and looks as frightening as a cover boy from a fashion magazine . The same goes with all of the gang - - they look too good to be convincing . Their wretched acting doesn't help . I thought with Potter and Goldwyn we'd have some good acting . Nope . They easily give their worst performances . Everybody here is so lifeless it's hard to give a damn about anything . The writing doesn't help . The lines are stupid and the script dull . Also did you know a microwave oven works with its door wide open ? ? ? According to this movie it does ! Right there the writers are showing their total contempt for the audience by throwing in idiotic things like that . Add that to the pathetic acting and you have one hard movie to sit through . This gets three stars only because of the end when Krug and his gang get killed . The blood and gore comes barreling out and leads to some very gruesome and cool murders . But , unless you're a gore fan , you're going to find very little here . If you want to see it just for the gore wait till it comes out on DVD and just fast forward to the last 40 minutes . Another unnecessary horror movie redo .
The untold origin of the Lone Ranger . It shows who he was and how and why he became the Ranger . Legendary bomb . The idea was not a bad one - - reinvent and introduce the Lone Ranger for 1980s audiences . Right off the bat though there were problems . The studio ordered Clayton Moore ( the original Ranger ) to stop appearing anywhere as the Lone Ranger . It led to a nasty little battle that made headlines . I know of people who refused to see the film because of how Moore was treated . Also they hired the awesomely untalented Klinton Spilsbury to play the Ranger . Spilsbury was very handsome and muscular but had absolutely no charisma and just couldn't act . In fact his whole vocal performance was redubbed by another actor ! Also his off screen antics ( public drunkenness and beating people up ) didn't help matters . Acting aside , the script is dull and slow . Also the Ranger himself doesn't show up until an HOUR in ! There were some complaints at the time that the movie was too violent for a PG . However I don't think it was that bad . There are a few ( very few ) things done right here - - the photography was truly beautiful ; Michael Horse was excellent as Tonto ; Christopher Lloyd is lots of fun as the villain and when the Lone Ranger finally shows up ( with the William Tell Overture booming from the soundtrack ) it's really rousing . But , all in all , this is a boring and terrible attempt to bring back the Lone Ranger . It's easy to see why this bombed . A 4 - - mostly for the photography .
Interesting short narrated by Orson Welles about a ghost story " told in Dublin " ( as the film says ) . Only about a half hour long , it's not really scary and the acting is uneven ( to say the least ) , but it's beautifully shot . Some of the scenes in it were breathtaking and even though I knew the ending , I was interested . A most interesting little movie . Good thing it's available on video . Worth seeing on Halloween night .
Susan Jane is pretty but feels ignored by kids at school . They never invite her to parties or engage her in conversations . On the other hand the kids don't purposely ignore her - - they just think she's stuck-up because she never talks to them ! One kind girl in the group realizes the situation and talks to Susan Jane and everything ends happily . At first I was howling at this . It was made on no budget and , with the sole exception of the actress playing Susan Jane , the acting is dreadful . BUT it does deal with a problem that all teenagers deal with at some time or another - - feeling left out or not part of the group . If got better when I realized this and brought me back to my own teenage years ! So it's pretty dated but it sends a message to teenagers and actually is pretty good all around . Still the atrocious acting really hurts - - I can only give this a 5 .
Why ? It's a boring , totally by-the-numbers story of a girl with attitude ( Michelle Rodriguez ) who has no self-esteem , finding it with boxing ( and a boyfriend too ) . This story has been done many times before and done better also . Every single frame of it was predictable . Aside from the predictable story line , the movie was badly directed . The boxing scenes were so choppy , I couldn't tell what was going on ! And why focus so many shots of their feet ? Also Santiago Douglas ( playing the boyfriend Adrian ) is very handsome and has a nice body . Unfortunately , he can't act . The scenes were he tells Diana ( Rodriguez ) he loves her were laughable - - there's not a single emotion on his handsome face . The only worthwhile thing about the movie were two performances - - Michelle Rodriguez and Jamie Tirelli as her coach . They were very good , but can't carry the whole movie themselves . This has a made-for-TV feel to it - - just remove the swearing and you got a Lifetime movie ! A total waste of time .
Allens first film as writer and director . He took a serious Japanese spy film , threw out all the dialogue , wrote his own and had the lines dubbed in . I saw this on TV when I was a teenager , back in the late 1970s , and found it hysterical . Seeing it now I can't figure out WHY I found this funny . There are some good lines and some of the voices are actually pretty funny , but it wears quite thin after about 30 minutes . And some of the lines that don't work or are unfunny are just unbelievably bad . The humor is pretty childish and the non-stop sex jokes ( all about women of course ) got on my nerves . I do realize Allen likes Asian women but did we really need the strip tease at the end ? ( It's tame but really not needed ) . And the musical interludes with the Lovin ' Spoonful were pointless - - but , in all fairness , they were added without Woody Allen's knowledge and he was furious . It is of interest to note that one of the voices is from Louise Lasser who was briefly married to Allen . Unfunny , boring , sexist - - - a real disappointment . I'm giving it a 5 for some of the jokes - - and I'm being VERY generous !
This takes place in Victorian England . It deals with four lusty men and their attempts to have sex . The plots were hard to follow ( the thick English accents didn't help ) but I THINK I figured them out . Shaftoe ( Tom Bell ) is lusting after virginal sweet Hilaret ( Sussannah York ) . Lusty ( Jim Dale ) is after Cloris ( Elaine Taylor ) by posing as Lord Foppington ( Christopher Plummer ) to get her money . . . and sex . Rambles ( Ian Bannen ) is basically going after any woman he sees . The jokes are sexually crude enough to make Benny Hill blush . . . but they're actually more silly today than anything else . It's really hard to believe this got an R rating back in 1969 . There's no nudity , sex , swearing or violence - - just a lot of sex talk that wouldn't raise an eyebrow today . In fact TCM played it on afternoon TV recently ! This is not a good movie ( far from it ) but it does have its moments and it is amusing to see Plummer play it WAY over the top as Lord Foppington . I kept having to remind myself that this was the same man who did Shakespeare on stage ! Actually all the acting is good and has people going full tilt with many asides to the camera . No one is really bad but some are very good - - Glynis Johns goes full tilt as Mrs . Sqeezum , Ian Bannen is having the time of his life playing Rambles and Jim Dale hams it up nonstop . Also this was a pretty big budget movie - - it shows an accurate portrayal of how grubby and dirty England was back then ( even though it was shot in Ireland ! ) . So this isn't a good movie but has enough moments to take a look at .
Dr . Steele ( Lon Chaney Jr . ) is a psychiatrist married to a cheating wife who refuses to give him a divorce . He's in love with his nurse ( Patricia Morison ) who loves him back . Then he blacks out one weekend and awakens to find his wife was brutally murdered . Did he do it or is he being set up ? The first of Universal's " Inner Sanctum " series based on a popular radio show of the time . It's introduced by a floating head in a crystal ball ( ! ! ! ! ) . Not a horror movie as believed but a murder mystery . It was made on no budget with a half hour script padded to an hour ( notice how many times J . Carrol Naish's policeman hounds Chaney ) . Also I had the murderer figured out about 20 minutes in but I had no idea why . Still , for what it is ( a low-budget B picture ) it's not bad . Chaney is OK and Morison and Naish are actually very good . This is not some unsung cinema masterpiece just a quick , efficient B movie . There are worse ways to kill an hour .
This takes places in 1795 England . Young Catherine ( Stephanie Beacham ) marries Charles Fengiffen ( Ian Ogilvy ) and moves to live with him at his remote ancestral estate . She's attacked by a spirit on her wedding night , starts seeing an eyeless grinning man and a disembodied hand crawling around . Is she going mad or is there some family curse ? Sounds good but this turns out to be a dreary , slow-moving horror movie . The drama drags along and seems longer than it's 90 minutes . It's also horribly edited with scenes ending just when they're starting to get interesting . Ogilvy and Beacham are pretty bad but the script does them no favors . Even old pros like Herbert Lom , Peter Cushing and Patrick Magee seem bored in supporting roles . However this does have a few things going for it . There's some incredibly beautiful art direction and nice cinematography . Also the ending does work . Worth a look for horror fans . I give it a 5 .
Two 17 year olds Tenoch ( Diego Luna ) and Julio ( Gael Garcia Bernal ) meet a 28 year old married woman Luisa ( Maribel Verdu ) at a wedding . They convince her to go on a road trip with them to a nonexistent beach . Basically they both want to sleep with her . But things get WAY out of hand . I hated the first half of this movie - - Tenoch and Julio are ugly and obnoxious , screaming at each other constantly and really dumb . . . but then they ARE 17 . Luisa is much more likable . I was ready to leave but halfway through the film something happens ( I won't say what ) and the film switches gears . Then I started to enjoy it . It got very funny , interesting and there is some beautiful scenery . It all leads up to an unexpected and somewhat downbeat ending . There is a lot of nudity - - most of it male and frontal - - and plenty of sex , but almost none of it is particularly exciting . However there is a final sex scene which is erotic and exciting . So , it's half a good film . Don't go see it for the sex or nudity - - you'll be disappointed .
This takes place in the 1940s . Carrie Watts ( Geraldine Page ) , an elderly woman , is living with her son Ludie ( John Heard ) and his wife Jessie Mae ( Carlin Glynn ) . Ludie is henpecked by Jessie Mae and Jessie treats Carrie like dirt . All Carrie wants is to visit her home town before she dies . Ludie and Jessie won't help her so she decides to go on her own . This is one of those quiet movies that people ( mostly critics ) fall all over themselves praising . Page won a well deserved Oscar for this but , aside from her acting , this is a slow-moving and frankly dull tale . Perhaps it worked well on stage but it certainly doesn't transfer to film . I have no problem with quiet slow-moving movies at all as long as they're interesting or innovative . This is neither . I knew exactly where this was going and exactly how it would end up . There were no surprises at all . Page's excellent performance doesn't disguise the fact that this is a totally predictable and boring movie . Just because a movie is quiet and slow doesn't automatically make it some work of art . Worth catching for Page and Rebecca De Mornay ( a passenger Page meets on the bus ) but little else . To make things worse the character of Jessie Mae is so unpleasant and cruel that she becomes a caricature . I don't blame the actress Glynn for it - - I blame the writing . A slow , dull , wildly overpraised movie . I can only give it a 5 .
It's not as good as the 1936 version and condenses the script dramatically , but pretty good on its own terms . Most of the songs are retained , but not all . Ava Gardner is very good as Julie ( even though her rendition of " Can't Help Lovin ' That Man " is way too slow ) ; Howard Keel is better than the material ; Joe E . Brown and Agnes Moorehead are wonderful . The only really bad part is Kathryn Grayson - - she looks terrible and her singing is way too shrill . Irene Dunne was much better in the ' 36 version . Still , the beautiful costumes , settings and color compensate . Worth catching , but still see the ' 36 one .
A comic homage to sci-fi films of the 1950s updated with extreme violence . A small Southern town of Wheeley is infested by some disgusting alien slugs . The main slug infects Grant Grant ( Michael Rooker ) to the confusion of his young , blond-haired beautiful wife ( Elizabeth Banks ) who is secretly loved by the towns sheriff ( Nathan Fillion ) . Soon the slugs are infecting everybody and its up to the sheriff , Grant's wife and a plucky teenager ( Tania Saulnier ) to save the town . Horror comedies are hard to pull off - - they can become either too gross or too funny . Only a few have pulled this off - - " Evil Dead II " , " Re-Animator " , " Night of the Creeps " and " Dead Alive " . Unfortunately this isn't as good as those . The cast does play it straight ( wisely ) and it's well-made with some great ( if disgusting ) special effects . But the humor and horror never mesh comfortably . I DID laugh out loud a few times and was impressed by the gross out effects - - but the movie was always wavering uncomfortably between the two . It never found even footing . It's not terrible and the cast is good - - but I still wasn't entertained . LOTS of plot holes too . I can only give this a 6 .
The film starts off extremely well with a visit to Dracula's castle in Transylvania . Then the movie moves to London and falls apart . For one thing , they changed the characters from the novel - - Jonathan Harker went to Castle Dracula not Reinfield and everybody stands around talking about things . EVERYTHING is talked about , never shown . It's like watching a very static stage play . Also , a woman ( Lucy ) becomes a vampire early on . She's discussed . . . then ignored . It seems she's still wandering around after the movie ends ! Also David Manners is very very good-looking as Harker , but his acting is bad . It's not entirely his fault - - he has few lines and they're all pretty bad . Still , it should be seen for three reasons - - Bela Lugosi , Dwight Frye and Edward Van Sloan . Lugosi is , of course , Dracula . He gives a great performance ( hard to believe he was doing the lines phonetically ) and his interpretation defined Dracula . Frye is really creepy ( and funny ) as Reinfeld - - that laugh of his is REAL spooky ! And Edward Van Sloan plays Van Helsing perfectly . Only Peter Cushing did a better job in the Hammer films . Also , Helen Chandler has one great moment playing Mina . She's under Dracula's spell and is hungrily looking at her boyfriend's neck ! So , if you're a horror fan ( like me ) this is essential viewing , but expect lots of dull stretches when those three aren't on . Let's go listen to the children of the night . . .
Meek and mild Walter Paisley ( Dick Miller ) is a busboy at a beatniks club . He desperately wants to be an artist but doesn't have the nerve . . . or talent . One night he accidentally kills a cat . He covers it with clay and presents it as his creation . Immediately he becomes famous . . . but has to make more statutes . . . This was pretty extreme for its time and considered pretty sick by most critics . Now it comes across as laughably tame and VERY dated ( the beatnik talk sounds pretty stupid and pointless now ) . It was made on no budget ( you can tell ) and with the sole exception of Miller no one is good . Even at 66 minutes I was bored . Still , this is considered a classic and should be seen for Miller's acting alone and a few good moments here and there . Also Miller used his characters name here in many other films over the years . If you're into horror movies ( like me ) you might get a kick out of that . But it still doesn't make this a very good movie . I can truthfully only give it a 6 .
Adaptation of a Raymond Chandler novel . Private investigator Philip Marlowe ( Robert Montgomery ) is hired by Adrianne Fromsett ( Audrey Totter ) to find the wife of her boss . This quickly leads to killings , dead bodies , double crosses and some very dangerous women . This picture has a potentially interesting gimmick - - you see almost the whole movie through Montgomery's eyes . The only times you see him is when he's reflected in mirrors or narrating the movie . It sounds like it might work . . . but it doesn't . It quickly gets tiresome and Montgomery's tough guy voice gets annoying . Add to that a VERY convoluted story ( I'm still a little lost at what was happening ) , a totally unbelievable happy ending ( although that was probably imposed by the Hays Office ) , some way over the top acting by Jayne Meadows and non-stop tough guy talk and macho posturing by virtually all the male characters . On the good side - - it does move quickly , I was truthfully never bored , Dick Simmons has fun with his very small role as Chris Lavery and Totter does try in her role . This was ( understandably ) not a big hit and thankfully stopped any studio from trying this again . Still , there are worse movies and it IS interesting in a strange sort of way . The biggest problem is that Raymond Chandler's novels are almost impossible to adapt into movies . They're good but so much happens in them that trying to cram it all into a two hour movie is next to impossible . This one deserves credit for trying . I give it a 6 .
Rip-off of " Jaws " . A giant grizzly bear is ( inexplicably ) attacking humans in a forest . It's up to Christopher George and friends to track him down . I saw this in a theatre when I was 14 and never forgot it . At the time it ( sort of ) scared me . The bear itself I thought looked kind of cuddly - - even when it was growling and showing its fangs . The attacks were ( for a PG movie ) pretty bloody and had me actually cringing in my seat ! The show stoppers were when a little boy is attacked ( we don't actually SEE it , but we do see half his leg torn off ) and when , with a swipe of its claw , the grizzly decapitates a horse ! Silly . . . but effective ! Also there's some really beautiful scenery here ( if you see it letterboxed ) . So , this is a good gross-out movie for kids - - there is a lot of blood but you don't take it seriously . As for the rest of it - - the acting and characterizations are strictly by the numbers . Good example of a 1970s exploitation film .
This unremarkable film got a lot of notoriety in the 1970s when it was included in the book " The Fifty Worst Films of All Time " . The film isn't good but it's nowhere near one of the worst films ever made ! Mary Hagen ( Shirley Temple ) is believed to be the illegitimate child of Tom Bates ( Ronald Reagan ! ) . He left town when she was a baby and Mary was adopted by the Hagens - - a kindly elderly couple . He returns when she's 18 and in high school . The rumors start up again and the town starts to do everything to make Mary feel like it's her fault that she's illegitimate . This easily has some bizarre casting . Temple maybe being the illegitimate kid of Reagan is pretty silly but then we have Lois Maxwell as a kind teacher and Rory Calhoun playing her boyfriend ! Casting aside this film is obvious and pretty silly by today's standards . The script is dreadful - - full of bad dialogue and incredibly clichéd situations . A deathbed confession actually had me laughing out loud ! Still , it is a somewhat interesting view of how small towns ( and minds ) treated illegitimate kids back in the 1940s . The acting is pretty bad by the leads - - Reagan seems unsure of what he's doing and seeing Temple trying to act - - well it's not pretty ! Maxwell and Calhoun easily give the best performances . This was well made on a small budget and was ( for its time ) a pretty risky subject . Worth seeing for camp value alone . Wait'll you see Temple playing Juliet in the school play ! Most puzzling line : " Why don't you go away and catch yourself you foul ball ! " ( ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? )
Brian O'Conner ( Paul Walker ) wants to join the family of the head of California street racing ( Vin Diesel ) . . . but why ? The plot is comic book level ; the dialogue is very VERY bad . . . but who really cares ? This is a throwback of those dumb 1970s drive-in movies . . . it's for people who like loud , fast films filled with mindless action , attractive women , cars . . . and nothing else . I didn't like the film . It was too loud , too silly and way too long for a dumb action flick . What saves it is some truly incredible action sequences ( the " hijacking " sequence towards the end was unbelievable ) , some very nice , innovative direction , a cast that manages to be good despite the script and a very good performance by Vin Diesel . This was supposed to be Walker's breakthrough film but Diesel steals it away . Also it looks kind of silly to have tall , lean , pretty boy Walker against tall , muscular , severe-looking Diesel . See it for the action and Diesel . During the slow spots admire the cars or the women .
This movie transplants Edgar Allan Poe's classic short story to 1965 Texas ! Lou ( Robert Frost ) and Diana ( Robyn Baker ) are happily married . She buys a black cat for him as a pet . He becomes obsessed with the cat and ignores her . Then he ( inexplicably ) becomes a violent alcoholic . . . The movie gets pretty incoherent from then on . Why Lou is an alcoholic is never explained . He also viciously attacks the cat he supposedly loves and then has a complete nervous breakdown ! Still , if you ignore logic or continuity , this movie is OK . It has some very graphic gore for its time ( an axing at the end is particularly gruesome ) and it's actually pretty well done . There's also some inappropriate ( but not bad ) rock numbers worked in - - there's a real nice visual gag on the second number . The acting is pretty good . Frost and Baker were pretty obviously hired for their good looks but aren't that bad . Baker has her moments and Frost is actually pretty good ( even if he does overdo it a few times ) . And it does have a real nice ending . So - - no great shakes but an OK horror film .
During the 1940s housing shortage in Washington DC , Constance Milligan ( Jean Arthur ) decides to take in a boarder to help the war effort . Benjamin Dingle ( Charles Coburn ) moves in and he , in turn , invites hunky Joe Carter ( Joel McCrea ) to move in . Complications ensure . It's beyond me why this is considered a classic . It's not a bad movie just an OK movie . It does have lots of things going for it : Arthur is just wonderful - - and beautiful ; Coburn is a delight ( he won an Oscar for this ) ; it's well-directed and some of the romance works . But I never believed the story for one second and I didn't find this that funny at all - - I thought most of the jokes fell flat . Arthur and Coburn tried by McCrea ( never a good actor ) just could not do comedy . He did wonderfully in one scene ( his expressions when Colburn introduces him to Arthur are quite funny ) but he was his usual expressionless self the rest of the movie . He was handsome and hunky - - that was about it . Also the ending was just REALLY going too far . I realize I'm in a minority here but I just thought this was so-so . I can truthfully only give this a 6 .
There is a society of four old gentleman - - the Chowder Society . They are played by Fred Astaire ( in his last movie ) , Melvyn Douglas , Douglas Fairbanks Jr and John Houseman . They get together and tell each other horror stories . They are also bonded together by a horrible tragedy that happened 50 years earlier involving Eva Galli ( Alice Krige ) . But that secret has come to life and sets out to kill all the members of the society and one of their sons ( Craig Wasson ) . Peter Straub's 600 + page novel which this was based on , was next to impossible to put in a 2 hour movie - - but that didn't stop Hollywood . They simplified the complex story to a ridiculous degree and managed to somehow drain all the scares the novel had . What's left is a slow moving , convoluted and puzzling movie that plays more like a soap opera than a horror film . For instance it never is explained why the ghost waited 50 years to appear and why it's going after a son of one of the guys . Also the acting is pretty terrible : Astaire , Douglas , Fairbanks and Houseman look shockingly old and give dreadful performances . Poor Wasson seems totally lost in his role and the wonderful Patricia Neal is horribly wasted . It has some good points : Some of the jump scares do work ; Krige has a very creepy laugh ; the movie looks good ; it's fun to see Ken Olin in an early role ( acting as bad as he can ) ; Miguel Fernandes is downright terrifying as Gregory Bate and there's a good music score by Philippe Sarde . Also Krige is just great as the ghost - - she single handedly manages to keep this movie alive . So it does have its moments ( I admit I jumped twice ) and I was mildly interested but it's just not scary or good . The scariest thing about this movie is that Ken Olin grows old and becomes John Houseman ! I give it a 6 . " I heard you were DYING to meet me . "
I didn't really like this . It's about a family in Delhi , India getting ready for their daughter's wedding . All the relatives gather and things go spinning out of control . It's supposed to be funny ( I think ) but I wasn't laughing - - neither was anyone else in the theatre . For starters - - the cast was huge - - way too many people . I'm still not sure who was who's cousin or whatever . As a comedy this is pretty grim . It's more of a serious drama than anything else . Also the cast keeps switching back and forth between Indian ( there are subtitles ) and heavily accented English ( no subtitles ) . Often they do it in the middle of conversations ! It gets annoying and confusing . However it is very colorful ( including the opening and closing credits ) , the cast is just great ( there are some VERY attractive men and women in it ) and it is interesting to see how another culture celebrates a wedding . But the little dramas that happen have been done before and end very predictably . More often than not , I was bored . I knew how the stories would work out and I was always right . The acting kept me watching . SLIGHT SPOILER AHEAD ! ! ! ! ! ! ! Also , I find it more than a little disturbing that they worked child molestation into the plot . It's treated seriously , but do you really want to see that in a comedy ? So , I'm giving it a 6 for the color , acting , gorgeous people and some nice , assured direction by Mira Nair . . . but I didn't really like it .
Oscar winner for Best Short Subject of 1943 . A composer tries to get admitted to the Hall of Music in Heaven . He has to convince some of the world's greatest dead composers that he's worthy . This leads to " humorous " talks and interplay among the composers . The songs and music are the only reasons to see this short . The acting is pretty bad and the humor is very lame . Still , it's kind of fun ( in a silly way ) and it's only 22 minutes . Worth catching .
Artist Dave Stewart is engaged to beautiful rich Heather Hayden ( Jean Parker ) . Unfortunately his model Tania ( Acquanetta ) loves him too and is insanely jealous . One night he accidentally ( ? ? ? ) puts acid in his eyes and becomes blind . There is one chance to regain his sight - - an eye operation . . . but who's eyes will he use ? Then someone dies . . . A little convoluted but enjoyable , compact murder mystery . It's briskly paced and never dull . The acting is OK - - Chaney is just OK in his role , Parker is very good but Acquanetta , while being very beautiful , is a terrible actress . The only problem with this is that it IS pushing credibility to believe that Parker and Acquanetta are head over heels in love with Chaney ! Still , not bad . I give it a 6 .
Robert Redford plays a reference assistant for the CIA in New York . While he's out getting lunch the entire staff are brutally shot to death . He comes back , discovers the bodies , calls the CIA . . . and soon discovers that they want him dead too . He has nowhere to turn to and the CIA after him . . . The technology in this film is laughably dated ( the dial phones and the computer search made me giggle ) but , that aside , this is reasonably entertaining . It's extremely well shot - - NYC looks just great . There's also some good acting - - Faye Dunaway is just great as a woman Redford kidnaps ; Max von Sydow is very good ( and scary ) as a killer ; Cliff Robertson is just so-so as a CIA head and John Houseman is very commanding in his small role . I was entertained for 2 hours , but I can only give it a 7 . The problems : the film was too long ; Robert Redford gives another lousy performance ; the dialogue is occasionally very bad ( especially in the scenes between Redford and Dunaway ) and there's a very silly , needless romance and sex scene between Dunaway and Redford . Still , the film has its moments and might have had more with a better leading man . The R rating on this film should be lowered to a PG-13 . By todays standards the violence is pretty tame and there's only fairly mild swearing .
This is Woody Allen's first movie as a writer and director and unlike any other of his comedies . It doesn't open silently with the main titles in white on a black screen and it doesn't have his standard use of old music . No drama either . It's basically just a mocumentary ( complete with narration and interviews ) about the life of criminal Virgil Starkwell ( Allen ) . It chronicles how he started his life of crime , met and fell in love with Louise ( Janet Margolin ) and can't seem to stop being a criminal . This was considered a comedy classic when it came out . Today it's kind of weak . Some of the jokes work but there are a large number that don't . The jokes are also pretty silly for a Woody Allen film and it just drags along . This isn't a total bomb - - it just isn't as funny as you would expect from an early Allen film . Also , surprisingly , Allen doesn't play a Jewish guy here ! That's probably the first ( and last ) time he did that . It's OK but you can safely skip this one .
Fun little movie about a novelist ( Agnes Moorehead ) renting a remote , eerie old house for the summer . The house is huge and she's all alone out there with only a couple of servants . Someone who owned the house had just died and has left a million dollars hidden in there . A killer known as " The Bat " appears looking for the money and will kill to get it . . . The kind of movie that they churned out in the 1930s . It has a huge , old , dark , creepy house ; money hidden away somewhere ; a killer out to get it ; a dark and stormy night ; plenty of suspects and a few ( minor ) murders . No blood or gore but enjoyably creepy . The script moves QUICK so there's no chance for you to stop and think about how silly the plot really is . The acting really puts this over the top . Basically everybody is good . Vincent Price pops up from time to time as a doctor but he's hardly in this . This is Moorehead's film and she knows it . She grabs the film and overacts constantly ( but in a good way ) . She has some really good one-liners . Some opening sequences with her and her maid ( played by Lenita Lane ) are hilarious . So , no masterpiece but an enjoyably fun old dark house movie .
This played at a suburban cinema in my town back in 1978 when I was in high school . Back then they were sneaking foreign films from the city into the suburbs hoping to broaden their audiences ( it didn't work ) . I remember fighting with the ticket lady to get in . It didn't have a rating originally but the theatre gave it an R on its own . When I pointed out that that was illegal ( I was bluffing - - I have no idea if it was legal or not ) she quickly gave me the ticket . The movie wasn't THAT bad - - there's only some pretty tame female nudity here and there . As the the content I have never forgotten the first scene when the main character is in a beautiful forest enjoying the sunshine and birds - - and then comes upon the bloody mutilated body of a little girl . The juxtaposition of beauty and horror shocked me and that scene has never left me . That aside I found the film quite funny - - I didn't try to understand what it was about . Back then I loved movies ( and still do ) and just saw anything I could see . The chicken coop sequence was uproarious and I found the waterfall sequence with the nude teenagers quite beautiful . I haven't seen this film since 1978 ( that's when it opened in the U . S . ) and I'm afraid to . I don't think it will live up to my memories . Still , if you get a chance , I do recommend this movie .
Jessica Martin ( Kim Basinger ) is kidnapped from her house . They lock her in a dark , dusty attic - - it seems her husband did something and they need the information from her . All that's in the attic is a busted up phone . She frantically keeps connecting wires until she gets somebody's phone to ring . It's the cell phone of Ryan ( Chris Evans ) a 20 something guy . He agrees to help her get the kidnappers while keeping her on the line . The plot sounds kind of lame but it actually works . The movie has tons of twists and turns and almost never stops moving . Basinger is ( surprisingly ) very good . William H . Macy has a few good moments too as a cop and Jason Statham is downright horrifying as one of the main bad guys . But this is Evans ' movie all the way . He's very handsome and in great shape ( he's introduced with his shirt off to show his great body - - woof ! ) . He is also a very good actor and is convincing throughout the film . My only complaints are minor - - the story DOES have its dead spots and the villains are TOO violent - - Basinger is beaten up a LOT and it looks all too realistic . Still this is 99 % better than most of the crap churned out by Hollywood . So far this is the best Hollywood thriller of 2004 . Worth catching - - especially for gorgeous Evans .
Parody of teen movies in the spirit of " Scary Movie " . There is a bit of a plot modeled on " She's All That " . Hottie Jake Wyler ( Chris Evans ) bets that he can transform an " ugly " girl into a beautiful one by the prom . The plot is secondary - - there are constant sidetracks to parodies of tons of other films - - everything from " American Beauty " to " Risky Business " . Some of the jokes don't work , but they're coming so fast and furious that if it doesn't work , just wait a second . . . another one's coming . More of the jokes work than don't . No classic , but I enjoyed it . The acting isn't bad - - Chris Evans is too old for his role ( but then the entire cast is ) but he has nice comic timing - - and a very nice body too . Mia Kirshner is also funny playing his sister and aping Sarah Michelle Gellar from " Cruel Intentions " . Also Jaime Pressly is fun as a beyond belief b of a cheerleader . All the stereotypes are hit dead on and it even turns into a musical at one point ! High points are the parody of " The Breakfast Club " ( with Paul Gleason cheerfully recreating his role ) and a hilarious cameo by Molly Ringwald . Lots of fun .
I was expecting a truly dreadful horror film judging by the reviews . It's no classic , but it wasn't the bomb I was expecting . It's about a young man ( Kerr Smith ) driving a car from CA to FL . He's told not to pick up hitch hikers . Naturally he does ( Brendan Fehr ) . The next thing he knows , he's being chased by a gang of blood thirsty vampires . The vampires are called the Forsaken and have a real stupid origin ( which I won't get into ) . The film moves very quickly , I jumped twice and it's occasionally VERY gory . Unfortunately the film also has tons of misogyny ( all the female characters are monsters , victims or sex objects ) and tons of gratuitous nudity ( all female of course - - in one particularly repulsive scene a very ill girl is stripped practically nude to find the bite marks on her ) . Those scenes are unpleasant and not necessary . Still , the acting is not bad ( Smith and Fehr work well with each other ) and the direction is nice and flashy . So . . . no great movie but never dull - - if only the female characters had been treated more respectfully !
Ivanhoe Martin ( Jimmy Cliff ) lives in Jamaica . He goes to the big city to become a singer . However he gets his song taken ( for $200 . 00 ) by an unscrupulous record producer and ends up selling marijuana . When he shoots three policeman dead he becomes sort of a hero . . . and his record starts selling . This was a HUGE cult movie in the 1970s and 80s . At one art cinema in Cambridge Massachusetts it played OVER 10 YEARS as a midnight movie ! I tried to see it there back in the 1980s but had to leave after 15 minutes . Quite a few people were smoking pot openly in the theatre ( Ah ! The 80s ! ) and the smell was terrible . I finally caught it in the 1990s and I honestly can't see what all the fuss is about . It's not a terrible movies ( I'm giving it a 7 ) but it's no great shakes . It's crudely made with terrible acting , a predictable story and dialogue that's almost impossible to understand ( due to the strong Jamaican accents most of the cast has ) . This film also introduced ( I think ) reggae to America . The songs are great and Cliff really belts them out . Unfortunately there's only two or three songs and they're repeated again and again and AGAIN ! The direction is good for such a low budget movie . So - - I didn't hate it but I honestly can't see why people kept seeing this over and over . If it's just for the music they could have bought the album .
A VERY predictable story ( girl who was an ugly duckling goes back to high school undercover years later , meets and falls in love with her high school sweetheart . . . ) done pretty well . You're always two steps ahead of the plot , but it's pretty well-acted ( with the sole exception of David Arquette - - God , is he annoying ) and never really dull . But it's a great movie if you're a Drew Barrymore fan ( like me ) . She gives out a terrific performance and makes her character warm and believable . My only big complaint is the ending . The movie should have wrapped up everything at the prom - - the ending at Shea Stadium was VERY anticlimatic . That aside though , I enjoyed it .
I never saw the 1925 silent so I won't compare them . A trio of circus performers - - a ventriloquist ( Lon Chaney ) , a midget ( Harry Earles ) and a strongman ( Ivan Linow ) leave the circus and , along with beautiful Rosie ( Lila Lee ) , turn to crime to get rich . But not everything turns out like they hoped . Lon Chaney's first talking film and , sadly , his last film . He died of cancer shortly after this was completed . Basically he's the whole show here . He was always a good actor who could change his appearance in incredible ways , but this movie showed he could change his voice too . He plays a old woman quite convincingly in this one . He overacts in all his roles but in a fun manner ( like Vincent Price ) . The rest of the actors are just OK with Earles being completely incomprehensible ! It's not his fault - - early sound recording was never good . The plot moves quick but it's full of highly unlikely events . Wait till you see the animal Chaney gets ! Still it's a good movie and worth seeing just to see Chaney in his only speaking - - and last - - movie .
Nancy Wagner ( Sandra Dee in her last movie role ) is a librarian at the Miskatonic Univ where the only copy of the Necronomicon ( an evil book ) is kept . Sinister Wilbur Whatley ( a young Dean Stockwell in a hideous mustache and hair do ) uses her to get access to the book . He then invites her to his house in Arkham . He gets her there and drugs her to make her stay . . . he has plans for her ! Also there's someTHING in the attic banging at the locked door . Two of Nancy's friends come to get her and all hell breaks loose ! First off , this is NOT a faithful adaptation of H . P . Lovecraft's story ( I should know - - I just read it a few weeks ago ) . Some scenes are taken from it but the script is very different from the source . That said it's not a bad film . It's elaborately done ( beautiful settings , eerie sounds and rich deep color ) and is mildly engrossing . Unfortunately it's far from perfect . The script is OK but there are far too many plot holes ( for instance , Dee tells Stockwell she can't stay the weekend . . . in the very next scene she's saying she is ! ) . Also the acting is really bad by the two leads - - Dee seems uneasy and unsure of how to play her part ; Stockwell ( who is a great actor ) is , surprisingly , terrible ! He acts like he's stoned half the time ( maybe he was ) and is just horrible . There are scenes of a monster stalking about ( hey , it's an AIP film ! ) and attacking which are very psychedelic ( lots of flashing lights , negative film , different colors , loud sounds ) and quite effective . Look for Talia Coppola ( later Shire ) as one of the victims . However , there's no graphic gore or blood . Also , a real cool ending . Also , there's an odd somewhat homophobic line in this - - a friend of Dee comments on her staying with Stockwell - - " If he were straight , I wouldn't be worried . " ? ? ? ? ? ? ? Is that supposed to be funny ? It's pretty stupid and offensive today . All in all , an OK film . It's been reissued in VHS and DVD in a beautiful new print with great color and sound . Try to see it that way - - it really helps the film .
Possible spoliers ahead . . . I loved this film when it first came out and now , 16 years later , it still holds up . The performances range from very good ( Polly Holliday , Frances Lee McCain ) to OK ( everybody else ) . The special effects are superb , Gizmo is soooooo cute , the movie is never dull and there are tons of references for film buffs ( like me ) . BUT it is NOT for children . I remember seeing it on opening night back in 1984 , and when the evil gremlins attacked and the violence got real extreme ( the mother killing three of them in a blender , microwave and knife ) , I still remember mothers dragging screaming , terrified children out of the theatre . There's also an extremely morbid Christmas tragedy that Phoebe Cates relates and people are killed - - on screen ! If they had toned down the violence and avoided killing people ( injuring would have been fine ) this would be a great film for everybody . As it is , it is a great film . . . for junior high on up . Also , when the gremlins invade the bar would someone explain where they got all those little clothes and how they knew how to play cards , drink beer , break dance , etc etc . Also there's a gremlin in the school that kills a teacher , slashes Zach Galligan . . . and then is forgotten ! There are plenty of logic lapses in the script , but it's still worth seeing . Deserves an R rating , not a PG .
Story about a monster going after the Hammond family who live in Hammond Hall - - a huge castle in the middle of nowhere . It seems that one of the Hammonds , centuries ago , sold his soul to the Devil for eternal life . Every few years he has to kill one of the Hammonds ( always a man ) as a sacrifice to the Devil and to keep him living . Helga Hammond ( Heather Angel ) thinks that's ridiculous and it's all a silly legend - - but her brother Oliver ( John Howard ) has been attacked and the monster may not stop at him . . . This was made quickly to cash in on " The Wolf Man " which had been a huge hit for Universal the year before . It has all the markings of a B movie - - a pretty silly ( and illogical ) script , an unknown director and a cast of actors on their way up ( or down ) . It also has some extremely annoying " comic " relief in the form of Cornelia Christopher ( Heather Thatcher ) a helper of Robert Curtis ( James Ellison ) who is assigned by Scotland Yard to solve the case . Still this is worth catching at least once . The sets are quite impressive ( I'm assuming they were made for another film ) and there's tons of atmosphere ( lots of fog on the moors outside ) . The howls we hear during the night are pretty spooky too . Also there's a creepy little saying - - " When stars are bright on a frosty night , Beware thy being on the rocky lane " . The last reel appearance of the monster is a disappointment unfortunately . Also the acting isn't that great with the sole exception of Angel . Thatcher especially gets annoying with her stupid jokes - - I spent most of the movie hoping the monster would get her ! Still worth seeing for sets and atmosphere alone . A 7 .
A successful singer Angelica Evans ( Susan Hayward ) gives up her career and marries unsuccessful singer Ken Conway ( Lee Bowman ) . She happily sacrifices for him and his partner ( Eddie Albert ) . Eventually he DOES hit it big , she has a baby . . . but he never has time for her - - his rising career comes first . She slowly drifts into alcoholism . This was probably hard-hitting in 1947 ( a female alcoholic ) but it's not even remotely surprising today . It tiredly follows all the rules of a drama like this leading to a jaw-dropping happy ending that was TOTALLY unbelievable ( but the Production Code demanded that ) . Also Bowman is pretty stiff as the husband and this looks pretty cheap ( it WAS independently financed ) . Still Hayward is so good all the shortcomings can be forgiven . She dives into the role full force and gives everything she has to it . This film ( understandably ) made her a star and earned her an Academy Award nomination . She's just incredible - - it's worth sitting through just for her acting . Also Albert is very good in his supporting role . So it is dated and really not that good - - but worth seeing for Haywood's strong , impressive performance .
Musical that takes place during the Gold Rush days at a place called No Name City . Ben Rumson ( Lee Marvin ) a hard-drinking , ill-tempered man is partners with a man named Pardner ( Clint Eastwood ) . Through some circumstances to convoluted to get into , Ben gets a wife named Elizabeth ( Jean Seberg ) . However she starts falling for Pardner . What will they do ? For 1969 that was pretty adult and strange subject matter for a musical . This movie was plagued by problems when it was being filmed . Marvin was impossible to get along with , the director and producer were constantly fighting and it was filmed in the dead heat of summer where temperatures ran over 100 % . It went way over budget , was released and bombed almost immediately . It's no undiscovered masterpiece of cinema but it's not as bad as its reputation would have you think . There are many problems with this film - - Marvin and Eastwood couldn't sing so ( naturally ) they sang . Marvin was quite obviously tone deaf and Eastwood was OK ( he's introduced singing in fact ) but had a very thin voice which didn't do justice to the songs . Seberg was ( thankfully ) overdubbed . The songs themselves aren't bad but not exactly memorable . There's a show stopper called " There's a Coach Coming In " which is fun . Acting varies - - Marvin chews the scenery and Eastwood downplays his scenes which contrast Marvin beautifully . Seberg was beautiful but never was a great actress as this movie shows . For some reason the Nitty Gritty Dirt Band plays a few songs and appears briefly on screen . Also Paddy Chayeksky adapted the screenplay ! It's overlong ( almost three hours ) and very strange but fun and interesting . I give it a 7 . " Not tonight parson , these folks have suffered enough . "
A Woody Allen film shot in London ! An retired Irish tennis star Chris ( Jonathan Rhys Meyers ) quits the circuit and takes a job teaching rich people how to play . He becomes friends with VERY rich Tom Hewett ( Matthew Goode ) and starts romancing his sister Chloe ( Emily Mortimer ) . Then he meets Tom's girlfriend Nola ( Scarlett Johansson ) and falls in lust for her . . . This isn't a comedy . It's a very grim tale of adultery . This has been praised as a comeback for Woody Allen - - his last few films have been laugh less comedies . It's also been described as a masterpiece . It is good but not THAT good . To be totally honest I don't understand why this is being praised so much . The story is downbeat and moves VERY slowly ( this film could easily lose 20 minutes ) . The affair between Chris and Nola comes out of nowhere - - I never believed it for one second . Nola comes off as shrill and having no idea what she wants out of life . Her character is very unlikable - - you wonder what Chris sees in her . The film really falls apart during the ending . Nola acts seriously deranged and Chris goes WAY too far . I also saw the resolution coming from a mile away . Also Allen has no feeling at all on how to shoot London . In his New York films you got a real sense of the city - - not here in London . Also ALL the characters ( with the exception of Nola ) are nice - - all the time . They're TOO nice . I didn't believe them for one second . The acting really carries this film . Meyers is drop dead handsome and very good in his role . Goode and Mortimer are also good . I didn't like Johansson but that's mostly because of her character . So I don't really like this film but I don't hate it . I was fairly entertained and it was OK . I give it a 7 and that's mostly because of the acting .
Dino Corelli ( Desi Arnaz Jr . ) is marrying Margaret Brenner ( Amy Stryker ) . Naturally everything goes wrong . There's the married woman ( Carol Burnett ) who's being chased around by another man ; a lesbian wedding planner ( Geraldine Chaplin ) ; a gay captain ( Craig Richard Nelson ) ; a senile priest ; a topless portrait of the bride as a wedding gift ; the old head of the family ( Lillian Gish ) who is bedridden etc etc . This isn't even close to being one of Altman's best works like " Nashville " and " Short Cuts " . There are far too many characters , it meanders all over the place and it's too long . Still it's not his worst ( " H . E . A . L . T . H . " is MUCH more horrible ) . This comes across as him trying to please the audience . The story lines are pretty conventional and the PG rating prevents him from throwing in tons of female nudity ( which he seems to love showing in all his films ) . It's not bad but it doesn't look or feel like an Altman film . I was seriously surprised to see he directed it - - I thought it was just some by-the-numbers director who doesn't even try anything different . Direction aside the plots are pretty predictable and Altman doesn't do comedy that well . The bits with Burnett only work because of Burnett's considerable comedic talents . The acting varies from terrible ( Arnaz Jr . ) to OK ( Stryker ) to very good ( Burnett and Chaplin ) . Not the total fiasco that people have said it is but definitely a lesser Altman . A 7 .
Robert Culp and Natalie Wood play a VERY liberated couple who basically love each other . . . when they cheat on the other they discuss it and talk out their feelings and end up still madly in love . They share their views with another couple played by Dyan Cannon and Elliott Gould . They try to convert them to their way of thinking . . . but will it work or tear them all apart ? For starters this film would NOT be made today . With HIV and AIDS out there the casual sex shown here is a stupid idea . And can anyone seriously say they would honestly tell their partners that they had cheated on them and DISCUSS it ? ? ? ? That aside , I still sort of like the movie . The script was well-written with some sharp observations on sex and love and I found the discussions between Culp and Wood fascinating . Also Culp and Wood give out great performances ( I especially liked Wood's little smiles ) . Cannon is good too but , surprisingly , looks HORRIBLE . Gould is just OK . But the script carries this one . If you can accept the ideas in this it works . However it all ends in a laughably horrible ending that ( almost ) destroys everything that went before . Ending aside , I think this is a pretty interesting and a ( I think ) accurate picture of the late 1960s . Worth a look . I give it a 7 .
One of the big all star disaster flicks on the early 1970s . This competed with " The Towering Inferno " which opened the same year . There are multiple story lines going on in this : Architect Charlton Heston is unhappily married to Ava Gardner and has Genevieve Bujold as a mistress ; Lorne Greene plays Gardner's FATHER ( stop laughing ! ) ; George Kennedy plays a mean cop ; unstable Marjoe Gortner lusts after Victoria Principal ; Richard Roundtress plays an Evil Knievel type ; Walter Matthau is a drunk ( no shock there ) ; Dick Sargent pops up long enough to get killed and Lloyd Nolan plays a doctor . The dialogue is terrible and the situations are pure soap opera - - but who watches this for the actors or story lines ? The earthquake hits about an hour in and it's fantastic . Some of the special effects are laughable ( gotta love those cardboard houses ) but others are pretty effective . The sequence goes on for almost 10 minutes and has some pretty bloody scenes ( in an uncut print ) for a PG film . You see buildings being demolished left and right , people being crushed or flung screaming out of buildings . No music either - - just the rumbling of the quake . Very impressive . The rest of the film deals with how all the main characters deal with the disaster . This is not a good movie of course but I'd be lying if I said I hated it . I got the sense that the special effects people working on this were having lots of fun destroying Los Angeles and it comes through . The acting is , for the most part , OK . Bujold easily out acts everybody else and Gortner is so bad it's almost embarrassing . And what did happen to Roundtree ? He sort of disappears at the end . It's suggested he got drowned but we don't see anything . I never saw this in Sensurround - - our local theatre realized that the process could easily have destroyed the place ( it was an old building ) . Also Sensurround DID win a special Academy Award . But this is fun in a silly sort of way even without it . A very guilty pleasure . I give it a 7 .
Film starts right off with a nude ( male and female ) devil worshiping sequence and rapidly gets worse ( or better depending on your view ) . A bunch of devil-worshiping hippies ( with a leader named Horace ! ) come into a small town . They beat up a local girl and her grandfather and give granddad a dose of LSD . Pete decides to avenge his sister and grandfather by infecting rabies into a bunch of meat pies and then giving them to the hippies to eat ( ! ! ! ! ) . The hippies do , get rabies and one hippie woman sleeps with a bunch of construction workers and infects THEM ! Soon a small bunch of uninfected people are fighting for their lives . Historically this IS an important film - - it was the first film to get an X rating for violence alone ( there is nudity but it's within an R rating ) . It was cut to ribbons to get an R . Now we have the uncut version available . At best it's a mixed blessing . For starters the acting is terrible across the board - - the hippies especially act like a bunch of retarded school children . And the script has some lines that had me gaping in disbelief . Here are a few examples - - After giving her boyfriend a big kiss a woman says , " Roger I'm very upset " ; " There's no one in the town because of the damn dam ! " ; " Rape is a little out of an engineers domain " ; a man is shot down and someone says , " I have to call the Red Cross - - we're in a state of emergency " . Then there's the gore effects which are , to be nice , primitive . There is a LOT of blood and violence here but it's all so obviously fake it's hard to take seriously . Still I was never bored and I was constantly amused by the acting , script and pretty poor production values . Also you do have to give credit to these people - - they had no budget and were just out to make a gory horror film . They DID succeed . Also the cast ( male and female ) are very attractive physically . So - - not a forgotten horror classic but I'm glad it's available in it's uncut form . Worth seeing for horror fans . By the way - - there's no drinking of blood .
For reasons never explained Lois Lane is flying with some man over a jungle with top secret American war secrets . Unknown to them the Nazis have taken over the native tribe in the jungle ( for some reason the Nazis dress like the Ku Klux Klan ! ) . They shot down the plane - - the man dies but Lois lives - - she hides the plans and is captured . The Nazis threaten to torture her but she won't tell them a thing . So they decide to have the natives burn her at a stake ( ! ! ! ) . Will Superman find her in time to save her . Vague story and plot loopholes galore mar this cartoon . But it is VERY colorful with the expected great animation . Also there are some real surreal scenes when Lois is being burned . It's worth seeing just for that . I give this a 7 .
Burke ( Ben Foster ) is dumped by Allison ( Melissa Sagemiller ) . She then starts dating obnoxious English boy Striker ( Shane West ) . Burke tries out for a school play - - a rock version of " A Midsummer Night's Dream " - - just to be near Allison . He's totally unaware that his best friend's little sister ( Kirsten Dunst ) is attracted to him . Guess how it turns out ? Aside from two flashes of nudity and an astounding amount of swearing for a PG-13 movie , this is a cute and harmless teen movie . It's definetely better than writer / director Tommy O'Haver's last film ( " Billy's Hollywood Screen Kiss " ) . I'll list the bad and good things about this movie : The bad : Foster is way too nerdy to be likable ; West's imitation of an English accent is hysterically bad ; Martin Short is really REALLY irritating as the school drama coach and some jokes are real groaners . The good : Dunst is very good and stops the show when she sings " Dream of Me " ; the songs and dances aren't half bad and full of color and energy ; Sagemiller is beautiful and very appealing ; West ( accent aside ) is really handsome and hunky and dir . O'Haver has a real flair for directing dance & music numbers - - he should really do a musical next . So - - an OK teen film .
Comedy about a group of Americans on a 18 day ( I think ) tour of Europe . Unlike some previous posters , I've never been to Europe , so watching this film was not like reliving old memories . On its own , this was a very pleasant movie . The script is not bad and the jokes are pretty funny . There are some real groaners too , but the good ones far outweigh them . And the cast is full of talented character actors giving their all . The movie basically concentrates on a romance between the tour guide Charlie Cartwright ( Ian McShane ) and tourist Samantha Perkins ( Suzanne Pleshette ) . Usually romance subplots in comedies are the kiss of death , but this one works . McShane is very handsome and Pleshette incredibly beautiful ; the dialogue is well-written ; they both give good performances and they have great chemistry with each other . It also is a good excuse to show all the romantic places in Europe ( this was shot on location ) . And the romance has a surprising , realistic ending . Another point of interest is an 18 year old girl Shelly ( Hilary Thompson ) meeting a guy her age Bo ( Luke Halpin ) . Their fashions are VERY 60s and the dialoge is SO old-fashioned . . . but it's all interesting . Also a visit to Canaby Street in London ( which was the place to be in the late 60s ) is visually fascinating . Also Murray Hamilton's one liners throughout the movie are frequently hilarious . They visit London , Holland , Germany , Switzerland , Italy , Venice and end in Rome . I saw a widescreen print on TV in strong color and the movie just looked beautiful . Sometime it was like seeing a travelogue but an INTERESTING travelogue . It's not a great movie but a pleasant one . You could do worse ! Recommended .
I turned on this to TCM last night and just casually started to watch it . Now I HATE westerns and thought I might enjoy a spoof . After just a few minutes I found myself laughing and then just got totally caught up in this . It deals with a stranger named Jason McCullough ( James Garner ) wandering into a small Western town which is just going wild with no law and order . He applies to be the sheriff and is appointed quickly by the mayor ( Harry Morgan ) . He quickly restores law and order to the town , hires a deputy ( Jack Elam ) , romances the mayor's daughter ( Joan Hackett ) and jails killer Joe Danby ( Bruce Dern ) . However Joe's family don't take too kindly to their brother being jailed and are going to get him out . Very funny ! Every Western cliché is made fun of - - but in a very gentle manner . They don't set out to tear apart Westerns - - just poke fun at them . I saw the G rating this had and thought I was going to get stuck with a Walt Disney like horror like " The Apple Dumpling Gang " ( I STILL have nightmares about that one ) . Everybody in this IS nice and all talk gently and kindly - - but the lines are so funny and non-stop that it didn't bother me . Almost all the cast plays this straight which works wonderfully . Garner is just great in the lead . So young and handsome . . . and who ever knew he had such great comic timing ? Elam is just uproarious as his deputy . His double takes at Garner are genuinely funny . Heck even Dern pulls off a few good lines ! The only disappointment was Hackett . She plays her role far too broadly and gets tiresome . Still she does have a great bit with her reaction when Garner says he's going to leave town . Fun , family friendly western spoof . It's easy to see why this was such a big hit . Recommended .
Beautiful acting , good diretion help VERY dated story of a poor man ( Montgomery Clift ) falling in love with a rich woman ( Liz Taylor ) after getting another poor woman ( Shelley Winters ) pregnant . All the examinations of class and rich vs . poor are obvious and very 1940s . The acting helps a lot - - Clift is pretty good in the title role , but sometimes he seems too mannered in his portrayal . . . he should have shown more depth in his performance . Winters is excellent in her role , but she is annoying ( she's supposed to be ) and overly pathetic at times . Taylor is drop-dead gorgeous and very good in her role . She's a bit too goody-goody , but you never once disbelieve that she loves Clift . Worth seeing .
Well-done compilation of four short films about growing up gay . The first one " Must Be the Music " is fun . It's about a group of gay teenage boys going to a disco . The refreshing thing about it is that the characters are gay . . . and could care less . Also it's very sweet and has a happy ending . Lots of fun . " Nunzio's Second Cousin " is not so good . It's a very dark film about a very disturbed cop inviting a teenager home after he tried to rob him and his lover . Eileen Brennan overacts as the cop's mother . Dark , depressing . Still , it is interesting . " Atali , Iowa " was dull dull dull . I'm not going to describe it . . . just avoid it . The closing one " Trevor " is just superb . It actually won an Academy Award as best live short subject . It's about a very young kid coming to grips with the fact that he's gay . It's funny , moving and has a very uplifting ending . A real winner . So , the first and last are the best segments . The second is good but dark . And the third should be avoided . Pretty good batting average I'd say .
Young handsome Tim Whalen ( Rob Lowe ) falls in love with filthy rich Olivia Lawrence ( Meg Tilly ) . But does he love her or just her money ? There's also his jilted ex lover ( Kim Cattrall ) , her lecherous stepfather ( John Glover ) , HIS mistress ( Dana Delany ) and police officer Mike McGill ( Doug Savant ) . I saw this originally back in 1988 and loved it . Seeing it again all these years later I STILL love it . As you can see this has an incredible cast of people before they hit it big . They're all great too - - especially Savant . Also it gives the audience what it wants pretty quick - - both Lowe and Cattrall have nude scenes within the first 10 minutes ! The story has many twists and turns and always keeps the viewer guessing . It was beautifully filmed and directed in the Hamptons and has a lush music score . SPOILERS ! ! ! There are also two scenes between Lowe and Savant that have STRONG homoerotic vibes . In one Savant is in a pair of VERY tight white underwear . I swear at one point I thought they were gonna kiss ! It adds an interesting subtext to the film . END SPOILER ! ! ! ! With the exception of Tilly all the acting is good . Even Lowe pulls off a difficult role . Beautifully done , intricate mystery . Well worth seeing .
In 1987 , seven years after John Lennon's tragic murder , a book came out . I've forgotten the title and the author , but it portrayed Lennon VERY negatively . It showed him as a cruel , egotistical monster who abused drugs and alcohol up to his death . The book was written by somebody who had never talked to anybody who knew Lennon . Yoko Ono was shocked and pushed to have this documentary made to set the record straight . It's full of home movies , news footage , videos all narrated by John Lennon himself ( he recorded over 200 hours talking about his life and work ) . It's not a whitewash of him - - it does point out he was a mean drunk and he is shown swearing and telling off Phil Spector in a recording studio when a song was not working out . It also chronicles his remark about the Beatles being " bigger than Jesus Christ " and totally ignores how horribly he treated his first wife Cynthia . But , aside from that footage , there is also interviews with Johns wives , his children and , basically , everyone who knew him ( curiously , none of the Beatles were interviewed ) . He comes across as a very talented , peace-loving man - - he has his dark moments but everybody does . His confrontations with Al Capp and Gloria Emerson are just fascinating . I remember seeing this in a theatre in 1988 and most of the audience walked out crying . 15 years later the ending still packs a punch . It shows people crying at the peace rallies held after Lennon's death and ends with the " Imagine " video him and Yoko did . Also " In My Life " plays over the closing credits . A fascinating , very moving documentary of a great man . Recommended .
Story takes place in 1660 England . Strang willed 16 year old Amber St . Clair ( Linda Darnell ) falls in love with bland Bruce Carlton ( Cornel Wilde ) . She follows him to England but he doesn't love her . So Amber decides to become rich and powerful no matter what . The book this was based on was a HUGE bestseller in the 1940s . It was ( for its time ) a racy book that makes it clear that Amber sleeps her way to the top . Also the book was historically accurate and ( even at 800 + pages ) a fascinating read . 20th Century Fox took the book , jettisoned all the racy stuff ( more or less ) and spent great care and no expense in bringing this to the screen . It's in beautiful color with gorgeous costumes and sets . Sure , there are plot holes and bad acting but this is never dull and speeds along . Even at 140 minutes it didn't seem too long . Darnell is beautiful and pretty good in the lead . George Sanders matches her playing Charles II . He's clearly enjoying himself . Richard Greene is good also popping up as a friend of Ambers . However Wilde is pretty bad as Carlton - - you keep wondering what Amber sees in him . The silly wig he wears doesn't do him any favors . It's kind of funny to realize this was considered pretty dirty back in 1947 . It wouldn't raise an eyebrow today and , as it is , the movie never makes it clear that Amber is sleeping around . So it's colorful , elaborate and well worth catching . The book was better but this is easier than reading it ! An 8 .
Busby Berkley directed this silly but very fun musical . The plots have Alice Brady , a very rich widow , losing a great deal of money while financing a huge musical put on by con man Adolphe Menjou ( chewing the scenery ) ; Dick Powell romancing Gloria Stuart and Glenda Farrell blackmailing Hugh Herbert . For once the dialogue isn't as bad as it is in most 1930s musicals with some truly funny comic relief . Also Berkley throws in two just unbelievable production numbers . One of them is set to " The Lullaby of Broadway " - - the tap dancing in this one is incredible and it tells a story with a surprisingly depressing ending . Aside from the Berkley numbers however this is no great shakes but very pleasant and lots of fun . Look for the hilarious scene where Powell and Stuart are on a lake supposedly at 9 : 00 at night but a wide shot shows the sun shining and a clear sky ! And in the very next shot they're in a moonlit grotto ! Didn't anyone ever catch this ?
OK , it's too long ( almost 3 hours ) and we did not need all those full performances of numbers from " The Mikado " . That aside , this is an entertaining and extremely well-acted movie about Gilbert & Sullivan - - their personal lives , their working partnership and how " The Mikado " was developed . We also get to see how they train the actors in how to talk , sing and ( in an uproarious sequence ) walk Japanese . How factual this is , I have no idea . But the movie was so well-done and entertaining , who cares . Well worth watching , but you do have to sit through one too many opera numbers .
Computer-animated cartoon about Jimmy who , inadvertently , has all the parents in his neighborhood kidnapped by aliens . It's up to Jimmy and his classmates to follow the aliens through outer space to save their parents . Silly but lots of fun . There's some incredible computer animation , hysterically funny lines ( for kids and adults ) and a VERY quick pace that make up for a few dull moments and a really silly script . A perfect family movie . Adults - - turn off your brain and enjoy !
A gang of skinheads in Melbourne Australia hate Asians and attack them every chance they get . They realize their neighborhood is being " taken over " by Asians and go on a rampage . The gang leader is Hondo ( Russell Crowe ) who picks up Gaby ( Jacqueline McKenzie ) . However she soon tires of his violent attitude and falls for his best friend Davey ( Daniel Pollock ) . It all comes to a tragic end . This film is far from perfect . The movie jumps around and the story is somewhat vague . Still it's well-directed with some very brutal violent fights and one fairly explicit sex scene . The movie doesn't take sides either . It does concentrate on the skinheads and Gaby , Davey and some of the women are shown as sympathetic characters but the rest are shown as sick , violent sociopaths . This originally got an NC-17 from the MPAA . From what I read , this was given that only because the MPAA thought if they gave it an R rating they would be accused of promoting racism ( which is just silly ) . It now has an R and ( from what I can see ) there's no cuts from the NC-17 version . Pollock ( who sadly committed suicide before this was released ) and McKenzie are very good in their roles and the others are too . Only Crowe is just OK . A very violent brutal film . Not for everyone , but it is a strong angry statement about racism and how it can destroy and kill . I give it an 8 .
Jim ( Richard Lewis ) attends an AA meeting very worried about something . His sponsor encourages him to talk . He does . . . and immediately leaves . The rest of the movie involves him trying not to drink and it keeps going back to the meeting where we , one by one , hear each member say why they're there . I caught this at a small art cinema way back in 1997 and I never forgot it . It perfectly captures what an AA meeting is like and the stories related are harrowing . Quite a few well known actors play members : Sam Rockwell ( still unknown at the time ) , Amanda Plummer , Parkey Posey , Dianne Wiest , Calista Flockheart and Faye Dunaway . Their considerable acting talents make the stories seem realistic and hard to shake off . There's no happy endings here . Grim and disturbing but realistic . Sometime the staginess shows through ( you can tell this was based on a play ) which is why I can only give it an 8 . Still , it's well worth watching .
I heard this was terrible and was expecting to see some sort of camp classic when FLIX showed it . I was pleasantly surprised to find myself enjoying it . This is the true story of the first sex change operation of a man to a woman ( John Hansen as both ) . This was shot and treated like some 1950s Hollywood melodrama . There's bright beautiful color , lush music score , beautiful settings and lines that sound like they were lifted verbatim from old movies . It's totally at odds with the subject matter but , surprisingly , it works . The picture is very tasteful about the subject and treats Jorgensen with sympathy . SPOILER ! ! ! ! ! It does get so bad it's good at the end when a male reporter falls for Christine . Then it leads to some howlingly bad dialogue and actually ends with the couple making love ( not shown ) in front of a roaring fireplace ! The only reason this has an R rating is because of some ( minor ) male and female nudity and the scene of a guy and a transsexual kissing - - way too strong for a 1970 PG . Also Hansen is very good in both roles . He looks damn good as a woman ! Worth seeing .
Short compilation of actors flubbing dialogue , old ads or commercials made by stars and some gag footage made specifically for Hollywood insiders . Not very well put together and it has its dull stretches but some highlights are : The Marx Brothers in the MGM logo roaring like the lion ( except for Harpo ) ; Bud Abbott flubbing his lines and swearing a blue streak ; James Dean doing a PSA for driving safely ( shortly before his death in an auto accident ) ; a truly hysterical Jimmy Fund ad with Joan Crawford wishing her children a good night ( and you specifically hear them say " Good night Mommie Dearest ) ; a very odd little film with Cecil DeMille and Porky Pig swearing ! No great shakes but a fun little movie . I give it an 8 .
Documentary about Roman Polanski and his flight from America after having sex with a girl of about 16 . It talks about his dealing with the brutal murder of his wife Sharon Tate and implies that that event might have made him act like he did . It goes step by step over all the legals battles and such that forced Polanski it flee to Europe . There's also interviews with the victim ( who said Polanksi should be allowed to come back to America and NOT be charged ) and all the lawyers from both sides of the case . It slowly becomes clear that Polanski did not receive a fair trial and he was being used . This is a little dull in spots - - going over every single legal battle gets tedious . Still , it's well made and mostly interesting . I give it an 8 .
A radio show " The Prairie Home Companion " is about to be cancelled after being on the air for decades . It has it's pompous announcer G . K . ( Garson Keillor ) ; Dusty ( Woody Harrelson ) and Lefty ( John C . Reilly ) two " Cowboys who play guitars and sing ; Guy Noir ( Kevin Kline ) who seems to be there to prevent the show from being shut down ; Lola Johnson ( Lindsay Lohan ) a depressed teenager whose mom ( Meryl Streep ) does a singing act with her sister ( Lily Tomlin ) . And who is that beautiful woman ( Virginia Madsen ) in the white trench coat wandering around . About as strange as other Altman films but very laid back . I had trouble getting into it ( I almost dozed off during the opening 30 minutes ) but when you realize it's a character study and somewhat slow-moving you get into it . Nothing really happens but the acting AND singing is great and there are dozens of great moments : Dusty and Lefty's hilarious song about bad jokes ( pretty strong for a PG-13 movie ) ; Lola singing " Frankie and Johnnie " by ad libbing all the words ; Streep and Tomlin are great together in EVERY scene they're in and Madesen is excellent ( and truly beautiful ) in a crucial role . Not for everyone and difficult to get into but worth the effort . I give it an 8 .
TV newswoman Karen White ( Dee Wallace ) is traumatized by a meeting with a psycho killer in a porno shop . A pompous doctor , George Waggner ( Patrick Macnee ! ) , invites her to " The Colony " - - a woodland clinic of his to help her get over the shock . Karen and her husband Bill ( Christopher Stone ) go . . . unaware that there are wolves roaming around . . . This is a full throttle horror-comedy with an emphasis on the comedy . It's almost as good as " American Werewolf in London " . It's fun , has sharp dialogue and constant wolf references ( a copy of the book " Howl " is seen on a desk ; people watch " The Big Bad Wolf " and " The Wolf Man " on TV ) . Also The Colony itself is just gorgeous and beautifully atmospheric . In the day it's clear and bright - - at night the fog rolls in and it becomes really creepy . Also it playfully injects horror clichés in the movie ( I got a big kick out of the sequence in which Karen and a friend get lost in the woods , their flashlight goes out and there's howling in the distance . . . ) . It's ALMOST a classic . The problems are many , but the main one is that the film isn't scary - - when you see the werewolves they look pretty pathetic . This is supposed to be ( partially ) a HORROR film - - it doesn't help when the main monsters look silly . The transformation scenes look lousy too - - but this was over 20 years ago . The story is sort of vague ( why does Dr . Waggner invite her to the colony in the first place ? It puts her in danger ! ) and there are plenty of dead spots . It seems too long and it's only 90 minutes ! Also Wallace and Stone are not good actors - - Wallace's reaction to finding a dead , bloody body is very poor and Stone sleepwalks through his role ( although he does very well at a campfire sequence - - you'll know it when you see it ) . So , it has great atmosphere , some very good laughs , John Carradine and some very good cameos ( Dick Miller , Roger Corman and Forrest J . Ackerman holding a copy of his magazine " Famous Monsters of Filmland " ) but it's VERY light and insubstantial - - you want to see a real movie after this . Nevertheless , it's worth seeing but not the classic it could have been .
but still well worth seeing . It's another concert film and Margaret Cho is raring to go . This time around the material is much more explicit with stronger language ( it veers into NC-17 land more than once ) , but it is frequently hilarious . Still , there are many dead spots and some of the jokes bomb badly . Still , I did laugh long and loud more than once . Worth catching . . . but stay away if explicit material bothers you .
Claude Rains plays Victor Grandison - - a mild-mannered man who tells spooky tales over the radio and , in his spare time , kills anyone who stands in his way of an inheritance . Good thriller opens with a really scary murder and keeps right on going . The script is sharp and tight with many twists and turns . All the acting is good - - especially by Rains and Audrey Totter as a bitchy niece . The cast also includes two of the handsomest men in Hollywood in 1947 - - Hurd Hatfield ( who made films into the 90s ) and Michael North ( who completely disappeared after this film ) . Director Michael Curtiz uses shadow and light very effectively and reflection of people ( especially Rains ) . Great climatic chase too . Well worth seeing . It seems that this movie has been forgotten which is a real shame - - it's one of the best film noirs from Hollywood .
This was inspired by true events . In Holland in 1944 a Jewish girl ( Carice von Houten ) tries to help the Dutch Resistance after seeing her whole family shot to death by the Nazis . She pretends to be attracted to the head of the Gestapo ( Sebastian Koch ) and eventually gets him into bed AND falls in love ! Does she betray the man she loves or her country ? Paul Verhoeven made this VERY expensive movie in Holland . It seems he learned a lot from making all those films in Hollywood - - this plays JUST like a Hollywood war movie from the 1950s . It's glossy and it looks great - - but loaded with violence , nudity and profanity . It moves quickly and even though it's 145 minutes it's never dull . The acting is pretty good - - von Houten has a very tough role but pulls it off . The same for Koch . You despise him but see his humanity underneath . Verhoeven regulars Thom Hoffman and Jeron Krabbe ( who were both also in " The 4th Man " ) pop up giving strong performances in supporting roles . This movie is a little bit too long and it gets very confusing at the end with the double and triple crosses piling up - - but I still loved it . Worth catching but avoid it if you're offended by extreme content .
In the 1800s singer Christine Daae ( Emmy Rossum ) is being taught to sing by a voice she hears in her dressing room - - she thinks it's the Angel of Music but it's actually the Phantom of the Opera ( Gerard Butler ) , a disfigured genius who lives under the Opera House . He loves Christine but she loves Raoul ( Patrick Wilson ) and the Phantom goes mad with anger . . . I've seen the stage musical at least 7 times and loved it . I was expecting the worst from this ( all the reviews have been negative ) . I was surprised . . . it actually is pretty good . They follow the stage version pretty faithfully except they add dialogue and have the chandelier falling at a different place in the movie ( but it still DOES fit ) . The movie looks just beautiful - - lavish interiors , beautiful costumes , the marvelous score by Andrew Lloyd Webber and some really great dances . Also the opening number , showing the opera coming to life , is just GREAT ! But this film does have some serious problems . For one thing . . . Butler . He's a great actor , very tall and handsome . . . but that's actually a problem - - he's TOO good-looking to play the Phantom . Also his singing is off . Previously he only sang for a rock'n'roll band - - it shows . He seems unsure of how to sing this and it comes off sometimes sounding strange . Also the makeup on his face at the end is just silly - - he wouldn't scare a 2 year old . He looks just mildly scarred - - not disfigured . And his Scottish accent kept slipping through . Still his acting was great . Rossum , on the other hand , CAN sing extremely well . She's very beautiful and what a voice ! Her acting is pretty impressive too . Patrick Wilson is dreadful as Raoul . For one thing he looks silly with the long hair - - his hair should be cut short . He can sing but he was pretty wooden with his acting . Miranda Richardson was wonderful as Madeame Giry and Minnie Driver was hysterical as the overbearing Carlotta . All in all it was very good but it just lacked that certain feeling to make it great . It just misses the mark of being a great musical . Still it IS worth seeing for the sets and score alone . I give it a 8 .
Lonely middle aged typist Milicent Wetherby ( Joan Crawford ) is out one night and is picked up and charmed by young handsome Burt Hanson ( Cliff Robertson ) . After a whirlwind romance they get married . However she starts to notice something is wrong with him and soon finds out that he's a crazy , and possibly dangerous , man . Sure this is a soap opera but a very good one . The script is well written and it's beautifully directed by Robert Aldrich . The age difference between Crawford and Robertson is pretty obvious ( he was almost 30 years younger than her ) but you get used to it . It helps that both Crawford and Robertson are both excellent in their roles . Crawford was always a pro - - she gave her all to any movie she was in and this is no exception . She has one great scene where she tells off Vera Miles and Lorne Greene . Robertson himself goes convincingly from a nice cheerful guy to a raving madman . SPOILER ! ! ! ! The psychological aspect of this is pretty dated - - according to this a few months stay in an institution and receiving electric shock therapy make you OK ! SPOILER END ! ! ! ! I didn't quite buy the ending either . Still this is exceptionally well done movie with good acting and directing . There's also that lovely title tune . I give this an 8 .
The wolf man Lawrence Talbot ( Lon Chaney Jr . ) is revived ( in a very spooky , atmospheric sequence ) and searches for Dr . Frankenstein to cure him . The doctor is dead , but his creation is still alive . Silly , but it moves quickly and is lots of fun . The film has plenty of plot , beautiful costumes and sets and good special effects . Lon Chaney Jr . is good ( as usual ) as the tormented Talbot , and is ably supported by Maria Ouspenskaya ( as a gypsy - - as always ) , Patrick Knowles ( handsome and a little mad ) and Lionel Atwill ( the mayor ) . The big mistake was casting Bela Lugosi as the monster . He turned down the role back in 1932 - - it must have been very embarrassing to him to take it 10 years later . Also , he's too small for the role ( Chaney is actually taller ! ) and he seems really uncomfortable ( understandably ) . It all ends up with a short climatic fight between the two . Worth catching - - one of the last really good Universal horror flicks .
I usually get looks from people when I mention I love this movie - - it's great to find out I'm not alone ! The film has a plot , OK acting and tremendous gore . In response to what other people are asking - - the original cut was VERY gory but heavily cut to get an R rating . Hopefully , those scenes cut still exist and we'll see them someday - - but it's been almost 20 years so . . . I was lucky enough to see it in a theatre and the last sequence in the mine shafts at the end REALLY worked in a big dark theatre . They work on TV , but not as well . Also the laugh at the end made me jump - - heck , I even like the song during the closing credits ! Well worth seeing if you're into horror flicks - - if only they had changed the title . . .
Doctors are being killed in various gruesome ways in 1925 London . They only have one thing in common - - they all worked on an operation to save Victoria Phibes - - but she died . Her husband Anton ( Vincent Price ) supposedly died in a car crash . It seems he survived , blames all the doctors for his wives death and sets out to kill them using the curses visited on the pharaohs before Exodus in the Bible ! Phibes has a helper named Vulnevia ( Virginia North ) and , occasionally , dances with her in front of a robot band while old music plays . As you can see this is one odd horror film . Still it's ALMOST great . The deaths are imaginative , bloody and pretty funny ( this wouldn't get a PG rating today ) . The sets are beautiful - - especially Phibes ' Art Deco place and the all green hospital . The film also has plenty of comedy which is ( for once ) actually funny . But the musical interludes don't work for me . They stop the film dead and add nothing to the plot . It seems they were just added to pad out the running time . Still , we get to see beautiful Virginia North in some eye-popping costumes and hear some great old music - - but that's not what I look for in horror films . The acting is good too - - Price can't move a muscle in his face but still manages to overact ( amusingly ) with his voice ; Peter Jeffrey is LOTS of fun as Inspector Trout ; Joseph Cotton gives a very good performance as one of the doctors and North doesn't have a word of dialogue but looks stunning and plays her part completely straight-faced . Also Caroline Munro pops up ( in pictures ) as Victoria Phibes . Some people have complained that this is a bit too gruesome for kids . Well . . . I saw it at a drive-in when I was 9 and it didn't bother me ! The only part that scared me was when Price took off his mask and revealed his face . I distinctly remember hiding behind the car seat when that came on ! I can only give this an 8 though because the movie , logically , doesn't make a bit of sense ! Most of the murders could never happen and I still can't figure out how Phibes faked his death , got rescued , bought the house and make the ( very ) elaborate sets . And who the heck is Vulnavia ? Still it is enjoyable and has a great ending which uses " Over the Rainbow " to great effect . Even some of my friends who hate horror films like this one ! Worth catching . Just ignore logic . And stay tuned after the closing credits for a neat little surprise !
Eerie little film about a cemetery caretaker ( Richard Boone ) who finds he can cause the deaths of people by changing their white pins in a cemetery map into black pins . . . or can he ? Sounds silly and the film definetely has it's dull stretches ( even at 75 minutes ) , but it works . The whole cast plays it straight , which helps , and there's also a very spooky music score . Also some views of the map were pretty spooky . I felt the ending cheated a little , but it worked . Good compact thriller - - not a horror film . Recommended .
Possible spoilers , but you probably already know the ending . Katharine Ross , hubby and kids move from NYC to Stepford - - a picture perfect town where all the women seem to be absorbed in housework . She slowly begins to realize that something is very wrong . . . A huge hit in its day , this film is dated but still holds up . Some people might see the film as anti-female but , really , the men come off very badly . And they are the villains . The acting is good - - Ross ( whatever happened to her ? ) is excellent as is Paula Prentiss as her VERY energetic best friend Bobbi . Also interesting to see Tina Louise ( very good ) , Dee Wallace and Mary Stauart Masterson ( as a little girl - - no dialogue ) in the mid 70s . The film isn't really scary ( mostly because everybody knows the ending ) and a little bit long , but it's still well worth catching . Also , personally , this film had a defining moments for me . I'm gay , and I saw the movie when I was 13 at a theatre . I didn't know I was gay . . . I just knew there was something different about me . When they show Ross ' robot double with the HUGE breasts clearly visible my immediate reaction was " Ewwwwwwwww ! " So , this movie helped me come out !
After 5 years away Superman ( Brandon Routh ) returns to Earth . He starts up his Clark Kent identity again and tries to get back to normal . . . and get Lois Lane ( Kate Bosworth ) back again . But she has moved on . She's living with her boyfriend ( James Marsden ) and they have a 5 year old son . Also Lex Luthor ( Kevin Spacey ) is back to his old tricks . . . This starts off GREAT with John Williams ' original Superman theme thundering out of the speakers and the opening credits having all the names " come out " at the audience - - although much quicker than they did in the original 1979 " Superman " . Those credits and music really hyped me up for the movie . Then it sort of . . . stops . I LIKED this film . . . the special effects are just incredible all the way through ( some of the effects just had me slack-jawed ) , the movie moves quickly ( despite the over 2 hour length I was never bored ) and most of the acting was good . But there are a few things wrong with this film . Spoilers AHEAD ! ! ! It's WAY too violent for a comic book hero film - - Superman is savagely beaten and stabbed with a piece of kryptonite and a young boy sees his mother beaten and almost killed . Also certain story elements are sort of vague - - where was Superman for 5 years ? They say searching for Krypton - - but it blew up . And it took 5 YEARS ? Where is Clark living ? At the end of the movie he's still homeless . Is Lois married to her boyfriend or are they just living together ? It's never really spelled out . END SPOILERSThe acting helps . Routh is just great ( also looks a LOT like the late Christopher Reeve ) . He doesn't play Clark as nerdy as past actors have and he's strong , very handsome . muscular and commanding as Superman . Bosworth as Lois Lane is very good also . Her brown wig looks convincing and she's strong and intelligent . Spacey is ( for me ) too evil as Luthor . He doesn't have the playfulness Gene Hackman brought to the role . James Marsden ( who I never liked ) was actually good as Lois ' boyfriend . Parker Posey ( as Luthor's partner ) and Eva Marie Sant ( as Ma Kent ) are shamefully wasted - - Posey is surprisingly bad and Saint only has two scenes - - one with no dialogue ! Frank Langella ( as Perry White ) and Sam Huntington ( as Jimmy Olsen ) are just there - - neither is given much to work with . So - - I DID like it and I hope there's a sequel . Still I have those minor reservations for it I listed . I give it a 9 .
Superb documentary on the making of " The Exorcist " . They go through EVERYTHING in this . They talk to all the actors , director William Friedkin , writer William Peter Blatty , assorted crew members and technicians - - even the three priest used as technical advisors in the film ! They go through it step by step - - the casting , show audition tests , cut sequences ( including the infamous " Spider Walk " which looks MUCH different than it appeared in the slightly reedited version released in 2001 ) and goes into detail about the more famous scenes . This is never dull for one second - - the amount of information they squeeze into 75 minutes is incredible . Most fascinating are the talks with Ellen Burstyn and Linda Blair and their thoughts about doing the movie and how they see it now . This is essential viewing for all fans of the film . Basically one of the best - - if not THE best - - horror documentaries ever done . A 10 all the way .
The lives and loves of three Britsh men and women . Sort of like a British version of " Friends " . I was surprised to see there's only a grand total of 28 episodes considering it ran 4 years ! I caught this on BBC America . The insertion of commercials hurt the shows a little - - it broke up the flow of dialogue and acting . Still it was always very funny . The shows have VERY explicit sexual talk ( for USA viewers at least ) and it shocked me a little . . . but I'd be lying if I said I didn't laugh . The cast were all attractive and young and were very good in their respective roles . Also there is some partial nudity ( both male and female ) in certain episodes . This isn't for everybody but if you would like a fun , sexually explicit ( mostly in talk ) British sitcom - - it's right here ! Well worth seeing .
Henry Frankenstein ( Colin Clive ) and mad Dr . Petorious ( Ernest Thesiger ) team up to make a mate for the monster . That's all you need to know really . This sequel to the 1931 " Frankenstein " is even better than the original ! This one has a bigger budget ( check out the enormous sets ) , some VERY elaborate costumes ( check out what Valerie Hobson is wearing in her first appearance ) , a script that moves like lightning and every cast member giving their all . Karloff appears again as the monster and he's fantastic - - you can see he isn't evil at all , just misunderstood . His attempts to make contact with people - - and the violence he's greeted with - - are heartbreaking . And there's a mock crucifiction sequence which must have been hell for Karloff . Clive is just OK as Frankenstein . Hobson is gorgeous and very good as his bride Elizabeth - - she only has a few scenes but she makes them count . Thesiger is WAY over the top ( and just great ) as Petorious - - he has some REALLY strange lines but he pulls them off . Una O'Connor as Minnie ( the maid ) is shrill - - but funny . And Elsa Lanchester is unforgettable as Mary Shelley and the bride . Her appearance has been copied and parodied endlessly - - and she's just great . The script has one classic line after another and many sequences have become folklore - - like the monsters meeting with the blind hermit ( parodied hysterically in " Young Frankenstein " ) , the creation sequence and the closing . Great direction by James Whale and a beautiful music score . My only real complaint - - would any scientist , however mad , have a lever that would blow apart his whole castle ? Now - - it is NOT scary . In 1935 this was strong stuff but it's VERY tame today . Still , this is a fast-moving , very entertaining movie - - definetely a prime example of the Universal monster movies of the 1930s . It works more as a comedy today than anything else . A perfect example of the kind of film " they don't make anymore " . Look for John Carradine in a very small unbilled role as a hunter .
A bunch of college kids take a weekend trip to a remote cabin in the woods . They unwittingly resurrect the evil dead - - spirits who can possess them and have them kill each other off . The only way to get rid of them ? Bodily dismemberment . In terms of plot this is pretty lame - - there are a few lapses in logic that are annoying . Characterizations are nonexistent and the acting is bad ( even Bruce Campbell ! ) . But the film moves like lightning with some very imaginative direction by Sam Raimi . And when the evil dead attack after the first half hour , the movie goes barreling out of control . Tons of gore , blood and violence are thrown in your face with great sound effects and some truly gruesome makeup . Also it's kind of funny - - notice how many times Campbell is covered with blood but his face is clean and his clothes dry in the very next shot ! This was made back in 1981 on next to no budget by a bunch of college students . It's incredible what they achieved with so little to work with . Also there are two or three incredible tracking shots that I can't get enough of ! This was dismissed by horrified film critics back then ( I remember one reviewer was so disgusted he requested that every single print should be burnt ! ) , but it slowly grew into quite a hit . It's now considered a modern day classic . And Sam Raimi and Bruce Campbell jump started their careers with this . So ignore the plot and concentrate on the imaginative direction , gore , special effects and sound . For horror movie fans this is a must . WARNING : There is a very tasteless sequence in which a woman is raped by a tree !
Angelic little 12 year old Regan ( Linda Blair ) is possessed by the devil . Her mother ( Ellen Burnstyn ) tries every medical cure to no avail . She finally tries exorcism with Father Merrian ( Max von Sydow ) and helper ( Jason Miller ) performing it . This film was considered the most horrifying film ever made back in 1973 . It's still horrifying to this very day . Blair screaming out obscenities , finding new uses for a crucifix and doing projectile vomiting are still hard to watch - - this film is NOT for children ! I saw the new version this weekend . With the addition of the now infamous " spider walk " and another doctor visit , the footage added nothing new to the film . In fact , it made the film a bit too long . It does have great acting , especially from Blair , Burnstyn and von Sydow . Also the special effects still hold up today . Well worth seeing . A very scary , graphic horror film .
Stephen ( Brian Palermo ) and Martin ( Mitch Silpa ) are on their third date . They're having dinner at Stephen's apartment . They start talking and quickly some very amusing truths come flying from their mouths . . . A perfect gay date movie ! The leads are charming and the dialogue is very witty and right on target . They capture exactly what it's like on the all important third date . It all leads to a happy conclusion . I saw this at a gay and lesbian film festival and the mostly male audience went wild ! Straight audiences might not get it - - as I said the dialogue is exactly what you would hear on a date . Gay men will identify with it completely . A 10 for gay men .
This takes place in Britain in 2027 . The world has been hit by a plague or something ( we never find out ) that makes women unable to give birth . Society begins to crumble . Theo ( Clive Owen ) is a bureaucrat who distances himself from it all - - but he was once an activist . He's drawn back into it all by a former lover ( the always great Julianne Moore ) . There is one pregnant woman ( Clare-Hope Ashitey ) who they have to smuggle out of Britain and Theo gets involved . The story is somewhat vague and I'm still not sure what all these characters were about ( I'm STILL at a loss to figure out what Michael Caine was doing here ) but I was fascinated from start to finish . It is bleak and depressing with no humor or lightness to help you along . There are bloody gunfights and a nonstop air of depression surrounding everything . Still it's not THAT grim . I was able to distance myself from it - - I was always aware I was watching a movie . Some people may not be able to do that ( a few people were crying when I went ) . The acting is superb - - Moore is never bad and Owen has never been better . His acting anchors the whole movie . You see his character go from unfeeling and uncaring to the other extreme . Even Caine was fun ( sort of ) . I'm not going to get into the politics of the movie - - but this seems to be the kind of future President Bush would love . Big Brother is always watching you here - - illegal immigrants are routinely caged and brought to camps , people have to carry identity cards and the government has total control over everything . I don't think it could ever happen but it's terrifying to think that it could . A bleak , depressing but just great movie . A 10 all the way .
A guy in his thirties Jeff ( Patrick Wilson ) meets teenage Hayley ( Ellen Page ) online . They agree to meet . They get along and she goes to his house with him . Then she drugs his drink . He wakes up tied to a chair and Hayley calling him a pedophile and prepared to teach him a lesson . But is he ? Basically just a 2 person movie and mostly all talk but absolutely fascinating . The will of wits between the two characters is just stunning and has you questioning if Hayley is right or if Jeff is innocent . It's incredible how the movie has you feeling pity for BOTH of the characters at different times . You're never sure who's right and how it will end up . The acting is superb . I must say Patrick Wilson shocked me . I saw him in " Angels in America " and " Phantom of the Opera " . I thought he was a very handsome man but a bland actor . This movie changed all that . He's just brilliant ! The agony and terror his character goes through seems all too real . This part demands a LOT out of any actor and he pulls it off . Very brave . Page is downright terrifying . Her character is ( obviously ) unstable and you're never sure what she'll do next . Again . . . a very difficult role but she pulls it off . Also the direction is great . Everything is done in closeups of the actors faces . At first it annoyed me - - then I realized it works in the movies favor giving it a very claustrophobic , uneasy feeling . This is not for everybody . It's grim and explicit ( in terms of dialogue ) and I'm sure there are moments which might have some guys bolting for the exits . I found it unsettling and fascinating . If you can handle the subject matter I strongly recommend this . A 10 .
Bob ( Alexis Arquette ) and Brendan ( Christian Maelen ) were college roommates who are both gay and attracted to each other but never came out while in school . Years later they meet at a reunion where a straight friend of theirs is getting married . Bob has a boyfriend - - hunky Sterling ( Tuc Watkins ) but still has feelings for Brendan . And Brendan still wants Bob . . . I caught this back in 1997 at a small independent theatre . I loved it so much I went back to see it again the same week ( something I never do ) . The picture was very low budget - - and it shows . The threadbare sets are a distraction . Arquette said the production kept running out of money . Also the cast mostly consisted of unknowns . Still this has a good script , energetic performances and complications spinning out of control . It's also very tame in terms of gay sex - - there's no nudity ( the closest we get is seeing Maelen in his underwear ) and kisses are done off screen ( when Watkins kisses Arquette you hear it but don't see it ) . Usually that makes me angry but this was made to appeal to all audiences . A fun light-hearted movie . Well worth seeing . Also interesting to see Marni Nixon on screen and not dubbing somebody's singing voice !
A man ( Tyrone Power ) is accused of allegedly murdering a woman . His wife ( Marlene Dietrich ) also believes he did it and testifies against him in court . A powerful , brilliant lawyer ( Charles Laughton ) believes Power is innocent and does his best to prove it . Sounds dull but it's not . I caught this on TV way back in the 1970s . I started watching it casually but very soon was caught up in it . The script is smart and , even though it's over 2 hours , it never feels too long . There are many ingenious twists and turns and an ending that ( I have to admit ) I didn't see coming at all . I've seen it many times since and never tire of it . The acting is great . Power is good in one of his last roles ; Laughton is just superb as the lawyer - - he throws out one liners or insults so casually that it's hard to believe he's just acting . I never found Dietrich that good of an actress - - I hate to admit this , but her accent always made me giggle . However she's great here - - especially at the end . Also Elsa Lanchester is a scream as Laughton's by the book nurse . Her and Laughton had a marriage of " convenience " for many years and their fondness for each other comes through making their verbal fights even funnier . A wonderful , exciting , fun courtroom drama - - one of the best ever made . Well worth catching . I give this a 10 .
