I saw " Caddyshack II " when I was ten and I mostly laughed because of the horse scene . I should have realized that the movie was as empty as . . . I can't come up with a good comparison . It's stupid and not even really funny . The cast members from the original who chose not to star in this made probably the best choices that they ever made in rejecting this ; why , oh why , did Chevy Chase return ? ! And how on earth did Jackie Mason , Robert Stack , Dyan Cannon and Dan Aykroyd get involved in this swill ? ! I bet that every person who had his / her name even remotely attached to this junk ( e . g . , the caterer ) is ashamed beyond redemption . So , all in all , it's beyond dreadful , terrible , and everything such . Avoid it like you would the Ebola virus .
I think that we can all agree that the beach movies from the mid ' 60s were at the bottom of the cinematic barrel ( " Catalina Caper " even got shown on " Mystery Science Theater 3000 " ) . " Beach Blanket Bingo " is an eye roll-inducing piece of swill about a gaggle of sexually inactive teenagers trying to protect a mermaid from a biker gang . How tragic that they wasted a potentially hilarious plot on something so stupid . If nothing else , couldn't they have waited a few years so that they could have thrown in some sex ? ! I mean , THEY HAD A MERMAID AND THEY COULDN'T DO IT WITH HER ? ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! WHY ? ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! And isn't it more chic to portray biker gangs as cool ? Anyway , the fact that Buster Keaton appears in this just goes to show how far he had gotten reduced . I don't doubt that the two people from " Bewitched " ( director William Asher and co-star Paul Lynde ) probably prefer to be associated with that show and not with this . It's no accident that Frankie Avalon and Annette Funicello never became A-list stars ( unless you count his appearance in " Grease " ) . Nowadays , I think that we only know her because she has multiple sclerosis , the same thing that afflicted Richard Pryor . " MST3K " really should have shown this flick ; Mike , Servo and Crow could have made some great comments .
Errol Flynn , beloved as Robin Hood , Capt . Blood , etc , ended his career with this hilariously pathetic excuse for a movie . " Cuban Rebel Girls " portrays an American girl ( Beverly Aadland , who's got nothing except her looks ) going to Cuba to help her boyfriend fight for Fidel Castro's army in their revolution against Fulgencio Batista . It warps the mind not that they went to Cuba and made a pro-Castro movie - although I find that neat - but that Flynn dropped down to this . I wouldn't be surprised if knowing that he was part of it is what caused Flynn's death soon after . Worth seeing as an example of film-making gone terribly wrong . I wonder whether or not Castro remembers that he participated with Errol Flynn in making this movie . If he does , he probably tries to hide it .
It was one thing for Disney to make animated features of self-proclaimed fictional stories ( " Cinderella " , " Aladdin " , etc . ) . But it's going too far to make a fantasy story and try to pass it off as history . That's just what they do with " Pocahontas " . While they prided themselves on treating Indians more respectfully , the Indians come across as noble savages ( meaning how white people prefer to view them , even if it is a positive portrayal ) . The images are very modern : Pocahontas is a princess with giant breasts and a skinny waist ( a Barbie doll , if you will ) , while John Smith is a hunky dude . Around the time that the movie came out , I participated in a review of it on a local radio station . Having recently studied the history of Jamestown , I could see that the movie got little if anything right , and so I challenged almost everything that the other reviewers said . The fact is that Disney - a corporation with kiddie entertainment as its main purpose - is not ready to tell the real story of what happened , and may never be ready to . As I understand it , when the English people first saw Pocahontas , she was naked and bald . The English , meanwhile , lacked any hygiene . All in all , if you want a realistic portrayal of the events surrounding the Jamestown settlement , this is the last version that you'll want to watch . But Terrence Malick's " The New World " isn't much better , lasting way too long and plodding the whole way through . The best version that I've seen is unfortunately one of the more racist ones : the Merrie Melodies 1938 cartoon " Johnny Smith and Poker-Huntas " , starring Elmer Fudd's prototype Egghead as John Smith . As this cartoon was directed by Tex Avery , it was naturally chock-full of sight gags , the sort of stuff that one would expect to find in a Marx Brothers movie or a Leslie Nielsen movie . While it did contain the average stereotypical portrayals of Indians , it was one of the cleverest cartoons that I've seen . Now , I understand that some people might assert that " Pocahontas " doesn't have to be totally realistic . Maybe so , but the problem is that it claims to be based on historical events . I , for one , do not consider a fantasy pretending to be history very appropriate . In summer , 1995 , Mel Gibson starred in - and directed - another less than totally accurate historical movie : " Braveheart " ; well , that one was much more accurate than this one . Just avoid this one , OK ? John Smith eventually had to return to England after getting injured in a gunpowder explosion . Without him , the rest of the colonists decided that they no longer had to do any work . Come winter , the settlement totally collapsed
Another horror flick in which a goof-ball teenager battles a madman and his supernatural sidekick who want to take over ? ! Yes , but the fact that this one was from Canada gives it a slightly different feel . " The Brain " has troublesome teenager Jim Majelewski getting put into a treatment whose leader turns out to be a cult leader aided by a big ugly " brain " . Can Jim stop him ? I guess that since our northern neighbor has accomplished all that they have accomplished , they're entitled to make at least one ridiculous horror movie . But still , they'll probably want to be known for having national health care and all . The bad guy had a brain . Why didn't the people who made this movie ?
" Devil Times Five " wouldn't really be worth noticing except for a most unusual aspect : it stars Shelley Morrison , aka Sister Sixto on " The Flying Nun " ( she apparently also starred on " Will & Grace " , but I've never seen that ) ; in fact , one of the characters in this movie is a novice nun ( like Sister Bertrille was ) . Otherwise , the movie is little that we haven't seen before , as some psycho children escape a crashed van in the mountains and make their way to a cabin where they proceed to make mincemeat of the adults . Pretty much all the cast members are so obnoxious - stupid adults and boring children - that I couldn't really tell which side to root for . There's some sex to keep things going , but such scenes can only do so much . So , Shelley Morrison is really the only reason to watch this movie . You keep expecting her to blurt out some mangled phrase as Sister Sixto did , but no , she spends most of the movie staring . Mostly not worth the time .
In March , 2002 , after my parents and I had seen the disturbing - but very well done - " In the Bedroom " , we felt like we needed something really light , so we rented " Cheech & Chong's The Corsican Brothers " ; I mean , what could be more easygoing than a movie starring filmdom's favorite goof-ball stoners ? This one turned out to be probably their lowest movie ever . For starters , no drug humor . It features them as siblings in pre-revolutionary France ( despite the fact that they talk like 20th century Americans ) making a mess of the status quo . Much of the little humor that the movie provides derives from the fact that if one of them gets injured , the other feels it . So , this is definitely not the Cheech & Chong movie that I recommend . Their other movies are far better . Also starring Edie McClurg and Rae Dawn Chong , and they probably prefer to omit this from their filmographies .
. . . that some of the cleverest cartoons were also some of the most racially offensive ? Among the examples are Bob Clampett's " Coal Black and de Sebben Dwarfs " and " Tin Pan Alley Cats " . This one portrays a Fats Walker-resembling feline who gets blasted outta this world into a setting lifted out of Clampett's earlier " Porky in Wackyland " . Yes , it seems like every time that they came up with a particularly novel idea , it came out like this . Well , maybe not every time . I would advise not watching this for straight-forward entertainment , but rather as a look at Hollywood's portrayal of African-Americans over the years . Available on YouTube .
While " Species " has as its actual plot a group of scientists looking for an escaped alien specimen - did somebody say " Alien " ripoff ? - I derived that the whole movie was really an excuse to show off Natasha Henstridge's breasts . If in fact that was the film's purpose , then they did a pretty good job with it ( seriously , not many movies get sexier than this ) . If the flick was supposed to have any real purpose beyond that , then I don't know what they were thinking . Just accept that the movie probably got made with the aim of sexually arousing teenage boys , and it'll be perfectly easy to enjoy the flick . Personally , I wouldn't mind getting slinky with that alien babe ! Also starring Ben Kingsley , Michael Madsen , Marg Helgenberger and Forest Whitaker . I don't know whether or not they want to stress this film when discussing their careers .
After so many years of genies being funny , cute , and maybe even wacky ( thanks , Robin Williams ! ) , here's a malevolent one . The overall concept in " Wishmaster " - modern person unleashes ancient evil force - is pretty routine , but there are some really neat scenes . I think that we all have to agree that the coolest part is the party towards the end , especially with the statues . So , although Wes Craven produced this in between the first and second " Scream " , it didn't quite reach the standards set by those two . Still , it's a pretty fun romp , featuring a bevy of filmdom's horror stars ( among them Robert Englund , Tony Todd and Kane Hodder ) . You just might want to think twice about making a wish after seeing this . Just imagine what might have happened had Maj . Nelson released this genie instead of Jeannie .
While it's true that " Sunday Go To Meetin ' Time " contains very stereotypical portrayals of African-Americans , it appears that the people behind the cartoon were actually taking some interest in African-American culture . The cartoon has a man skipping church , but then getting knocked out and dreaming that Satan sentences him to eternal damnation for his misdeeds . Personally , I'd rather go out and entertain myself than spend all day in any religious institution . Maybe I'd go out and watch a movie ( in religious people's minds , it would easily get me sent to Hell if the movie starred someone like Elke Sommer ; if so , then Hell here I come ! ) . But I digress . This cartoon is worth seeing , just as long as you understand the offensive content .
Hunter S . Thompson's recent suicide brings " Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas " to mind again . Many people considered it unfilmable , so Terry Gilliam decided to make a movie . The result ? Well , it's not a bad movie , but it's almost too weird too understand . Reporter Raoul Duke ( Johnny Depp ) and lawyer Dr . Gonzo ( Benicio Del Toro ) go to Las Vegas - aka the domain of Frank Sinatra , Henry Kissinger and Debbie Reynolds - to cover a convention . The only thing is , they're doing polypharmacy ( many drugs at once ) and they get SO-O-O-O-O-O-O MESSED UP ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! You can't even begin to imagine what they get like ; you have to see the movie to understand , although squeamish people would do best to avoid this movie . My favorite scene was the whole sequence about the " dope fiend " . This is gonzo journalism at it's best . . . and weirdest .
There have now been nine " Friday the 13th " sequels - plus " Freddy vs . Jason " - so the original one seems pretty sedate . Since you most likely know the plot , I'll just talk about a few aspects . Kevin Bacon appears in an early role ( and watch what happens to him ) . Bing Crosby's son Harry plays one of the counselors . And of course , there's Jason . . . but there's a surprise there ( they identified it in " Scream " ) . I still like to think about the fact that Bing Crosby's son starred in this . Just imagine what America's crooner would have thought if he'd known that his son would star in a slasher movie ( actually , I've heard a lot of bad things about Bing Crosby , so I wish that that creep could have known ) . All in all , you can respect this movie for what it is .
Sort of expanding on " The Silence of the Lambs " , " The Cell " portrays a woman ( Jennifer Lopez ) entering a comatose killer's ( Vincent D'Onofrio ) mind so that he can help her find his latest victim . I guess that this movie is really all about the visuals as she drifts through his subconscious . If the movie has any problem , it's the casting of Jennifer Lopez . She actually does a good job here , but given that she's only starred in idiotic movies since , it's almost hard to take her seriously ( and at times , it seems like they're just trying to show off her underwear ) . Fortunately , D'Onofrio makes a really creepy killer , and Vince Vaughn is also passable as Lopez's cohort . All in all , I wouldn't recommend this movie above all others . It's more of a way to pass time . Still , it is a pretty original idea with some impressive scenes . Also starring Marianne Jean-Baptiste .
The 1994 big screen version of " The Flintstones " was undeniably atrocious , so if you want a decent " Flintstones " movie , then " The Man Called Flintstone " works ( if only marginally ) . The plot has secret agent Rock Slang , who just happens to be Fred Flinstone's doppelganger , getting injured and replaced with Fred . This not only complicates Fred's vacation plans , but makes him the target of spies Ali and Bobo ( fortunately for Fred , these guys are beyond incompetent ) . In the end , Fred's big mission is to stop master criminal Green Goose from destroying the world . Okay , so this movie won't challenge your mind or anything ( and I guess that it does go overboard at times ) , but at least it's not a travesty of the show ( I can't say the same for the 1994 movie ) . This one passes .
I have to admit that I haven't seen Zhang Yimou's early movies , only his works from the 21st century . And it seems that he tries to outdo himself each successive time : " Hero " , " House of Flying Daggers " , and now " Curse of the Golden Flower " ( " Man cheng jin dai huang jin jia " in Mandarin ) . The plot is a little hard to follow , and I suspect that the battle scene is supposed to be the one that sticks in people's minds . To me at least , this mirrors George Lucas's most recent movies : they try so hard to be as big as possible , that it's too grandiose to even take in . As I understand it , this movie is supposed to be a metaphor for China's conversion from western domination to communism ; do we really want to idealize the Cultural Revolution ( or some of the things that have happened since ) ? Otherwise , it's a visual treat . The palace interior looks psychedelic . Starring Chow Yun-Fat , Gong Li , Liu Ye and Jay Chou . So the black fungus really came from Persia . I knew that China traded with other cultures , but I never guessed that Persia gave them anything .
Friz Freleng's " Toy Town Hall " has the feel of one of the really early cartoons from Warner Bros . , before they figured out the really zany path that they wanted to take ( I believe that that started with Daffy Duck's debut ) . In this short , a boy wants to listen to the radio but has to go to bed . But in his bedroom , the toys put on their own radio show , often featuring celebrity caricatures . Toys just know no limits , do they ? For me , at least , one of the most eye-opening moments was when one of the characters - I think that he might have been an Eddie Cantor caricature - sings " Merrily We Roll Along " . For the uninitiated , that's the song played during the openings of Merrie Melodies cartoons while the Warner Bros . shield approaches ( Looney Tunes cartoons play " Merry-Go-Round Broke Down " ) . So in that respect , this cartoon was sort of a sign of things to come , if unwittingly . Anyway , it's an OK cartoon , a common representation of their pre-Bugs Bunny days .
Usually , when we hear that the United States has remade a foreign movie , it's time to start groaning in despair . Not so with " Dark Water " . An ingenious thriller helmed by " The Motorcycle Diaries " director Walter Salles , the movie succeeds where too many movies have failed . Dahlia ( Jennifer Connelly ) has just gone through a nasty divorce . So , she and her daughter Cecilia ( Ariel Gade ) move into an apartment on Roosevelt Island . Looking at the apartment complex , almost anyone might get turned off : not only does it look like something put up by the old Soviet bureaucracy , but the whole place is pretty dreary . But , she and Ceci like it enough , to move in . But then , strange things start happening . A leak from the next floor won't stop , and a lot of the water from the sinks and washer is much darker than it should be . What is causing this ? The answer lies in some unpleasant events of the building's past . Part of what was so good about this movie was the use of shadows : very few scenes are without shadows , rain , or something else to give a sense of fear . Pete Postlethwaite , as security guard Veeck , is the sort of character whom you aren't sure whether or not to suspect of something . Even if " Dark Water " doesn't leave you with a sense of mortal fear , you will most likely feel that you want to think twice before trying to move into any place . Here's just a little aside . When I went to see the movie , it was out of focus , and they kept stopping it and restarting it . Finally , they decided that they couldn't fix it , so they just gave us passes to see a later showing . But that's just a side note . It's a pretty good movie .
So , Mel Blanc lent his voice to a cartoon short for the last time . It was an OK effort . Maybe not quite like their work from the ' 40s and ' 50s , but a colorful jab at classic horror flicks , as Daffy Duck dreams that he's performing for an audience of monsters . . . until he antagonizes Godzilla . And with another Mel ( Torme , that is ) doing the singing , how can you go wrong ? All in all , " The Night of the Living Duck " was a worthy end for The Man of 1 , 000 Voices . And he left this life the very next year ( he was actually the first famous person whose death I was aware of ; I was only five years old , but I knew the names of Bugs Bunny's creators ) . You can luxuriate in Mel Blanc's voices and Carl Stalling's music ( happy birthday , Carl ! ) .
As an atheist , I'm not a person who really goes in for any portrayal of Jesus . Still , " The Last Temptation of Christ " does an interesting job looking at him . We see Jesus ( Willem Dafoe ) as an imperfect human being with his own personal problems . Many Bible-thumping ideologues objected to this movie , due to its portrayal of Jesus ' sexual life ; all that I can say is " If the guy didn't have sex , what would he have done ? " Now , the movie's weird aspect . Aside from the fact that " Spiderman " ' s Norman Osborne is playing Christ , Verna Bloom - aka Marion Wormer in " Animal House " - plays Mary , and Harvey Keitel plays Judas . All the Jews in the movie have American accents , while the Romans sound like Brits . But don't get me wrong ; this is still a good movie . Maybe Martin Scorsese is an odd choice to direct a biblical epic , but whom do we want to do it ? The biblical epics made in the ' 50s and ' 60s were boring as hell , and I heard that " The Passion of the Christ " was basically an anti-Semitic screed . My favorite biblical epic is " Life of Brian " . Here's what I think that they should do . A movie version of the Bible hosted by Jon Stewart . The cast members are all Jewish-American entertainers . For example , Goldie Hawn and Woody Allen play Eve and Adam ( for PC purposes , Eve comes first ) ; they behave like a pair of tensed-up artistic people . Dustin Hoffman is Joseph ( with the coat of many colors ) ; when the Pharaoh's wife comes on to him , he says " Mrs . Pharaoh , you're trying to seduce me , aren't you ? " . Harrison Ford plays Moses ; he splits the Red Sea with a light saber , and when he gets the Ten Commandments , it's done like the opening sequence in " Raiders of the Lost Ark " . Other cast members would include Carl and Rob Reiner , Mel Brooks , Gene Wilder , Elliott Gould , Barbra Streisand , Bette Midler , Billy Crystal , Kevin Kline , Richard Dreyfuss , " Weird Al " Yankovic , and others . At the end , Jon Stewart would say that the Bible was made into a movie . . . called " Saturday Night Fever " . He would then walk down the street a la John Travolta while " Stayin ' Alive " gets played , and go to a discotheque . Yes , the Bible would end in a discotheque . Call me crazy , but that would be my ideal Bible .
Maybe " The Land Before Time " is the sort of movie that appealed more to us when we were little children . Still , as a young adult , I remember that it was an interesting idea , with dinosaur children having to rely on each other . However , I do wish to assert that some of the T-Rex scenes may have been a little too intense for really young children . I mean , some of them get really ugly . Overall , it's a pretty interesting movie . I guess that " Jurassic Park " has made us expect a different portrayal of dinosaurs on the silver screen , but this one still passes . You probably won't have a religious experience or anything , but it's an OK way to pass time .
Indie director Hal Hartley accomplished the quirky but definitely worth seeing " Henry Fool " , in which a trashy writer helps a socially awkward garbage man discover his real talent . Since the title character describes three kinds of " there " , I will use them to describe the movie . There is much in this movie that will give you a new view of your own life . Their talents come across very clearly in this movie . They're the people showing us that movies work best when not showing things exploding for no reason except to show off some star . Anyway , this is certainly a movie that I recommend . If it stars Parker Posey , you know that it's got to be interesting ( see also " The House of Yes " ) .
I'm guessing that when " Moscow on the Hudson " first came out , it looked kind of silly and unrealistic . But now that the Cold War has long since ended , it looks better ( and watching the movie , you can see why the Soviet Union was imploding ) . Robin Williams , in one of his more easygoing roles , plays Russian saxophonist Vladimir Ivanoff , who defects while his group is performing in New York . The rest of the movie shows him trying to adjust to life in America , with varying degrees of success . Among his new acquaintances are Lucia Lombardo ( Maria Conchita Alonso ) , Lionel Witherspoon ( Cleavant Derricks ) and Orlando Ramirez ( Alejandro Rey , whom you may recall as Carlos on " The Flying Nun " ) . All in all , this isn't really anything special , but it does almost seem to be a premonition of the Eastern Bloc collapsing . Worth seeing .
I seem to recall that when " Four Rooms " came out , it was critically and commercially derided . When I saw it a few months later , I actually thought that it was pretty well done . I knew that Quentin Tarantino was involved in the making , so I could safely assume that there was an element of sleaze in the movie . Well , the movie is likely to blow anyone away , just in terms of how far they go . Portraying bellhop Ted ( Tim Roth ) and his loony experiences on New Year's Eve while waiting on several people in a hotel , they blow everything out of the water . The first two segments are pretty lowbrow : the first one portrays a witches ' coven and the second one portrays a psychopath who thinks that Ted had sex with his wife . But when we get to the third segment , that's where the movie really takes off . Ted has to watch the children of a slick Mexican guy named Man ( Antonio Banderas ) . After a few incidents , Man comes back and finds the room in the most mind-blowing scene imaginable . And , the last segment . Ted , in a totally frenetic state , goes to a room where several Hollywood guys are having a discussion ( with as many curse words as possible ) . What happens at the end of that segment . . . well , let me just tell you that no one sees that coming ! All in all , people who think that the movie didn't go anywhere obviously missed the point . I don't know for certain whether this movie was just an excuse to be crazy , but it sure seemed like that . You're sure to have fun watching it . Also starring Madonna , Valeria Golino , Jennifer Beals , Salma Hayek , and even Quentin Tarantino in the final segment playing a Hollywood type .
Following his supporting role in " Talladega Nights " , John C . Reilly gets his own lead role in the musical biopic spoof " Walk Hard : The Dewey Cox Story " . Mostly poking fun at the Johnny Cash biopic " Walk the Line " - with elements of Ray Charles , Bob Dylan , Brian Wilson , Stevie Wonder , and even appearances by the Beatles and the Temptations - the movie isn't a yuk-fest in the vein of " Airplane ! " . Most of the humor is much more subtle , but when they throw it at you , it comes head on ! So , it's mostly a nice , short way to get a few laughs . Chockablock with inconsistencies about his age , yes , but there's no need to take anything seriously about this flick . Basically an excuse to be silly , with some neat surprises along the way . Judd Apatow is certainly making a good name for himself .
I'd never heard of Frank Abagnale Jr before " Catch Me If You Can " came out , but what a guy ! Watching the movie , one really grows to admire him , partly because of Leonardo DiCaprio's cool portrayal . Abagnale forged checks and assumed a number of false identities during the ' 60s . Tom Hanks is equally cool as FBI agent Carl Hanratty , doggedly searching the world for Abagnale . This isn't Steven Spielberg's best movie by any stretch , but it's sure a neat one . There is one scene that's probably there for comic relief ( hint : it involves shirts ) . Also starring are Christopher Walken , Nathalie Baye , Martin Sheen , Amy Adams , and James Brolin . Cool .
" Vantage Point " portrays an assassination attempt on the US president ( William Hurt ) during a trip to Salamanca , Spain . The first half of the movie consists of the viewpoints of several people present at the event : a bodyguard ( Dennis Quaid ) , a tourist ( Forest Whitaker ) , a newswoman ( Sigourney Weaver ) , and a Spaniard ( Eduardo Noriega ) fearing for his life . The combination of these viewpoints eventually lay everything out . This was certainly an interesting idea for a movie . What I'm not sure about is the movie's specific position . It portrays the president going to Spain to praise the prime minister's participation in the so-called War on Terrorism . Needless to say , driving through the city , the president passes hoards of protesters calling him the world's # 1 terrorist and things like that . Therefore , I can't tell whether the movie promotes the War on Terrorism or opposes it . If the movie opposes it , wouldn't it be better to focus on what the Middle East has become due to the war ? If the movie supports it , then . . . well , does any movie really want to support it ? Whatever the position , it's still an interesting idea for a movie . Worth seeing .
Once again , Wile E . Coyote is after Road Runner . I notice that this time , he doesn't try to trap Road Runner as much as accelerate himself . But sure enough , it still ends in disaster for him . Will Wile E . ever succeed in catching that bombastic bird ? ! Or better yet : why doesn't he just give up ? I will say that " Out and Out Rout " isn't my favorite cartoon involving these guys , but it has its moments . Maybe it is just another litany of WEC chasing RR throughout the Southwestern United States , but how can you not love what happens to him ? Nothing particularly new , but still lots of fun . I guess that Road Runner was really " driven " at the end .
I've long wondered why the Termite Terrace crowd tortured Sylvester so much . In " Canned Feud " , his owners go on vacation and leave him locked in the house . He has plenty of cans of tuna , but a nasty little mouse keeps holding the can opener out of reach , forcing Sylvester to come up with all sorts of unpleasant gags to try and get it . So why would a mouse want to be a sadist ? Your guess is as good as mine . Of course , these cartoons were chock-full of sadists ( or at least characters with a New York side ) : Bugs Bunny , Road Runner , even Tweety himself . If nothing else , it goes to show that these cartoons weren't really intended for children ; they were created to get shown before feature films in the cinema . Anyway , it's not a bad cartoon , but I've seen better .
The three bears ' cartoons from the Looney Tunes crowd aren't in my vocabulary as much as Bugs Bunny and his ilk are , but the two that I've seen ( " Bugs Bunny and the Three Bears " and this one ) I really like . " A Bear for Punishment " portrays Father's Day , and so Ma and Junyer try to make Pa happy . . . all the while irking him due to arch-incompetence and excessive affection . They should have just left the guy in peace ! So , Chuck Jones had every reason to be proud of this cartoon . One can imagine how much fun voice artist Stan Freberg must have had turning Junyer into his dopey self . Really funny . I wonder why Junyer is twice his father's size .
I have to admit that I don't know much about Mongolia , even though I've known about it for most of my life ( when I was young , I had a puzzle that was a map of the world , so I learned Mongolia ) . So " The Story of the Weeping Camel " is an interesting little look at this culture . The movie focuses on a group of nomads whose camel ignores her calf , and they have to hire a musician to get the camel to change her mind . It was especially eye-opening that this was a German-Mongolian co-production . I wouldn't expect Germany to make a movie about the relationship between a camel and her calf . But what do I know ? It's a really interesting movie .
" Chamber of Horrors " is one those obscure movies , probably available only at Portland video / DVD store Movie Madness . It portrays serial killer Jason Cravette ( Patrick O'Neal ) on his way to jail when he has to cut off his hand to escape . So , he returns to Baltimore and resumes his murders . Yes , the plot is pretty routine , but this movie is unique . The star is Cesare Danova , better known as Mayor Carmine DePasto in " Animal House " . Does that give the movie a feeling of silliness ? Maybe , but the movie mostly feels very neat . Also , the judge is played by Vinton Hayworth , aka Gen . Schaeffer on " I Dream of Jeannie " . So Bluto Blutarsky and Jeannie are linked by a hook-handed maniac ! Go figure ! But overall , this movie is a real treat . Fans of 1960s camp will surely love it . And it might just save your life one day . . . A murder mystery in Baltimore . I try to imagine if one or both of Baltimore's two famous sons ( by whom I mean Barry Levinson and John Waters ) had directed this movie . Hmmm . . .
Obviously , when " The Defiant Ones " first came out , it was probably a revolutionary idea : a white man and a black man chained to each other escape from a chain gang and have to put aside their differences to survive . I guess that nowadays , we look at it and feel that they were trying to look good by portraying social issues . No matter , it is a pretty good movie , and Tony Curtis and Sidney Poitier do an intense job as John " Joker " Jackson and Noah Cullen , respectively . Not to sound wimpy or anything , but the movie does have a good point in affirming that if we want to accomplish our goals , we do have to accept each other . Stanley Kramer did always have some good ideas for movies , with this one , as well as " Inherit the Wind " , " It's a Mad , Mad , Mad , Mad World " and " Guess Who's Coming to Dinner " .
I've noticed that in the 21st century , there's been a surge in movies portraying several people who , although they may never meet , are all connected by something : " Traffic " , " Syriana " , " Fast Food Nation " and " Babel " . Now , there's also Mark Rydell's " Even Money " , depicting several people linked by gambling addictions . There's Carolyn Carver ( Kim Basinger ) , a writer ignoring her family and spending all her time in the casino with prestidigitator Walter Markowitz ( Danny DeVito ) ; Clyde Snow ( Forest Whitaker ) , a handyman trying to help his son become a basketball player ; and Augie ( Jay Mohr ) , who has taken some very wrong turns in his life . But in control of everything is slime-ball Victor ( Tim Roth ) , intent on rigging the upcoming basketball game . I should say that I didn't find this movie to be as good as the aforementioned intertwined-story films , as the aforementioned ones dealt more with political issues . But I thought that it was worth seeing as a look at the underbelly of life in general ( is that a lame description ? ) . And an ugly look at things it certainly is . Victor is one guy whom you hope that you never have to meet , but it's still possible to admire him somewhat . At times , every one of the characters made my skin crawl just a little bit . All in all , an OK movie . Also starring Ray Liotta as Kim Basinger's husband , Kelsey Grammar as a detective , and director Rydell at the end . PS : Mark Rydell also directed Bette Midler's movies " The Rose " and " For the Boys " .
Knowing that " Lord of Illusions " is directed by the same man who brought us " Hellraiser " , you would probably expect two hours of torture scenes . But Clive Barker has a real treat in store for you . This movie is not a series of torture scenes , but a descent into the unknown . And a cool one at that . The movie begins several years earlier when a cult leader named Nix ( Daniel Von Bargen - aka Commandant Spengler on " Malcolm in the Middle " ) was killed by follower Philip Swann ( Kevin J . O'Connor ) . In the present , New York detective Harry D'Amour ( Scott Bakula ) comes out to LA and gets to know Swann and his wife Dorothea ( Famke Janssen - of " Goldeneye " and " X-Men " fame ) . But D'Amour has no idea what's about to happen , because some of the cult members want to resurrect the cult . And this will require certain accidents to happen . I can't really do justice to this movie by trying to explain it . Barker makes such an interesting use of mind-bendingness that you have to see it to understand it . Just see if you don't come away with your mind blown . You may never believe your eyes again after you see this . And I also would like to say that Famke Janssen is kinda hot in this movie .
I had known a little bit about the 1960s change in cinema , but " Reel Radicals : The Sixties Revolution in Film " lays it all out . Probably the main aspect that comes to people's minds is the emergence of sexuality on the screen , as shown by the likes of " Midnight Cowboy " and " Bob & Carol & Ted & Alice " . But the overall change was a shift away from the 1950s eye candy to more serious topics : race relations ( " To Kill a Mockingbird " ) , the Cold War ( " Dr . Strangelove " ) , the generation gap ( " The Graduate " ) and overall political upheaval ( " Medium Cool " ) . One thing that I wish that they could have gotten into was when movies from that era had a seemingly apolitical plot as the setting for political commentary . For example , " It's a Mad , Mad , Mad , Mad World " may look like a wacky comedy , but really seems to be a parable of greed , showing how people will do anything for money . For the most part , though , I thought that the documentary did a swell job with its topic . It all brings to mind the fact that the 1960s cinematic shift away from escapism led to 1970s cinema focusing on the fruits of the ' 60s movements , then escapism ( particularly high action ) resurfaced in the ' 80s , and then the indies rose in the ' 90s . It still remains to be seen what specifically 21st century cinema will inhibit . All in all , worth seeing . I might also note that people talk about TV experiencing its major change in the ' 70s , with " All in the Family " and " Sanford and Son " . I would say that there actually was a little bit of a shift in the ' 60s . Aside from shows like " Bewitched " , " Gilligan's Island " and " I Dream of Jeannie " having a semi-psychedelic look , these shows often contained situations where people from the older generation would come across something unfamiliar , and look ridiculous when they tried to explain it ( after all , people not taking part in what happened in the ' 60s couldn't even begin to explain it ) . That's my take on things . But I digress . Definitely a documentary that I recommend .
As long as we understand that " Magical Maestro " contains some politically incorrect scenes , we can enjoy it for the purely crazy , as a sadistic magician plays all sorts of tricks on a snobbish opera singer by changing the guy's persona every couple of seconds . I think that my favorite one was the little kid . I believe that it was the Klingons on " Star Trek " who declared " Revenge is a dish best served cold . " Maybe the magician doesn't go quite that far , but he sure has some funny things up his sleeve ! It just goes to show that while Tex Avery may not have been as clever as the people behind the Looney Tunes / Merrie Melodies cartoons , he certainly had some great ideas . Worth seeing .
One of the many Merrie Melodies cartoons that entertained American moviegoers during WWII , Bob Clampett's " An Itch in Time " portrays a hobo flea settling on Elmer Fudd's dog . The little guy turns into a real sadist while making a home on the dog's back , but Elmer warns the dog : " One more scwatch and I'll give you a bath ! " Meanwhile , the flea is setting up dynamite on the dog ! And that's not the end ! I noticed that in one scene , Elmer is reading a comic book featuring Bugs Bunny and Porky Pig . Obviously , Elmer and Bugs frequently co-starred but Elmer never co-starred with Porky ( unless you count the very short " Any Bonds Today ? " ) . But to me , the thought of Elmer reading about these other famous characters from his same genre stresses the metaphysical nature of his world , as though he knew of their existence within his universe even though they don't appear in this cartoon . Of course , I'm probably going too far in my analysis . I'm sure that the cartoon was intended as pure entertainment , and it certainly entertains . As for the " I might get to like this " line , it sounds as though that was something that the censors wouldn't have allowed but somehow missed ; I , for one , don't actually know what it was supposed to sound like . Was it something sexual ? As for the end , had I thought that I'd seen everything , I would have been tempted to look for more , rather than do what the cat did ( although it was a neat trick ) . The guys behind these cartoons sure had a thing for TNT , didn't they ?
In " The Great American Chase " , Bugs Bunny traipses through his house and tells us the story of chases . To make his point , he shows us several classic cartoons ( some starring him ) dealing with situations involving hot pursuits . Well , not all of them have chases ; some are there just for fun . Bugs remembers how Chuck Jones sent him into space , where he met Marvin the Martian ; then how Daffy Duck and Porky Pig tried to colonize Planet X and had to contend with Marvin the Martian ; how Daffy ( as Robin Hood ) had a very hard time recruiting Porky ( as Friar Tuck ) ; how Daffy's scenery frustratingly changed every few minutes ; how he , Bugs , ended up in a bullfight ; how he and Daffy dug into Ali Baba's cave ; how he and Elmer Fudd acted out " The Ride of the Valkyries " ; how Wile E . Coyote tried and failed to eat him ; and finally , how Wile E . decided to try something a little more his size , by which we mean the Road Runner . The Wile E . Coyote / Road Runner chase is really the best part of the movie . Overall , it's a pretty neat compilation of classic cartoons , and I liked the scene where Bugs remembers his " fathers " ( Mel Blanc , Chuck Jones , etc . ) .
Having gotten a lead role in " The Ipcress File " , Michael Caine got the role with which I believe that he remains best associated : ladies ' man Alfie Elkins . Alfie traipses around London , having flings with various and sundry " birds " , to the point where he starts seeming like a sexist pig - although it's probably debatable whether he is one . One might say that he loves every one of these women , or that he's just doing this for fun , but either way , it just may all come crashing down on him . On one level , " Alfie " is also a look at Swinging London . There's the ubiquitous clothes and hairstyles , among other things . As for Caine's female co-stars , there's Shelley Winters , Millicent Martin , Julia Foster , Jane Asher , Shirley Anne Field , and Vivien Merchant , to name a few . Lewis Gilbert directed two other really good women-related movies : " Educating Rita " ( also starring Caine ) and " Shirley Valentine " .
Some people have treated " What Dreams May Come " with scorn due to Chris Nielsen's ( Robin Williams ) affirmations that he can do anything , even if it violates the laws of nature . I beg to differ . The movie shows how he blames himself for his wife Annie's ( Annabella Sciorra ) suicide , and feels compelled to rectify this . Maybe some people thought that the movie was trying too hard to be like a painting but ended up a series of shots of Robin Williams trying to be emotional . Neither description would do the movie justice . This movie is not all about special effects . I think that it forces us to reconsider our own destinies , and what may become of everything after we die . All in all , a really impressive movie . Also starring Cuba Gooding Jr and Max Von Sydow .
It was 1965 . The Cold War was raging . Espionage was in its heyday . That year not only saw another James Bond movie ( " Thunderball " ) , but also the first Harry Palmer movie ( " The Ipcress File " ) , the first Derek Flynt movie ( I can never remember which came first ) , and the debut of " Get Smart " ( an add for that one even called Maxwell Smart " the spy who forgot to come in from the cold " ) . So it's no surprise that " The Spy Who Came in from the Cold " got released that year . I will say that this movie overall is a little confusing , with Richard Burton as a British agent taking on a dangerous mission in East Germany . But there were some things that I noticed in the movie that may back up everyone's stereotypes about the west . Someone tells Burton about the notion that the west is never the aggressor . The people in various colonized countries know that to be entirely untrue . Also , Burton says that it is our right to be ignorant ; we've unfortunately overused that right . But I digress . I liked the movie , even if it was often hard to follow . Far from the idealized , sex-centric world of James Bond , " TSWCIFTC " shows the ugly side of espionage . And it does a very intense job of it . Also starring Claire Bloom , Oskar Werner and Bernard Lee ( I believe that he's the same Bernard Lee who played M in the James Bond movies ) .
After almost thirty years in movies , Clint Eastwood took home an Oscar for " Unforgiven " . In it , he plays ex-killer William Munny , who has given up his violent ways . Then , some unexpected events force him to have to decide whether to continue his non-violent life or return to violence . It seems to me that " Malcolm X " deserved Best Picture more than this one did , but Eastwood certainly turns in a captivating performance , as do Gene Hackman , Morgan Freeman , and Richard Harris . Some people may have trouble watching this due to some of the things that happen in it , but if you can stomach it , then you should check it out . As Munny notes : " It's a hell of a thing killing a man . Taking away everything he's got " .
Whenever they remake a movie , it's always iffy . But we can count on the Coen brothers . " The Ladykillers " of course has a group of thieves living in an old woman's house to carry out their heist , but she wises up to their scheme ; they try to kill her , but murder isn't as easy as it looks ! Tom Hanks plays the devilish , very cultured Southern gentleman Prof . Goldthwait Higginson Dorr III , whose speech gives one the impression that he spends all day searching the dictionary for obscure words . The Coen brothers did a really neat job updating Alec Guinness ' classic . Marlon Wayans ' character was kind of silly , but other than that , the movie had virtually no faults . Just one more thing : I notice that by now , Tom Hanks has acted in movies all around the US part of the Gulf of Mexico . " Forrest Gump " happened in Alabama , " Apollo 13 " happened in Texas and Florida , " The Green Mile " happened in Louisiana , and " The Ladykillers " happened in Mississippi . Well . . .
Around the same time that he starred in - and hilariously carried - " Aladdin " , Robin Williams starred in another movie clearly intended for kids : " Toys " . He plays toy company heir Leslie Zevo , trying to stop his uncle ( Michael Gambon ) from taking over the company and using it to make war toys . Yeah , it's a pretty simple plot - and maybe the movie's only really interesting once - but there's plenty of scenes that make it all worthwhile , namely the crossword scene and the scene where the spy camera has an unexpected experience . At times , the movie does seem like it's trying to tweak at your emotions , but it's mostly pretty good . Granted , I do prefer the previous movie in which Barry Levinson directed Robin Williams ( by which I mean " Good Morning , Vietnam " ) . Also starring Joan Cusack , Robin Wright , LL Cool J , Donald O'Connor , Arthur Malet , Jack Warden , and Jamie Foxx ( as a joke , I'll say what that translates to : the " In & Out " bride , Forrest Gump's sweetheart , a rapper , one of the people who didn't sing in the rain , Mr . Dawes Jr from " Mary Poppins " , Warren Beatty's frequent co-star , and Ray Charles ) .
No doubt the thought of Gillian " Agent Scully " Anderson and Dan " Blues Brothers " Aykroyd in a movie set during the Victorian Era would probably sound like a joke ; think of it as Leslie Nielsen meets Merchant and Ivory . It turns out that " The House of Mirth " is worth seeing . Anderson plays a woman who risks losing her lover . True , how many Victorian-era stories can there be , but everyone brings a certain charm to this one . Watching the movie , one gets the feeling of how unpleasant life was for women back then , and there's lots of tension amongst everyone to add to the story . Also starring Eleanor Bron ( of " Help ! " fame ) , Terry Kinney , Anthony LaPaglia , Laura Linney , Jodhi May ( of " A World Apart " fame ) , Elizabeth McGovern and Eric Stoltz . I would actually like to see a Victorian-era movie starring Leslie Nielsen .
In a way , Pepe Le Pew - more than any of the other Looney Tunes - represents that deep down desire that so many men have . The mini-documentary " Behind the Tunes : The Charm of Stink - On the Scent of Pepe le Pew " explains his hilarious delusion of being the world's greatest lover while actually repelling the women . People like Leonard Maltin and Joe Dante put in their two ( s ) cents . I think that I may have heard that Pepe was based on French actor Charles Boyer , but this featurette clarifies the whole thing . I guess that it's another example of knowing the parody before knowing the original ( heck , without even knowing that the parody is a parody ) . Kind of like how the first time that I saw " What's Opera , Doc ? " when I was really young , I had never heard of Richard Wagner , or that I learn about many pop songs by hearing " Weird Al " Yankovic's spoofs . But anyway , this short does a good job looking at Pepe Le Pew . I agree with another reviewer that the mini-documentaries on the Looney Tunes DVDs improved with Volume 2 .
As " The Sting " is probably the most famous con artist-themed movie ever , you probably know that it's about aging con artist Henry Gondorff ( Paul Newman ) and up-and-comer Johnny Hooker ( Robert Redford ) teaming up to get revenge on crime boss Doyle Lonnegan ( Robert Shaw ) in Depression-era Chicago . This movie may be most famous as 1973's Best Picture winner , but I wouldn't have given it Best Picture . Granted , it was an interesting look at the underworld of the 1930s and the corruption prevalent throughout that period , but a number of movies that year were more deserving . Oh well . It's still worth seeing . Whenever George Roy Hill directed Newman and Redford together , he always came up with something good . As it was , this was one of two movies in 1973 about Depression-era conning ; the other was of course " Paper Moon " . And " The Sting II " ? I don't think that anyone's actually seen that movie ( I sure haven't ) . Once on " The Simpsons " , Grampa even made a comment about it's lack of fame .
In the ' 70s , Charlton Heston starred in sci-fi flicks of varying quality . " Soylent Green " is one of the better ones . He plays Robert Thorn , a detective in 2022 New York . In this future , most food is so expensive that everyone needs a product called Soylent Green . But when Thorn finds out the unsavory truth about this product , he finds himself on the run . I guess that it's only natural that this movie should seem dated to us nowadays . But even so , it still brings up interesting questions about what will become of our agriculture . Also starring Leigh Taylor-Young , Chuck Connors , Brock Peters , Joseph Cotten and Edward G . Robinson ( in his final role ) .
A tongue-in-cheek look at soap operas , " Soapdish " portrays a series of events involving several people in the TV world . Specifically , some of these people don't even know about each other , but they're all about to crash head-on into each other . Sally Field , as star Celeste Talbert / Maggie , almost seems to be channeling her " Flying Nun " persona , but she does a great job with it . Kevin Kline , as stage actor Jeffrey Anderson / Dr . Rod Randall , is his normal self : an average Joe who has some unusual comments . Cathy Moriarty , as unctuous Montana Moorehead / Nurse Nan , is a REAL bitch . Whoopi Goldberg , Elisabeth Shue , and Robert Downey Jr . also provide some great roles . A very interesting movie .
Steven ( Michael Douglas ) and Emily Taylor ( Gwyneth Paltrow ) look like the typical rich New Yorkers : he's twice her age , they live in a high-rise , and both have prestigious jobs . But she doesn't know that he's planning to have her killed to pay off his debts . And he doesn't know that she's cleverer than he thinks . " A Perfect Murder " does a very good job updating " Dial M for Murder " . They keep the suspense going every step of the way . And they really pull some surprises . Equally as good as the aforementioned stars is Viggo Mortensen ; he gives sort of an air of Aragorn's bad side . But either way , this is certainly a movie that I recommend . Also starring Sarita Choudhury .
" Fox-Terror " has something that I never expected to see : Foghorn Leghorn and Barnyard Dog as friends . In this case , a fox is doing everything possible to keep BD out of the way while he attempts to snatch the chickens , so he gets FL to inadvertently harm BD . Meanwhile , a tiny rooster sounds an alarm but BD never sees the fox and ends up thinking that the little guy is just playing pranks . Until someone takes everything a little too far . Overwhelming ? Well , with some of the gags that they pull - namely the suit-changing - you'll never find it bad . OK , so this cartoon was probably a place-holder between the really great cartoons ( 1957 also saw the release of " What's Opera , Doc ? " and " Birds Anonymous " ) . But it's always a pleasure to see Foggy do his folksy stuff . Worth seeing .
" Deep Impact " was one of two collision-related movies released in summer , 1998 ( the other was " Armageddon " ) . Whereas the latter had no other purpose than to have Bruce Willis kick ass , the former was actually quite good . More than just an action movie , this one shows the human aspect of everything . One of the most interesting aspects is Pres . Tom Beck ( Morgan Freeman ) . Whereas we usually expect black men in movies to be macho , this guy talks about his belief in God . I guess that the only thing of which I would have liked to see more would have been the shelters , but I guess that such an aspect would probably occupy an entire movie on its own . All in all , a really good movie .
No one can deny that " Great Balls of Fire ! " has some great music . Dennis Quaid really gets into the role of Jerry Lee Lewis , and the movie really transports you back to the ' 50s . If the movie has any problem , it's the stress on his marriage to his 13-year-old cousin Myra ( Winona Ryder ) . As for Ryder herself , she looks a little too old to play a 13-year-old ; I've heard that in footage of them , Myra looks like a little girl . So , Jerry Lee Lewis leaves a lot to be desired . But still , it's a pretty fine movie . I will say that Alec Baldwin comes across as a little silly as Jerry's cousin Jimmy Swaggart ; he rants against ( what else ? ) " devil's music " . But overall , I liked the movie . Also starring B-movie connoisseur Joe Bob Briggs in a small role . Jerry Lee Lewis married his cousin and Jimmy Swaggart got caught with a prostitute . There must be some sort of pathology in that family .
I've always noticed that during their first few years , the Looney Tunes cartoons were sort of like the Marx Brothers ' movies with the kinds of gags that they pulled . " Porky's Baseball Broadcast " actually features the famously stuttering swine in more of a supporting role , as he narrates a baseball game in which every crazy thing possible happens : American Indians are the scalpers ( not PC anymore ) , one of the players literally stretches , and a ball is truly a screamer . As far as I can tell , Friz Freleng and the rest of the Termite Terrace crowd - to paraphrase Cyndi Lauper - just wanted to have fun with their work . This one is pretty funny ; in fact , if you've seen enough Looney Tunes cartoons , you can probably guess what will happen just by Porky's narration . Some of the gags were later used in " Baseball Bugs " . PS : writer Ben Hardaway drew Bugs Bunny's prototype . Hardaway's nickname was Bugs , and he titled the drawing " Bugs ' Bunny " . So , they dropped the apostrophe , and the wascawwy wabbit was born .
" The Sugarland Express " is the sort of movie at which we have to look in retrospective . It's about Lou Jean Poplin ( Goldie Hawn ) who gets her husband Clovis ( William Atherton ) to break out of jail so that they can retake their baby who has been put in a foster home . From there , they lead every law enforcement officer in the Lone Star State on a crazy chase . When this movie came out , Hawn was well known for " Laugh-In " and had already won an Oscar for " Cactus Flower " . I think that Atherton was unknown , although he would later become famous as the EPA agent in " Ghostbusters " . And of course Spielberg made his mark the very next year with " Jaws " . I guess that this movie is sort of a before-they-were-famous situation . But it is worth seeing .
Nearly forty years after having collaborated with Salvador Dali on " Un chien andalou " , Luis Bunuel directed the equally bizarre " Belle de jour " . Catherine Deneuve plays an unfulfilled Parisian housewife who decides to take a daytime job as a prostitute . The movie contains two interesting dichotomies : on the one hand , it's never totally clear what's real and what's Severine's imagination ( the scenes where she gets whipped and raped look like her imagination ) . Similarly , we get to see cosmopolitan Paris juxtaposed with the mildly seedy adventures in which Severine takes part . Maybe this is a slight allusion to the budding generation gap , which in France culminated in the student uprising of May 1968 . Or maybe I misinterpreted the movie . But I will say that Catherine Deneuve displays the same masterfully scary flair that she did in " Repulsion " . Every camera angle and every edit combine to make one of the most impressive movies that I've ever seen . I certainly recommend it .
After twenty years as an A-list star , Al Pacino took home an Oscar for his role in " Scent of a Woman " . He plays blind Lt . Col . Frank Slade , who talks like he's ready to tear your throat apart , but has a heart of gold . Sound like a clich ? Well it's not . " Scent of a Woman " succeeds where so many movies have failed , probably because Al Pacino is in the lead role ( almost anyone else very likely would have turned the character into a maudlin dweeb ) . Anyway , the story has college student Charlie Sims ( Chris O'Donnell ) agreeing to be a caretaker for Col . Slade , and the colonel takes Charlie on an adventure that he'll never forget . Along the way , a rather unusual event happens at Charlie's college ( that scene will most likely make you at least giggle if not break out into laughter ) , and the colonel sees no choice but to get involved . Among other things , this movie has a number of people who weren't yet famous but would make their marks in later years : Philip Seymour Hoffman as Charlie's friend George , James Rebhorn as the dean , and even Frances Conroy several years before " Six Feet Under " . " Scent of a Woman " is like a breath of fresh air in the stench of so many lousy movies . Which brings us to the question : why did director Martin Brest have to direct that god-awful " Gigli " ?
Set during the French and Indian Wars ( 1754-63 ) , " The Last of the Mohicans " tells the story of a love affair between Nathaniel " Hawkeye " Poe ( Daniel Day-Lewis ) , a white man living with the Indians , and Cora Munro ( Madeleine Stowe ) , a colonist . The wars naturally interrupt their relationship . Among other things , the movie does a really neat job showing the vast landscape in upstate New York . I'll admit that I don't know how accurate the movie is , or how closely it follows James Fenimore Cooper's novel , but like " Legends of the Fall " , this is what historical epics are all about . This movie , along with " My Left Foot " , " In the Name of the Father " and " Gangs of New York " , certainly shows Daniel Day-Lewis to be one of the greatest actors of our time .
In one of his many roles as a free-spirited wacko challenging authority ( the others were " Good Morning , Vietnam " , " Dead Poets Society " and " Awakenings " ) , Robin Williams goes all out as medical student Hunter " Patch " Adams , who decides that laughter is the best medicine . Although it's based on a true story , virtually everything that he does looks like something out of a Mel Brooks movie - especially the scenes with the skeleton and the gynecologists . I try to imagine having been there when he first did that stuff . It is true that " Patch Adams " tries the whole way through to tug at your emotions , but they still do a neat job with it . If only we could all have this guy as our physician . Also starring Monica Potter , Philip Seymour Hoffman , Bob Gunton , Josef Sommer , Irma P . Hall , Frances Lee McCain ( the " Gremlins " mom ) , Harve Presnell , Peter Coyote , Michael Jeter and Harold Gould .
In between the Batman movies , Christopher Nolan cast Christian Bale and Michael Caine in " The Prestige " . It tells the story of magicians Alfred Borden ( Bale ) and Robert Angier ( Hugh Jackman ) . Initially partners , they had a falling out and became rivals . From there the movie becomes a battle of wits , showing how the men have no aim except to destroy the other . Caine plays John Cutter , the state engineer who works for Angier . I notice similarities between this movie and some of Nolan's others . There's the non-linear plot , like " Memento " ; one-upmanship , like " Insomnia " ; the question of morality , like in " The Dark Knight " . But what impressed me more than anything was all the stuff about magic tricks , how the characters use the tricks against each other , and how they both use Olivia Wenscombe ( Scarlett Johansson ) . Angier's and Borden's rivalry mirrors Nikola Tesla's ( David Bowie ) rivalry with Thomas Edison . All in all , I recommend this movie . It's both a look into the world of magic tricks , and also the dangers of obsession with revenge . Also starring Andy Serkis ( Gollum in the LOTR movies ) and Ricky Jay ( a real-life magician ) . PS : other 2006 movies dealing with magic tricks are " The Illusionist " and " Scoop " ( also starring Hugh Jackman and Scarlett Johansson ) .
After Roberto Benigni's acceptance speech the previous year , " The 72 Annual Academy Awards " would be hard-pressed to equal it . Still , I liked that the first Oscar ceremony of the 21st century ( assuming that we start the 21st century in the year 2000 ) gave " American Beauty " Best Picture . Like " The Graduate " in 1967 - when , incidentally , my parents were as old as I was in 1999 - it presented a totally new approach to how cinema looks at things . Other such movies in 1999 were " Election " , " The Blair Witch Project " , " The Sixth Sense " and " Being John Malkovich " . As for the rest of the program , I thought that the most interesting part was the look back at the 20th century ( I remember that it included a scene from " Yellow Submarine " ) . And Hilary Swank's win for " Boys Don't Cry " was also well-deserved ( Hilary Swank and Annette Bening were both nominated again five years later , and Swank won again ) . Overall , a worthy ceremony .
Okay , so " Help ! " isn't quite as creative as " A Hard Day's Night " , but the Beatles always were able to do something good . In this case , Ringo happens to have a sacrificial ring belonging to a religious cult . So , the cult sets about trying to get it back . When they fail , they decide to sacrifice Ringo . Meanwhile , a scientist ( Victor Spinetti ) wants the ring for his own purposes . And of course , there's plenty of great music along the way . In a way , the whole movie is sort of an excuse to be wacky . Whether it's the seemingly separate apartments that turn out to be one big room , the trap door activated by a glass , the skiing tournament , or the whole Bahamas sequence , they've got something neat every step of the way . Leo McKern , as cult leader Clang , and Eleanor Bron , as cultist Ahme who tries to protect Ringo , provide cool supporting roles . I guess that if I ever get a woman to watch " Help ! " with me , I'll never " Lose That Girl " .
" Le violon rouge " ( called " The Red Violin " in English ) uses a masterful violin as a conduit to show various parts of history - such as Renaissance-era Italy , 19th-century England , and the Cultural Revolution in China - right up to a 20th-century auction in Montreal . It's beyond amazing how they do the movie and look at the numerous historical events ( maybe the scene in China won't make your skin crawl , but it's not a pretty sight ) . This is definitely the sort of film that would make anyone revere musical instruments . And among other things , it shows that Samuel L . Jackson can do more than play bad motherers in movies . A most impressive piece of cinema . Also starring Colm Feore , Jason Flemyng , Greta Scacchi and Sandra Oh ( of " Sideways " fame ) .
You understand " Vertigo " better once you know the word's definition . It refers specifically to dizziness , not acrophobia as some people mistakenly believe . Dizziness plays a major role in the movie . Jimmy Stewart plays San Francisco Det . John " Scottie " Ferguson , who gets uncomfortable in high places . Hired to follow Madeleine Elster ( Kim Novak ) , he rescues her from drowning . As he stays with her more and more , he begins to suspect something strange about her . It all comes to a head at the San Juan Bautista Mission , when she jumps off of the bell tower . Scottie feels guilty , but some questions remain unanswered . Just who is that woman whom Scottie sees in the museum ? Why does she look exactly like Madeleine ? And how does a Spanish woman who lived almost 100 years earlier relate to all this ? The spirals are an eye-opening aspect . Not only the opening credits , but also Scottie's acrophobia , and the staircase in the bell tower . As is often the case in Alfred Hitchcock's movies , the lighting tells part of the story ; in this case , a sign outside the apartment illuminates Madeleine and her dress . The San Juan Bautista Mission is not an accident . Hitchcock was raised Roman Catholic , so it makes sense that he might want to use such an institution . But the movie's final scene - which happens at the Mission - seems to be a metaphor for things coming back to haunt people . And of course , Kim Novak was one of Hitchcock's " icy blondes " , in the same category as Grace Kelly , Doris Day , Eva Marie Saint , Janet Leigh and Tippi Hedren . All I can tell you further is that there is a scene in which Madeleine is next to a window , and you see her reflection ; that appears to be foreshadowing . All very vertiginous .
Man , nothing was sacred to Abbott and Costello ! In the wacky " Who Done It ? " , they play soda jerks who pitch an idea to a radio station , and then find themselves in the middle of a murder case ! This of course is an excuse for a series of hilarious gags ( namely Alexander 2222 and the ledge of the building ) . One of the things that I liked about this movie is that it's not a musical . I'm just not into musicals . When I watch a comedy , I expect to laugh , and musical numbers cut into that . Here , just get to see Bud and Lou do their stuff . And some funny stuff it is . They must have had fun making it . Really funny !
Obviously , we can't tell how much of any historical movie is accurate . But what " Murder in the First " portrays will freeze the blood of any sane person , whether or not it's accurate . Henri Young ( Kevin Bacon ) is sent to Alcatraz for theft and put in solitary confinement . When he comes out , he has turned into a murderous lunatic . So , novice lawyer James Stamphill ( Christian Slater ) uses the incident to expose how cruel Alcatraz is . Naturally , warden Milton Glen ( Gary Oldman ) tries to deny everything , but he can't hide the facts . Another reviewer noted that this particular trial wasn't the one that actually brought down Alcatraz , despite the tag-line . But either way , " Murder in the First " shows the cruelty inherent in the prison system overall , right up to Abu Ghraib . All that you have to do is take a tour of Alcatraz - or any defunct prison - to see what it's like .
One thing that I've always wondered is why no one looks at Hollywood more negatively than Hollywood itself . But whatever the reason , " The Bad and the Beautiful " pulls no punches in looking at its topic . The movie portrays some people explaining how they used to be friends of producer Jonathan Shields ( Kirk Douglas ) but have since turned against him . There's the director whom Shields promised a directing job but betrayed him , the writer who lost his wife to Shields's actions , and the actress whom Shields drove to madness . I thought that one of the most effective scenes in the movie was Kirk Douglas holding Lana Turner in his arms . Here he is , this overbearing , hostile character forced to almost coddle his gorgeous female star ; it might be showing how he may seemingly have exalted her , but he remains in a higher position and is merely using her and sending her into insanity . And the scene of her driving the car while completely upset elaborates on this idea . And then , there's the writer . He and his wife move from Virginia hoping to get really big in Hollywood . . . until tragedy strikes . It all goes to show the disaster inherent in any industry ( of course , Douglas's character exacerbates any problem ) . But anyway , this is a formidable part of cinema history ; a precursor to movies like " The Player " . Also starring Dick Powell , Walter Pidgeon and Gloria Grahame ( who won Best Supporting Actress ) .
Don Knotts's death yesterday brings to mind his various roles . " Pleasantville " probably wasn't his most famous movie , but it's one that I would recommend to everyone . It portrays real-life teenagers David ( Tobey Maguire ) and Jennifer ( Reese Witherspoon ) getting transferred into a 1950's " Leave It to Beaver " - style TV show . Aside from the fact that everything is black-and-white , David and Jennifer ( now called Bud and Mary Sue in the show ) have a hard time adjusting to a world of wives wearing fluffy dresses all day and gray flannel suit-clad husbands saying " Honey , I'm home ! " But David and Jennifer's presence just might change everything . All that I can say is that it would sure be neat to experience this movie . More than just a goofy story , there's a clear reference to racism as colors start showing and everything starts changing . And the way that they use the song " Take Five " is also quite eye-opening . Great performances from the aforementioned cast members , plus Joan Allen , William H . Macy , Jeff Daniels , J . T . Walsh ( in his final role ) , and even Jane Kaczmarek right before she got the role of Lois on " Malcolm in the Middle " , make this one cool movie .
My rating is because " American History X " is very well done in every way , except that it seems that when Derek Vinyard ( Edward Norton ) started spouting out the anti-Semitic diatribe , they should have asked him what became of his humanity . Then again , maybe they wouldn't know what to say in such a situation . But other than that , the movie is quite good . Portraying a reformed Derek trying to prevent his younger brother Danny ( Edward Furlong ) from becoming a white supremacist , we get to see various issues . For example , when Derek is in jail and gets to know a black man for the first time , his anger starts to ebb . Good support from Beverly D'Angelo , Elliott Gould , Stacy Keach and Fairuza Balk make this a very good movie , even if they didn't develop it as far as they could .
I didn't figure that any movie could equal " Pan's Labyrinth " , but " El orfanato " - " The Orphanage " in English - comes close . When a family moves into a former orphanage in which the mother ( Belen Rueda ) grew up , the adopted son starts making imaginary friends and feeling very detached from his parents . And then , he just disappears . But that's not all . . . A major surprise as the movie progresses is the appearance of Geraldine Chaplin as a woman hired to try to help find the son . Ms . Chaplin certainly has a connection to orphanages , as her father spent part of his childhood in one . Although in reality , I don't know whether or not that influenced her decision to star in this . All in all , a really good one . Also starring Fernando Cayo .
I stopped short of giving " Dough for the Do-Do " just because the whole idea of Darkest Africa doesn't exactly sound PC in this day and age . But other than that , it's a hoot , with Porky searching for the last do-do bird , worth four trillion dollars . He has to enter Wackyland , and as the Wackyland sign affirms : " It can happen here . " Sure enough , anything can happen . But the do-do himself is something else , and as elusive as can be . All in all , it's a cartoon that you're sure to like . And I know that the dodo is extinct , but I can't help but wonder whether or not there might be more in Madagascar .
Raul Julia and William Hurt play Valentin Arregui and Luis Molina , cell-mates in a South American jail . Valentin is a political prisoner trying to keep his sanity , and Luis is a gay man with fantasies of Nazis and their beautiful women . These two men are opposites in virtually every way , but are forced to grow to respect each other . Sonia Braga plays the woman in both men's fantasies : the " Spider Woman " and the Nazi's lover . That's the plot , but the movie is really a metaphor for any dictatorship . Obviously , any totalitarian state will imprison political opponents , and from what I know , most tyrants choose to lock up homosexuals . Valentin even tries to make the pro-fascist Luis understand what the Nazis did to gays . Regardless of how the two men eventually view each other , it remains a really good movie .
More than anything , what I saw in " Sergeant York " is that competent people ran WWI , as opposed to what we see today . But as for the movie itself , no one can deny that Gary Cooper did quite an impressive job as simple Alvin C . York , suddenly thrust into a situation against his religious principles and ironically becoming one of the war's biggest heroes . Still , I have to say that the religious stuff comes across as sort of silly ; following a " sinful " streak , he found Jesus ( how many people make that sort of claim ? ) . Moreover , he claims that he knows certain things to be true because the Bible says so ( so everything started with Adam and Eve , and humans didn't evolve from apes ? ) . I guess that at this point in time , we were trying to get out of the Depression by imagining the whole country as a bunch of ultra-nice small town folk . But in response to " Give me that old-time religion " , I say " Give me that Einstein-level science , Hollywood-style depravity , and full-scale world knowledge " . As for the pro-war aspect , it fits into the USA's impending entry into WWII . I try to wonder what Alvin York would think about things were he alive today . Overall , I recommend the movie . At the very least , it remains an indelible part of cinema history . Also starring Joan Leslie and Walter Brennan . Oh , and the links to " Bewitched " ? Playing Pusher is George Tobias , better known as clueless old Abner Kravitz . Gary Cooper later starred in " The Court Martial of Billy Mitchell " ( also about a WWI hero ) , co-starring Elizabeth Montgomery . Finally , " Jeopardy ! " once had a category called " Sargent / York " , in reference to Dick York and Dick Sargent .
" Rabbit-Proof Fence " tells the story of how the Australian government used to steal Aboriginal children from their families and put them in reeducation camps to become servants for white people , and how three girls escaped and found their way home by following a fence erected to keep rabbits out of the farms . One thing about the movie is how it portrays A . O . Neville ( Kenneth Branagh ) , the man who orders the girls kidnapped . Certainly his actions are racist , but you don't grow to hate him . He doesn't act out of cruelty ; he believes that he's doing the right thing . Also , there's Moodoo ( David Gulpilil ) , an Aborigine working with the government to kidnap children . We recognize that it's awful that he's working with the oppressors , but somehow he also gives the feeling that he can't continue like this . The scene where they kidnap the girls is beyond heart-wrenching . And since we were doing the same things to the Indians in the US , we have to own up to it too . A perfect movie .
Calling " Million Dollar Baby " a boxing movie would be like calling " Star Wars " a space fantasy . Only " Rocky " has ever reached this quality . Hilary Swank gives a performance beyond what anyone could ever imagine as destitute waitress Maggie Fitzgerald , trying to make something of herself as a boxer . Clint Eastwood gives probably his best performance ever as trainer Frankie Dunn , trying to reassert his worth by training Maggie . Morgan Freeman is also amazing as co-trainer Eddie " Scrap-Iron " Dupris , seeking a new direction in life . Watching " Million Dollar Baby " you may end up feeling like you are in the middle of a boxing ring . Tough ( but never gratuitously violent ) , disturbing ( but never manipulating emotions ) , this elevates Hilary Swank to the level of Katharine Hepburn , Jane Fonda and Meryl Streep . Her and Morgan Freeman's Oscar wins were more than deserved ( as for Best Picture , I was actually rooting for " The Aviator " ) . But regardless of anything , no one can deny how great this movie is . .
Like " The Commitments " and " O Brother , Where Art Thou ? " , " Songcatcher " focuses on music in a way that you shouldn't miss . It tells the story of musicologist Lily Penleric ( Janet McTeer ) who travels to an isolated village in the Appalachians and gets to hear the music of the Scottish-Irish people there in the early 20th century . Can this really be the whole plot of a movie ? When the movie has such great music , it definitely can . Because what Lily hears does many things : aside from just being great music , it shows how the people in this village may not be educated or anything like that - and could even be inbred - but they still have their culture . I definitely recommend this movie . Also starring Aidan Quinn ( happy birthday , Aidan ! ) and Emmy Rossum a few years before she played Sean Penn's daughter in " Mystic River " .
Maybe there's nothing particularly new in " My Favorite Duck " , but how can you not like to see Daffy irk Porky ? True , we see this so many times , that this may come across as boring , but Daffy's antics - ranging from zany to sadistic - and Porky's reactions more than make up for it . In my opinion at least , the highlight is the " down here " scene . But the surprise ending is also pretty cool . They sure must have had fun filming this cartoon . " That , my friend , is a matter of opinion . " Well , I don't see how someone could not consider this cartoon a masterpiece . Another great one for the crowd behind the Looney Tunes cartoons .
There may be debates over whether movies should portray aliens positively or negatively , but " Alien " shows that all bets are off . This is possibly THE perfect sci-fi / horror flick ; in fact , it doesn't even suffice to call it such . From the moment when the egg attacks Kane ( John Hurt ) to Ellen Ripley's ( Sigourney Weaver ) battles against the title character , this movie has you tensed up every second of the way . You may be very suspicious of every movement around you after watching this movie . Obviously , what made " Alien " so great was that it had a woman going all bad-ass on a big ugly creature from another world . You probably know about the " chest " scene ( or maybe you've seen a spoof of it ) , but you have to see it to believe it ! All in all , this is a great movie . Weaver turns in a top-notch performance , and great support from Hurt , Harry Dean Stanton , Yaphet Kotto , Ian Holm , Veronica Cartwright and Tom Skerritt , add to the movie's high quality . " Aliens " was also pretty good , " Alien 3 " was tolerable , and " Alien : Resurrection " was . . . well , that's debatable . But this one remains the best . 1979 was truly a great year for movies , what with " Alien " , " Apocalypse Now " , " Being There " , " The China Syndrome " , " 1941 , " . . . And Justice For All " and " Nosferatu " .
If " The General " is Buster Keaton's best known movie , I can see why . An explosion of wackiness with some human emotion here and there , it goes to show why Keaton was such a great comedian . It's always great to see him with a deadpan expression - and even a mop-top hairdo ! - despite the craziness surrounding him while driving the train . But amidst it all , we understand that he has a solid , perfectly good reason for taking the locomotive down the railroad . Of course , even if he didn't it would still be a great movie . It's one that you just gotta love . They must have had fun filming it . And the best part ( for me , at least ) is : they filmed it here in Oregon !
Transpose " It's a Mad , Mad , Mad , Mad World " to ancient Rome and you basically have " A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum " . This story of a slave ( Zero Mostel ) having to help arrange a romance between two people is worth watching just for the chase scene at the end . If you've been to Spain or Italy , it's neat to see the sites again . But above all , this is what 1960s humor is all about . They must have had fun filming this movie . And personally , I think that it's a good idea that they cut down the musical aspect and left it a straightforward comedy . You're sure to have more than a few laughs . Also starring Phil Silvers , Michael Crawford , Jack Gilford , Buster Keaton , Jon Pertwee and Ingrid Pitt .
I can't believe that Disney wouldn't let Tim Burton release this ! They thought that it was too scary for kids ? ! Puh-leeze ! " Frankenweenie " is a really cool movie ! Basically a spoof of Mary Shelley's classic novel , the movie features suburban American boy Victor Frankenstein ( Barret Oliver ) resurrecting his dog Sparky , who got run over by a car . Needless to say , the reanimated dog creates some chaos once the neighbors meet him ! I would imagine that they probably had a lot of fun filming this . Shelley Duvall and Daniel Stern play Victor's parents Susan and Ben , respectively . Paul Bartel also stars , and there's even a very young Sofia Coppola . " Frankenweenie " is a real treat for everyone !
The rating of course only applies to people who would desire to watch such a movie ( for anyone else , it's a zero ) . A spoof of " Scream " , " I Know What You Did Last Summer " , and other such movies , " Scary Movie " is another in the gag-a-minute genre associated with the Marx Brothers , Mel Brooks , the " Airplane ! " crowd , and so on . Some scenes were kinda gross ( they can't go without scatological humor , can they ? ) , but overall harmless . The end was a real surprise . I never saw " Scary Movie 2 " ( I assumed that it was the same ) , but I did see " Scary Movie 3 " . . . and it was pretty much the same . And there's a " Scary Movie 4 " coming out soon ( we can probably assume that it's the same ) .
We've seen many movies about Hollywood's emptiness , unseemliness , and other undesirable qualities . " Sunset Boulevard " is one of the best . Norma Desmond ( Gloria Swanson ) is a faded movie star in a relationship with reporter Joe Gillis ( William Holden ) . Through his relationship with her , Joe not only sees Hollywood for what it really is , but he also comes to understand Norma for who she is . Billy Wilder always has a great story to tell , and this is no exception . The light / dark contrast in Norma's mansion could be a metaphor : Norma is an old movie star living in modern Hollywood . But as Norma reminds Joe : " I'm still big . It's the pictures that got small . " Outstanding . Erich Von Stroheim also turns in an ample performance as Norma's servant .
Stories like this have become such a clich that we might forget that they started here , but they did . And it worked really well here . When bored socialite Ellie Andrews ( Claudette Colbert ) runs away from her surroundings , she gets picked up by down-on-his-luck reporter Peter Warne ( Clark Gable ) , who knows exactly what to do in such a situation . This movie must be what people mean when they say " They don't make ' em like they used to . " Both Gable and Colbert have a great time with their roles . Apparently , the scene where Gable removes his shirt caused a bit of a stir since he wasn't wearing anything underneath . But that only adds to this movie's greatness . It's a gem in the real sense of the word . Also starring is Alan Hale ( yes , the Skipper's father ) .
Having seen " Daffy - the Commando " and " Scrap Happy Daffy " , I think that it's safe to say that that crazy duck was one of the best characters to fight the Nazis ( obviously , there was also Bugs ) . In this case , he collects scrap metal to contribute to the war effort , but Hitler sends a goat after him . If absolutely nothing else , it's just a total hoot to see what Daffy does to the goat . The idea of collecting scrap metal also brings up the point that in WWII , the government encouraged people to save resources as much as possible . I don't see any of that nowadays . In the future , they're not going to look kindly upon this . But anyway , it's a really funny cartoon . Definitely worth seeing . And just be careful what you dream about next time .
" How the Grinch Stole Christmas ! " is a wonderful flick / with some truly great lines , it isn't a trick / It could only have come from the great Dr . Seuss / otherwise , the whole thing would've been loose / Narrated by Karloff and directed by Jones / this Grinch is one who elicits no groans / It's the story of one weird Christmas-hating man / who one Christmas Eve , came up with a plan / He'd steal the presents and everything else / where does this plan go ? I cannot tell / You must watch the movie , and then you will know / why this cartoon's still a tradition in the two-zero-Os / And one more thing that I should remind / avoid the live action , which I heard was unkind / They fouled it up , they fouled it down / every part of the story just came unwound / But this classic is always something to love / whether you're down below , or way up above !
For all who have spent their lives waiting for wacky , biting satire , wait no more . " Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back " is here and as funny as can be . Portraying the title characters ( Jason Mewes and Kevin Smith ) trying to stop Hollywood from making an illegal movie based on their lives , the movie is basically a joke every minute . Probably the funniest aspect is the way that various people appear in the movie making fun of their roles in other movies ( check out Matt Damon's and Ben Affleck's appearance ) . I should warn you that this is not a movie for prudes . The George Carlin scene will particularly rile such people , as will the whole part about the " clit " . But Kevin Smith's fans are sure to love this movie . Also starring in hilarious roles are Will Ferrell , Shannon Elizabeth , Carrie Fisher , Chris Rock , and several others ( I did what the movie commanded when a certain " Star Wars " cast member appeared ) . A real treat for all .
You may not be prepared for some of the scenes in " There's Something About Mary " ( not the least of which is the zipper scene ) , but you're sure to like them nonetheless . The plot of course has loser Ted Stroehmann ( Ben Stiller ) trying to find high school sweetheart Mary Jensen ( Cameron Diaz ) . However , EVERYONE wants to find Mary , and a number of whacked-out incidents ensue . Most famous is the " hair gel " scene , but that's just one of many . With great support from Matt Dillon , Chris Elliott , Lee Evans , and others , this is one gross-out fest that you can't afford to miss . Those Farrelly brothers are truly something else .
Roger Corman reaffirms himself as one of America's coolest directors with the trashy-but-great " Big Bad Mama " . It's 1932 Texas , and Wilma McClatchie ( Angie Dickinson ) has just lost everything . No problem ! She and her daughters take to the road and go around robbing banks and messing with society , bilking the system for all that it's worth . Along the way , crook Fred Diller ( Tom Skerritt ) and gentleman William Baxter ( William Shatner ) join up with them , while snide lawman Bonney ( Dick Miller ) chases them . It's like " Bonnie and Clyde " taken to the next level ! Maybe this really isn't the sort of movie that could ever get ranked among history's most " important " , but it's a thrill every step of the way . And it's always great to see movies poke fun at religious wackos and focus on the important issues of the Depression . This is truly a movie that you won't want to miss .
I guess that it's debatable whether or not Vincent Price was the greatest horror star ever , but " House on Haunted Hill " certainly suggests so . He plays Frederick Loren , who is offering five people $10 , 000 each to stay in a possibly haunted mansion overnight . Part of the deal is that no one is allowed to leave . To complicate matters , his wife Annabelle ( Carol Ohmart ) appears to have some slimy plans up her sleeve . Meanwhile , one of the guests , Watson Pritchard ( Elisha Cook , Jr ) , is adamant about telling the other guests of the evil things that happened in the mansion ( " This is where the girl was found . Whatever got her wasn't human ! " ) . As you might imagine , things get progressively weirder and creepier for the guests as the night drags on . 1959 may have been the annus mirabilis for both Vincent Price and William Castle , as they collaborated on this movie and also " The Tingler " . Some people may classify " House on Haunted Hill " as another one of the horror movies that dominated ' 50s cinema , but I beg to differ . This movie is Americana , far more than apple pie or baseball . It's not just that these sorts of movies were a life-saving alternative to the " family fun " . They WERE the ' 50s : 100 % campy and 100 % lovable at the same time . So are you ready to stay at this house ?
Stephen Frears directs a top-notch movie adaptation of Choderlos de Laclos ' novel about several manipulative Rococo-era French aristocrats . Marquise Isabelle de Merteuil ( Glenn Close ) is a seductively evil character who will stop at nothing to get what she wants . Vicomte Sebastien de Valmont ( John Malkovich ) knows how to trick the peasants into thinking that he's a good guy , despite his vampiric intentions . Madame Marie de Tourvel ( Michelle Pfeiffer ) and Le Chevalier Raphael Danceny ( Keanu Reeves ) may be only products of this vile society , but they are practically helpless to do anything about it . Maybe it's a little strange to see Keanu Reeves in a movie like this , but he makes the best of his role . All in all , " Dangerous Liaisons " is a movie that you can't afford to miss . Perfect .
One stormy night , Porky Pig is hiking through the Irish countryside to Dublin , but it's still twelve miles . Then , he comes across a castle and decides to spend the night there . When he arrives , the owner warns him that no one has lived in this castle for hundreds of years except for . . . The Leprechauns . Needless to say , Porky doesn't believe this . But , he should have , especially since the Leprechauns are always worried about people coming after their Pot o'Gold which they will do literally anything to protect . Okay , so I admit that associating Ireland with leprechauns is a stereotype that seems a little out of place , especially given the situation in Northern Ireland . But " The Wearing of the Grin " is rather harmless ; just a funny amusement for children . A pure four-leaf clover it is , it is .
People often debate which was Francis Ford Coppola's best movie ever : one of the " Godfather " movies or " Apocalypse Now " . While I would argue for the latter , I would also like to say that " The Outsiders " should be # 2 . This movie is so great that I can't describe it . Told from the perspective of Ponyboy Curtis ( C . Thomas Howell ) , it's the story of several destitute teenage boys and young men in 1966 Oklahoma , and their struggle to belong in the world . The movie ranges from sad - when Johnny Cade ( Ralph Macchio ) dies from burns sustained in a church fire - to funny - when Keith " Two-Bit " Mathews ( Emilio Estevez ) drinks beer for breakfast while watching cartoons . With great support from Matt Dillon , Patrick Swayze , Tom Cruise and Diane Lane , this is one movie that you just have to see .
Okay , so this is a zombie movie . As we all know , that means lots and lots of gore . And in " The Return of the Living Dead " , they play it to real cool effect . The plot of course has a pair of chemical plant employees accidentally opening a container , and a series of events brings all the cemetery residents back to life , meaning that Louisville , Kentucky , is overrun by brain-eaters . As with " Army of Darkness " , you can't ( in fact , shouldn't ) take this movie seriously ; it's intended as a joke . I remember when Joe Bob Briggs ' show " Monstervision " showed this movie , he actually had Linnea Quigley as a guest ( she plays Trash , the girl who strips in the cemetery ) . All in all , one cool movie . Clu Gulager may be the most interesting B-movie actor of all time .
In one of many great British movies , a man ( Bob Hoskins ) helps working-class youths try to make something of themselves in an economically depressed town in England . It is the first time that they can ever be anything greater . But then tragedy strikes and the whole thing falls apart . The gritty " 24 7 : Twenty Four Seven " is no ordinary make-something-of-yourself story . The grainy black and white cinematography makes you feel like there's sandpaper rubbing against your face , and they certainly don't sugar-coat anything here . It's a movie that I recommend to everyone . Just don't expect anything " nice " . A very good debut from Shane Meadows .
In this ultra-gross-and-proud-of-it B-movie , some people discover a strange substance bubbling out of the ground . They taste it ( yes , they find something on the ground and just eat it ! ) , like it , and decide to start marketing it as The Stuff ; it quickly becomes the most popular food of all . But , sure enough , a detective ( Michael Moriarty ) hired by the candy companies discovers that The Stuff turns people into obedient zombies before completely dissolving their innards . So , only he , an advertising executive ( Andrea Marcovicci ) , and a boy ( Scott Bloom ) can stop The Stuff from taking over the world . A completely ridiculous idea ? Absolutely . But one might interpret " The Stuff " as a parable about excessive consumerism brainwashing people into brand loyalty . There's also a scene in which Paul Sorvino's right-wing yahoo of a colonel claims that in the case of the Vietnam War , we lost the war at home ( so it was perfectly OK to invade their country ) . But I mostly saw the movie as a 1980s time capsule . There's the over-synthesized music for the TV commercials , the impossibly polite suburban family , and more . Of course , most people into these kinds of movies will probably agree that the coolest scenes are when people spit The Stuff out after it dissolves them . Director Larry Cohen ( who also directed the killer baby vehicle " It's Alive " ) pulls no punches . All in all , this is quite a treat . Sort of an updated " Invasion of the Body Snatchers " . Also starring Danny Aiello and former " Saturday Night Live " cast member Garrett Morris .
Obviously , " Rush Hour " is mostly just another buddy comedy , but there's so much hilarious dialogue between Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker , that it's all worthwhile . When a consul's daughter gets kidnapped , Tucker gets hired to take the case , but Chan gets brought in from Hong Kong to assist . Naturally , they have a very hard time cooperating . I guess that a major aspect of these movies is that you shouldn't try to take them seriously ; just accept them as completely crazy . With Chan doing his martial arts and Tucker being a loudmouth , it's a great time from start to finish . Also starring Elizabeth Pena , Chris Penn , and Tom Wilkinson . I liked the sequel equally .
Can you imagine the first time this movie came out ? Everyone must have died laughing ! The plot of course has self-deprecating Dr . Frederick Frankenstein ( Gene Wilder , and you know how to pronounce the name ) suddenly deciding to carry on his grandfather's work with the help of wisecracking Igor ( Marty Feldman , and you know how to pronounce it ) and the very sexy Inga ( Teri Garr ) . Peter Boyle is a hoot as The Monster , as is Cloris Leachman as Frau Blucher ( cue horse sounds ) , Kenneth Mars as Police Inspector Hans Wilhelm Friedrich Kemp ( you may recall the screwy arm ) , and of course Gene Hackman as the Blind Man ( espresso , anyone ? ) . Mel Brooks really pulled off a great one here , spoofing every Frankenstein movie from the ' 30s . " Young Frankenstein " is a classic !
In case people have forgotten the Tasmanian Devil , " Bedevilled Rabbit " reminds us of him . When Bugs Bunny gets parachuted into Tasmania ( where's that ? ) , Taz quickly gets hungry and sets his sights on Bugs . Sure enough , Bugs is way ahead of Taz , and always can pull anything seemingly out of thin air to play all sorts of tricks . If these cartoons were nothing more than excuses to pull all sorts of crazy gags , then they played it to great effect . It's great to watch them go all out time and again . Truly classic . There will never be any cartoons like these again . Oh , and in case you don't actually know : Tasmania is the island south of Australia .
