One IMDb reviewer calls Eaten Alive a passable film for the " cannibal connoisseur . " Are there such people ? I didn't know . But if you are one of them , hey , have a ball . The rest of you might find this tripe a bit hard to swallow ( pun intended ) , even if , like me , you consider yourself a horror film connoisseur . I have been an avid horror fan for about 15 years now , although I never got around to the cannibal subgenre until a few weeks ago , and I guess I owe my short-lived interest in these groan-inducing movies , strangely enough , to China's total disregard for copyright laws . You see , I bought a two-disc DVD collection of all of Wesley Snipes ' films for 20 yuan ( about $2 . 75 ) , which turned out to include Last Cannibal World , Mountain of the Cannibal God , Eaten Alive , Cannibal Holocaust , Next , with Nicholas Cage , and something called Voodoo Lagoon , along with Blade 1-3 , in Chinese . Nice . Being a second sequel , I immediately got a sinking feeling when the movie opened with a cannibal in street clothes wandering around major American cities , shooting unsuspecting Americans with poison darts and then scrambling away at full speed . Having run out of ways to keep movie cannibals scary , it seems that now they have made their way to the mainland . Later , you may be shocked to learn that this guy is on a " training exercise . " Lock up your daughters ! Before long the movie settles into the old missing sister routine , as a young blonde woman named Sheila begins her own investigation of the disappearance of her sister , who looks nothing like her in any way , but she's willing to spend most of the movie naked so I guess that doesn't matter . It seems that , after shooting one of his victims , the hapless cannibal we met early in the movie , not used to big city life , ran into the road and was struck dead by a moving van . The brilliant police force find a mysterious bit of film on him showing Sheila's sister involved in some bizarre ritual behavior , but other than the film , the guy is a complete mystery . As the piteous police chief laments , " we know nothing about him except that he's dead ! " Poor guy , he must be getting a headache from all this . I recommend a nap . Luckily , Sheila is the kind of girl who can throw around tens of thousands of dollars like it's nothing in the search for her sister . Perfect for hiring a plucky backwoods guide caricature , since the police are clearly going to be no help . Obviously , nothing new is added to this miniscule sub-genre . Quite the contrary , cannibalism almost seems like a background to a completely different kind of bad movie , about the rescue of a missing person from the dangerous elements . Thickening the plot of that clothesline is not difficult , all you have to do is add in a cartoonish jungle cult of people who follow some guy who calls himself Jonas , who believes in using pain as a way to reunite man with nature , a process they call " purification . " Personally , I prefer just peeing outside occasionally . One of my favorite parts of the movie is when Sheila is caught by one of the cult members - an overweight guy who looks like he took a three-day weekend from the office to appear in this movie . As he pulls out his trusty medical kit to give her an injection , he warns her , " If you don't believe in Jonas and purification ( through pain ) , God help you . " He then gives her a shot and , when she winces from the tiny pinch , he politely apologizes to her . I sense a true believer in this guy ! As far as the gore , there are plenty of nasty sound effects over random shots of animals getting slaughtered and more than enough disgusting footage of women being cut up and eaten alive , so I guess right there the movie lives up to its name . The acting is astonishingly bad , as can be expected , and interestingly enough , the editing is also spectacularly botched but still strangely effective . Unfortunately , I think you have to be able to relate to people who believe in utterly insane cults in order to relate to anyone in the movie . There are plenty of outlandish religious ceremonies that take place , which make it more and more difficult to understand why Sheila's sister decided to turn her back on normal society . I'm all for individualism and doing your own thing , but come ON . After a while the movie descends even further into your basic , run of the mill escape movie , just before we witness the most wildly inappropriate rendition of Glory , Glory Hallelujah in film history . WOW . Note : in this movie , a woman is raped with a severed snake . If you need any more reason never to watch it , seek professional help . Avoid this mess at all costs .
So the anti-Bush campaign that makes up the first 45 minutes or so of the movie are pretty clear . Even the attack on Bush's anti-gay tendencies are pretty clear . What's not clear is what the movie's trying to do . Jack is a corporate employee with serious potential who finds himself unemployed because of his refusal to ignore the massive corporate corruption with which he suddenly finds himself surrounded . So then he goes home to his fancy apartment , which he can no longer afford to maintain , and then has to deal with the torturous proposal of impregnating lesbians at $10 , 000 a piece . The most difficult endeavor that the movie takes on is in trying to make us believe that Jack was actually conflicted about all of this , and it fails miserably . There a nonsensical subplot about him still being upset about his ex-girlfriend , the lesbian who is bringing all of her lesbian friends to be impregnated by Jack , but only after her . Keep in mind that their breakup happened FOUR YEARS EARLIER , and not only was he belligerently furious to come home and find his sexy girlfriend having sex with another sexy woman , but he hasn't gotten over it four years later . They actually get into screaming arguments in the movie about this ancient history between themselves . I'm reminded of one of Julia Roberts ' many great lines from Closer ? " What are you , 12 ? " So while he's not busy acting like a junior high school kid who's heartbroken about some girl who cheated on him , he's having sex with whole lines of lesbians and trying to act like it's just hell to him . Please . At the risk of sounding like some typical jerk , for such a thing to be torturous to a man we need to have a real , real good reason for him to hate doing it , and still being upset about a relationship that ended nearly half a decade earlier isn't even close to reason enough . I can accept that the movie wants to suggest that this guy genuinely loved his girlfriend and truly feels like he has lost the love of his life , but let me tell you one thing . Showing a guy suffer through Every Man's Fantasy is not the way to do it . At all . Unless , of course , you have some ulterior political motive , but that's just not Spike Lee's style , right ? Right ? I won't spend much time talking about the ludicrous premise about the lesbians . Whether you've seen the movie or not , you probably already know all about it . The problem is that you also come into the movie already knowing what a socially and politically conscious filmmaker Spike Lee is . We know that he is going to be making political statements in the film , and some of them are clear while others are not , unless Spike has completely lost all sense of balance . There are scenes where it is increasingly obvious what social ills are being dealt with , such as the terrible scene where Jack has some wooden and massively unrealistic conversation with his friend , who is trying to make money donating sperm . It's a god-awful scene , but it's relatively clear what is being said . I could , of course , come up with some pretty solid theories about what is being said about the homosexual content of the film , how Jack the black man is forced to descend to that level , but it is such a gigantic portion of the film that it even overshadows that picture of Bush on the $3 bill at the end of the opening credits , and that's a difficult image to overshadow . Lee puts so much stock into the lesbians in this movie that it borders on low - grade soft porn . At one point in the movie , while bike riding together , Jack's brother gives him a bright , sparkling gem of advice ? get a vasectomy and call it a day . Now , there are two things that could lead a man to give such advice to his brother . First , it could be because he's been having too much sex , or second , it could be because he's making ten thousand dollars at a time doing it . Either way , it's a good reason never to take advice from your brother again . Jack , of course , reacts by throwing a temper tantrum like an 8 year old kid , resulting in one of the great many scenes that made me want to put a pot over my head and start beating on it with a serving ladle . One of the biggest problems with the movie is that not only does it bore and irritate but it deliberately insults the audience . Granted , I didn't know a lot of the details about some of the homages that are made in the film , such as the XFL player that inspired the title of the film and the security guard who exposed the Watergate break-in and ruined his own life in the process . I can understand if Lee wants us to be aware of what he's talking about , but he literally stops his movie to put these stories up on billboards and then hits us over the head with them . By the end of the movie I was literally standing up , pacing back and forth I was so irritated and desperate for it to end . There are times when I wish I didn't have this determination to finish watching movies , even the abysmally terrible ones . The really sad thing about She Hate Me is that it isn't even not very good for a Spike Lee film , this is just a bad movie overall . It's almost weird to think that it was directed by the same man that directed true classics like Do The Right Thing , one of my all time favorite films . She Hate Me is Spike Lee's version of Spielberg's 1941 , but worse . Much worse .
There's a scene in The House Bunny where a key character inquires as to whether Shelley is , in fact , " that dumb . " One of her fellow sorority sisters immediately stands up and says , indignantly , " She's not dumb ! " This is an important scene , and my immediate assumption was that we , the audience , were meant to shake our fists at the screen and say , " Yeah ! " But then I remembered that for well over an hour by then , the movie had been scrambling frantically to get us to laugh at how genuinely and spectacularly dumb she is . This is a contradiction that permeates the entire movie , with strange results . When I saw that scene , I was immediately relieved that I had found the movie up to that point so completely unamusing , otherwise I would have felt guilty for laughing at this girl , who , I understand , is " not dumb . " So , in order to flaunt my superiority , I turned around in my chair and shook my fist at the drunk , cackling teenagers at the back of the theater and yelled , " Yeah ! She's not dumb ! See ? You little punks ! " Strangely , this only brought more laughter . The House Bunny , by the way , is PG-13 , which should cause the majority of the male audience to lose interest entirely and confuse anyone over 17 as to why anyone would find such a movie interesting . The story is centered around the life of a Playboy bunny who is ousted from the Playboy mansion . Playboy's founder himself , Hugh Hefner , plays a sizable supporting role . Would one be out of line to expect a little gratuitous nudity ? In this case , yes , because this is a soft porn movie for kids age 13 and up . Nice . The story is basically Legally Blonde in a sorority house , so it's obvious that the movie's message must have something to do with superficiality and obsessions over appearance and other such nonsense . Shelly , played by Anna Faris , is booted out of the Playboy mansion and finds herself homeless , so she decides to shack up with a sorority of uncool girls and teach them how to turn themselves into male fantasies . It's sad that the movie fails so completely because there is so much potential there , but , unfortunately , they just don't know where to stop with the cartoonishly overblown outcasts . These are not your typical college nerds , these are girls that don't know better than to walk up to some guys in a bar and say , " Hey , where's the crapper ? I gotta drop off some timber . " Timber ! ! ! I feel like , in order for the comedy in a movie like this to be successful , we need to be able to point to a few characters and say , " Hey I know someone like that ! " Not in this movie . You don't know anyone like anyone in this movie . But you have , however , seen people like the people in this movie . Remember that goofy teen comedy She's All That ? One of the cool kids takes a bet that he can take the ugliest , most uncool girl in school and turn her into the prom queen . So we meet little Laney Boggs , the weird art student always covered in paint and unable to get a date to save her life . Zach , the cool guy choosing to accept the mission impossible , has his work cut out for him . But ? surprise ! ? she takes off her glasses and combs her hair and she's hot ! What a relief that the transformation was so easy ! When we meet the girls of Zeta Alpha Zeta , they are genuinely frightening social outcasts . Bitter , confused by social interaction , and more clueless about fashion than your average homeless person , they are quite a spectacle to behold . But , surprise ! Wouldn't you know it ? With the addition of the right , ahem , outfits , a little hip hop bumping in the background , and just the right amount of slow motion , they're all crazy hot ! Who would have guessed ? Interestingly , it isn't until the very , very end of the film that you will truly realize how purely and incredibly meaningless it is . The movie is about Shelley's efforts to turn a group of social outcasts into frat party favors , but then it tries to feed us this message about not worrying about what other people think and just being yourself . What the hell ? Beginning with the story about a Playboy bunny that just happens to be rated PG-13 , everything in the movie cancels out everything else . There's a scene at the end that is meant to tie everything together and make it all make sense , but it is one of the biggest forehead slappers I've seen in recent memory . I've noticed lately , particularly with movies like Pineapple Express and Tropic Thunder , that there are a lot of new things being done in the comedy world . The House Bunny is unsurprisingly unaware of these new ideas and experiments and is merely feeding us the same childish tripe we've seen countless times before . One can only hope that , since they are now resorting to a PG-13 Playboy theme , they must surely be running out of ideas ? .
Ah , so here we are . Rock bottom . The Police Academy series has been through a lot of ups and downs over the years . They seem to have been hugely popular during their times of release , and really , if you look at the numbers , it's not hard to see why such a prodigious stream of sequels was made . The first movie was made for a budget of around $4 . 5 million and brought in a stupendous $81 million at the box office . The second movie brought in $55 million , part 3 brought $43 . 5 million , part 4 $28 million , part 5 almost $20 million , part 6 a meager $5 million , and Mission to Moscow proudly raked in a whopping $126 , 000 . If nothing else , the Police Academy franchise stands as a perfect example of a film series that was played out until it was officially a very , very dead horse . The awesomely moronic plot this time involves a Russian mafia boss named Konstantine Konali ( played by none other than Ron Perlman , now better known as Hellboy ) , who is marketing a video game that he plans to use to secretly distribute a computer virus that will allow him to hack into government security systems and like , take over the world or something . The movie opens with a scene that is meant to show us how purely addicting this game is . We see a news report where a woman is giving her news report , and her co-anchor , a man in maybe his 50s or so , is sitting next to her oblivious what's going on because he's so entranced by the Game Boy he's playing . I imagine we weren't supposed to notice that there was no cartridge in the machine he's playing , but no matter . I'm willing to let that go in order to enjoy the avalanche of stupidity that was to follow . So why are the members of our beloved Police Academy in Moscow in the first place ? Well , it seems that the Russians need help in dealing with the Russian mafia , so they have recruited the help of the most famous police academy in America . And mostly the gang is all here except for Mahoney and Zed , both of whom I am sad to say are missed . Lassard , of course , is his usual self , so he has gotten himself lost and ends up at a Russian funeral within a few hours of touching down in Moscow , so the rest of the team occupies themselves with trying to compile evidence against Konali while Harris follows along two steps behind waiting to jump in at just the right moment and claim credit for everything . As usual this provides plenty of opportunities for bonehead comedy , but they just pulled out all the stops with the low brow humor this time . Harris and Tackleberry end up dancing in full make-up and costume in a Russian ballet in one of the movie's most embarrassing scenes , Harris attempts to spy on Konali and instead gets a dog peeing in his eye through a periscope , and Jones has developed the ability to open safes with his noise effects . Sigh . In the movie's defense , it does have it's moments . Well , it has it's moment , anyway . There is a scene where Tackleberry jumps at the opportunity to give a speech to the Russian authorities about American law enforcement tactics , and he launches into a vicious beratement of the piddly " excessive force " policies that are tying his hands back in the states . Yeah , the movie is spectacularly stupid , but this might have been one of Tackleberry's two or three best scorns in the entire series . If you ever find yourself watching this thing on DVD , make sure to watch the short supplemental video that's included ! I have to admit that I have found it particularly interesting and amusing to watch these videos for each installment in the series , where much of the original cast come back together and discuss the movies . I especially love G . W . Bailey ( who played Captain Harris ) , who clearly has grown weary of having ever had anything to do with the series . In the video for part 5 , he sarcastically mentioned people who would approach him years later and ask if he still had " Dork " tanned across his chest . For this one , it is noticeably difficult for him to conceal his resentment as he talks about his past in performing Shakespeare on stage , and now he's remembered for a dog peeing in his eye . Don't worry , Mr . Bailey , haven't you seen the box office for this movie ? No one's seen it !
Whatever the case , Sweet Sweetback's Baad Assssssss Song came off to me as a vibrant exercise in bad taste , bad acting , a barely discernible plot , VERY bad editing , and lots of stupid , stupid white people . The opening feeding scene , the one with the whole crowd of women inexplicably overflowing with lust from watching a dirty kid shovel food into his mouth , is reminiscent of The Hairdresser's Husband , the vastly superior French film that uses similar low-cut necklines revealing massive breasts to illustrate the formation of sexual taboos later in life . Sweet Sweetback's Baad Asssss song has no time for that . Nope . Next scene , that same dirty kid is naked and reluctantly ravishing someone that I assume is a prostitute , but who could just as easily be his babysitter , his teacher , his mother , or his sister . Doesn't matter which one , really . Even if it was his mother it wouldn't be as tasteless as the fact that what we're looking at is a 13-year-old kid completely naked between the legs of some woman who is equally naked . I have no problem with sex scenes , of course . It just strikes me as weird to see a movie that literally shows a 13-year-old kid having sex and then the movie ( Shocked ! Shocked ! ! ) gives itself a tagline like ' Rated X by an all white jury . ' What the hell ? I'm reminded of a classic Saturday Night Live skit in which Jim Carrey , Will Ferrell and Chris Kattan go to a nightclub and viciously gang-hump every woman on the dance floor and then when the security guards drag them to the exit they're all screaming ' What ? ? ! What ? ! ? ! What ? ? ! ? ? ! ' How do they imply that an all black jury might have rated a movie with a naked 13-year-old kid in it ? PG-13 ? That being said , the movie is basically about a lot of incompetent white cops constantly pursuing someone named Sweetback , who has enough connections on the streets to afford him a good deal of protection and , of course , who is generally too cool for spoken dialogue . We're brought into the dismal world of the inner cities , a plight for which the white man is endlessly blamed and , to whatever extent , this may be true , but for the most part this movie celebrates the condemnation of the white man for causing the black man to live such a terrible life , while at the same time celebrating the black man's inability or unwillingness to do anything about that life beyond blaming the white man for it . It's a controversial theory that the black community is more interested in blaming white people for their lot in life than they are in doing something to better their situation , but this movie does absolutely nothing to refute it , which is also the case in a disturbing number of ' blaxploitation ' movies . Blaxploitation itself , as a term , is wildly misleading . I suppose it means that black people are blaxploited by greedy white men , hence their dismal urban lifestyle , while white people are whitesploited by black people , hence their constant appearance as greedy , racist , and complete drooling morons in ' blaxploitation ' films . Pam Grier must be rolling in her grave . I've heard the editing described as quick to disorient the viewer , which is not the case at all . What you have here is obtrusive editing without reason , cuts simply for the sake of cutting . Like many 1970s blaxploitation films , the movie halts in its tracks half a dozen times or so to turn into a music video for a little while , but the rough and awkward editing does not disorient the viewer , it stops the movie completely because it is totally devoid of meaning . It takes your attention away from what is happening on screen and puts it into the weird colors and shapes dancing across the screen , which have nothing to do with whatever the meaning of the movie is . This is not how you infuse a deep meaning or directorial significance onto a cheesy sexy movie , this is how you make a feature length film when you don't have enough story or material to fill that much screen time . Sometimes lines of dialogue are literally played over more than once . The need for such things escapes me . In the movie's defense , it is very good at capturing the urban atmosphere in which the story takes place . When you watch the movie , you are there on the streets with the characters , you just have a hard time trying to follow what they're doing , what they're talking about , who's chasing who and why a black man is dancing on a stool while some idiot white guy stands directly behind him , staring at his backside and laughing hysterically . Wow . The street life is portrayed very effectively , you see how bad it is to live in these areas , but then you have to wonder about the suffering when you see scenes like the one where Sweetback is forced by a gang of hysterical bikers to endure the unending torture of making love to a white woman while they all sit around laughing . What the hell is going on here ? ( spoilers ) Maybe I just made the mistake of watching Dirty Pretty Things just before seeing this , so I came into this movie having just watched a movie that squeezes in the sex and violence because they are necessary elements of the massive plot , while this movie stretches out the sex scenes and throws in random bits of plot here and there just to fill out the rest of the screen time . There literally is a point in the movie where Sweetback is running from the cops through the desert , becomes so decimated that he kills and eats a lizard , and then when he reaches civilization he stops to have sex with a prostitute in the dirt and have a couple of white cops stop by to giggle at him . And not only that , if you make it through the movie you are not rewarded with the delivery of some message or cinematic meaning , you are literally rewarded with a series of shots showing a couple of dead dogs floating in a river . This normally is a figure of speech , but this is some of the stupidest st I've ever seen . Here's something to consider ? at one point in the movie the white cops chase and capture Sweetback , but wait ! He turns out to be just some guy , not Sweetback at all ! The guy gleefully explains that he was paid $5 by some guy to run from whoever chased him , and it just happened to be the police but hey ! It's five DOLLARS ! So the cops don't do a thing at all to this guy , even though he willfully evaded the police . I guess if you're paid to run then it's okay ? The thing that really gets me is that white people are portrayed as so stupid and incompetent and endlessly idiotic in these movies , and yet at the same time they are the people who's power and influence black people simply cannot escape . Given that , here's my question for you - Who do blaxploitation films really make look foolish in the end ? Oh , and yes I realize that Pam Grier is alive and well . Thanks for reading all the way to the end of my review . . .
If you can manage to sit through the first 60 to 70 minutes of this movie without turning it off in disgust , you will be presented with something that vaguely resembles an interesting story . However , despite the fact that Nightfall eventually begins to almost start to kind of possibly redeem itself a little tiny bit , every bit of the rest of the film is just a belligerent mess . Everything , even down to the smallest details , was awful . In the beginning , the two girls want to look in the mysterious hole , and the big beefy guard sounds just like a little kid as he pathetically pleads them not to . You almost expect him to start to say that they're mean for not listening to him . That dumbass guard even held their lantern for them while they began to dig deeper in the hole . Illyra finds ? artifacts ' in the hole that bear ridiculous resemblance to mirrored balls shaped like tin cans ( ' ? it appears to be some kind of alloy ? ' ) . She pokes around in the cave for quite some time before noticing that it is packed with snakes . And did anyone stop to think about what exactly those snakes might find to eat down there in this lifeless hole ? Sheerin suggested that Beta ( I guess that would be the biggest of the six suns ) was going to be eclipsed by an INVISIBLE planet . Some of the characters are fighting with ridiculous tin foil swords , yet Illyra has a freakin ' laser gun . What is this , The Gods Must Be Crazy meets Star Wars ? Besides that , the editor must have slept through the scene where one of the evil watchers was on fire and wandered on camera with his great big space helmet in plain view . What a joke . What was the deal with the planet Aeon ? Was this just Earth in disguise ? Illyra referred to her race as ' mankind , ' there is talk about ' God's will ' as well as the Book of Revelations ( not Earth , but they have the same Bible ? ) , and these bonehead girls even buy a CAMERA from a street vendor ( ' Wow ! A camera ! I've never seen one so advanced ! It's got some kind of filter on it ! ' ) . You can tell that these girls were real geniuses . At least they TRIED to portray the females as intelligent people ( even though they failed miserably ) . Metron was pretty ridiculous as the poor guy who finds himself among the bad guys as he modestly makes use of his laughable powers ( firestarting , mind control , HEALING for crying out loud ) . All of the acting in the entire film was pathetic , and so was the script . However , I loved the efforts of Sheerin to keep her promise to Illyra . That was probably the funniest part of the whole movie . ' Where is she ? ' ' I promised I wouldn't tell ! She went into the desert with a watcher named Metron ! They left yesterday ! ' Oops . What an idiot . Once the point of the movie eventually rolled around , it got interesting for a few seconds in a row , surprisingly enough . Aeon has never experienced nighttime , and every 1000 years , a gigantic planet eclipses her largest sun and plunges the planet into darkness . Maybe it wasn't so much that they were all afraid of the dark as much as they were just mystified about what happened to their other five suns . Besides that , did these people not have darkness in their houses ? Had they never escaped the sunlight even for a minute in all of their lives ? It seems that without darkness , they wouldn't even know to be afraid of the dark . Oh well , I guess it's a mass response to set fire to their own houses and then giggle hysterically as they watch them burn . Also , never mind the fact that a planet that size ( the one that caused the eclipse ) , with a 1000 year orbit , would probably have eclipsed Aeon for WEEKS , not minutes , as you saw in the movie . It is truly a shame that Isaac Asimov's name was associated with this horrendous insult to the cinematic medium . There is not a single good thing to be said about this movie . ' The Greatest Science Fiction Story of All Time ' should qualify as false advertising . Even hard-core science fiction fans would be hard pressed to find something interesting about this garbage . Avoid at all costs .
I bought a collection of movies somewhere in China , and otherwise may never have bothered with Fur , which seems to have been included for no real reason . It's another of the bizarre artsy films that Nicole Kidman seems to attach herself to , also for no discernible reason , which reminded me of the enormously bizarre and disappointing Dogville back in 2003 . What was that ? Sadly , I had the same question in mind after I finished half-dozing through Fur . It's about the wife of a professional photographer who is happily married until , one day during a particularly harsh bout of seemingly friendly questioning from a lot of uppity yuppy snobs , she realizes the reality of her low class life-style , and soon finds herself inexplicably falling in love with a man who just moved in upstairs , who suffers from a disease that causes extremely overactive hair-growth over his entire body . The one thing that I appreciate about the movie is that , even though it fails , it attempts to present Lionel Sweeney , the afflicted man , as a real person with thoughts and feelings rather than the freak that society has made him out to be . The movie tries to illustrate society's unfortunate tendency ( and need ) to relegate people who are different to the very edges of our communities , fixing them with neat labels and then constructing walls around them to remind them ( and us ) that we are " normal " while they are , ah , something else . Lionel's brooding demeanor and soft spoken mannerisms are meant to give the impression of someone who has suffered at the hands of the world around him because of a physical disease over which he has no control , but unfortunately , because the encounters he has with Diane Arbus ( a real woman whose life is completely and mysteriously changed for the purpose of the movie ) are so wildly unrealistic , he comes off as nothing more than a fantasy movie monster , like that giant teddy bear in Labyrinth and why isn't that movie on the top 250 list ? Labyrinth is one of the most spectacular fantasy films ever made , while Fur , I imagine , is not meant to be a fantasy film , but more an exploration of various parts of the human psyche , particularly those involving things like love , devotion , and societal acceptance . These are very serious topics and I always welcome a movie version of some kind of philosophical discourse on the real meaning of it all , but it's hard to concentrate on the significance of a movie like this as it applies to real life when we're watching an ass-shaving scene . Nicole Kidman is an enormously talented actor , all I can say is that sometimes I just don't get her choices . Dogville had its merits ( although entertainment value was certainly not one of them ) , The Stepford Wives was totally inaccurate and hugely disappointing , and I just don't get this movie at all . If you are looking for something off the wall and bizarrely artsy , you may enjoy Fur . Otherwise this will be one of Kidman's and Robert Downey Jr . ' s movies that you can safely ignore .
So the tagline for The Happening is " We've Sensed It . We've Seen The Signs . Now ? It's Happening . " We've sensed it ? Sensed what ? Seen what signs ? Yeah , we've seen " Signs , " but THE signs of some mysterious coming disaster ? Maybe this " we " in the tagline is referring to the people that live in the parallel world takes place ? At any rate , the first half of the movie is a wonderful exercise in Shyamalan's ability to create an eerie atmosphere and to insert the unusual and otherworldly in an everyday situation . There are weird events taking place that are at first assumed to be the work of some kind of biological terrorist attack . There appears to be some kind of toxin that causes people to become lethargic and then suicidal , leading to some morbidly fascinating scenes such as one in which one construction worker after another silently walks off the scaffolding of a building , falling to their deaths on the ground below . But it is in the reality of the situation that Shyamalan is completely lost . He doesn't have the first clue about how to direct groups of people , which takes away any sense of realism that the movie might have had . There is a scene in a café early in the movie where a large group of people are huddled trying to figure out what to do . One person mentions that the incident doesn't appear to be affecting anyone in an area 90 miles away , so everyone immediately stands up silently and marches out of the café without a word . It is impossible to see these as real , frightened people and not the underpaid film extras that they clearly are . John Leguizamo turns in an outstanding performance but it overshadows his role , which doesn't command such a powerful actor . Mark Wahlberg is very watchable , as always , but it is sad to see so much character and plot development that literally goes nowhere . It's difficult not to think of Village of the Damned when watching this movie , but the movie really falls on its face when one guy starts talking about , get this , a mysterious ability that plants have to target and kill specific predators . I won't reveal the intricate details of what " the happening " is , but when it is revealed , the movie instantly turns irretrievably dumb and makes me pine for the time of the giant bug movies of the 1950s . All I will say is that there is a point in the movie where Wahlberg talks to a plant , asking it permission to be in a house . The goofiness is through the roof in this thing . I also love the use of dialogue in the movie . There is one scene near the end of the film where Wahlberg and his wife have reached a state of hopelessness , believing that their deaths are imminent , and they start talking about the mood rings they tried out on their first date , joking about how the color that turned up indicated that she was horny . Great conversation to have in front of your 9-year-old just before you all suffer a quick and mysterious death ! The " climax " of the movie is the perfect description of the reason for my summary line , and the film ends with an indication that it's not over , and with me sleeping soundly and indifferently on my sofa ?
It's extremely difficult to make a good " Part 3 " in any franchise , and Saw is a perfect example . The descent in quality from parts 1 and 2 to this one is so precipitous that it makes me think of the fact that , in trilogies or otherwise , good second sequels are extremely hard to come by . Back to the Future and Alien 3 are the only two that I can think of at the moment , and there's a Saw 4 . It starts with the investigation of a man who had chains attached to numerous parts of his body , and he had to rip them off in order to get out of a room before a bomb exploded . One of the detectives says that that was " all he had to do . " He gets mocked for this by another detective , since the man had to rip chains out of both of his Achilles tendons . Makes it a little hard to walk out of anywhere . At any rate , before long we sit through a pointless series of scenes showing the kidnappings of various victims , ripe for the fast-forward button . By this point in any series or franchise or whatever , the formula will be getting pretty old and tired unless something new is added . There's nothing new here . It's the same old crap about this guy John Kramer somehow having the time to devise unbelievably complex torture devices and little puzzles for the victims to try to solve in order to escape . The biggest problem is that by now it is getting so ridiculous to see this guy devise schemes to literally rip people to pieces while at the same time trying to criticize people for neglecting children and wives . What ? ? ? Sorry John , but the brutal tortures and murders are having the little unexpected side effect of damaging your credibility just a tiny bit . In this installment , John has kidnapped a doctor and is forcing her to keep him alive . I love her introduction , by the way . She performs one of those movie operations where she does something miraculous , saves a young child's life , and everyone around her gets mad at her for it . I love that . Talk about not being appreciated . And on top of that , her marriage is falling apart . Soon she finds herself kidnapped and wearing a collar that's basically half a dozen guns pointed at her throat . Maybe my own luck isn't so bad after all . And the brilliant talent of Angus Macfadyen is totally wasted as Jeff , Dr . Denlon's ( Bahar Soomekh ) husband and another of Jigsaw's victims . Here's the whole movie - " Hello so and so , I want to play a game . The device you are wearing is attached to your whatever , in order to escape you'll have to pass a series of tests . Let the game begin . Blah blah blah blah blah ? ? " If this is getting old for you , don't feel like you're missing anything if you stop watching these movies now . By this point , the Saw films are only for hardcore Saw and horror fans , the latter of which I used to consider myself but with each movie like this that comes along , the further away from the genre I feel . Remember Hostel ? If that's where horror movies are going , to that level of vacuous thought and logic , I'm done , I can tell you that right now . Saw 3 is a hundred times better , but still a bad movie . One of the major revelations that this sequel adds to the series is that we see an interesting setup to the original film , as well as behind the scenes of how and why some of the devices are created and Amanda's relationship to Kramer , the killer . Their relationship is ridiculous in the extreme , they just don't make a lick of sense as human beings . Not even a drug addict would get as emotionally attached to such a pasty , brutal man as this guy . Her tears before his surgery are outdone in bizarre ridiculousness only by her reaction of disgust during his surgery . Ripping that woman's rib cage apart didn't seem to bother her so much . Maybe it was the licensed physician that was worrying her . Speaking of which , there is nothing dumber than people who blame doctors for their illnesses . Dr . Denlon was one of the diagnosing doctors of Kramer's " inoperable tumor , " so he decides to kidnap her and punish her for , I don't know , not being able to operate . Maybe if she was Superdoctor and could do an operation that no one else in the world could do he wouldn't be so upset . Then again , Jeff , in anguish over his son's death by a drunk driver , allows a witness who fled out of shock and fear to freeze to death before his eyes for doing something that a good percentage of normal people would have done . She was terrified ! And then he considers allowing the judge who sentenced the killer too lightly ( what state gives 6 months to drunk drivers that kill kids ? ? ) to drown in rotten pig guts . Following that kind of logic , I wouldn't have been surprised if he had wanted to punish God for the irony of letting a drunk driver kill his son in the middle of a sunny day . The end of the film has an unexpected level of complexity , some of which works , but also includes an unintentionally hilarious shotgun blast and a device called " the rack " which is truly sickening and disturbing , and not in the good horror movie kind of way . The end of the series is WELL past due , yet I'm sad to see that there is a part 5 being made . I hope they can manage to get a shot of someone kicking a dead horse into the movie somewhere ?
There was something that told me that Dan in Real Life was going to be a great comedy , one of those overlooked gems that come along and don't get the recognition that they deserve until years later ( like The Big Lebowski ) . MAN was I wrong . This is a sappy , awkward , uncomfortable drama that thinks it's a comedy but ultimately never figures out which direction to go . It presumes to give us a realistic story of a single father raising three daughters some years after the death of his wife and their mother , but then gives us a cheesy , half-wit sitcom that's about as realistic as The Great Outdoors and not as funny . Dan is a single father raising three daughters ? oh wait , I already said that . We learn about the relationship between Dan and his daughters as they're gearing up for the road trip out to their annual family reunion . The youngest daughter is wise beyond her years , the middle daughter is growing exasperated to learn what kind of man her father really is , and the oldest teenage daughter is in love with some punk kid . Dan finding thongs in her laundry doesn't make him feel any better . In fact , the only thing that is remotely realistic about the movie is the relationship between the girls and their father . The tension in the house is through the roof and is never overdone or unrealistic , but it's also never funny even for a second . OK , so here's what happens , you'll love this . Soon after arriving to meet the family , Dan is in a bookstore and has a highly scripted run-in with Marie ( Juliette Binoche ) , a beautiful brunette with whom Dan feels an immediate connection . They have a quick coffee together before she gets a phone call and has to leave , revealing to Dan that she is already in a relationship . Dan goes back to his house and starts talking about this amazing woman he just met , and then his brother Mitch proudly introduces his girlfriend , Marie , to the family . So most of the comedy results from Dan and Marie trying to keep their secret from the family , but unfortunately all it leads to is a lot of awkward and uncomfortable situations that even the eternally awkward Ben Stiller might hesitate to be a part of . Dan is summarily ignored by everyone in the family while they dote on Marie , urging her and Mitch to get married and acting as if Dan's not even there . At another point Dan loses his temper and creates a huge scene during dinner . Marie and Mitch get all cuddly and touchy feely in front of him and I guess we're supposed to laugh good-naturedly as he watches helplessly . Oh but wait , that's not even the good part ! There is a scene in this movie where Dan's brother-in-law , while in the same room with Dan's mother and father , urges Dan to masturbate so he doesn't get too " backed up . " He reminds Dan , in front of his MOTHER , that it's important to " unplug the drain . " God , it was awful . I'm gonna go ahead and put something out there . First of all , this is not an original scene . It was as old as the hills when it came up in American Pie ten years ago , but I'm going to go ahead and suggest that such a thing has never ever ever ever happened in real life . Such things only happen in bad comedies like Dan in , ahem , Real Life . Every cliché is represented here . The tactless brother-in-law , the obligatory scene showing that people in movies don't understand that dance-offs are simply not funny , the sketchy blind date with the chick who turns out to be crazy hot , even ( my favorite ) the " oops I'm so sorry I just fell down and well shucks here I am laying right on top of you " routine . What ever happened to real life ? The title of this movie is an even bigger lie than Friday the 13th Part IV : The Final Chapter ! Eight chapters later , I'd just like to finally put this on the record - Final chapter my ass ! ! Or consider this . There's a scene in the movie where Dan finds himself standing in the shower fully clothed with Marie while she showers with Dan's daughter just outside the shower curtain talking to Marie about her love and sex worries . So if you imagine such a thing could ever be amusing , then by all means I won't dissuade you from watching this movie . But I will tell you this - I can imagine that there was a time when this movie looked good on paper , but something went wrong along the way and the result is a static , depressing drama without a scrap of personality . And one of the biggest problems is that Juliette Binoche , a tremendously talented actress , doesn't have a shred of chemistry with anyone on screen and looks completely out of place anywhere in the movie . She comes across as a classy European traveler , and the movie never aspires to explain how such a woman could end up with a tool like Dane Cook . The movie wants to be a charming family romantic comedy about love gone wrong and then right , or something like that , but unfortunately it comes across as a thoroughly depressing snooze-fest that is neither realistic nor amusingly fictional . The story ultimately contorts back on itself and forces a cookie-cutter Hollywood ending and even a cloying inspirational voice-over speech that rivals the one at the end of Bride Wars for pure , happy crappiness . Let's just be honest , shall we ? The thing is a train wreck . Enjoy at your own risk !
I have an undying love of true crime movies . There is something automatically fascinating about a disturbing story of true crime when there is the added effect that it is at least loosely based on real events . It's one of the most important things that makes me love movies like Zodiac or In Cold Blood or Dog Day Afternoon or even Silence of the Lambs , even though the real life element of that one is , ah , a little less specific . The Lodger , as you know , was Alfred Hitchcock's first major film , made in 1927 , well before sound . The new Lodger has a tough time justifying itself , but it is not entirely without effect . The movie tells the story of a mysterious recurrence of Jack-the-Ripper-style murders , although it takes the crimes out of the London fog and replaces it on the wet streets of Los Angeles . A series of brutal prostitute murders have been determined to be exact replicas of very specific Ripper murders , even positioning the bodies the same places and making similar efforts in geography . Complicating matters is the fact that a man has already been jailed and executed for the murders , which unfortunately start happening again . Meanwhile , an unhappy housewife across town is routinely abandoned by her deadbeat husband , who repeatedly tells her basically to take her medication and leave him alone , and by the way , why can't she make herself useful and find a lodger for that old shed in the backyard . Money doesn't grow on trees , woman . She does find a lodger , one who acts sufficiently mysterious and suspicious , and for a while the movie turns into your standard murder mystery thriller , although I was glad to see the addition in the third act of the clouding issue of an unstable mind . It's a story-telling technique that is very easy to screw up , but when it's used right it can add a whole different experience to an otherwise straight-forward and uninteresting story . It is not used here as well as I've seen it used before ( at least in originality ) , but it's true that it adds a much-needed extra layer to an otherwise insufficient story . Unfortunately , because the rest of the movie is a murder mystery the style of which is far too familiar by now , the instability idea seems like an effort to add something to an otherwise weak movie , and it's just not enough to make the movie at all memorable . In fact , some moviegoers will find it outwardly laughable . Alfred Molina plays a detective who is striving to solve the case , although I would expect an actor of his caliber to be spending his time on better movies than this . Unfortunately , despite his performance and a number of other mildly impressive roles , the movie is also peppered with horrible acting and ridiculously badly written characters . The lodger himself , first of all , is of the variety that acts extremely suspicious in ways that could only possibly happen if he were really the killer . When the wife accidentally discovers him burning clothing in the barbecue , he calmly explains that he was just trying to dry them . In a good mystery , perfectly normal behavior is made to be suspicious by the context of other actions , the music , the performances , etc . Who the hell dries pants on a barbecue ? There is also the issue of a psychologist who analyzes the police's evidence about the mysterious killer , and offers an explanation that is little more than a lot of wordy nonsense that sounds like it was thrown together by a Psychology undergrad at UCLA with no other purpose than to sound impressive . Sadly , it doesn't . The ex-wife of Molina's character is also a mental case herself who , for reasons that I won't reveal , is unable to stand the sight of her husband . When she does at one point in the film , she descends into a hysterical fit of screaming which , had it gone on for about another three seconds , would have been enough for me to give up and fling the DVD out the window . But the movie's biggest problem is that it comes off as a standard mystery , the first half of which is designed to show why everyone is a suspect and the second half designed to deliver a thrilling finale that , when it comes , just isn't all that thrilling . The murder investigation is full of movie-miracles ( like a footprint which is leaked to the press and printed " actual size " on the front page of the newspaper ) but the real letdown doesn't come until the final scene , lifted directly out of Psycho and full of psychobabble nonsense . And the psychologist's analysis , believe it or not , takes place before the actual arrest . Fastest mental analysis ever ! ! But it's not so much that the psychological explanation doesn't make sense as much as the fact that the reasons given may send your palm ( s ) flying rapidly to your forehead . So be advised ?
Did you read the novel " Red Dragon , " by Thomas Harris , the book on which Manhunter is based ? If not , watch the movie , you'll probably love it . However , if you have read the book , be advised that the movie will disappoint you in every way you can imagine . Red Dragon was just a great book . The story was intense , and it was extremely difficult to put down . Given that , it is hard for me to understand what would make Michael Mann think that he should change anything in the story . While not necessarily really pretty , the ending in the book was different and completely unexpected . It left you with that " wow " feeling that is so satisfying , especially when you almost unconsciously expect a flowery ending . I would have LOVED to see that put on film ! But no , Mann decides to scrap the surprise ending and slap on a cutesy Hollywood ending . That really ps me off . Can I say that ? And it's not just the ending , by the way , there were enormous chunks of the story that were simply not included in the film . ENORMOUS chunks of the story . This movie would have been so much better if it remained faithful to the full story presented in the book . Not only that , but they obviously hired some idiot to do the casting . Brian Cox performs horribly as the evil supergenius Hannibal Lector , but that may be a result of the fact that I had already seen Anthony Hopkins ' performance of the same character ( one of the best performances I have ever seen on film ) before I saw Manhunter . I'm sure Michael Mann felt like a complete idiot when Silence of the Lambs was released . Tom Noonan was HORRIBLY miscast as Francis Dolarhyde , the insecure serial killer in Manhunter . Oh , did you not know that he was insecure ? That's because those idiots didn't put anything about that in the movie , even though this extreme insecurity ( the background of which was also left out of the film ) is the fundamental reason for Dolarhyde's homicidal tendencies . If you liked this movie , I can understand why . It was an entertaining enough film . But I can also tell that if you liked this movie you did not read the book . The book is about 10 , 000 times better than the movie , and the conversion from book to film is so manipulative and disappointing and generally poor that once you realize what has been left out , it is almost painful to watch . Basically , what they did was they took a spectacular book and made it into a run-of-the-mill crime film . For shame .
So it's well known that the movie takes place in the actual neighborhood where Seagal grew up and studied martial arts , and also that he speaks fluent Japanese , but why have Japanese terrorists that are always speaking English ? Isn't it just a little off-putting that the American hero is constantly speaking Japanese but the Japanese and Chinese guys all speak broken English to each other ? Of course Seagal would want to show off his Japanese , since he almost never gets a chance to do it in his movies , but if they're going to go for that authenticity , they should at least include it where it really belongs as well ? As far as a Seagal film , it's about average as far as the films he has been releasing for the last ten years or so , none of which have really been all that impressive . But I still get a great kick out of his movies , even when they're not good . If nothing else , I can even enjoy the cheesy acting and paper-thin plots , and if even those fail at least Steve is always good for smacking around some bad guys . But in Into the Sun , other than a brief skirmish near the beginning , it's a good hour into the movie before anything happens . Before then , we get a tirelessly developing but uninteresting plot about the Chinese and Japanese versions of the Mafia and how they are developing a massive drug corporation , with Seagal entering the mix investigating the murder of a government official . Worst of all , however , is that the movie spends so much time developing the totally unnecessary and unconvincing romantic story , in which 54-year-old Steve in his floor - length leather trench-coat falls deeply and madly in love with a tiny , dainty Japanese girl who can't be more than 22 . Needless to say , my favorite part was when he sheepishly explains to her , " You know , I've never had the best luck with women . In fact , you could probably say I haven't had any luck at all ? " What's that , he's a virgin ? Is he asking her to go easy on him in the sack ? But stay tuned , at the end of the movie this impressive team of filmmakers utilize an unbelievably complex and difficult bit of cinematic trickery to make the wife disappear from Steve's grasp . I noticed this particular bit of movie magic because I did the exact same thing in a six-minute movie I made with a $250 video camera when I was taking an Intro to Film class at Fresno City College in 1998 . They really spared no expense with this movie ! The other problem is the bad guys themselves . They are such tired clichés that it's impossible from frame one to take any of them seriously , particularly the leader of the Yakuza ( the Japanese Mafia ) . He's your typical , b-movie villain ? slicked back hair , fishnet t - shirt , arm always slung over the chair he's slouched in and a lot of guys standing around him that jump to attention and do things for him when he snaps his fingers . Yawn . The guy is so unimaginative and so unimpressive that he makes the movie seem longer because I'm just waiting to see him get killed at the end . Evidently , however , they knew when they were making the movie that some serious ingredients were missing , so they tried to cover up the gaps with things like the sound effects that make it sound like whenever someone gets cut with a sword they spray out a fountain of blood all over the place . Nice . In the movie's defense , it's true that Steve does look good for his age , although he has certainly lost the hardened appeal that he had in his earliest movies like Hard to Kill and Out For Justice . At least he looks a lot better than he looked in Urban Justice , but unfortunately that's not saying a lot . The movie is a bit of a curiosity piece because Seagal wrote and performed a lot of the music on the soundtrack , and he actually sings the song during the closing credits . It's a little disturbing to listen to , but I recommend you wait and check it out because it's not disturbing because it's so bad , it's disturbing because it's actually pretty good . Too bad the rest of the movie isn't quite as pleasantly disappointing ?
What a snoozefest . In this disastrous sequel to the vastly superior Predator , we are left to wonder whether someone actually , in good conscience , thought it would be a clever idea to move the Predator into downtown LA , or whether it just took place closer to the movie studio because no one in their right mind would bankroll a film like this , so they couldn't afford any location shoots . My money's on the latter . And another thing , Predator 2 is set in the distant future ( far off 1997 ! ! ) , why would they do something like that ? The movie came out in 1990 and then there was only seven years before we saw that downtown LA ( specifically the criminals ) do not look anything like they are portrayed in the movie . Look at Back to the Future II , for example . It was made almost 20 years ago , and there is still more than a decade before we will all see how wrong they were in predicting what the future would look like . At least the rest of the movie was good . The streets of LA look a lot like they did in the Robocop movies , and the criminals look like they did in Robocop 3 , by leaps and bounds the worst of the series . We get all these criminals who are dressed up like circus clowns , and the movie even throws in some crime kingpins that look like caricatures of witch doctors and whatnot . Like they were flown in straight from the mountains of Nepal and asked to say a few lines for the camera . Is this supposed to create the sense of isolation and unfamiliarity that the first movie created so well ? Please . Danny Glover takes on the role of Lieutenant Mike Harrigan , basically the leader on the search for the killer who keeps leaving bodies stripped naked , often with things like heads and spinal cords pulled out ( not cut , but pulled ) and hanging upside down , until the FBI , I think , shows up to take over the investigation . The endlessly watch-able Gary Busey steals the spotlight in every single one of his scenes , but mostly because Glover , also a massively talented actor , for some reason gives a halting and simply bad delivery of his horribly written lines . Busey's character is also pretty badly written , but he has such a recognizable presence that you almost don't notice . Ironically enough , it works to Busey's and the movie's advantage that he simply plays the same character that he almost always plays in his movies ? himself . The script is so full of clichés and unrealistic conversation that it sounds like it was written in an afternoon , if that . Had the writers read these lines out loud to themselves while writing it , I assure you they would have realized how ludicrous it sounded . The movie starts with a ludicrous shootout scene between the cops and entire herds of criminals , as the two gangs , you might say , fight for control of the streets . In the pessimistic future view of the movie , much like the Robocop films , crime is out of control , and as you see here , the police are out-manned and outgunned by the drug gangs on the streets . The Predator watches over this whole shootout , always out of sight , no doubt wondering why these creatures are so intent on killing off their own kind . Here's another interesting irony of the movie , the Predator , as is to be expected , comes with all kinds of new weapons , a remodeled mask , and lots of cool gadgetry , some of it meant for self-applied medical treatment , and yet some of the things that are brought over from the original film are just botched . We learn in this movie that the Predator doesn't make himself invisible , but is somehow able to bend light . That's even more impressive than invisibility ! It almost gives you the perception that the Predator carries at least some of the power of something like a black hole , but the shimmer effect is just badly done here . I would have thought that a newer movie would have been able to improve upon the one from a few years earlier . Bill Paxton , 4 years after his performance as the over-the-top and entirely too cocky Private Hudson from Aliens , turns in a performance in this movie as exactly the same guy . Overly confident despite being in completely over his head . His role here , as he explains in his interview on the DVD , is to act entirely too sure of himself , like Billy the Kid , until he realizes what he's up against , at which point he turns into the whining baby that he was in Aliens . The only thing that the movie successfully brings over from the previous film is brought over as an excuse to allow a lot more guys to get killed and to make an excuse for the weakness of this movie's plot . The original team killed off by the Predator in South America was a top secret elite team of special forces , as Peter Keyes ( Busey ) explains to the clueless Harrigan ( Glover ) , which is why the police forces involved have no idea what's going on . This allows for plenty of deaths before the FBI can convince the insubordinate police force ( Harrigan , as it were ) to believe them that the drug gangs are not involved here , and that they really do need to back off . Seriously , guys . Let us handle this . It's top secret . Harrigan , come on , back off . You don't know what you're dealing with . You don't have the resources or the knowledge to fight this enemy . I know that your friend was killed , but you just have to let us handle this . We know how to get this guy . Come on , Harrigan . I can't tell you what it really is , just let us handle it . OK fine , you see , there was this elite team in South America ? The best scene is the hunt scene about three quarters of the way through movie , and it's not good that this is the best scene because it is monumentally stupid . They come up with this great plan to have a room flooded with ultra-violet light while all the men wear these heat-proof spacesuits so the Predator can't see them and on top of that , they put this special dust in the air that will adhere to the Predator's body and make him visible . Great plan , except for the massive flashlights that everyone wears on their shoulders . This is the FBI ! I learned in 7th grade that almost without exception , there is NO LIGHT WITHOUT HEAT . Did the FBI not realize that these flashlights were going to generate heat ? My GOD . The Predator is just as ugly as in the original , but the mask has been reduced to a cheap Halloween mask , almost as bad as the Green Goblin's mask from Spider-Man . He's got this cool boomerang weapon that seemingly can cut through anything that it comes into contact with , but he talks in this movie . I hate that . Here's this alien , and he learns English just enough to deliver a couple of one-liners at exactly the right moments . At the time of this writing I have yet to see Alien vs . Predator , but I can only hope that they don't talk to each other in it . Leave the talking to Freddy ! ( spoilers ) The grand finale of the movie starts off with a massive hole in both the script and basic logic . Harrigan finds himself hanging from the cables beneath an elevator as it descends , and he's screaming at the people inside it to stop the elevator so it doesn't crush him . Forget the fact that elevators stop a good 6-10 feet above the ground at the bottom of their shafts , this one not only has a rough hole at the bottom , but when Harrigan lets go of the cable , he falls through it and into a massive open area . The scene could ALMOST be saved if it were the basement , but it turns out to be the Predator's cavernous lair . Right there in the basement of some building in downtown LA . And no one ever noticed . We get this lengthy fight scene between Harrigan and the Predator , after which a whole crowd of Predators shows up ( why they didn't come out to help their friend is not explained or wondered about ) , so Harrigan accepts defeat , but it turns out that they only wanted to come collect their dead and give Harrigan a gun from the early 18th Century , raspily muttering , ' Take it . ' What the hell is this ? ? Predator 2 is such a bad film that the Predator is the hero rather than the villain . He is the center of attention and we are watching to see these clueless morons get killed by him rather than to see them use their tactical expertise to do away with this unknown enemy , as was the case in the original film . Director Stephen Hopkins has turned the movie away from the action / sci fi of the original and into a horror movie . It's just too bad he couldn't do the same with the comedy that he worked on before this movie , A Nightmare on Elm Street 5 . The movie ends with a hint at a Part 3 ( with the line ' They'll get their chance . ' ) and I can only hope that AVP is that movie , because the last thing we need is more of this !
In Van Damme's directorial debut , he stars as Chris Dubois , a New York City orphan who stows away aboard a ship on it's way to Asia to escape a life on the edge of society , only to be captured and sold quite literally into slavery . There's even a part where he is asking a shady character played by Roger Moore called Lord Edgar Dobbs ( " Dobbs , Lord Dobbs ? " ) to " buy him " so he can have a chance to go to a mysterious place called the Lost City to enter an ultra-secret fighting championship and win his freedom and maybe a little glory along the way . Sadly , the plot is one of the weakest I've seen in a Van Damme movie , which is not a good thing . The first hour comes across as almost an excuse just to get to the fight scenes at the end , which resemble some of his earliest fighting movie like Bloodsport and Kickboxer , but here are so brief and watered down that they are meaningless . It would be better if they just described them . But I'll get to that later . Clearly , Chris ' motivation is to get his freedom , but there is also the matter of this fighting tournament , which is a little difficult to understand . The best fighters from all of a dozen or more different countries are there to find out who is the best in the world . It's sort of like the Olympics for fighting with all those nations represented , except it's super-secret so there is no publicity and no recognition for their achievements . One journalist is there , but she had to pull a serious amount of strings in order to get there . These must be fighting purists , the guys that do it for the spiritual reasons and not the money or fame . Anyway , this Lord Dobbs becomes interested when Chris explains to him that the prize for winning the tournament is " a big dragon made of solid gold , " so Chris is able to enlist his help in getting to the tournament , provided he can win his freedom if he shares the prize with him . All of this is generally irrelevant , of course . The movie exists just for the fight scenes , but sadly , once they finally get started it quickly becomes one of the most disappointing parts of the whole movie . The tournament takes place somewhere called the " Lost City , " which is described as " the top of the world . " Maybe this is meant to evoke something like Lhasa , the capital city of Tibet , which calls itself " the roof of the world . " There's no resemblance , but it's an interesting coincidence . Anyway , soon we learn that there is more to risk than getting the tar beaten out of you . One of the fight officials ominously warns Chris that , if he loses , he can never leave the Lost City . How's that again ? Such stipulations are always a complete mystery to me . When I was in Tibet last summer , we took a trip to Namtso Lake a couple hours north of Lhasa , which claims to be the " highest lake in the world " at about 5200 meters ( I'm pretty sure that there are dozens that are much , much higher , but no matter ) , the locals at the lake told us that the lake was sacred to them , so if you bathe in it , or even just wash your face or hands or feet , your punishment will be that they'll never let you leave . Uh-huh . Who would they really be punishing ? Anyway , the actual tournament looks like a video game , a cartoonishly overblown ceremonial setup that reminds me of Mortal Kombat , which I understand is one of Van Damme's worst movies ever . I haven't seen it , but I can certainly imagine ! Each country is represented by a goofy stereotype , often in wildly inappropriate attire . There is the German fighter who looks exactly like a Nazi , complete with calf-high standard issue military work boots , the Japanese sumo-wrestler , the squirrelly Chinese guy , the mountainous , frightening Mongolian ( who doesn't look remotely Mongolian , but no matter ) , etc . What I especially love is that every fighter comes out , does some bizarre dance , and then the fight begins and ends within 10-15 seconds without fail . The Turkish fighter , who looks like one of the toughest fighters of all of them , gets shoved backwards by the sumo-wrestler and then I guess he just passes out . I've never seen anyone get knocked out from being pushed , but it happens in this movie . Anyway , things get strangely familiar again when Chris takes off the headband of a fallen friend , swearing revenge with an evil stare at the scary Mongolian . This is as goofy as it gets , but for some reason it's still fun to watch Van Damme in this kind of situation . Too bad the rest of the movie is so bad . What I mean by that , of course , is things like the conclusion of the movie , where Lord Dobbs and his hapless sidekick attempt to steal the golden horse , which has cleverly been left out in the middle of an open courtyard during the tournament , with so little security that no one notices when they try to steal it using a BLIMP . You see , they figure it's too heavy for anyone to carry off , which renders even the most conspicuous and noticeable vehicle perfectly acceptable . NICE . The end of the movie is abrupt and cheesy , complete with a ham-handed moral and a totally uncreative mention of the future of the cast . At least Lord Dobbs mentions that he's a pirate , but used to be a captain in the Royal Navy . Interesting because that's what most pirates were in real life before they turned to a life of crime . Sadly , there's not much else here . For some good Van Damage you're better off with the earlier kickboxing films ?
So I've heard that this is the Friday the 13th installment that was released in 3D . I wish I could have seen it in that version , because it would probably have made it a lot more interesting . I imagine the makers decided to add that little bit of cinematic trickery to create another surge of interest in the series , which really hasn't done anything new by the time the second sequel came out to add on to the original idea . I've been going back and re-watching all the old classics , I'm working on the Nightmare on Elm Streets and the Friday the 13th films right now , and in comparison it's amazing how much more callous and brutal the Friday the 13th films are , while the Nightmare on Elm Street films , while equally campy , I tend to find much more entertaining and well-made ( not that that's saying much . ) . Watch , for example , A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 , and then watch just about any Friday the 13th movie , and you can see what I mean right away . The Elm Street films are peppered with low-brow and goofy ( although quite often effective , even when it's not really meant to be funny ) comic relief , butthe Friday the 13th films ( especially part 3 , I've noticed so far ) are little more than strings of scenes of teenagers doing teenage things at Camp Crystal Lake and getting brutally murdered by the relentless Jason Voorhees . Friday the 13th Part 3 concerns yet another crowd of idiot teens who go out to Camp Crystal Lake , bypass yet another ominous warning from a crazy old man along the way , and proceed to engage in a lot of the exact same antics that we saw in the first two movies . There's the addition here of a hopelessly geeky kid with them who have an annoying habit of faking his own bloody death in order to scare all the girls ( after which he wonders why none of them like him ) , but at least providing the only bit of mystery in the entire film . As I watched the movie , my roommates and I were betting on whether he would get killed , then someone wouldn't believe him and then get killed themselves , or if someone else would get killed , he would think they were trying to get revenge for his bad jokes , and then he would get killed for real . Kind of sad when the only thing that it really interesting in a movie like this is in what order the teens will get killed . That strikes me as a definite sign that the movies are starting to lose their thrill ( either because of the 20 years between the film's release and now or because each sequel really does nothing new ) . I wonder if the 3D element really did add that extra needed bit of excitement . One thing that was really funny was the motorcycle gang . These people were awesome . Seriously . On their way to the Lake , the kids stop at a store to get some junk food essentials , and are confronted by what I assume was supposed to be a hardened gang of bikers . These people were HILARIOUS . After harassing the kids in the store , the geeky kid accidentally backs the VW Bug into their motorcycles , knocking them over . The lead biker responds by calmly walking up to the car , smiling brightly at him , and then smashing the windshield and the driver's side window . Angered beyond ability to just leave , the kid decides to circle around and run over the bikes head-on , which he succeeds in doing because the aforementioned biker couldn't KICKSTART his motorcycle in time . Maybe had the poor biker realized that street bikes don't kickstart but are started with a key and an ignition button , he would have been able to save his pimp ride . He and his friends might even have avoided their fate as pointless fodder for Jason to slice and dice later in the movie . Ah well . So there was certainly no shortage of comic relief , and I really don't think it matters that the comedy in these movies wasn't originally meant to be comedy . At least they're still entertaining . The thing that really drags the movie down is that it is literally nothing more than a flimsy clothesline of a plot that is punctuated by gruesome killings of idiot teenagers . There's only so many movies that you can make about a lot of kids who decide to do something dangerous by going out to the haunted lake to taunt the legend of Jason Voorhees and then not realize that he's really there killing them all one by one until only one is left , and even then she hits him with a shovel or stabs him in the thigh and then starts clawing at locked doors , not thinking to maybe make a little more certain that Jason's not going to get back up . You would think that at least ONE of these last victims would realize that the best time to get the best of Jason is when he's lying unconscious at her feet . But no . The second sequel of the Friday the 13th saga is little more than a rehash of the old Camp Crystal Lake legend , and given the proliferation of sequels that followed , hopefully something new comes up later . Given the final scene , I would really like to see a character in a later movie throw out some jokes about Jason's mom . Can you imagine ? How cool would it be to see some bonehead teenager laughing his head off around the campfire or something as all of his friends look at him in horror because Jason is approaching him from behind with a gigantic butcher knife as the kid says , ' Hey Jason , yo momma's so ugly , she won't even come out of the lake ! HAW HAW HAW ! ! ! '
I finally got around to watching Anchorman last night , one of the most popular and , as it turns out , overrated comedies released in 2004 . I was just on vacation for 6 weeks and while I was away I watched lots of classic comedies , from Buster Keaton , the Three Stooges , and a few Shirley Temple shorts , and it seems that contemporary comedies have not learned anything from their ancestors . Buster Keaton remains untarnished in my mind , but the Three Stooges and Shirley Temple have both starred in films that are distantly below their talent level , but which continue to receive praise simply because they are early Three Stooges or Shirley Temple films . As is also the case with some of their films ( such as The Brideless Groom for the Three Stooges and Shirley Temple's awful War Babies , among a few others ) , Anchorman's creative growth seems to have stopped when Will Farrell signed on . Much stock is put into him in the lead role , and none into the content of the movie . There are times when the movie is very funny , but these times are to say the least outweighed by the stupidity in it , which is odd because the character whose role is stupidity is the funniest character in the film ( " Mmmm ! I just burned my tongue ! " ) . Far more amusing than Will Farrell , from whom I have come to expect better than this . I have to say that I long for a comedy without poop jokes . Christina Applegate is wildly miscast as the new Anchorwoman , an oxymoron is anyone at the news team has ever seen one , Veronica Corningstone , a respectable woman except that she occasionally transforms into stupid comedy fodder . We are introduced to a highly professional , well-dressed , intellectual newswoman with goals to become network anchor . Veronica summarily rejects the pitiful , frat-boy come-ons of the all male news team , which is amazing because who could resist something as charming as " I wanna be on you . " Where the movie starts to really go wrong is that her character has no consistency whatsoever . Half the time she is pure professionalism , inspiring her colleagues to refer to her as such things as an " ice queen . " The other half the time she is a breathless , steamy temptress , unable to resist the hairy Ron Burgundy , playing on Christina Applegate's iconography rather than what we have come to know about Veronica Corningstone . Burgundy's colleagues are more interesting than he is , although the tremendous Will Farrell thankfully does give his character some weight , despite an almost paralyzing amount of stupidity festering in the script . Particularly amusing is Brick Tamland , who sometimes forgets his name but knows that someday someone will discover that he has an IQ of 48 . The movie clearly doesn't have a lot to say about the intelligence of news teams , but when it operates as a satire it is amusing . When it turns news teams into street gangs and has them fight each other in alleyways using medieval torture devices as instruments , it's not . You don't need to show people having their arms torn off to have a funny movie , even if it's only to pay homage with the line , " It's getting to be ri-goddam-DICulous ! " The movie makes some interesting points about women entering into the news workforce and the torturous times that the all-male newsteams suffered as a result . That's what the movie satirizes , as you know , and when it sticks to that it's pretty funny . There are probably five or six times during the movie that I laughed out loud and had to rewind a couple of times because it was so funny , but more than half of the movie was so dumb that I was sitting stone-faced for 15-20 minutes at a time . When it comes to comedy movies , I prefer to leave the stone-face-making to Buster Keaton . Vince Vaughn plays a very small part in the film , which is sad because if he had a bigger part ( and a different one , as it were ) the movie could have been a lot better . It is not uncommon for him to carry an entire film , like he did in Old School , Clay Pigeons , Psycho , Made , Swingers , Dodgeball , The Cell , Return to Paradise , etc . He nearly steals this movie and he wasn't even credited , for crying out loud . He is at one point so overcome with rage at being second place in ratings to a team that includes a man who taunts him with such gems as " Where'd you get YOUR suit , the toilet store ? " that he slams his fist against the hood of his van like a rebellious 12-year-old . It's disappointing that his role doesn't really go uphill from there , but his exit from the film is truly telling . His exit from the movie plays out like this : he's talking into the TV camera on location for a news story ( the birth of a panda which , in this movie's plane of existence , has captivated the world ) . When he finishes his line , he throws his microphone to the ground and stalks off with a disgusted look on his face . I don't know why , but I got the feeling that he became Vince Vaughn again . His expression was a moment of clarity realized on the set of this movie , not as his character . I don't know why , but I got the feeling that Vince Vaughn decided he had had enough of this movie and was getting the hell out of there . I tended to agree .
I don't play video games , so I don't know anything about the Tomb Raider game or anything like that , so it played no role in the formation of my opinion about the movie . I had very high expectations for the film , because I know how popular Tomb Raider ( and , probably even more , Lara Croft ) is , and because I know that a tremendous amount of preparation went into the making of the film . And besides that , Angelina Jolie stars as Lara Croft , and she pulls off the physical aspect of that role ( face it , Lara Croft's body is even more well known than the game itself ) with stunning closeness . There is a mediocre story in the film involving Croft's search for an artifact that carries with it tremendous power , including the ability to control time , if I remember correctly . Fueling Croft's efforts to achieve the artifact is her determination to live up to the legacy of her late father , played with a little tongue in cheek by her real life father , John Voigt . The story of Tomb Raider was not too impressive to begin with , and Angelina can barely pull off the fake accent ( I shudder every time I anticipate Original Sin ) , but this is not what ultimately brings the movie down . Normally I try not to pick movies apart , but there was so much unnecessary stuff thrown in here that it makes you wonder what people were doing for all of the years that this movie was in production . It seems weird that no one noticed how weird it is to have Lara's father looking at the movie camera and talking , as though to her , while she reads a letter that her wrote her before he died . And also , whose idiot idea was it to have her do things like punch a guy in the head with the back tire of a motorcycle while she speeds by on the front wheel ? ! What a joke . On the other hand , every scene in which Lara handles guns is incredibly well done . I think that , for the most part , this is because Angelina just looks good pointing two guns and firing them that fast . The beginning action scene was pretty impressive for this reason . The action in the film was mostly pretty good , but there were several instances where it went over the top , as in the above-mentioned motorcycle scene . This is the same problem that we saw in Mission : Impossible II , which could otherwise have been a good action movie , as Tomb Raider could also have been . I don't know enough about the game to comment on how well it was translated to the screen , but I do know from pictures of Lara Croft that Angelina did an excellent job in the role . There can be no mistake that the movie is directed at a younger audience ( which makes you wonder about that brief half-nude scene ) , which probably accounts for most of the goofy action sequences , so be advised of a certain inherent immaturity before you watch it . It's an entertaining enough movie , but be warned .
And yes , Mr . Baxley , I'm talking to you . You of all people should have read the book . You did , after all , direct the movie . Before I go on , I should tell you that I actually found Craig Baxley's film rendering of Stephen King's novel to be very entertaining , even though it took place almost a century after the book took place , dealing with almost nothing from the novel . But that's okay , they made a prequel for that . This movie is about a professor who just about stakes her career , and definitely her reputation , on her ability to find actual paranormal phenomena going on at the legendary Rose Red , a big bad haunted house . Rose Red is certainly a bad house . We get enough of the history of the mansion to know that it's a bad house . It seems to actually be alive and in control of its own body , altering its construction and adding entire new wings at will . You might say it's Sarah Winchester and the Winchester Mystery House combined . The story was , obviously , based on the San Jose mansion and almost filmed there . The idea was scrapped for whatever reason , and filmed in Tacoma instead , not that it matters , I suppose , since whatever mansion they used would probably have been augmented tremendously with visual effects anyway . The story concerns the above-mentioned professor bringing together an entire team of what you might call high profile paranormal phenomena experts , some more willing to attend than others , in the hopes that with such a collection of extra-perceptual abilities she might increase her chances of conjuring up genuine paranormal activity in the mansion and thus resuscitate her reputation and perhaps even generate national recognition . As is to be expected , a rival professor has sent along a spy to bring down her plans . So far so good , I guess . This is the premise for what could be a good haunted house movie , but the two most pressing problems are that a haunted house movie has a long haul ahead of it in order to achieve something innovative , and the other problem is that this is not what the book is about upon which the miniseries is based . I suppose that little detail can be overlooked , since the miniseries focuses on the future as a haunted house of the mansion in King's novel , but the movie really has to justify that leap , and this one really doesn'tThe made-for-TV effects are painfully obvious , mostly all of the visual effects and even the very filming itself having that flat and somehow too smooth quality that I can never figure out how but always reveals how cheap it is . And maybe I'm wrong , maybe it's not even cheap , just made for a different medium , but my problem is that it is not nearly as convincing as effects made for the movies . As far as the characters , it's strange that the one who I think is the most widely disliked is probably the only interesting one among the lot of them . Emery Waterman , played by Matt Ross , is the slightly overweight loser stereotype of the group , constantly mumbling and grumbling and complaining and with an overbearing mother and speaking in an almost painfully irritating voice , but at least his character has depth . Not many of the others do . Stephen King himself turns up once , as he does in just about all of the movies based on his work ( my personal favorite is his hilarious cameo in Maximum Overdrive ) , here , as always , playing the tiny part of a character that comes on screen just long enough to get treated badly and then shunned . King's humility is enviable and virtually nonexistent in Hollywood these days . Rose Red , another of Stephen King's lengthy made-for-tv movies , sure to be enjoyed by devoted Stephen King fans , although it's strange that I am a devoted King fan myself and was a little disappointed . I think , however , that I was mainly disappointed because the movie strayed so far from what the book was about , but in retrospect I kind of can appreciate the extra level that that adds to the content of the story . Besides sort of removing from the book and showing the haunted mansion far in the future from the time during which the book takes place , it also creates the possibility of a prequel . It's like they made Rose Red and Rose Red II ( The Diary of Ellen Rimbauer ) in reverse order . I guess you could say that's pretty clever , I guess , bur unfortunately it's among the more clever things about either film . I expected more from Stephen King , who has of late evolved from the cheesy horror films that were adapted from his books ( such as abysmal films like Graveyard Shift and Creepshow ) to intelligent and often amazingly high-quality films like The Shawshank Redemption and Hearts In Atlantis . Rose Red falls just a bit above one of his latest flops , Dreamcatcher . Hopefully his next miniseries , Desperation , will be better . I certainly have high hopes for The Talisman and especially Bag of Bones .
Maximum Risk was released in 1996 , the year after Species was released and was , if I remember correctly , a huge hit . I was in high school at the time , and I know it was highly popular with my peers , who are clearly the same target audience that director Ringo Lam was shooting for with Maximum Risk . Van Damme lends his cult star power along with Natasha Henstridge ( which the IMDb claims is sometimes credited as " The Chick From Species " ) under the direction of Hong Kong action director Lam and the result is a remarkably bad , by-the-numbers revenge drama . The movie opens with a routine high speed chase that is interesting only because it takes places through tiny alleys in the south of France and ends in a wild jump into oncoming traffic by the man being chased , who is played by Van Damme and who dies before we even see the title of the movie . The last movie that I watched before this one was Universal Soldier , another movie in which Van Damme's character is killing within the first few minutes of the movie , so I was surprised to see it happen again given that this is obviously a very different movie . But if nothing else , the opening chase definitely gets your attention , if only to make you wonder what would make him so desperate to escape from the men chasing him , who turned out to be government agents . But an early death is not the only familiar thing we'll see . Van Damme also plays a double role and spends most of the movie trying to avenge his brother , You see , it seems that there is a French cop who bears an astonishing resemblance to the man killed in the chase , and after some investigation it's revealed that he is a long lost brother . The mother tearfully admits that she had to give up her other son when he was an infant because she couldn't support two children , and never told her other son Alain ( the French police officer ) that he ever had a brother . That's basically the set-up , and Alain drops everything and sets off on a personal quest to find out who his brother was and who killed him and why . This is what leads him to Alex , his dead brother's girlfriend , played by Natasha Henstridge , who surely would never have taken such a ridiculous role had she not been brand new in the movies . This is her second film , and I am at a loss to explain why she would accept such a ludicrous role other than her inexperience in film . Alex is an ex-stripper who is now a waitress for questionable characters ( " less money but more respectable " ) , who doesn't blink when Alain shows up at her work , other than to rush him out because he's not exactly welcome there . He tends to be stone silent when he approaches people who think that he is his brother , but in most cases ultimately he comes right out and tells them , and when he tells Alex , she joins him in his mission . Sadly , there is nothing interesting or original about the movie . Every character is a cliché , good guys or bad . All that's left is Alain's quest to learn about his brother's life and bring his killers to justice , which is honorable but all he can do is spout cheesy lines about how he's not going to rest until his brother's killers are brought to justice . I have said before that Van Damme gets a lot of bad press about his movies , and I think that because of that people often forget that his characters are almost always motivated by very honorable ideas and values . He delivers a good message in a way that very few other action stars do , and unfortunately in Maximum Risk the problem is that it's too obvious and there's not really anything else in the movie to entertain us along the way . James Berardinelli , for example , claims in his review that Van Damme's acting ability " can charitably be described as ' limited , ' " so clearly there can be no satisfactory emotional content in the movie . He's right that Van Damme's acting is often wooden and unconvincing , but dead wrong that he can't do it . Sadly , it wasn't until eight years later , in Wake of Death ( which Berardinelli didn't see ) that Van Damme showed without question that he can definitely convey emotions . WOW . There is the issue that there is no chemistry whatsoever between Van Damme and Henstridge , but a more pressing concern is that she was a man's lover and then , after he was killed , she honored his memory by becoming his twin brother's lover . Is it just me or does something about that just not come off right ? Sort of throws a wet towel over the already boring and routine obligatory ending . Unfortunately , Lam is not the first Hong Kong action director to enter the American market with a Van Damme disaster . John Woo , an occasionally lucky director , also came to America and brought us Hard Target , another of Van Damme's few thorough disappointments . Van Damme is a major action star with genuine talent and appeal , but sadly this movie was worth the time of effort of anyone involved ?
I quite often see a movie like Species II , which I fully understand is most likely to be an awful movie , and I discover that a lot of people hated it a lot more than I did . On the one hand , sometimes I feel like I am extremely harsh to movies that I can't stand ( read my reviews of Scary Movie 1 , 2 , or 3 , for example ) , but on the other hand , maybe I didn't hate Species II as much as many people because I've seen more bad movies than they have . I have a bad habit of watching movies even if I already know I'm going to hate them ( this is why I've seen Scary Movie , 2 and 3 , for example ) , so this may be why I've been a little bit numbed to idiocy in the movies . I can certainly recognize stupidity at any level when I see it in the movies , and there is plenty of it in Species II , but it takes a lot more than this movie has for me to describe it as the worst movie I've ever seen or a total waste of celluloid or some other such nonsense . It is certainly not , for example , a " grade Z exploitation flick , ripe for the Mystery Science Theatre 3000 treatment . " In a massive lapse of cognitive function , scientists , including Dr . Baker from the 1st movie , have decided to make a clone of Sil , this time named Eve , to study her more extensively than they had the chance last time . They somehow made her more docile and controllable ( although still female ) , and she cooperates with them , suffering through the tests and tortures that she has to endure for them to demonstrate things like her remarkable ability to heal . After one such session , Dr . Baker walks Eve back to her glass holding cell , and Eve tiredly asks Dr . Baker something like , " Why do you do this to me ? " Eve spends her time reading and learning to drive by watching Dukes of Hazzard , her favorite show , when she's not being poked and prodded by people in white coats . The only thing that the scientists seem to remember about Sil from the last movie is her unstoppable sex drive , so men are not allowed anywhere inside the area where she is kept , at least until the end when Dennis Gamble ( Mykelti Williamson ) , one of the men on the mission to Mars casually walks in , walks right up to the glass and tries to flirt with her . Good thing she was unimpressed by his genetic code , otherwise they may have had a serious security breach on their hands . While scientists were busy studying Eve for some kind of weakness that they could use should another , ah , outbreak occur , other scientists are busy successfully completing the first manned mission to Mars . On the way back , there is a lapse of communication for seven minutes , I think , and the next thing you know one of the scientists has been infected with alien DNA , much like the stuff running through Eve's veins . Evidently the smart aliens ( in this series , the ones in space , off-screen , sending intelligent radio signals to earth ) have intercepted the Mars mission and sent a scout back to earth for another shot at those pesky humans . But fear not , it's not long before the slimy monster aliens take over the colonization efforts . Given the feeble plot , it's not hard to see why Species II focuses entirely on the sexual aspect of the alien species . Natasha Henstridge is not most , but ALL of the draw that this movie has , so they have to pander to who they know is in the theaters . And judging from what happens during the movie , most of the people in theaters are adolescent boys who really shouldn't be watching this movie . Okay that was a guess , but while Natasha gets topless for about three seconds , there is still extensive nudity and group sex in the movie , most of which results in bloody birth scenes stolen from the Alien movies , as he steadily compiles a growing herd of offspring . Dennis Gamble , the token black guy and comic relief , has no purpose but to constantly complain that he can never get any booty , until scientists inform him that because he's a carrier of sickle cell anemia , his blood can be used as a weapon against the alien . In the movie's defense , there is a great scene where Patrick Ross , who was infected in space , finally reaches Eve , with whom his hormones have been communicating since he got back to earth , and they have an intense love scene from opposite sides of thick glass . Interesting in that it is a shining moment of skillful acting in an otherwise dreary slog of drivel . Also , I have to admit that I was impressed with the head regeneration scene , but only in the way that I was impressed with many of the special effects in Hollow Man . It was a fascinating thing to watch , despite all the while being very obviously a special effect . If you absolutely loved the first film ( and I mean LOVED it ) , then you may enjoy this one slightly as well . But in the Species series even more than normal , if you didn't like the original you'll hate the sequel . And in some cases , hating this sequel doesn't even require a lukewarm opinion of the original .
I think the whole " million dollars worth of gold " argument is not necessarily important . I agree that it's the dollar that loses value and not gold ( and even now the manufacturing of gold seems a little too far-fetched even for the twilight zone , although if any society would manufacture one of the world's most valuable precious metals into worthlessness , it would be America ) , but the main problem is the mean guy , the " mastermind " of the whole scheme , displays incredible brilliance in planning and pulling off the suspended animation , and then for some reason seems to wake up afterwards with the IQ of a raisin . The plan - hijack a train in the modern day , 1961 , use a special gas to put all of the passengers and crew to sleep while they help themselves to the cargo of gold bullion , hide the bullion in a cave and then put themselves into suspended animation for 100 years while they let the whole crime blow over . Surprisingly enough , I had no problem with the whole suspended animation thing . I was a little dismayed at first that they were going to ask us to believe that these guys could put themselves to sleep for 100 years in a bunch of plexiglass boxes in a cave in the middle of the desert , but the use of the air locks and the special gas made it believable enough for me . But for me , the episode just falls apart after they wake up . We'll forget about the fact that the gas is miraculously able to cake them up not only 100 years later but within seconds of each other . The problem is the behavior of the characters . Farwell is the ringleader of the group , the designer of the gas and the planner of the massive heist itself , but as soon as they wake up in the future , he immediately and stupidly ruins his own plan . First of all , I'd like to know what manufacturer was making trucks in the early 1960s that could sit for 100 years and then start right up , but failing that , I'd like to know why this guy chose to deliberately destroy it , stranding him and his last remaining cohort in the middle of the desert with tons of gold . I am of the opinion that you can't hit an able-bodied person with a car or truck ( especially a hundred year old one ) in a wide open area at close range , especially with as much warning as the guy in the show had and as many huge rock outcroppings as he had to hide behind . Farwell made a enormously blunderous attempt to kill one of his fellow criminals due to some trust issues , leaving him and the last guy , De Cruz , with no option but to carry their gold to the closest town . And sadly , that's still not the stupidest thing this guy did . Later down the road , he apparently left his canteen full of water behind during one of their rest stops . Who leaves their canteen behind while wandering through the desert ? Maybe he was just not concerned about water . De Cruz certainly isn't , as he gleefully sells drinks of water to Farwell for the price of one gold bar . He thinks he's all clever , not realizing ( despite having been carrying them for so long ) how heavy gold is . Personally , my growing load of gold would be just as worrisome to me as my diminishing supply of water . That canteen wouldn't have lasted the two of them an hour in that sun . There is a clever and interesting twist at the end , although not one that has any basis in reality , but it's okay because it doesn't need to be based in reality . In time travel stories , the future is infinitely more difficult to portray than the past , for obvious reasons , and even though the only really futuristic thing we see is a car , it's pretty impressive , even for the time period . This is a fun episode with high entertainment value and some valuable and insightful commentary about materialistic greed , but the sheer dumbness of some of the characters takes away from the episode quite a bit . Note : be sure to catch Serling's introduction of next week's story at the end of this episode , after which he does a clownish plug for a brand of cigarettes called Oasis ( notably long since out of business ) . It's interesting to consider the difference between then , when such a product advertisement would be acceptable on a family TV show , and now , when the producers and television station and whoever else would be saddled with massive fines , as well as the advertiser ( host and subject ) suffering tremendous reputation damage . But hey , with the corporate sponsors , maybe now they can afford to stop shooting the episodes on videotape ?
( spoilers ) The traditional opening sequence of Tomorrow Never Dies is excellent . Especially when compared to the horrendous opening of the awful film that followed this one , The World Is Not Enough . When we see James Bond steal the bombs from the Nuclear Arms Bazaar in Russia , overcoming every obstacle ( including an overdone gunfight ) , we expect an awesome film to follow , but to a large extent we are disappointed . I'm willing to accept the suggestion that a fighter jet could be piloted , at least temporarily , with the knees , if the pilots hands are busy trying to prevent the co-pilot from strangling him . I actually liked that scene , but for him to also be able to fly right underneath another jet ( I won't even go into the fact that the pilot of the other jet didn't seem to notice this ) and eject the co-pilot into the co-pilot seat of the other jet , thus blowing it up , is just too far . Still , the opening scene , ending with Bond victoriously asking where the recovered bombs should be delivered , leaves the audience with a smile and the hopes of a quality action film to follow . The story involves a high-powered media mogul who intends to instigate World War III in order to boost his ratings and make him ridiculously rich . Although , from the looks of his ? office , ' he already IS ridiculously rich . No , this isn't original at all , but at least the scriptwriters were courteous enough to put the quote that they stole and made a movie out of right into the dialogue ( William Randolph Hearst once said , ' You provide the pictures , I'll provide the war . ' ) . There you have the entire plot of the film . The famous quote ' Good news is no news ' is another stolen item that can be found in Tomorrow Never Dies , thinly disguised in the clichéd line , ' There's no news like bad news . ' As Bond first takes on his mission impossible , there is a good scene where he introduces himself as a banker to Mr . and Mrs . Elliott Carver ( the offending media mogul and one of Bond's own past lovers , respectively ) , but he revealed himself far too soon when he not so subtly make a comment about Carver's crimes . Sure , they have to get the movie going , but if he hadn't been so ham-handed in that scene , he might not have wound up in that sound proof room . Speaking of which , Elliott Carver , the media mogul , makes an extremely unimaginative villain for this 007 installation , and although he seems effective enough at first , he soon reduces himself to an annoying character who badly misuses his own power , leading to his own violent death in the spinning wheels of the horrendous exaggeration that was one of the tools he used to instigate his artificial war . Probably the best part of this whole movie is the unintentional comic relief . As I watched Tomorrow Never Dies , I found that I burst out laughing more often than I found myself on the edge of my seat . When Bond parks his car in the parking structure , after having stolen the decoder device , a bunch of bad guys arrive , tow truck and all , to break into the car and retrieve the decoder . It was funny enough when one of them tried the door handle , only to be given an electric shock , but when another one of them tried the other side , with the same result , I found myself in hysterics ! And then , just to make sure that Tomorrow Never Dies is not confused with an action movie that is to be taken seriously , a THIRD guy tries the door , receiving the obvious electric shock , after sledge hammers and machine guns had failed to provide entrance to the car . Which is weird , because the windows were shot out readily enough in the car chase that soon followed which was , by the way , the best action sequence in the entire movie . This is more of an action comedy than anything that Jackie Chan or Chris Tucker have ever done . The murders that James Bond commits in Tomorrow Never Dies are also fairly uncharacteristic . While they were stealing quotes to form the foundation of this film , one of the writers should have added in Arnold Schwarzenegger's line from True Lies , ' Yeah , but they were all bad . ' Bond drops a guy into the spinning gears at a Carver newspaper press , with bloody results ( and the obligatory cheesy one liner ? ' They'll print anything these days . ' ) , he shoots a guy in the face at point blank range , and he moronically endangers the lives of innocent people as he drives his car , remote controlled , of course , through the wall on the roof of a parking structure , raining large chunks of asphalt and a huge chunk of BMW down on the sidewalk below . The scenes that were more or less done right were very rare but it was good to see some miniscule bit of realism allowed into this otherwise extremely unrealistic movie . The car chase scene where Bond drives from the backseat was hideously exaggerated but it was also effective . The skydiving wasn't completely screwed up like it was in movies like Drop Zone and Moonraker , but it was still badly flawed . There needs to be a little more thought put into these movies , because even if James Bond is enough of a badass to ride a motorcycle ( BMW , of course , this IS a 2 hour commercial , after all ) like it had wings , no helicopter in the world can fly nearly inverted like the one near the end of the film did . But this is just the kind of nonsense that is commonplace in 007 movies , and after Tomorrow Never Dies , the James Bond creators manage once again to slap world audiences in the face and the wallet with another idiotic action epic , The World Is Not Enough , which comes off even worse than this installment .
Mel Gibson has been so heavily typecast as the good guy that even in a movie for which the tagline is ' Get ready to root for the bad guy , ' he's not the bad guy . Quite the contrary , a premise like this is little more than a way to get people to expect a heightened level of blood and violence in the movie , it gives the special effects people an excuse to do creative things with ball hammers and to make the audience find even the most brutal murders to be ' quite fun and funny , ' as one IMDb reviewer put it . For some reason , however , I wasn't entirely amused to see a guy get shot in the shoulder and then the knee , and when he fails to produce a lighter when asked for a light , he gets a pillow pressed over his face and gets shot in the forehead . Granted , this was a very bad guy and had double crossed Porter ( Mel Gibson , the GOOD guy ) in one of the worst ways imaginable , and there is nothing that you want more than to see this guy fall , but that certainly doesn't make it amusing or even cheerful . I weep for the obvious descent of mankind into barbarism if people laughed at this . Let's consider the plot here . Mel Gibson is a criminal , and a good one at that . He and his wife are involved in crime that involves high risk and massive payoffs , and when one score results in the acquisition of $130 , 000 , he and she and their partner , Val ( Gregg Henry ) begin discussing the splitting of the money . Porter calmly says that they will split it like they agreed in the first place , even though it turned out to be less than they expected , and Val and Lynn ( Porter's wife ) turn on Porter , shooting him in the back , taking all the money for themselves to run away together , and leaving him for dead . Five months later , Porter is recovered again and is out to get his money by whatever means necessary . The important thing here is that he is obviously so disappointed when he is forced to use violence that his shoulders droop to let us know that it's the last thing in the world that he wants , and on top of that , he wants $70 , 000 , not $130 , 000 . All he wants is his share , even after all he's been through . So how's he the bad guy again ? Under the circumstances , it's amazing how obvious it is that presenting Porter as the bad guy is a weak ploy to get more violence into the movie , and it is a terrible sign of the state of our society that people enjoyed this . Try watching a movie like Payback and then watch Michael Moore's brilliant documentary Bowling for Columbine , you won't be so eager to root for the ' bad guy ' after all . On the one hand , Payback is a quality action film with plenty of car crashes and guns and killing and death , all the necessary ingredients for an action film these days , but the premise is such a weak scheme that it drastically lowers the rest of the movie . Lucy Liu , however , can be seen in a relatively early role looking sexier than anyone should really be allowed to look in a movie . I was almost depressed when it was over , she looked so good . I do not want to give the impression that Payback was a bad film or that I completely condemn it for it's ploy to get as much violence as possible into it , I just think that it could have been a much better movie if they hadn't laid so much emphasis on its violent content . Even the obligatory action movie hottie only added to the enjoyment of it all ( I'm sure female viewers felt the same , of course ) , so it is certainly a movie that is likely to be enjoyed by action fans . The rest of you , however , may want to be a little more careful . The violence , at least at one point , is literally stomach-turning .
Armageddon definitely sets the record for fooling the most people into thinking it's a good movie . When I first saw it , I was blown away . I loved every second of it ! It was exciting , it was spectacularly done , the acting was great , the dialogue was funny , I couldn't think of a single thing wrong with it . Obviously , I bought it on video . Then I watched it at home , and saw for the first time what an awful movie it is . Armageddon manipulates the emotions of the audience like no other disaster movie ever has . The romantic scenes ( like those in The Rock ) are clumsily and randomly thrown in ( this way it will appeal to women , too , and therefore make more money in the box office ) . The tough guy acting , particularly ( and CONSTANTLY ) on the part of Bruce Willis as Harry Stamper , the world's best oil driller , was terrible ! There were so many scenes in this film that were thrown in for no other reason than to get a meaningless laugh or broaden the target audience that it began to get tiring trying to figure out which ones actually had anything to do with the story itself . Besides all that , there were also horrible discrepancies in the storyline . Early in the film , Dan Truman ( Billy Bob Thornton ) describes the effects of the asteroid collision as " basically the worst parts of the Bible . " Even the name of the film , " Armageddon , " is taken straight from the Bible . Given that , you have to wonder why there are so many times when the characters ( mostly Stamper and Truman ) ask God for help , ask God for just a little more time , pray that " God be with them . " Why are they asking God for help ? ! They just finished pointing out that it was God that sent the asteroid ! Why WOULD He help ? You can see how the hypocrisy of religion even manages to wiggle its way into Hollywood films . The dialogue of the movie also took a lot away from several of the action packed scenes . The phrase " She's gonna blow ! " is uttered so many times that by the time the scene's climax is reached it has no effect anymore . The predictability of the ending is also a serious disappointment . Furthermore , the logical errors were a little disturbing . For example , there was moderate WIND on the asteroid , as well as clouds of dust and smoke floating calmly around . That's funny , I thought we were in SPACE traveling at 22 , 000 mph . As a whole , Armageddon is an edge of your seat action thriller , but there wasn't a whole lot of effort put into it beyond special effects and sheer financial purging . It's never boring , but the structural , logical , and storyline problems take away a great deal from what could have been a spectacular disaster film .
Jerry Bruckheimer and Michael Bay are back from Armageddon fame to once again present to us another tremendous disaster story interspersed with some elaborate and manipulative romance . The film mainly follows the lives of two life long friends , Rafe and Danny , as they grow up obviously meant to be fighter pilots , and the struggles with their friendship brought on by World War II . At least half of the film is made up of this drawn out love story , while the other half covers the Japanese invasion and bombing of Pearl Harbor . This is the reason the movie is so damn long , too . If they had left out this dumbass romance , or at least not drawn it out so much , we would have had a war movie of normal length that would have been much better . The editing between the love story and the actual war coverage is surprisingly awkward and abrupt , initially leaving us with the feeling that we are watching two completely separate movies that were edited together . The actual bombing of Pearl Harbor is spectacularly done , I have to admit that . The Japanese were obviously made to look much more evil than they were , because this is told from the American point of view , but the special effects and the torpedoes and the entire battle scene at Pearl Harbor was amazing . Cuba Gooding Jr . has a tiny tiny role as the black man who is not allowed to do anything more than cook during his entire time in the Navy , and who ultimately is able to man a gun during the battle and make a difference . This is a noticeable digression in the same vein as the over-simplified African American presence seen in Mel Gibson's The Patriot . It makes you think that Pearl Harbor was made by a bunch of rich white guys who , at the last minute , decided that they better put a black guy in the movie so they wouldn't get in trouble with the NAACP . Nonetheless , Cuba pulled off his overly small role very well , despite the fact that he was only given enough screen time to shoot down one Japanese plane , and that plane almost flew right into him as it crashed . As with any Bruckheimer film , especially The Rock or Armageddon , with which he also collaborated with director Michael Bay , the entire humanistic portion of the film was shallow and predictable . We get three main cardboard characters , Rafe , Danny , and Evelyn , and a relationship between the three that is entirely predictable . Nonetheless , some people may pretend not to know that , so here is the obligatory warning ? SPOILERS AHEAD . Rafe supposedly gets killed in combat ( he would never have survived a crash-landing into the water like that , but this is Bruckheimer , so we know he didn't really die ) , and of course , Danny moves in on his girl . Did anyone really think that Ben Affleck would be killed that early in the film ? So Danny goes for Evelyn with the ridiculous support of all of Rafe's friends ( this is another thing that would never have happened in real life ) , and then when everything seems to be going okay , Rafe comes back and everything gets mixed up again . Yawn . As the all-seeing audience , we know that Danny had no right to move in on his friend's girlfriend so soon after his theoretical death , so this is the point when we begin to suspect that Danny will be the one to ultimately be killed in combat , and in true Bruckheimer form , it will probably be in a heroic effort to save Rafe's life . And guess what . There are obvious references to the story structure of Titanic here as well as some scenes that are photographed and composed exactly like some of the battle scenes from Saving Private Ryan , but the film is obviously just trying to cash in on the success of those films . On a quality level , Pearl Harbor and Titanic are about the same , but neither even come close to the tremendous power of a real war film like Saving Private Ryan . I found myself several times thinking of Saving Private Ryan while I was watching Pearl Harbor , and the two movies are so different in their intentions ( Saving Private Ryan showed us the war , while Pearl Harbor tried to make us cry by showing how a few people were affected by the war ) that it almost seemed like I was watching a cartoon . This is why Pearl Harbor will never be considered a classic war film and will not be considered for an Oscar nod in any category . Bruckheimer and Bay make movies that are meant to please large audiences by entertaining them without making them think . This is why their movies are such box office hits but also such critical failures . There are always a lot of people who don't see how shallow these films are . For the most part , the action sequences are fast paced and actually pretty good , but they are NEVER realistic , which is probably one of the main reasons that a war film , made by these manipulative Hollywood bigshots , about such a closely scrutinized historical event just didn't come out right . The bombing of Pearl Harbor was obviously the best scene in the film , but was not realistic at all . It was , in fact , about as realistic as a fight scene in a Jet Li movie or a Jackie Chan movie . Fun to watch , but once you walk out of the theater and back into reality , you want to laugh . It's a shame that this scene in Pearl Harbor was padded with two and a half hours of fluff , because it could have been a significant part of a good war film . What a waste .
Charlie's Angels is a pretty sad attempt to cash in on the looks of three of the more attractive actresses working today ( although I am sad to say that Drew hardly fits in that category anymore ) , and the film's similarity to the traditional James Bond formula is a little hard not to notice . Cameron Diaz is an absolute bimbo in this movie , and although Drew Barrymore plays a relatively respectable character , her effectiveness isn't that great , especially given her whiny performances in such recent movies as Home Fries , Never Been Kissed , and The Wedding Singer . The biggest contribution that Drew made to this movie was getting her boyfriend to take a bit part in it . Despite the lack of creativity and the blatant sexual exploitation of Charlie's Angel's , there can be no denying the fact that it just had some good action and at least a few scenes that were really good . There was some fighting action that was really fun to watch , despite the fact that the cinematography was literally stolen from The Matrix , and let's not forget the fact that the Thin Man , with whom the angels had their first confrontation and who made surprisingly classy appearances throughout the film , was the guy who played George McFly in the great Back To The Future trilogy ( well , part I and some of part II , anyway ) . Those are some of my favorite movies ever , and I haven't seen him in many other movies , so I thought it was really cool to see him in a movie again . Charlie's Angels is an un-creative action crime film that continuously and excessively exploits the hotties that star in it , and relies almost solely on their looks as well as some flashy music to push the movie along . There can be no doubt about the fact that the music in the film was thrown in just to promote the soundtrack and make more money . There was hardly a second that went by that there wasn't another song playing , regardless of whether or not it had anything to do with what was happening on screen . There's so much trendy music packed into this movie that it almost overshadows everything else . Notice that they put that ridiculously popular Jennifer Lopez song ( the title of which I don't know or care to know and , of course , by ? ridiculously popular , ' I mean that it's ridiculous that it is popular ) over the end credits . Some of the music was good , but it was poured on so thickly that it becomes cloying and suffocating . LL Cool J definitely said it best during the opening scene of the movie , ' Walk out . '
Gone in 60 Seconds was a true Jerry Bruckheimer film . It has the fast-paced action , the big Hollywood stars , the fancy camera work , and the awkwardly tacked on bit of romance , but overall it was a disappointment . Much like Mission : Impossible II , it had great stunts , but they stretched the imagination to the breaking point ( a scene on a bridge packed with traffic late in the film comes immediately to mind ) . Nicholas Cage plays a retired legendary car thief named Randall Raines , who now runs a go-kart track for kids , what a nice guy . That's even more manipulative than his name in The Rock ( Stanley Goodspeed ) , another Bruckheimer film . And yes , someone does manage to say , " When it Raines , it pours , " although the line seems to have been meaninglessly thrown in . The film also had a few continuity problems as well . At one point , the thieves are stealing a beautiful Cadillac SUV out of a garage in a residence , in the backyard of which there appears to be a jumping barbecue party going on . This was at only a couple of hours before the deadline at which point the 50 stolen cars were expected to be delivered . At one hour to that deadline , the sun is up . That party was either still going strong at 6 o'clock in the morning , or the next scene took place on the other side of the planet . Despite numerous problems like these , Gone In 60 Seconds had its redeeming values . The cars were absolutely beautiful ( especially the 1967 Cobra which , like many of the cars , got beaten up pretty badly ) , Robert Duvall was excellent as the father figure to the reunited band of car thieves ( dubiously named Otto ) , as was Delroy Lindo as the traditional curious cop . But as a whole the film relied too much on the stunts and the cars to carry it along . The story was weak , and the ever-present love-story was badly tacked on . This is not a film to miss , but it is also not a film to actively seek out . If you happen to be at a friend's house someday who owns it or has rented it , watch it and revel in the fact that you didn't pay eight bucks to see it . If you never get around to watching it , you really didn't miss much .
Interesting enough episode , although the ending really blew it for me . I have been losing taste very , very quickly for anything involving Matt's sex life . After the self-circumcision I was ready for that whole thing to just be put to rest for good , but I guess the show is about surgical bodily mutilation so such a request sounds a little ridiculous . I liked the way the whole story about his first sexual experience was handled , it was a great bit of fear when he thought he might have an STD , and hopefully the teenagers in the audience will take note . I am a pretty liberal and tolerant person , but the transsexual thing was pretty distasteful to me . I was surprised that I was having a hard time eating while I was watching the show , but I guess Nip / Tuck isn't the best show to be watching dinner in front of , you know ? But the thing that really drove me nuts was at the end when Christian had bought the Lamborghini and tossed the keys to Matt so he could drive . Matt pauses for a second and then tosses the keys back , saying You know what , I'm not you , uncle Christian . I want a girl to like me for who I am , not for the car I drive . Holy crap I wanted to punch him . I've already contacted all of my friends and family to tell them that if I ever turn down a chance to drive a $250 , 000 car but pass it up because I want to be liked for who I AM that could they please beat me about the head and shoulders with a large blunt object . I'm not picky . A toaster or an external hard drive or maybe one of those Kryptonite U-locks or even a garden hose would suffice . But it would be of the utmost importance that I learn a very , very valuable lesson . I already know enough not to try to circumcise myself though , so any beatings would not be necessary were I to attempt that . Maybe some kind of psychiatric intervention would be prudent in that situation . . .
John Woo gets a lot of good press as an outstanding action director , but he seems to be hit or miss to me , with more misses than hits . I haven't seen many of his extensive list of Chinese films , except for Hard Boiled , which I found less than impressive , like the spectacularly disappointing Windtalkers . Hard Target is his first effort in Hollywood , until the far superior Broken Arrow and Face / Off . The movie bears striking resemblance to Surviving the Game , although can't be accused of stealing the idea , since that movie came out the following year . Sadly , this movie plays like a lot of bizarre action movie experiments strung along a thin and uninteresting plot . There is some goofy and distracting slow motion used during the fights , which had a strange charm in Kickboxer but just look odd here . The story is mainly about a couple guys who provide an opportunity for wealthy people to hunt and kill someone , for a cool $500 , 000 . " It has always been the privilege of the few to hunt the many , " the villain explains , although the movie goes on to show that the few , to the contrary , hunt the few . That is until Van Damme's perfectly named character , Chance , becomes the hunted , in which case it is the many hunting the one . And not doing such a bang-up job of it , either ( " It appears your trophy is ripping us a new orifice ! " ) . The setting is New Orleans , which for some reason seems to be totally deserted ( except for a single scene that I can think of at the moment ) , giving the movie a cheap soundstage feel , and features a paper thin movie villain who's only bit of personality comes from his sidekick . I can't remember his name so I'll just call him Imhotep . Huge amounts of money are mentioned throughout the film , I suppose to remind us that we are dealing with people who think nothing of $500 , 000 or $750 , 000 , but when you toss in numbers that big it just starts to feel fake and contrived , like in Sudden Death , where the bad guy wanted to steal something like $2 , 000 , 000 , 000 . Why not $20 billion ? Or how about a bazillion ? That would be exciting . As I said , the plot is unimportant . Ultimately we get a situation where Chance is being pursued by the bad guys , although this time not some rich lunatic who wants to feel the power of killing another man , but by about 20 guys who get in on the hunt for $750 , 000 each . I can't remember if they were charged that much or paid that much , but it's telling that it really doesn't matter , neither situation would work . Why would anyone pay that much money to kill someone ? And even if they would , where does Fouchon ( Henriksen ) find these guys ? And there were more than 20 of them , so if he's paying them , why would he blow more than $15 , 000 , 000 just to kill one guy ? Clearly there is not a lot of thought put into this screenplay ? Anyway , we get a lot of action clichés , which sadly seem to be something that John Woo is really good at . I especially love the scene where Chance punches a rattlesnake in the head and then bites off its rattle , so that the bad guys chasing him won't hear it rattle just before it attacks them . Truly bizarre , but unique , to be sure . There is also a scene where Chance kicks a gas can ( that is clearly almost completely empty ) at a bad guy , and then he shoots it and it explodes like it was full of nitro-glycerine . Hey , maybe it was . Ultimately , the movie culminates in the same shootout we've seen 1000 times , except that this time it's not just an old warehouse , but an old warehouse full of what appear to be parade floats . I hadn't seen that in a movie before . It's a unique set , to be sure , but if nothing else , the cartoonish villain ( a criminally misused Lance Henriksen ) ruins it when he loses his temper and starts firing pot shots at the floats , which explode like fireworks . Then there is the matter of the anonymous motorcyclist bad guys , who are dressed from head to toe in black and literally pop up exactly like pop-up targets to be easily picked off one by one , just like the bad guys did in Windtalkers . John Woo always overdoes his gunfights , and here is no exception . Every bad guy literally gets shot 10 or 12 times ( except for Fouchon , who gets shot about twice as many times ) , but at least Chance remembers to reload , pulling one clip after another out of the back pocket of those skin tight jeans . If nothing else , at least the movie provides a brief educational lesson about military hardware near the end . You may not have known this before , but evidently you can just untwist a live grenade like a soda bottle to diffuse it . Imagine if that knowledge fell into the wrong hands ! The movie ends with a Creedence Clearwater Revival song that has appropriate lyrics for the movie but is otherwise totally out of the blue and musically just doesn't fit . The rest of the soundtrack seems to have been inspired by Van Damme's hair , which is probably the most memorable thing about the movie . In his first American action effort , John Woo swings ? and misses . . .
Although The Beach was an interesting and well acted film , it ended up contradicting what it was trying to say at the beginning . The scenery in incredible with the beautiful white sand beach that is completely isolated from the modern world , and the transition between the two when Richard and Sal traveled back for supplies was startling and very well presented . The unlikely premise of the film , a young traveling boy searching for the meaning of his life runs into a seemingly insane man in a third world motel room who decides to give him the map to paradise and then kill himself is a little hard to believe , but Robert Carlyle was wonderful as that man , and he easily stole every one of the few scenes he was in . After that , it was a fascinating adventure watching Richard and his two friends journey in search of that paradise . However , the unlikely events that led to the formation of that friendship is another thing that took away from the story . After the shark attack ( not the laughable one where Richard actually wrestled with and killed the shark , taking it home for dinner , but the one where people were hurt and killed ) , the concept of paradise was a lot more realistic . It is true that a utopian society is not possible without some element of misery , and the man who was badly injured by the shark represented that misery . You cannot have absolute happiness without absolute misery . To put it in the classy and sophisticated words of Beavis and Butt-Head , " If nothing sucked , and like , everything was cool all the time , then it's like , how would you know it was cool ? " Richard's descent into temporary madness was a very creative and well done part of the film , in my opinion . The video game cinematography was not only original but it also cleverly represented his innocence and inexperience in the world . The acting in the film was very good , I think it should be noted that Leonardo DiCaprio delivered a brilliant and amazingly convincing performance , despite his terrible acting in Titanic . Besides that , the settings and camera work were excellent as well . Unfortunately , I just think that the story was contradictory and not thought out very well . The film stressed the importance of close friends and loyalty , but it seemed like it ended up emphasizing the importance of e-mail and iMac computers . Or maybe that was just a bit of clumsy and awkward product placement , maybe they were having problems getting people to bank-roll the film . Are they trying to say that a paradise such as the one in the film , if ever found , is impossible to keep ? As a whole , I think that the film is trying to portray the destructive power of greed , but the message is so clouded with other distractive elements that it ends up looking and sounding confused and contradictory .
Quarantine starts off reasonably well , if not at all originally . A small film crew is doing a ride - along with the fire department to get a first hand look at what their daily professional lives are really like . The film is presented the film crew's unedited stock footage , so we get lots of video of the firemen acting not at all like firemen but instead like young men who are living in close quarters for long periods of time . Finally an interesting call comes in and the crew are called out to a building in town . Up to this point , the movie is presented in a style even more realistic than a documentary , because the footage that we see is not even edited . Once they arrive at the building , of course , weird things start happening . You know the premise , the movie is essentially a zombie movie , but a lot of the suspense and tension is predicated on the fact that this group of innocent people have been for some reason barricaded inside a building by the police , government , military , whatever . Soon we find out that it's the Center For Disease Control doing the quarantining , but the point is , the people that are meant to protect us are locking these innocent people inside a building and leaving them for dead and the people inside have no idea why . But here's my first question , how do you lock an entire modern fire crew inside an old , dilapidated building presumably made primarily of plaster and wood ? Later they discover that approaching windows is enough to get yourself shot , but after what happened soon after they arrived at the building , I am willing to bet that none of those guys would have been willing to spend more than two or three minutes locked unwillingly inside the building . Next , it seems that breaking through plaster walls is not the only bit of standard fireman training that these guys are lacking . When people start getting hurt , at one point one of the firemen calls out , " Is there a doctor in the house ? " I had been under the impression that in order to be a fireman you have to have some emergency medical treatment training , but I could be wrong . I had to do the training in order to be a summer camp counselor a couple years ago , but maybe sleep-away camps are just stricter than your typical major city fire department . Jennifer Carpenter is the lead character , the host of the documentary that the film crew was making . You may remember her from The Exorcism of Emily Rose , the astonishingly scary horror film that she starred in back in 2004 . Sadly , Quarantine just doesn't have the story or the content to give her much to do except run around looking scared . Her performance as Emily Rose was one of the best horror performances I've ever seen , but Quarantine just gives the feeling that she's waiting for an opportunity or a good reason to do some real horror acting . Overall the movie is not bad , but it is overwhelmingly casual in its presentation of a typical horror movie , this time with the slight variation that all of the victims are trapped in close quarters with the zombies . They have zombies trying to get them inside the building , and humans on the outside pointing guns at the building to prevent any escape and outbreak of the virus causing the zombiness . There is an interesting scene where the cameraguy actually uses the camera to bludgeon one of the zombies to death , which provides a unique point of view . I had never seen a zombie killed in a movie like that before , but other than that there is just not much special about the movie .
Famous for coming from the same minds as brought us the disturbingly good Saw films , Dead Silence reveals a deeper fascination ( or obsession ) with dolls than those movies initially let on . This time we have another sort of murder mystery , in the sense that we have Donnie Wahlberg as a detective investigating what seems to be an open and shut murder case , albeit an increasingly bizarre one . It takes place is the satisfactorily eerie-named Raven's Fair when a young couple mysteriously receive a frighteningly creepy ventriloquist's doll on their doorstep with no return address . As they try to figure out where it came from , the wife ends up dead and of course , the young husband the prime suspect in her murder , given that he foolishly keeps blaming the doll for her death . Not a real smart move if you want the police to give you some slack , for crying out loud . Wahlberg overdoes the incessant , cynical skepticism about lead character Jamie's story about the killer doll , especially since the movie exists in that horror movie world where even places like police stations and hospitals are either the creepiest places in the world or haven't paid their electricity bills in some months . Doesn't he realize he's in a movie ? Nonetheless , we still expect something big from these guys , after all , Saw burst onto the scene like a freight train and no one saw it coming . Now they go from that to the killer doll sub-genre , which needless to say has been done to death for decades . So we are waiting for something new and exciting and unfortunately it just isn't there . There are numerous plot points that don't make a lot of sense , despite a few rather ambitious branches of the premise , and while some of the sight gags are fairly effective and the creepy atmosphere is undeniable , they shockingly forget the critical horror movie rule that CGI shots are just not scary . I'm going to make a bold statement , there has never once in cinematic history been a horror film that made a CGI shot scary . It's never happened . If you disagree , let me know , I'd love to see it happen , but it definitely doesn't happen here , and if an old woman sticking her foot long tongue through a doll's head is not scary then I don't know what is . The death scenes themselves are effectively creepy , as they have added the little tidbit that victims tongues are torn out . Given the fact that that is one of the selling points should tell you exactly what kind of horror movie this is . Nevertheless , the scares are pretty light . The movie's tagline says , " Whatever you do , don't scream . " I don't think that will be a problem . . .
While Nervous Man in a Four Dollar Room is not exactly one of the most interesting episodes I've seen of the show , the stifling atmosphere of the tiny room comes across very well . I almost felt claustrophobic at parts of it , not the least reason for which is the heat that accompanies the tight space . Joe Mantell stars as Jackie Rhoades , a small time crook who is hoping for one big score to get him out of his pathetic life , only to discover that the job , the details of which he spends the first half of the episode waiting for , involve committing a payback murder , a huge crime which he doesn't feel prepared to do . Unfortunately , he is forced to commit the murder under penalty of being killed himself . What follows is a battle of two sides of his mind , talking to each other through a magic mirror of sorts , in which the strong half ( in the mirror ) berates him about the life he could have had , had he been smarter and been able to stand up for himself . The effect of having a fake mirror is pulled off remarkably well , with the only real IMDb goof being the laughable claim that the buttons on his shirt weren't reversed . Come on people , quit with the ridiculous details . The performances , all two of them , are great and , while it's not the most deep and meaningful message I've seen in the series , it makes a good point about doing the right thing in the face of difficult circumstances and , maybe most of all , not taking any crap from crappy people . Not bad .
In Adam Sandler's tremendously successful 1998 comedy , The Waterboy , he plays the part of intellectually stunted Bobby Boucher . Bobby is a waterboy for various footballs teams , from whom he receives and seems to expect no respect whatsoever . This is obviously not the kind of movie that is meant to win any awards ( what Sandler movie is ? ) , but there is a definite place for movies like this . The character that Sandler creates is hideously annoying , but the comedy that comes from that is unmistakable . The laughs aren't very durable , but there are some good laughs that come from the lines that Boucher mumbles throughout the movie , and the situations are even better . While it's true that The Waterboy is a thinly veiled version of the age-old structure of the underdog coming back and winning big , the film as a whole serves its purpose well , as long as you keep in mind what that purpose is . You watch a movie like this in order to get a few cheap laughs , and that's exactly what it gives you . It's well written because it was made to be exactly the kind of movie that it is , and it can't be criticized for that . Kathy Bates is wonderful as Bobby's horribly over-bearing mother , and Henry Winkler , who was The Fonz about 1 , 000 years ago , has stooped to a heart-breakingly low level as the pathetic coach of the pathetic football team that Boucher saves as the star tackler . The scene with Coach Klein ( Winkler ) talking to his grandmother about his problems on a disconnected phone while wearing a pair of high heels is a particularly sad thing to see the original Arthur Fonzarelli to have degenerated to . On the other hand , the football scenes , which are clearly the emphasis of the film , are undeniably fun to watch . It's a classic underdog structure , but it's great to watch Bobby earnestly wish the opposing players the best of luck on the upcoming play , only to receive an offensive reply and then throw everyone else aside on his way to that player to deliver a massive tackle , even if it means sacrificing the play . We've already seen dozens of football movies , so we already know exactly how this is going to end , but luckily we have a lot of fun getting there . There is some shallow writing and an uninteresting romantic subplot ( involving the simultaneously hideous yet strangely attractive Fairuza Balk ) thrown into the film , as well as the obligatory happy ending , but as is generally the case with Sandler's movies , The Waterboy delivers what it is expected to deliver , as long as you don't expect something unreasonable from it . This was not meant to be a great film , and will be seriously considered that by virtually no one , but as a cheesy comedy with some genuinely amusing moments , The Waterboy is a huge success .
There is an unusual relationship between Infernal Affairs and Infernal Affairs II , which is the first sequel but is also a prequel and may even be better viewed before the first film . One of my Chinese friends , who suggested the trilogy to me , gave me part II first and said I could watch that before the original film , but I waited until I could buy the entire trilogy and watch them all in order . As it turns out , I may as well have listened to her . The premise is pretty much the same , a police officer working undercover for a mafia godfather , while the godfather has a trusted lieutenant working as a successful police inspector . Like the first film , it is an interesting play in the space between breaking and protecting the law , as each side is simultaneously living life as a criminal and law enforcement agent , which is clearly a difficult task . There is an interesting backdrop of the film of the return of Hong Kong to China in 1997 , the 10 year anniversary of which I experienced here in central China last June . And let me tell you , these people are really happy to have Hong Kong . They don't mess around with fireworks . For the Chinese New Year , for example , fireworks are set off almost nonstop for WEEKS . Trust me . I'm literally hearing the last of it outside my window at this very moment . None of this 30 minutes just after midnight nonsense ! It's true that the sequel is slightly lesser than the brilliant first film , but it is an engaging crime drama , especially impressive because of the performances of Police Inspector Wong ( Anthony Wong ) and the gangster Sam ( Eric Tsang ) , who were in charge of placing the moles on the opposing team , you might say . They are good friends and seem to have an easy relationship , except that each pretty much knows what the other is doing , they just don't know everything . And like in the original , this is a recipe for a pretty absorbing crime film .
Lock Up is a pretty good movie for Stallone fans , although it could easily have been much better had he not been basically a saint behind bars . Stallone plays Frank Leone , who faces multiple prison terms total , beginning with an 18-month sentence he was given for avenging the vicious beating of an old man who took him off the streets when he was a teenager . So back then he wasn't allowed to leave the prison to see his dying father ( when we meet him , he is on a weekend leave from a minimum security prison , a weekend that he spends playing ball with his kids while his charming wife looks on approvingly ) , so he breaks out to go to the funeral . So his minor prison sentence turns into a big one , although one that he spends at a comfortable minimum security joint with all kinds of perks , including weekends and conjugals and even friendships with the guards . His release is approaching when suddenly he is awakened in the middle of the night and taken to a brutal , maximum-security prison where he is to spend the rest of his sentence . It's called a " routine transfer , " although he has done nothing to deserve such an upgrade in security status and even his wife is not informed of what happened to him . Ultimately he learns that he is being transferred to the prison of Warden Drumgoole ( Donald Sutherland at his creepy best ) , who was in charge of the prison that Leone escaped from , which in turn made it into the papers and ruined Drumgoole's career . Now he has his chance for revenge , and he plans to arrange for Leone to spend the rest of his life in this prison . The movie carelessly glosses over the ease with which Drumgoole plucks Leone out of his own prison with no explanation to those in charge there , and the conflict immediately switches to Leone trying to survive in this violent prison and stay out of trouble so he doesn't screw up his chances of getting released on time so he can go back to his family . Drumgoole pulls out all the stops in violating the law that his institution is designed to uphold so that he can keep this one guy down , and Leone faces all manner of challenges ranging from shank-laden inmates to one of his inmate buddies who steals the Mustang they've all restored together and tears all over the prison yard doing doughnuts . The movie is definitely entertaining although there are times when the cheese factor is through the roof , such as the spray paint fight and the downright school-girlish friendship that Leone forms with a small group of other inmates . On the other hand , it also has a much wider target audience than your average prison movie , and it manages to generally avoid most of the gaping pitfalls that prison movies are in danger of falling into when they shoot for a wide audience . There's nothing realistic about it , but for good Stallone entertainment , this is not a bad way to follow up the massive success of the Rambo and Rocky films . Also keep your eye out for a young Tom Sizemore , but be advised that the movie features violence , unnecessary cheesiness and may leave you with an overwhelming desire to go out and get some doughnuts ?
In His New Profession , Chaplin again reverts into drunken slapstick , what I think is his weakest effect , although I am sure it was very popular back in 1914 . A man in a park is clearly very annoyed at having to care for his uncle , who is confined to a wheelchair , so he asks the Tramp to " push him around for a bit , " while he goes off chasing some girl . He does , but soon passes a bar and wants to go inside and get a drink . When the uncle won't give him a dime on account , he steals money from a sleeping homeless man's tin cup , then places his cardboard sign on the uncle and heads for the bar , where Fatty Arbuckle is almost completely unnoticed as the bartender . There are several moderately effective gags , but it seems that the film is trying to present more story than it can carry . There is a lot going on in the story , but very little of it is clear , and as is so common in these early films , it soon resorts to a lot of pushing and kicking . You can't really expect a whole lot more than that from these early comedies , but as it is , there is not much to make this one stand out from the rest of Chaplin's early work . Even Chaplin himself begins and ends the film with a yawn ! ! !
Ginger Snaps is kind of strange because it is , by definition , a teen horror movie , a genre which I have come to find is made up of almost exclusively awful movies . These are generally the stupid teen horror / sex comedies cranked out by Hollywood , but Ginger Snaps is able to escape that , with no help from the special effects department , by the way . The werewolf featured in the movie is an intricate piece of horror machinery , but it is immensely unconvincing . I have to admit that I had a hard time getting interested in the movie and often found myself checking how much time was left before it ended , but that is probably mostly because when I was watching it I still wanted to watch Bride of Chucky and Willard before going to bed . The very beginning of the movie starts with a great montage of some impressive shots of a typical Canadian suburb , I suppose . A quiet , picturesque community in which we can expect some not so quiet or picturesque things will soon happen . It's not long before a mutilated dog is discovered , and its owner , an understandably frantic woman whose son found a piece of the dog in his sandbox , runs out front and screams that it got her dog . Evidently there is some wild beast running loose , and it's not long before Brigitte and Ginger , the movie's two disturbed and disturbing sisters , have a run-in with it . We are introduced to a pair of sisters who live comfortably as outcasts in their school and neighborhood . Comfortably , of course , only because they each despise the majority of their classmates and other people , not because they enjoy their social status as outcasts . Ginger , played by Katharine Isabelle , may be more famous in America for her role in Freddy vs . Jason , and as horror fans surely you remember Emily Perkins , who plays Brigitte , from her role as Beverly Marsh in ' It . ' Anyway , Perkins does a great job as the outcast disgusted with people in general , although her constant look of antipathy on a face always half covered with hair tends to get a little old . It's hard to accept as a protagonist someone who is constantly sneering at the world . What I really liked about the movie was the way it tied in Ginger's transformation with the raging hormones that tend to impact the lives of teenagers at right about that time of life . Well , typically about three years earlier , but that's just another reason the girls reject close friendships with other people . Three years late with their menstruation and dressed in heavy , dark clothing complete with over-sized and untied Dr . Martens , knee-high black socks , dark plaid skirts and heavy black coats tends to be a combination that wins you no points with the cheerleader crowd . Thus it is more understandable why the two sisters have developed such a bond , which is unusually close even for twins ( which they are not ) . There is one point in the movie , after having been attacked , scratched and bitten , I think , by the neighborhood werewolf , Ginger starts to grow hair out of the huge claw-wounds on her shoulder , and in one scene finds herself talking to the school nurse , who explains to her about changes in her body , such as hair where there was no hair before . This is even further tied in with the girls ' disgust with their own emerging sexuality , as Ginger's period equated with the disease she was given by the werewolf , referred to as ' the curse . ' Given their attitudes about sexuality , it would seem that menstruation is being referred to , but in the context of the rest of the movie I would think that a disease that turns you into a hideous , hairless wolf would qualify for that title more than something as natural as menstruation . Screenwriter Karen Walton clearly writes from the perspective of someone who has been through the turmoil of female development , since a man could never have written something as accurate as this movie . On the other hand , I have no idea what it's like for teenage girls during puberty , so I don't have much way of knowing how accurate the portrayal really is , but I knew a lot of girls in high school and these girls look and act a lot like the girls I knew did . Except for the whole fangs and blood thing . Oh and the pictures of fake suicides . I never knew anyone who was into that stuff all that much . I remember when I was in high school I did have a femur pen exactly like the ones that Ginger and Brigitte both use in this movie . I used to use it to show people where I had broken mine when I was a kid . Snapped that ball at the top right off and it was no fun at all . I remember that my pen wrote in this weird purplish color and didn't write very well , as you can see briefly in one scene in the movie , but it was still a cool pen . Clearly , since the movie spawned two sequels , which both came out in quick succession , there must be something good about it . I was not that impressed with the lycanthrope at the end of the movie , but I loved how much it was kept off screen for more than the first hour , just like Spielberg kept that shark out of Jaws completely for a good portion of the film . I like to think that , like Spielberg , director John Fawcett knew that he had something mediocre in the effects department , if only because a living , breathing , bleeding werewolf is not the easiest thing to come up with on what must have been a less than extensive budget . It really is surprising that Ginger Snaps is able to deal almost exclusively with teens and their budding sexuality and not come off as another exploitive teen horror movie , but it succeeds because the movie is well written , directed , and performed by everyone involved . Also featured is a wonderful performance from Mimi Rogers , who , as the girls ' mother , clearly remembers what it was like to go through what Ginger is going through , but just as clearly has no idea how to handle their outbursts ( consider her reaction in the scene when Ginger screams at her to get out of the bathroom ) . I can't speak for the sequels yet , but this movie is worth a look .
To put it in Eddie Furlong's own words , there won't be any Academy Awards here . But who cares ? This isn't the kind of movie that makes a person expect a brilliant script or spectacular acting , so they can get away with a little cheesiness . The scene early in the film when ' Jam ' ( Sam Huntington ) gets tangled up and winds up getting hit in the face with the phone is one of the funniest parts in the movie , despite the fact that it was totally unrealistic . I would normally have no sympathy for someone who didn't just bend their foot a little bit to get the spring off and thereby remove any danger , but I refuse to believe anyone who says that they didn't laugh when that thing pulled him back across the floor . Huntington stole every scene he was in , particularly that side-splitting scene with the phone , as well as a hilarious scene in the classroom when one of his classmates ( Beth ) tries to tell him that she has a crush on him . Guiseppe Andrews was also very good as Lex , the long-haired rock n ' roll fanatic , and James DeBello as Trip fulfilled the early ' Cure ' type role . Furlong , on the other hand , doesn't seem to be doing so great . Remember how huge he was after Terminator 2 ? Sure , 90 % of all of that hoopla was because the movie was so good , but you have to admit that Eddie delivered a quality performance in that film . Now , in Detroit Rock City , we have him playing a geeky high school kid in 1978 trying desperately to make his way into a KISS concert . I think that he did a god job in this role , but it's the type of role that is a drop in quality for him , at least from the tremendous Terminator 2 days . In Detroit Rock City , there's a scene where Eddie does a strip tease at a male strip club , trying to win money with which to buy tickets , and he reveals to the world that he has grown into the soft physique of a thirteen year old kid . And this is the guy that was on the cover of every teen magazine you could find only a few years ago . Natasha Lyonne appears in the small and fairly unenviable role of a dreaded disco girl , but she fills the role very nicely with her quality acting . She plays the part of one of the girls with whom all four of these high school rock n ' roll geeks eventually find romance , which is probably the only part of the story that the movie could really have done without . On the other hand , the entire film plays like every high school kid's fantasy . These guys receive no respect whatsoever at school , yet on this trip to see KISS , they all end up being heroes in the most outrageous ways . Normally I don't like stuff like this , but you just have to let that go in order to enjoy the movie , because if you do that , it's really funny and really entertaining . Another character that is worth mentioning is the notorious hall monitor who , judging from his appearance , probably should have been named " Wolverine " instead of " Elvis . " Detroit Rock City wasn't made to go down in film history . It was made to make people laugh and to entertain , and I think that it did that on many levels . I'm also glad that the actual band didn't overshadow the film , because if they had played extensive roles , it could really have taken away from the film as a whole . This is a unique adventure story , however unlikely , about four kids who just want to go see their favorite band and encounter every setback imaginable . Never mind trying to figure out who the target audience is , just enjoy Detroit Rock City for the goofy comedy that it is .
I live in the middle of China so I don't get to see shows like this very often except when I'm back in the states visiting family , like now , but I've had a soft spot for these amazing videos shows ever since I first noticed how captivating live coverage of police chases in my native Los Angeles was , and then discovered COPS . I haven't seen more than maybe a dozen episodes of this show , but I've seen enough to know that the videos are often groan-inducing or genuinely frightening and are almost always ruined by the goofy narration . Like John Walsh's goofball , wildly over-dramatic narration of America's Most Wanted , the videos , even the really amazing ones , are almost always accompanied by laughable descriptions , which leave me with the feeling that if you took away phrases like bone crunching , or battered bodies , or narrowly escaped , or lucky to be alive , or watery grave , well , they just wouldn't have anything at all to say and wouldn't that just make for a completely different show . But either way , you can hardly do better for a lazy Sunday afternoon . If the show seems repetitive , you watch it too much . Otherwise , enjoy !
It is strange that a made-for-TV-remake ( and yes , this is definitely a remake ) of the Best Picture winner from 1930 should be so easily as good , and probably better , than the original . This is a special situation because most of what needed improvement in the original was not things that required special effects or much movie magic ( the battle scenes , for example , are outstanding in both films ) , but the realism of it all , specifically things like life on the battlefield , realistic dialogue , and clumsy thematic delivery . FIrst of all , the movie starts right out on the battlefield and is pretty impressive right away . Donald Pleasance is wonderful as the German propaganda teacher buttering the young men up for enlistment , and very soon you'll notice that a lot of the scenes are taken directly out of the original except , as I mentioned , now the realism is updated , which is extremely important . All Quiet on the Western Front , love it or hate it , is one of the most famous anti-war films / books of all time , and because of that , most of the more memorable scenes in the film are meant to deliver this message , but some work and some don't work so well . There is a scene , for example , where the new recruits line up in front of the train and see the wounded being brought back before their very eyes . It's a moving scene , to be sure , but I imagine removing the badly wounded soldiers right in front of the new soldiers heading to the front lines would have been considered bad taste even during World War I . Especially in propaganda-heavy Germany . Speaking of which , the fact that the movie is told from the German perspective is a bit of a difficult area for the film , since it stars almost entirely American and British actors , and we only know they're German , other than from a background knowledge of the story , because it's mentioned a few times through dialogue . The point of the story is to illustrate the difference between gloriously fighting for your country and the reality of trench-warfare . As soon as the new recruits arrive at the front , Ernest Borgnine , in an exceptional performance as Kat , the most experienced private on the front lines , quickly lets them know that even after all of their training , they don't know a single thing about war ( " In training camp they fill you full of fancy information on how to be a soldier . We're going to work hard to forget all that . " ) . While most of the more clunky scenes are smoothed out in this remake , some of them are still pretty obvious . I was happy to see that the scene where Paul Baumer , one of the main characters , kills a Frenchman in hand-to-hand combat and then bitterly remorses the act afterwards is changed , but it's not changed much . He mortally injures the man and is then stuck in a hole with him until morning , when he finally dies . He does give a bit of a ham-handed speech , but at least it's more realistic than the original . More importantly , this time it takes the focus away from the pointlessness of war deaths and turns it to the politicians , who come across as warmongers ( " We could be brothers . But they never want us to know that . They never want us to know . . . " ) . Makes you shudder to think of them generating hatred among young men like puppet-masters so they can send them over to further their agendas . The end of the film faithfully re-creates the end of the original , with Baumer taking a trip home due to an injury , only to be confronted with the reality that his country is completely removed from what is really happening on the western front . It's strange though , that when he embarks on his 16 days of convalescent leave , he does so in full battle gear - helmet , grenades , rifle and everything . Seems like that might be a little unnerving to the public . Nevertheless , the movie certainly gets its point across , but it still leaves me with the feeling that it can still be so much more . It is a very effective piece of anti-war cinema , but even with all of the improvements since the 1930 version , it is still not authentic .
The Three Amigos is one of those movies that can be hugely entertaining and amusing but only if you keep in mind that it is not a serious film . Chevy Chase , Martin Short , and Steve Martin , some of the funniest men ever to work in comedy , all team up here as The Three Amigos , a group of out of work actors in early Hollywood cinema . The unfortunate thing is that this is not a movie that is greater than the sum of its parts , since I would expect more from actors with the caliber of Martin , Chase , and Short , even working individually , but even the fact that they are all not used to their full potential is not enough to bring down the rest of the comedy here . The story involves the three out of work silent film actors , who suddenly find themselves unemployed and broke when they receive a telegram from a small village in Mexico desperately asking their assistance . I liked how clever the ploy was where the woman who sent the message was so poor that she could not afford enough words to make her desires clear , so the Amigos read the message and think that they are about to be paid a fortune just to make an appearance in this village . Naturally they jump at the chance since they have nothing better to do . Most of the rest of the film deals with their adventures in this village , which they are supposed to be protecting from an evil villain but do not realize that this is real life until one of them gets shot . You would think that they would have caught on sooner , but on the other hand , they DID happen to stumble into the only tiny village in Mexico where no one speaks Spanish , so it's not hard to understand why they thought the whole thing was a set up . If I went to Mexico and was walking around a dusty village with nothing but endless desert on every side and every single person was speaking only English , I would also wonder what movie set I had just wandered onto . There is some interesting biblical content , which is made interesting really only because of the great satire . As the Amigos are walking through the valley in the shadow of death , they come upon not the talking bush or the burning bush , but the SINGING bush , and can't seem to get it to stop singing long enough to answer their question . ' Will you please stop singing and tell us if you are the singing bush ! ' There's a hilarious sequence right after this about the invisible horseman , and just before was one of my favorite moments in the entire film , when Chase attempts to get off his horse but only succeeds in getting onto the horse next to him facing backwards and seems to be unsure about what just happened . A lot of this movie is made up of funny skits which are strung along a thin and less than convincing clothesline of a plot , but even though the plot itself is not very believable the movie is still very entertaining . There are a lot of scenes that seem to go too far or just don't really seem to fit with the rest of the film ( such as the campfire scene where all the animals join in to the campfire singing ) , but for the most part the comedy is very good and there are a lot of memorable scenes ( the canteen scene in the desert for example , is one to remember ! ) . Not a film that was meant to win any Oscars , but there is definitely some great comic entertainment to be had with The Three Amigos .
Sunnyside reminds me of some of the early films in Alfred Hitchcock's career , like Rich & Strange or The Skin Game , which are curiosity pieces both because they come from such massive directors and are still so empty and disappointing . Like some of Hitch's early films , Sunnyside for Charlie Chaplin represents to me a point in his early career when he was testing the waters and still trying to find out what he is really best at doing . Some people were disappointed that Chaplin forced the Tramp into the unlikely role of a farmhand , forgetting that the very nature of the Tramp is that he is such an everyman that he can be placed in virtually every different kind of situation , from brick-layer to World War I soldier , and Chaplin can use his particular brand of comedy to deliver his clever political themes and brilliant slapstick . Some of the situations and sequences don't work so well or run as smoothly as many of Chaplin's more famous ones , and there is a bizarre sequence involving some dancing nymphs , but it is interesting to consider how this early , experimental film foreshadows the work that Chaplin did later in much more famous and highly superior films like City Lights and The Kid . Throughout the film are what may be taken as examples of the exasperation that Chaplin has admitted to having during the production of the film , but to call is a total loss is missing the mark completely . Certainly not the best of Chaplin's early short films , but I don't think Chaplin ever made a real failure .
Double Jeopardy is an interesting enough thriller , but it just isn't as satisfying as you would expect a movie with this premise to be . Ashley Judd is just annoying for the first hour or so of the film , and it isn't until the fugitive style chase begins that the movie gets really interesting . And this , of course , is where Tommy Lee's excellent acting is the most entertaining and fun . He has unfortunately been somewhat typecast since his spectacular performance in The Fugitive , but at least he has been typecast in a role that is always fun to watch and that he can always pull off excellently . I think it's pointless to try to argue whether or not the whole double jeopardy law can truly be handled in the way that it was described in the film , but as a crime film Double Jeopardy was pretty good . Judd's husband in the film is one of those characters that's easy to hate , and not only because of what he did in the movie . You just look at this guy and you immediately don't like him . That's good casting , but it also completely voided any effectiveness that his ' auction ' might ever have had . And how about that coffin scene ! Who cares that no one gets buried in a coffin that has plenty of room for two ! That was one of the creepiest things I've seen in a movie in years . Clearly , there is nothing spectacular about Double Jeopardy . It's not going to win any awards and it probably won't be remembered for very long . But it has a certain charm that can unfortunately only be appreciated if you're in the right state of mind when you watch it . Don't expect it to be as good as The Fugitive just because Tommy Lee Jones is in it ( really , are any movies as good as The Fugitive ? ) . I mean , let's face it , Double Jeopardy isn't even as good as Under Siege , but as far as a moderately entertaining crime thriller to kill a couple hours , you could definitely do a lot worse .
The similarities between Zathura and its 1995 counterpart , Jumanji , are so extensive that you will probably end up having exactly the same opinion of the new one as you did of the original . But Zathura is not really a sequel to Jumanji , it's more of a remake . Strange that a remake would come along so soon after the first movie , but there area some definite leaps forward in terms of special effects , although not in terms of the plot , which is pretty much identical to Jumanji . An important difference is that the characters in Zathura are three-dimensional and realistic . The performances of the two boys in the movie , as well as the dialogue written for them , approach a level of flawlessness that I would never have expected to see from such young actors . Clearly , it's not exactly much of a stretch for them to get in character , since they are essentially playing themselves , but these are a couple of the best young performances I've ever seen in a movie . Kristen Stewart , who has appeared more more than 20 movies in her less than 20 years , also nails her lines as their disgusted older sister Lisa . There is a scene mid-way through the movie where , for reasons that should give you an idea of what kind of adventure this is , the family sofa slowly rolls end over end and on fire into the depths of outer space . My immediate reaction was to think ' Hey , fire doesn't burn in space ? ' and then I remembered that the burning sofa was emerging from a charming two - story home which was orbiting Saturn with two young boys standing on the porch . The application of logic will do nothing but aggravate you and totally ruin the experience . Tim Robbins has a limited role of a divorced father of two young boys , Walter and Danny , who are just at that age where they fight over everything imaginable . Frustrations are growing as dad needs time to himself for work , Danny wants to play with his older brother , and Walter wants nothing to do with him . Dad has to leave them alone for a while to go to the office , and Danny finds a game buried in the basement called Zathura . He tries to get Walter to play , but Walter wants to watch ESPN . As is the case in the first movie , the game is started accidentally and then All Hell Breaks Loose . What begins with a harmless indoor meteor shower that completely destroys nothing but the living room soon evolves to the point where the house has been uprooted and put into orbit around Saturn and an armada of space ships piloted by vicious Zorgons are attacking with all manner of alien firepower . Similarities to the first movie get a little too close for comfort when it's revealed that the boys have to finish the game successfully in order to get back to the real world , but it doesn't stop the movie from being a lot of fun . My only real gripe with the movie is that I think they overshot a little bit with the message about the importance of siblings . It's clear that the movie is aimed for a bit of a younger audience due to the heavy reliance on action and special effects and the thinness of the plot , but when the truth is revealed about the astronaut that fulfills the role of Robin Williams ' character in Jumanji it's pretty hard not to roll the eyes at least a little bit . It is , however , an important message , although a little less ham-handedness in the delivery wouldn't have hurt . As a science fiction film the movie works great , especially as a more family-oriented story . The special effects are impressive ( particularly the killer robot , which is probably the most consistently outstanding effect in the entire movie ) and the dangers of space travel and alien encounters are mixed brilliantly with the storybook adventure of two young boys trapped in a dangerous situation and simply trying to , ah , get home . If nothing else , Zathura must surely be the biggest adventure that two young boys have ever had in trying to get home without ever leaving their house . Director Jon Favreau first came to my attention in Swingers in 1996 but has lately been making big waves in the directing department . His previous directing features had been Elf and the hilarious 2001 crime comedy Made , and lately he's been keeping himself busy with the first two Iron Man movies . Zathura seems like a perfect midway point between the amusing comedies of his early directing career and the big-time science fiction that he's working on now . Zathura is not his best work , but it's definitely some of the better family - oriented science fiction to come along recently .
The title of this movie at once reminds me of those instantly forgettable direct-to-video movies that seem to come out by the hundreds , but soon you realize that it is the perfect title for this story . The story takes place in a country called Moldavia , where there is much internal strife over an alleged order that the president gave , which led to a huge amount of innocent deaths . An insurgency rises , demanding that the president be tried in their custody , which presumably would consist of not much more than a brief mention of his crimes followed by torture and execution . That's just an assumption , of course . Van Damme plays Commander Sam Keenan , a Navy Seal sent in to handle the situation , which grows increasingly desperate and dire . One of the best things about the film is how realistically it presents the mass protests , which are so good that I imagine they must have used stock footage of real protests . Either way , they are seamlessly integrated into the film . Unfortunately , the one street on which the majority of the exterior scenes are filmed looks strikingly like a soundstage , but no matter . The gunfights , another easily botched element , are quite well done here . There is an authority battle as the clearly competent Keenan struggles to convince the commanders around him of a course of action that might save everyone but may also be more dangerous , while others in the top echelon immediately decide upon the tactic that will certainly save some lives but also certainly doom others . Keenan plays a pretty generic hero in this way , going the more dangerous route to save more lives , but it is undeniable that this is Van Damme at his highest class . He's not given a lot of meaningful stuff to do ( he gets to say cool lines like " Get the people to the TLU and the president to the ACR . Go ! " ) , but this is one of his best performances . His primary assignment is to hold off the impending insurgent force while both the American military and the Croatian army close in , conveniently with exactly the same ETA . You know something big is going to happen soon . Sadly , the CGI air support is pretty dismal , but it serves its purpose . The leader of the insurgency is also a little too much of a movie villain , although I like the final confrontation between him and Keenan ( which would be a spoiler , but did you really think that wouldn't happen ? ) , in which Keenan does something that reveals a deep flaw in his character . It's something that some people in the military might like to do to the bad guys in real life , but not the kind of thing you expect from a benevolent movie hero . And by the way , I love how , even with the sheer magnitude of firepower in the movie , it all comes down to a hand-to-hand knife fight . The movie ends with a sufficiently cheesy scene , although it stands out as a pretty glaring omission that the true guilt or innocence of the president , who allegedly caused so many deaths , was never proved one way or the other . I have been learning a lot about Mao Tse - tung lately , which has led to a gigantic mistrust of certain governments and powerful individuals . I guess we have to assume that he didn't commit the crime of which he was accused . Maybe they were banking on the " Insurgents " vs . the " President , " so people would automatically assume who were the bad guys and who was the good guy . Too bad it's not that clear cut in real life ?
Yeah , Nicolas Cage is back in another romantic comedy , and the result is about the same , actually . He plays a guy who left his girlfriend from college and went off to school in Europe , a choice which led him to a high-level job , a Ferrari , and an apartment in a high-rise building in New York . Along comes , I don't know , The Ghost of Relationships Past , who gives him a glimpse of what his life would have been like had he not ended his relationship with his girlfriend ( the stunningly beautiful Tea Leoni , in an excellent performance ) at the airport that day . Sound familiar ? Well , I don't think there was much effort put into hiding the similarities to the old Christmas Story , which is one of the things that really brought the movie down , despite the fact that it took place during Christmas-time . Who was this guy ? He turned out to be some sort of angel or something who went around testing the quality of people's characters and ? rewarding ' them if they turned out to be of good character , or some such nonsense . Jack Campbell ( Cage ) bribes a would-be robber ( Cheadle , the angel , who is curiously named ' Cash ' ) out of forcing a cashier to cash a suspicious lottery ticket , and bingo , he gets a prize that turns out to be a ' glimpse ' at What Would Have Been . A liquor store cashier ( Cheadle again ) mistakenly rings up $10 when a young girl really only paid with $1 , she doesn't say anything and walks out of the store wide-eyed , and bingo , he disgustedly pays back the difference out of his pocket , and no prize for her . This part of the story is never explained very well , and this guy pops up in some strange places without any explanation . The rest of the movie was actually pretty good . When Campbell gets a look at what he could have had , his initial fear and dislike is eventually eroded away as he begins to like what life is like when he has someone who he loves and who loves him . The most entertaining part of the movie comes from watching him , first of all , doing what he does as the arrogant rich business executive , and most of all , watching him try to get used to the fact that his entire life has been changed , albeit temporarily , literally overnight . Nicholas Cage's charm really comes through in some great scenes as he adapts to the middle class life , as opposed to the upper upper class life , such as when he's going through his poor self's closet to find a jacket ( ' Oh , this is just sub-par . ' ) . That's some funny stuff . As far as the romance goes , yeah it's pretty prevalent , especially in the second half of the film , but for the most part it's not too exaggerated , and when you see what goes on between Campbell and his wife , Kate ( Leoni ) it's not too hard to see why he began to have conflictions about going back to his old life , full of money and empty sex . Don't be put off just because Nicholas Cage is in The Family Man and he always gets a little awkward in romantic roles , because this is definitely one of his better ones .
The script is pretty weak and at least as many bad things as good things were brought over from the original for this remake , but the 1990 version of George Romero's classic horror film has its heart in the right place , I guess you could say . The movie wastes no time , starting out in a cemetery where a bickering brother and sister have driven no small amount of distance to visit the grave of their mother . So the Don't Go Into A Cemetery rule of horror movies is immediately broken and swiftly punished . I really liked the way the zombies were introduced , it reminded me of the zombies in Shaun of the Dead , where Shaun walked among them , not paying attention to his surroundings , before noticing that he was surrounded by the walking dead . Patricia Tallman turns in a satisfactory performance as Barbara , the sister involved in the opening scene and the heroine of the movie . I thought it was strange that she turns out to be such a strong character when at the beginning of the movie she was immediately reduced to a blubbering basket-case when she arrived at the farmhouse in which most of the movie takes place . Granted , she had just witnessed her brother being killed by a zombie , but no matter how much I sympathize with their plight , I can't stand hysterical people in horror movies , male or female . When someone starts whining and moaning and screaming and crying and sobbing and blubbering and won't even respond to someone shaking them and hollering into their face , I just want them to hurry up and get killed so they'll shut the hell up . Harry Cooper is still the same ridiculous jerkoff he was in the first movie , displaying an entirely unacceptable and unjustifiable state of constant rage , even when finally finding himself in the company of other living , breathing people rather than mindless zombies . Just like the security guard in Dawn of the Dead , this guy wants his own way , even if it means separating himself from other living people , who are fast becoming an endangered species . One thing I'm not sure I understand is the way his insults have been updated to fit the modern times of 1990 . At one point , after locking himself , his wife and his zombie-bitten daughter alone together in the basement , he flings a few more vicious insults at the people in the rest of the house , curiously calling them ' lame-brains , ' and ' yo-yo's . ' If this movie was meant to be shown on the Disney channel , I could understand including such words in the script . But it wasn't . I don't even think the Disney channel was around in 1990 . The zombies are updated , needless to say , but they're not over-the-top and they maintain the general appearance of the original zombies . There's nothing worse than using special effects just because they're there , and this remake doesn't do it . Then there are newer horror movies made that try to improve upon the make-up in the original films , such as the first color installment in the Night of the Living Dead series , the original Dawn of the Dead , tried to do it in color and wound up with a lot of bad extras wearing blue make-up all over their faces . Awful . ( spoilers ) There are lots of radio broadcasts throughout about an epidemic of mass murder being committed by a virtual army of unidentified assassins and do not attempt to reach loved ones and blah blah blah . A brother and sister finally get Ben's truck running enough to get it to the gas pump ( the fact that it was out of gas should have been mentioned earlier than it was , because it looked a little ridiculous to see him drive up to the house and then frantically shake Barbara , asking her repeatedly if she has a car ) , only to be killed by fatal stupidity . I have to admit that I thought the ending was fairly clever . The horribly ironic ending of the original has been changed , but it's still horribly ironic . The whole gang of characters gets saved by a bunch of drunken rednecks , who gleefully and repeatedly shoot zombies between pounding cans of beer , stringing them up in the trees and whatnot , while one character has a bit of insight about the zombies , ' They're us and we're them . ' Nice , but I could have done without the philosophy lesson . I think this remake really tried hard to justify itself , to be more than just a static colorization of a classic , and I think that to a large extent it succeeds . Where it falls short is that it doesn't know what is good and what can be changed about the original . Lots of good is brought through , but there are a few things that I could simply have done without . I'm not a big fan of people remaking classic movies and changing them , but Harry Cooper needs a total character overhaul . Nevertheless , this one's worth a look .
Like more than one other episode this season , this was a great show except for the whole theatrical element . Evidently there has been a mysterious gang of thugs brutally beating people all over the city for no apparent reason . Things get immediately interesting when Greg stumbles across the gang in the middle of one of their beatings and tries to break it up . As I would have done , he backs up his Denali and drives toward them honking his horn with his police lights flashing . All of the thugs run except for one , who is made to look like a horror movie psycho who is completely fearless of the police , and instead of running away , he charges toward Greg's truck with a rock in his hand . The episode starts off really good with the sudden sense of danger falling over the city because the attacks are so brutal and so random . It very effectively takes away that real life sense of safety that we have in our everyday lives , but then it falters because we get these psychotic teenagers beating people to death . I know we live in a violent world and I know that Vegas is the Sin City , but kids just don't do that . One of them is caught and questioned , and after arrogantly snapping at every question the police ask her and generally acting like a high school girl lashing out at her parents , she admits that she and her " friends " regularly get together and beat random tourists within an inch of their lives just because they get tired of seeing them everywhere . It's not uncommon for CSI to give us murder cases that happen under wildly outlandish situations ( remember the guy who killed himself with the gun tied to a piece of elastic that pulled it up the chimney after he shot himself ? ) , but this is an example of one of the stories that was just a little too unrealistic as far as basic human behavior . Oh and yeah , Kevin Federline was in it . Who cares .
Catherine Deneuve plays Séverine Serizy , an obviously unsatisfied wife of a man who does not mistreat her as much as he simply doesn't seem to interest her enough sexually . She is in a financially comfortable but otherwise largely uninteresting relationship with him . There are a lot of strange aberrant fantasies that are placed periodically throughout the film , the meaning of which pertains to what is going on in the characters ' lives at the times that they are presented . The movie starts off by showing a lengthy and rather disturbing example of one of these fantasies , in which Séverine is pulled from her carriage by the two drivers after her lukewarm response to her fiancée's marriage proposal , and then tied to a tree and beaten and raped . A scene this strange and disturbing this early in the movie immediately presents her as an unsatisfied woman searching for fulfillment outside of her marriage . The fantasy at the beginning of the film quickly reveals itself to be Séverine's , who otherwise appears to be fairly normal and well-adjusted . Séverine is involved in a relationship with Pierre , for whom she has feelings but none of them have anything to do with pleasure , and she constantly seeks other fulfillment , at first in fantasies and then by working part time at a brothel . There is a colorful variety of characters that frequent the brothel and whom Séverine does not always enjoy working with ( or for ) , but the exact activities that go on while she is at work are beside the larger point , which is that she is escaping the dreariness of a typical marriage and displaying some sort of sexual independence , which was a bad thing to do in Spain under the dictatorship of Franco ( and , as was the case in El Bruto , also serves as the reason that this movie could not possibly have been made in Spain in 1967 , given Franco's enormously oppressive censorship system ) . There are themes of dissatisfaction that run throughout the movie , even in small things like the fact that the champagne in the movie never seems to be cold enough , characters complaining that champagne is never that great if it's not cold enough , and things like this tie in with the dissatisfaction that is obviously prevalent in the marriage between Séverine and Pierre . One of the things that ties in closest with some of Bunuel's earlier films is the theme of the dishonesty from the woman , which is complicated in Belle de Jour by the irony that is involved in her dishonesty . She leads of double life , maintaining her respectable composure in her relationship with Pierre but also working as a prostitute named Belle de Jour a few times a week , fulfilling an erotic need that is never explained or displayed any more than absolutely necessary . Pierre is completely oblivious to what is going on in her life until late in the film when one of her shabby clients , who has fallen in love with her , shoots him , confining him to a wheelchair and blinding him . It's strange that Pierre is struck blind only when the truth begins to come out . His vision has been destroyed by the very thing that was causing his blindness throughout his entire relationship with Séverine . Pierre develops the feeling that he is a burden to Séverine , his ' pure ' wife , and wants to have his life ended since he's paralyzed . He does not want to burden her anymore , until Mr . Husson , the man who discovered what Séverine had been doing , let him know what was going on ( giving in to an understandable humane decision that it is simply not right to allow a man to torture himself over a woman who has herself led such a dishonest life in her relationship with him ) . ( spoilers ) At the end of the film , there is a fantasy which has been said to be possibly Séverine's and possibly Pierre's , but we are never told for sure which one , in which Pierre stands up out of his wheelchair , his sight restored , and they display a happy and healthy marriage . It seems to me that this is clearly a fantasy of Séverine's , which significantly suggests that , although it IS a fantasy and Pierre is still confined to a wheelchair , she no longer fantasizes about being beaten and raped and abused , and that she is ready to have a happy marriage and that Pierre is enough for her , despite being bound to a wheelchair . It seems to me that she has accepted herself as who she is and Pierre for who he is and , most importantly , his injury as a result of her own sexual digressions . A lifetime of loyalty is the LEAST she could give him .
Outside Providence seems like just another low budget , goofy high school comedy from the preview , but it is really a good movie . Timothy Dunphy is the lovable high school screw-up whose father sends him off to boarding school after he is involved in an accident with a parked police cruiser while smoking pot with his loser buddies . He develops an unlikely romantic relationship with the stunningly beautiful Jane Weston ( Amy Smart ) at the repressive school while fighting off the disciplinary excesses of the school faculty . This seems like the premise of the kind of ridiculous high school comedies that characterized the 80s ( Screwballs , Ski School , etc . ) , but Outside Providence works well because it has heart . Timothy Dunphy is sent off unwillingly to this hellish school , and it turns out to be a really eye-opening experience for him . He develops a lot of insight about himself , his friends , his romantic endeavors , and his family . The story is not exactly something that is entirely original , but the presentation of the film and the acting are extremely good , and the end result is a great comedy . Alec Baldwin delivers a hilarious performance as the emotionally closed-off father , regularly referring to his own son as " dildo . " He steals every scene he is in , and he should be particularly noted for his ability to give such a convincing portrayal of an emotionless , macho father and still be convincing in the emotionally tense scene between him and Timothy where he describes Tim's late mother . That scene in particular is unexpectedly intense . Outside Providence is a good comedy . It does not resort to tasteless sexual fourth-grade humor to pull it along ( which is one of the biggest problems with teen comedies lately - American Pie , Scary Movie ( there was no hope for that one from the beginning ) , There's Something About Mary , and Road Trip , which should have been a great movie ) . Instead , Outside Providence focuses on character development and a good story , and tops it all off with a healthy amount of comedy in the form of the cast , the characters , the script , dialogue , and pretty much everything else . Probably one of the best elements of this movie is that it is not a relentless comedy . It doesn't grab desperately for a laugh every second of the way , but instead it rounds out the content with drama , romance , skillful comedy , as well as good writing , directing , and acting . Outside Providence is badly underrated and should not be missed .
Consider that so many of the roles that Arnold Schwarzenegger takes on are so similar , including Predator , and yet this film is so much better than most of the others . I enjoy watching his movies just because he's such a watch-able guy , even in his bad movies ( which are many ) , but I think the thing that really makes Predator stand out is its simplicity . The movie starts , the guys get dropped in the jungle , lots of blood and carnage flies across the screen , and the movie simply ends . No romance , no complex back story , no soldier struggling with problems in his past or even trauma caused by the horrible things he experiences during the movie . This is one of the things that made First Blood so good . It may turn out to be a movie about a lot of muscle-bound meatheads in the woods , but it doesn't insult the audience or try to apply complexity to a story that can't support it . Interestingly , the movie features two eventual governors . Jesse Ventura even wrote a book which was released while he was the governor of Minnesota and he used his favorite line in this movie as the title . And the book's actually pretty interesting ; there are some funny stories in it about things that went on while they were filming this movie . Arnold , on the other hand , is actually ( and thankfully ) given a relatively small amount of stupid one-liners , which are an idiotic byproduct of hard action movies that I've never really understood the necessity for . They don't reveal anything about the characters who say them , they don't add to the story or further the plot , and with rare exceptions , they're not funny . But I guess comic relief has to come from somewhere , and since complexity is not a requisite for movies like this , I can't really expect a lot of thought being put into the comedic content either . I watched Predator having never seen it from beginning to end and having just re-watched the original Alien . I am currently in the process of re-watching both series ' , for obvious reasons . One thing that I notice about both of them is the way they take their time in introducing the enemies which , in both films , are aliens . Predator doesn't waste much time dwelling on the origin of the alien , we pretty much assume it came from a space ship that flashed across the screen at the opening of the movie . Alien , on the other hand , went into remarkable detail about where its alien came from . What Predator does do , very effectively , I think , is that it has the guys fighting some very human enemies , which allows the movie to later take its sweet time in having them realize that the new enemy is not human at all . This is also , incidentally , weakly rehashed in the sequel , using the secrecy of this mission and team as an excuse to have more guys who don't know what's going on . The death scenes are actually pretty tasteful , given the genre . They are just gory enough to illustrate the violence of the enemy without being gratuitous . Just enough is shown to show how vicious the alien is , and there are some strange things done to and with the bodies that make you wonder about the alien's intentions or needs . The first deaths suggest vengeance if not some sort of ritual , but later ones suggest that the alien may be feeding off of his ( or her ) victims . Oddly enough , it is not until the awful Predator 2 that we learn that it kills for sport . Yes , the movie occasionally gets embarrassingly macho , but the skill with which it is put together far overshadows any tough-guy goofiness . Consider , for example , the ease with which the movie switches from showing the guys hunting the alien to their realization that they are the ones being hunted . In some cases , this transition takes place during a single shot and with virtually no movement in the shot at all except a change in someone's expression . It is truly a fight between a group of predators , which we understand because they are human like us , and a single predator whose powers and weaknesses are unknown . It's not Oscar material , needless to say , but it's a great action movie in part because it already knows that .
Life As A House tells the story of an aging man diagnosed with terminal cancer who makes one of those deathbed conversions from a hopeless slob and absentee father into someone who wants to reunite himself with his son and rebuild the shack that he has been living in for most of his life , much of which was spent with a wife that he had been promising a new house to throughout nearly their entire marriage . Hayden Christensen plays exactly the same role that he played in Episode II , a whiny little brat , with the exception that in this movie , he ultimately grows to love his father , who he has no relationship with and no desire to start one now . I saw Attack of the Clones before I saw Life As A House , and I think that part of Christensen's skill as an actor is that he can be so aggravatingly whiny , although I'm not sure I would consider that a skill . His teenage angst came through fairly well in Life As A House , but he overacts so much that he is almost completely unconvincing . ( spoilers ) As a whole , the film is about overcoming old grudges and getting people back together , even if this reunion is the result only of an impending death . The obligatory happy ending is certainly noticeable , but it's not entirely unsatisfying . At the risk of sounding morbid , I'm glad that they didn't go so far as to find some sort of miracle sure for George ( Kevin Kline ) , but instead let him pass on and have the rest of his characters accept his death and for his son to complete the mission that he set out to do . The painful growing of the relationship between George and his son was effectively portrayed , but weighted down only by the nerve-grating performance from Christensen . The film ends on a strong note in that it is not so weak as to have Sam , the son , give in completely and live happily ever after in his father's dream house , and even the sappy portion , giving the house as a gift to a woman who was the victim of a car accident in which George was involved years and years earlier , is not so sappy that it makes you roll your eyes and say here we go again as the movie switches to auto-pilot . There are so many people in our society that have been victims of any kind of unfortunate circumstance that it is good to see someone do something for them , even if only in the movies . Helping out those who are less fortunate is a powerful message for a Hollywood movie to deliver , and Life As A House does that , with only the most minor and excusable drawbacks .
The Pink Blueprint involves the Pink Panther's efforts to replace a construction workers boring blueprints with one of his own , which would result in the construction of a crazy looking futuristic house . He and the worker get into a funny competition of sorts , each trying to use the same construction site to build totally different buildings . It's set up in a series of short scenes that each involve a run-in between the two as they work on their projects , and the Pink Panther is generally the winner of these confrontations , which usually end in some hilarious mishaps for the poor construction guy . The film is pretty dated , but it's still pretty entertaining , and it features an unexpected ending in which the Pink Panther does not exactly get the last laugh . I saw this short film on a videotape with the fourth James Bond film , Thunderball . Both were good shows .
For about the first two thirds of The Landlady's Pet ( that's the real title , by the way - The Star Boarder was the former title , but ultimately it was changed ) it seems that it is going to come across as three distinctly separate parts - the first third , where Charlie is the " star boarder , " the landlady's favorite lodger to the chagrin of her jealous husband , the drunken scene , and the obnoxious son's disruptive magic lantern show . But as soon as the lantern show begins it becomes clear that it is going to tie the rest of the film together , which is something that Chaplin wasn't doing much during that first year making Keystone short comedies for Mack Sennett . The drunken scene is sort of a straggler , it doesn't seem to have any reason for being there other than that Chaplin can do it so well ( so well , in fact , that Robert Downey Jr . included it as part of his performance in the phenomenal 1992 film about Chaplin's life ) , the conclusion of the film and the tying up of loose ends is a welcome surprise . Watch for Gordon Griffith , a mainstay in Chaplin's earliest films , stealing the show as the landlady and her husband's obnoxious son . It's easy to see why Chaplin kept casting him in his films !
There is something uniquely charming about the short comedies that Chaplin made that poke fun at his art form or that show us a little bit of the mechanics of how these movies are made . The most notable example other than His New Job is the charming and fun Behind the Screen , although this film is a lot of fun , too . It starts out in the waiting room , apparently for the opportunity to interview for a job as a film extra . He immediately begins flirting with a woman in the room , and soon does the old hat gag where someone demands that he take it off but he keeps putting it back on , finally doing that cute trick where he flips it up in the air . I feel like I've seen him do that in at least four or five films , although I have to say that he does it best in The Immigrant . It seems that the characterization is getting pretty developed by this point , and that the little tramp has earned a good following of fans who want to see him in each new Chaplin film . There is less and less effort put into giving him a role in each film , he generally just comes out and plays himself . There are lots of traditional Chaplin antics in the waiting room as he competes for the film extra position , although when he finally gets into the interview room and blows into that earpiece , it might be the first time I've literally laughed out loud at one of these short comedies in quite a while . Charlie is dressed as a soldier for his part in the film within the film , although as is to be expected , things soon go wrong and his lack of acting talent becomes abundantly clear . I always find it a little amusing when actors play roles in which , at some point , they lament the fact that they have no acting talent . But my favorite part of the film is that it shows us behind the scenes , what some of the film sets looked like back in 1915 . I always find it fascinating when I catch a glimpse of something real in these old movies , even if it's something tiny , like wafting smoke or the unintentional movement of curtains or a throw rug . It is endlessly fascinating to me to imagine what it was like to really be there , what the set looked like to the naked eye , in real life and in color . Here , we are treated to some shots of the inside of the soundstage , which I guess is the next best thing . Generally , the movie is clever and fun , but other than some interesting behind the scenes shots there's really nothing new here . The ending is even a little violent , but this is still one of the more fun of Chaplin's earliest work .
When I was a kid I may have been the biggest Commando fan ever . I think I must have watched it at least 30 times or so , I used to watch it every day after school . It is totally cheesy and Arnold is basically a superhero not far removed from Rambo other than by the fact that he has more honorable intentions . Rambo was just mentally destroyed by his military experience , while Schwartzenegger's John Matrix was turned into a nearly perfect military fighting machine but just wanted to live a normal life , but was forced back into action when his daughter is kidnapped . Now that I'm older I notice that it's a little strange that nothing is ever said about Matrix's wife , the mother of his daughter Jenny , an early role for Alyssa Milano . But at any rate , he has certainly done well for himself , living together with Jenny in an absolutely beautiful mountain home with spectacular views of the valley below . We are introduced to John as he is carrying an enormous tree trunk through the woods back towards his house to chop up for firewood . This is how he spends his time , you see . His relationship with his daughter is shown through a cloyingly cheesy musical montage of them skipping along and holding hands and putting ice cream in each other's faces and whatnot . We get it , we get it . But I'll tell you why I love the movie . Jenny is kidnapped by terrorists who try to force him to commit an assassination in order to win her freedom . In one of the best scenes in the movie , Matrix is escorted onto an airplane by one of the terrorists , who he manages to kill before take-off and disguise as a sleeping passenger , and then he makes his way to the undercarriage of the plane , literally tearing through canvas barriers and whatnot , and onto the landing gear , flinging himself off of the plane upon take-off and landing in a swamp below . He then has until the plane lands in the distant country to rescue his daughter before the bad guys learn he wasn't on the plane . Arnold long ago said that guns are his one love in all of his movies , and this one is no exception . I don't know why it is so fascinating to me , because I am not a fan of guns myself , but when he breaks into that gun shop and fills shopping carts with guns and grenades and whatnot , I always feel like a kid in a candy store . There is a slightly awkward relationship between John and Cindy , a woman with whom he had a very rough introduction but who soon sided with him to help him rescue his daughter . There is no chemistry whatsoever between John and Cindy ( presenting a convincing romantic relationship has never been one of Arnold's strong points ) , but they make an interesting enough team as they make their way closer and closer to Bennett , the big bad guy and one of Matrix's old enemies . There are some outstandingly overblown gunfights and explosions and car chases , but it is all so much fun that I can't really say anything bad about it . Like all good bad b-movies , Commando is packed with explosions and firepower and dynamite and guns and grenades and whatnot , but still comes down to a hand to hand knife-fight at the end and is packed with cheesy one-liners , except that some of them in this movie are genuinely entertaining and amusing . This is not high class action , but it is definitely tons of fun !
Contains Spoilers So here's my synopsis , I liked Bride of Chucky as much as the original , a little more than part 2 , and MUCH more than part 3 . I really think that the move toward comedy and slightly away from horror , as well as our increasing familiarity with Chucky himself , has allowed the movies , and Chucky , to look back at themselves from a different level which , as we all know by now , is a great perspective from which to have some great one-liners and horror movie homages . The appearance of various horror movie souvenirs like Jason's and Michael Meyers ' masks and the Texas chainsaw as well as the re-creation of pinhead from Bride of Chucky are some examples . This is what Seed of Chucky sets out to outdo , not add to the already elaborate nature of the murders committed by the monster doll that we all nonetheless love . Seed of Chucky starts off with an odd scene . I guess I should have caught on to what was really going on in this scene , since it opens with the fruit of Chucky's loins being given as a gift to a child in the UK , the little girl's father casually eating a plate of raw steak as he looks disgustedly at the hideous little doll that arrived in the mail with no return address . I've lived in England , and to the best of my knowledge , I don't remember uncooked red meat being a great midday snack . On the other hand , I don't remember the gutterpunks traveling overseas to collect new dolls for their ventriloquist acts either . While their offspring has been given as a gift to a young British girl , Chucky and Tiff ( who is sporting a brand new , totally unburned body ) are starring in Child's Play 5 , in this case , I believe , called Chucky Goes Psycho , one of countless classic horror film references peppered throughout the movie . My favorite was the scene where Chucky hacks through the door with a hatchet , then just as he's about to explain exactly where Johnny is , he blanks and says , ' I can't think of a thing to say ! ' Goofy on the one hand , but on the other hand , as in the pinhead scene in Bride of Chucky , I thought it was clever that they set up this reference to a classic horror film and then didn't even need to go through with it . They know their audience knows what's going on , and I like that . In another , more extensive reference , the movie takes place during the making of the new Child's Play movie , just like Wes Craven did in his New Nightmare . Jennifer Tilly plays herself , but Brad Dourif does not because , of course , Chucky was real all along , right ? He's just hibernating while they have him hooked up to wires so they can make him act in their movie . Jennifer Tilly pokes fun at her craft and herself , complaining extensively in one scene that she never gets any good roles , that she's just as good an actress , if not better , than Julia Roberts , and that she deserves more than anyone else the role of the Virgin Mary in the upcoming Bible epic directed by , of course , rapper Redman . I have not had the nerve to put myself through How High , despite it's having been filmed at UCLA , my own backward , but I was hugely impressed with Redman's performance in this movie . He will never be able to portray a director preparing to shoot a Biblical epic , much less really direct one , but that's not the point of this movie . This entire sequence is poking fun at the fakeness of Hollywood , and it cracks me up . Besides , given the cavernous nature of Jennifer Tilly's mansion , she hardly seems to be doing too badly . Martha Stewart would be proud of her home , if not her choice of company . And speaking of cracking me up , here's something interesting . Just when you thought horror movies couldn't be unpredictable , especially in high-numbered sequels , Chucky has a cross-dressing , kung-fu fighting , Japanese-speaking British son with razor sharp teeth . Okay , the teeth were predictable , but a British kung-fu master who speaks Japanese ? Where did THAT come from ? ? The movie walks a tenuous line between an asexual nature for Glen / Glenda and outright homosexuality . The cross-dressing scene leans toward the latter , especially because not for a second from beginning to end does Glen / Glenda look or sound female . Those idiots in White Chicks looked more female than this kid . I'm assuming the choice of name is another film reference , this time to Ed Wood's 1953 film Glen or Glenda , otherwise it would seem to have been more prudent to select a name that could have been either sex , like Chris or Sam or Alex or Bill . Wait , scratch that last one . There is a scene where Jennifer Tilly sneaks onto the horror set to get a candy bar that she hid in Chucky's clothes , in another of the scenes where she pokes fun at herself ( in one later scene , Tiff is dragging the unconscious Tilly and comments , ' My God she's fat ? ' ) , and she comes across the head of one of the prop men , picking it up and kissing it before realizing that it's real . This is the only scene in the movie that I wasn't too impressed with . I guess I've just lost my taste for beheading scenes in the movies . But as Day After Tomorrow shows that it's okay to destroy big cities in the movies again , I guess it's okay to behead people , too . Still , however , a fun movie , but one most likely to be enjoyed by horror fans and , especially , Chucky fans . Note : Watch the movie and you'll get an idea of where the alternate title Bride of Chucky 2 comes from ?
The first thing that really struck me about this documentary was how much of an , ah , emotional man John Moore is . There are some great looks behind the scenes of the making of the movie , which are almost always overshadowed by the occasional tempter tantrums the John Moore throws . Granted , he's in the middle of making a multi-million dollar movie on the other side of the planet and in the middle of the desert , but it really seemed to me like he was the only person getting upset all the time . There is a funny scene where Giovanni Ribisi is taken away from the set to give an interview for Entertainment Tonight or something , and he has to introduce himself four or five times for all of the different channels that will be playing the interview . Most of the main actors give interviews , impromptu or not , in this documentary , and I especially like that it spends very little time showing footage from the final film , concentrating more on footage taken of the actual shooting of the movie , not the results of it , and that is how good supplemental documentaries are made . And like most documentaries included with the DVDs of less than great movies , this one actually made me like the movie more , because it gives insights not only into the intentions of the movie but the experiences of the cast and crew in making it , which always helps me identify . Not bad .
The Making of Sands of Iwo Jima goes into great detail about who starred in the movie and who some of the main crew members were , presumably because so little on set footage exists . A surprising number of the original cast appear in interviews in this short documentary to talk about their experiences making the movie . Leonard Maltin also goes into detail about the military atmosphere at the time the movie was released , giving valuable insight into its relevance . It seems that in the late 1940s the Marine Corps itself was in danger of being eliminated , seen as unnecessary because of other organizations like the Army . In fact , one of the reasons that Wayne did the movie was to help the Marines . They were badly in need of a PR boost at the time and they certainly got it from this film , which was tremendously popular and successful . There are interesting tidbits revealed by one of the men who appeared in the film about John Wayne's acting , such as the way he always hesitates slightly when he's making so he can get himself four or five feet of film . This guy turned himself into a star in more ways than just his acting skills ! His son also makes an appearance in this documentary , talking about his father and his own relations to some of the men involved with the film . We also learn in this documentary that a lot of Sands of Iwo Jima was filmed at Camp Pendleton in San Diego , the extensive beach of which was used for many of the battle scenes . There are details revealed about methods used by the special effects team to achieve the appearance of full scale battle , which is actually one of the weak parts of the film , although was great for 1949 . Some interesting facts are revealed as well , such as the fact that lots of Marines were enlisted from Camp Pendleton to appear in the film , and the original flag and three of the original six guys who erected the flag on Mt . Surabachi also appear in the film , which garnered John Wayne his first Oscar nomination . The film ultimately became sort of a recruiting film for the Marines , who evidently capitalized on the movie's popularity . One of the few things that I didn't like about this documentary was that it ended with a dramatic slow motion American flag waving in the wind and filling the whole screen . Not that I have anything against the flag , obviously , but it overemphasizes a point that is already very strongly made . There's no need to smack the viewer over the head with the patriotism that the movie and this documentary celebrate . All in all , though , this is an entertaining and informative documentary .
Hey here's something interesting . If you type " Junior " in to Google , the first hit is this movie , but if you type it in to the IMDb , the first hit is George W . Bush . I just thought that was funny . So by 1994 , Schwarzenegger had just done a series of pretty hardcore action movies ? Terminator 2 , Last Action Hero ( shut up , that movie rocked ) , and True Lies ? so I'm really curious to know who came up with the idea of making a movie in which he gets pregnant and carries a baby to term . Yeah , Last Action Hero and especially Kindergarten Cop showed the world that Arnold was a big action movie star that was not above having a little fun with himself , but a pregnancy ? ? Amazingly enough , however , the movie is much better than you might think . He stars as Dr . Alex Hesse , a scientist working on a new formula that will help create successful pregnancies for women having trouble conceiving . But the problem is that they are unable to get authorization to perform necessary tests so , desperate to prove that their formula works , Hesse and his partner Dr . Larry Arbogast decide to create a pregnancy in Hesse ? the world's first pregnant man ! They do not , however have any intention of allowing the pregnancy to go on for more than a month or a month and a half , they just need to prove that their formula works . I am reminded of that scene in Terminator 2 when they are all at Miles Dyson's house and Sarah is telling Dyson that men like him through of the hydrogen bomb and they only know how to create destruction , they have no idea what it's like to feel a life growing inside you . In Junior , Hesse learns what it's like to have a life growing inside him , and tat life becomes more important to him than the science experiment that he and Arbogast were carrying out . There is a cleverly designed side story about Arbogast's ex-wife carrying a baby that resulted in a one-night stand after an Aerosmith concert , but the majority of the comedy in the movie is derived from Schwarzenegger literally not only turning into a woman , but poking fun at his real life self . When he goes to a pregnancy retreat dressed as a woman , he explains his manly performance by stating that back in " her " native Germany , she was a body-builder and excessive steroid use was considered perfectly common and acceptable . He experiences all of the ups and downs of being pregnant , but no matter how outlandish the premise is , there is no denying that the movie is definitely pretty charming . It was great to see Schwarzeneggger and Danny DeVito together again after their classic work together in Twins several years earlier . Once again , they have come together and brought us a great piece of family entertainment .
Ace Ventura is the kind of comedy that stems directly from a TV show , and in this case , that show was probably In Living Color , where Carrey got most of his publicity before he became famous as a movie actor . A quick look through Carrey's filmography will prove that Ace Ventura is the film that really acted as a springboard for his career . He had a few small roles in films previous to Ace Ventura , the largest of which was probably his role as one of the aliens in the awful film Earth Girls Are Easy , but after Ace Ventura , his career skyrocketed . The Mask ( hey , he's still new , give the guy a break ) , Dumb & Dumber , a sequel to Ace Ventura , Liar Liar , The Cable Guy ( oops ) , The Truman Show ( ah , better ) , Man On The Moon , Me , Myself & Irene , The Grinch , and there's no end in sight . Sure , Ace Ventura does not compare to half of these movies , and is clearly more on the side of the bone-headed comedy that he was doing on In Living Color , but his talent is unmistakable . I first saw this movie when I was in high school , and I remember that I would ditch school and go to the theater to see it and I would laugh hysterically until my sides hurt every time I saw it . There's something about seeing a slob at a tremendously rich party who just doesn't care about the etiquette of the rich people . Did anyone not laugh when he was ' testing ' the food at Ron Kamp's I'm - the - richest - man - in - the - universe party and stuck his tongue out at that poor guy next to him ? That whole scene at that party is classic ! And , of course , it only gets better with Ace's dealings with Lois Einhorn . The whole crying game idea may have gone a little too far , but it was always amusing . Jim Carrey saves Ace Ventura from sinking to the totally brainless level of more recent crapfests as the Scary Movies , and even makes this into one of the better comedies of 1994 . This is not the type of movie that is likely to win any awards , but you will remember the hilarious dialogue and Jim Carrey's immediately recognizable rubber-faced antics in this film that served as a spring board to his career , which later brought us many more excellent movies . Way to go , Jim .
Village of the Damned is a very well-made thriller that seems to have been overlooked because of the sheer magnitude of its competition - Psycho . Both of these films are testaments to the idea that low budgets are very capable of producing great films . It is not the size of the budget that matters , it is the skill of the filmmakers and the actors . Village of the Damned makes use of a variety of very easily done but also very effective special effects , such as the boundary across which all people and animals lose consciousness , the creepy eyes on those kids , and their hypnotic powers . The discussion of the exact same phenomenon happening to a few remote towns all over the world does a lot to show what these kids can do , and it increases the dramatic tension of the film as a whole . Cheaply made , but also very well made because a lot of thought was obviously put into it , Village of the Damned is a timeless thriller , even in black and white . When you watch a movie like this , if you are the kind of person who is so superficial about your movies that you refuse to watch black and white films , keep in mind that black and white photography REQUIRES good acting , to put it in the immortal words of Orson Welles . You can't have black and white photography and bad acting , the film would never work . Village of the Damned takes black and white photography and fills it with excellent acting , a fascinating story , and good direction that makes me wonder why this was the only film that Wolf Rilla ever directed .
Of the three short plot hole videos included on the Shaun of the Dead DVD , Dianne's and Ed's add something new and unexpected to the story , while Shaun's simply illustrates what we already knew , while at the same time coming off as amusing and fun . Nick Frost narrates the brief and believable story of how he managed to , ah , survive the incoming onslaught of zombies from which Shaun and Liz barely escape . Granted , this is a zombie film , so the term " believable " has to be used in an entirely different way , but what I mean is that what happens in this little video fits with the rest of the story . And as with Dianne's story , there's a clever little joke in there at the end . Pretty fun stuff .
I'm not sure if , at the time this movie takes place , it would have been as pointless to steal one of the world's great treasures as it would be today ( what are they going to do , put it up for sale in the London Times ? ) , but whatever the case , this classic Sherlock Holmes case keeps you guessing even though you already know you're going to be kept guessing . I think it's the mark of a great mystery when it can pull the hood over your eyes even while you're watching all the while for it to happen . I have to say that I'm not quite sure where the title Terror By Night came from , since nothing scary or terrible happens in the movie , but it's a classic mystery still just as satisfying as it must have been in 1946 .
Run , Ronnie , Run is a comedy with the rare distinction of having an excellently written script , especially since it was meant to sound dumb . Ronnie Dobbs is your typical beer guzzling redneck who can't seem to avoid getting himself arrested , and who always seems to have his elaborate arrests caught on film and broadcast on television . Some dumb guy is discovered through his unenviable skill of getting embarrassingly arrested , has a TV show created around his arrests , and becomes an instant star . Clearly , this is not Oscar material . In fact , a plot outline like that leads you to believe that it will be just another bonehead comedy in the moronic tradition of American Pie and Road Trip and Big Momma's House . However , Run , Ronnie , Run proves to be much more than any of those movies . Not only is it packed full of sidesplitting comedy , it is also presented in numerous unique ways . The film opens with an introduction by an elderly man whose vulgar speech prepares the audience for the sheer hilarity that is to follow . The rest of the movie is sparsely narrated by Clay , one of Ronnie's accident-prone friends who is the funniest redneck I've seen in a movie in years , besides Ronnie himself . David Cross delivers a hilarious performance in this film , and hopefully this movie will allow people to forgive him for his part in the pathetic Scary Movie 2 . As is necessary in a comedy like this , the dialogue is full of great comedy , but the thing that makes this movie unique is that it is not only hilarious but it's very well written . There are lots of very simple but very effective speech gags , like Ronnie's dim-witted comment to a police officer who was being excessively angry with a young kid ( who happened to be the officer's son ) , as well as his charming response to his stripper girlfriend ( one of the many products of his instant fame ) when her very presence doesn't manage to create the response that he hopes for in his ex . And by the way , it's just not the same to read all this in a review , you have to see this stuff for yourself . Not only is it more effective to see it all for yourself , but there is so much uproarious comedy in this movie that it is impossible to list it all in one review . Every character in this film is significant and well presented , and the movie never gets boring or slow . There are a couple of things that could have been left out , such as the Mary Poppins spoof about giving your woman a good old kick in the cnt , as well as the eventual fate of Clay , but even this childish and sometimes crude and grotesque humor is not enough to bring down the movie as a whole . This is a great comedy in the tradition of Dumb & Dumber , although I can't say that the movie actually manages to pass that one up as far as sheer quality . Even though there were a few things that were a little excessive or did not need to be in the movie , Run , Ronnie , Run is still a tremendously amusing and entertaining film . Every character in the film will have you cheering , and there is even one noteworthy scene where the town Mayor's fat , video game addicted son gets ped off and does something that will make every jaw in the audience drop . That's one of the best scenes in the film , and the irony is one of the things that made it such a good scene . I assure you that I am not exaggerating when I say that this is one of the best comedies to come along in years . It is so rare to see a comedy that is driven by the mishaps and misfortune of the uneducated ( and inbred ? ) that is able to overcome the simplicity of its content and come off as such a fulfilling and entertaining comedy . Definitely do not miss this one .
We have a tendency to look back and glorify the old , great horror films , like The Exorcist and Rosemary's Baby and Night of the Living Dead , etc , automatically hailing them and lamenting the depressing thought that films like that will probably never be made again . Rob Zombie recently eased that fear a little bit , but in Sam Raimi's early career , he was making gritty , grimy horror films that reminded us that the old days of horror can still be brought back to life . For every I Know What You Did Last Summer or Hostel or other idiot teen slasher I think back to the days of Raimi's early horror films and just wonder what happened . Here's something interesting , in modern times , there are more and more high budget horror movies coming out , with a noticeable decline in quality as the money gets bigger . I wish someone would notice that one of the best things about The Evil Dead is that it was made on a shoe-string budget . Like Chaplin's favorite part of his career , the early years when he would just go to the park with a bench and a girl and a big oafish guy and just bang out a film , Evil Dead gives the feeling of being just a bunch of friends who went out to the woods and cut themselves off from society for a while to see what they could come up with . And they came out with a classic ! The plot , of course , focuses on ( you guessed it ) a group of friends who go out to the woods to camp . The opening of the movie , the drive through the creepy woods , is one of the best examples of mood-setting that I can think of . You can almost feel the trees closing in around you as the hapless friends drive through the woods , teasing each other about the scary woods . There are several scenes in the movie that will immediately put off a lot of viewers , such as the infamous tree love scene ( not my favorite either ) , but the fact that the movie doesn't try to please anyone is what allows it to cut loose and just be a real horror movie . Trying to please a wide audience is the worst thing that any horror film can do , because that's what gives you those stupid sophomoric teen thrillers . Bruce Campbell , in the first performance of his best role , Ash , is surprisingly geeky in the first Evil Dead movie , at least compared to the hardened badass that he was to become in the two sequels , and considering the fact that he is generally remembered as being the coolest horror hero imaginable . But I think that may be what makes the trilogy work so well . A good story should show character change , and through the course of the trilogy Ash becomes something completely different from what he was when we met him in 1981 , and Campbell fits the geek and the hero exceptionally well . Raimi understands the cartoonishly excessive blood and gore will reduce the real scariness of the movie and make it almost into a bloody comedy , so he uses that idea to its maximum potential , causing us to laugh and squirm all throughout the movie , although the real scares are few and far between . The sound effects , camera work , costumes , and vile liquids spraying forth across the screen , however , are horrible enough , and it's clear that Raimi and the cast and crew are having a lot of fun with the material , which is one of the many reasons that it's so easy for the audience to have fun with it , too . It should be noted that , because of the shoestring budget , they had to be truly creative in their effects and filming . Much of the camera work is done using very crude techniques , and the creativity involved creates a feel that the biggest budget could never approach . There are dollies and slides and other devices that are handmade from things like pieces of wood and duct tape in order to get the necessary shots , and the effect is brilliant . Can you imagine ? They actually used duct tape to film this movie ! Outstanding ! Strangely , Raimi took a four year break from directing after the Evil Dead , before finally following the movie up with the astonishingly bad Crimewave , the badness of which just strikes me as a real mystery , given the talent involved in making it . Luckily , he almost immediately followed this disaster up with the first sequel to Evil Dead , which plays like a sequel and a remake at the same time . It serves as a testament to the success of this early effort that it was basically remade Evil Dead II , and now is set to be remade again in 2009 . Let's just hope that , now that he's a Hollywood director , Raimi can still capture the same attitude and gritty goriness of his early career !
A Dog's Life has more layers than the usual Chaplin films , taking the character slightly more literally than he usually does . The overall appeal of Chaplin's Little Fellow is that he is such an everyman that he can be thrust into an almost endless multitude of situations , and Chaplin uses his limitless talent to mold it into brilliant , humanitarian farce . In this film , the little tramp is more of a homeless fellow than usual ( I think he's usually just poor and struggling ) , and in the process he be-friends another homeless and struggling tramp . There are some great scenes in the film , although even at only 40 minutes it is a bit too long for the material to support . One scene in particular , where Charlie knocks a bully unconscious , is going to be the most memorable one in the movie , along with a scene where he outsmarts some police officers . There is a charming romance that is neither cloying nor overly involving , just the right amount for a short , light-hearted comedy . This probably would have worked even better as a two reel film , but as it is it stands as one of Chaplin's better three reelers .
Contains spoilers Lost In Space is a tremendously upgraded adaptation of the old campy TV show , in which the Robinson family is , of course , lost in space . The film has an excellent opening battle sequence that nearly rivals anything that George Lucas has ever done and comes close to being as exciting as the opening of any of the James Bond films . It is particularly noteworthy that Matt LeBlanc was able to deliver such a convincing performance as a tremendously skilled fighter pilot , given his popularity from Friends . Lost In Space presents a pretty dismal prediction of the future . The movie takes place ( initially ) in the year 2058 , and John Robinson , the father in the famous Robinson family , has been working for years on a mission to Alpha Prime , a planet which is capable of supporting human life . It seems that in another two decades , Earth will no longer be capable of supporting human life . The wooden performance of William Hurt in the role of John Robinson takes a little getting used to , but overall , he pulls it off very well . Probably the best character in the film is Dr . Zachary Smith , the self proclaimed ' monster ' of a man that was hired to sabotage the Robinson's mission , played with flawless precision by the brilliant Gary Oldman . It turns out that he is double-crossed himself , and he winds up on the ship with the Robinsons , along with the robot that Smith re-programmed to destroy the family as well as the ship's navigation systems . Science fiction films generally have very weak and simple plots , and it was great to see that this one got interesting so fast . The thing that really causes the family to get lost in space is that they accidentally get caught in the sun's gravitational pull , and because they don't have enough power to escape it , they have to open up the stargate ( meant to traverse the tremendous distance between Earth and Alpha Prime instantaneously ) and go THROUGH the sun , thus delivering them into an unknown part of space . Lost . The trip through was a little much , but it definitely was cool , and the resulting setting that they find themselves in is just fascinating . And as if a trip to unknown space wasn't enough , they throw in a great time travel element to the story , making it that much more interesting . Almost immediately after shooting though the stargate and finding themselves lost in space , the Robinsons come across a spaceship from Earth , and in the captain's log they find a recording of an old man who says that he ' refuses to give up ' in his search for the Robinsons . Even though they had only been lost for a matter of hours , this ship had been searching for them for YEARS . While there was some highly entertaining acting in this film , not all of the characters were as well presented and acted as John Robinson and Dr . Smith and Major Don West ( LeBlanc ) . Mimi Rogers provided an effective and believable mother in the family , as well as the life sciences expert , but the high pitched Lacey Chabert , the pedophile's dream , got real annoying real quick , and Heather Graham was horribly miscast as Judy Robinson . After several of her previous roles , it would be best if she would avoid taking on a role that is to be taken seriously for quite a while . And there were a few things in the film that didn't make sense . There is the obvious problem ( that all Back To The Future fans will notice right away ) with the older Will's plan to travel back to the day they left and stop the ship from taking off - you already know that won't happen , because when they left at the beginning of the movie , Will would have shown up and told them not to leave . And how about the scene where Dr . Smith tricks Will into using his voice-print ID on his gun to ' enable for all users , ' only to have Smith turn it on him ? Wouldn't it have been just as easy for Will to use the voice ID to turn the gun off while it was pointed at him ? Seems that such a smart kid would have realized that all he had to do was talk to the gun in order to eliminate all danger . Lost In Space is also famous for its ludicrous amount of special effects and , surprisingly enough , they were very well done and very effective . Obviously , special effects are mandatory for a space movie , but they are most often screwed up so badly that they ruin the movie ( see : Mission To Mars ) . In this movie , though , the special effects have the unique distinction of being both way overdone and very effective - with the exception of that damn alien monkey that doesn't look real in a single frame in the entire film and is also totally unnecessary . The only thing that really took a lot away from the film was the transformed Dr . Smith at the end of the film . Sure , it was a cool idea that he got transformed into one of the spiders in true vampire form after having been scratched by one , but the cartoonish creature that he turned into was just too far , even for this otherwise high-quality science fiction movie . A lot of things are never clarified , like how Will ( who sure grew up to be an ugly guy ) comes up with the tools necessary to build time traveling warp zones and whatnot , but it doesn't really matter that this isn't explained . This is usually not good , but Lost In Space is an unusually well made science fiction thriller that is fun for all ages , so it can get away with a lot of stuff like that . The tremendous gap at the end of this film makes it pretty obvious that at least one sequel is inevitable , and we can only hope that any sequels live up to the original .
I rode this ride on my first visit to Universal Studios Hollywood in about 15 years , so I had no idea what to expect . When we all loaded onto the giant 16-passenger jeeps I expected it was going to just be one of those tour type rides that just drive you around and show you a cool set , which is probably part of the reason why I was so blown away the first time I rode it . The way the jeep jumps around creates an amazing feeling of driving through rough and dense jungle , and there are several times when I was sure that the thing was going to go flying over the side , as it leans outwards on hard turns . This has to be one of the most fun attractions I've ever seen at Universal , it was absolutely a blast . Even the line was fun , once you get inside , anyway . It's like an elaborate tomb set and there is always plenty to look at , including a short introductory film , which some IMDb users claim that this page is actually meant to represent . Personally , I feel like it's a good thing that people are talking more about the ride here than about the video that you watch while waiting for it . Oh , and I'll tell you something strange about me . I have always wanted to visit a ride like this when it is closed , walk around inside while all the lights are on and see what the nuts and bolts of it all looks like . Whenever I ride a ride like this I always snap a few flash pictures of the inside to see what's going on . For some reason I've always been more interested in how it all works than really succumbing to the illusion . But either way this is great fun !
Every aggravating thing about working in an office , from the traffic on the way to work to that damn copier , is in this movie , and dealt with in ways that we've all wanted to , at some point or another . Well , except for the traffic , of course . The traffic remains undefeated . Besides telling a highly amusing story about office workers who are just fed up with it all , Office Space is full of other little comments on society , such as the way the film points out the sheer goofiness of geeky white guys who listen to hardcore rap music . The film presents a heavily exaggerated version of the typical office , but underneath that exaggeration , the depiction is very accurate . You have the fairly timid but passive aggressive superior , Bill Lumbergh , portrayed hilariously by Gary Cole , the repressive office cubicles , the mumbly guy that kind of weirds everyone out , and of course , the disillusioned office employee who just doesn't care anymore . Ron Livingston fulfills this last role very well , being very open about his dislike of his job and his intentions to do as little as possible for as long as he still gets paid , but it is the weird guy that really gets laughs consistently , whose name , in this case , is Milton . This guy's hilarious situation involves having been laid off years before without knowing because no one told him , because he still receives a paycheck due to a glitch in the payroll system , and whose primary concerns seem to be the location of his cubicle , his red stapler , and the fact that last year , he didn't receive a piece of cake at the office party . The way that this guy's situation gets consistently worse and the way that he is pushed further and further toward the edge of sanity is one of the funniest things about this movie . And we can't forget the Indian guy , Samir , whose grammatically flawed exclamations also provide for an endless source of comedic entertainment . Jennifer Aniston plays a small role as Peter Gibbons ' ( Livingston ) love interest , as well as that of a waitress who is also sick and tired of the ridiculousness of her job ( such as a specified minimum of pieces of ' flair ' that employees must wear to work ) . Ron's home life is another thing that is parodied in this high quality comedy , as the shortcomings of living in an average apartment are clearly and side-splittingly portrayed . Clearly , the office scenes are by far the funniest of the film , and the eventual criminal plot to embezzle a huge sum of money from the company and take up a lifestyle of not really doing anything , despite the fact that it is also very well done , can be largely overlooked because of the sheer hilarity of the rest of the film . This is excellent stuff from the famous creator of the endlessly amusing Beavis & Butt-Head who , with Office Space , has further proved that he is just the type of guy who knows what's funny .
( spoiler ! ) So we learned right at the end of season 6 that Sara and Gil were living together ( or sleeping together ) , as she walked into the room in a bathrobe at the end of the season finale . I've always noticed from the beginning of the series that occasionally there are very brief hints into their personal lives , but nothing ever seems to be really revealed . We've known for a few years that Sara is interested in Grissom romantically , Nick's personal life is almost entirely secret still ( except for a fling or two early in the series ) , Warrick popped up married out of the blue one day and Catherine was clearly disappointed to have lost an opportunity , but it has always seemed like any revelations like this were thrown in using just a few seconds of screen time , and then back to the cases . I like that the show doesn't turn into a soap opera because I would lose interest in a hurry , but this is one of the few episodes that tells us more about what's going on . Very little more , but still more . I loved the cases that they dealt with . A new homicide leads the team to an old and supposedly closed case of a double murder . Catherine goes off on her own to meet the guy they put in prison for it , and finds a foul-mouthed dirtbag that claims he's innocent . In order to get him to cooperate and answer some more questions about the crime that he's already been imprisoned for , she promises to unbutton a button on her shirt for each question that he answers satisfactorily . As it turns out , he was apparently coerced by the police into giving a confession for the double murder , badgering him during questioning and claiming that they already had enough evidence for a conviction , and if he didn't confess he'd get the death penalty . Catherine was pretty angry with the local cop for coercing a confession , but wasn't that blouse-unbuttoning a bit of coersion too ? At least it was more enjoyable than the first time , I suppose . Anyway , the two cases taken together highlight the CSI team's skills compared to the bungling foolishness of other police forces . Once the local cops had coerced their confession , they actually stopped investigating , even though they knew there were more bullets buried at the residence where the murders took place . Nice work ! The local cops also left a massive plot hole in the story , something uncommon in a CSI episode . There was a little boy at the residence who was hiding , but apparently they never asked him any questions about what happened . When our team comes in , Nick and Catherine ask him his version , and he gives one that doesn't reveal anything that they didn't already know , but for some reason they seem to feel that they have gotten some valuable information . The boy was hiding under the sink when the killer knocked on the door , forced his way inside and then stabbed and killed his mother and sister , then he walked outside into the backyard . Then , he says , the killer came back in the front door and called the police . I don't know why anyone was interested in this news , because they already knew the sequence of events leading to the boy's mother and sister's deaths . There is , of course , no way of knowing if the man who came through the front door and called the police was the same man who had just walked out the back door . Why would he leave through the back and come in through the front ? Anyway , the hiding under the sink was funny to me , because when I was five or six , I used to hide under the sink drinking maple syrup while my mom was at work , then when she came home I'd run up to her and say , " I wasn't drinking the syrup ! " I was a terrible liar . Gil leaves on sabbatical at the end of the episode and is supposedly gone when he gets a large box from the miniature killer , which is good because the conclusion to that 3-episode case was a little disappointing . In a huge change of character , he tells Sara on the way out the door that he'll miss her . . .
Barbara Kingsolver's astonishingly vivid Poisonwood Bible was my first and remains my most detailed image of Africa . It is not a pleasant atmosphere that is presented in the book , but the beauty of that unique natural environment is presented in Out of Africa more in than in it's dangerous potential . Of course , some of the most important and moving scenes in the film involve near-death experiences involving some African wildlife , but I have a feeling that the breathtaking expanses of open wilderness will be remembered more than these close encounters . It is precisely the experience of reading the Poisonwood Bible ( and the characters ' experiences in living in Africa ) that has made Out of Africa have a unique impression on me . The film takes place around World War I , when large numbers of European settlers were leaving the unsatisfying life in Europe and seeking greener pastures , as it were , in East Africa . Certain elevations and locations were known to have fewer insects and dangerous animals , and could be good for farming . The story focuses on the life of the Baroness Karen Blixen , who plunges headlong into a marriage to her lover's brother in order to avoid a life of loneliness , only to gradually watch that marriage fall apart . The damage to her relationship with her husband is extensive but also gratifying , because she has a determination and healthy spirit that he doesn't seem to share , and clearly lacks the respect that she deserves . Her husband is wildly unfaithful to her , even managing to bring syphilis home to her , eventually asking him to move out . Thus begins the curious romance between her and a big game hunter named Denys ( Robert Redford ) . There is a clever and highly satisfying exchange between Denys and Bror ( Blixen's husband ) , after Bror discovers their romance . " You should have asked permission , " he tells Denys . " I did , " he replies . " She said yes . " I have read that the relationship between Baroness Blixen is very different than in the real Baronness Blixen's books , in which the Africans are of great importance to her . Because this movie is an epic romance , it focuses more exclusively on the romance between Blixen and Denys , as well as the juxtaposition of the failed romance with her husband and her genuine hope for something better and more real with Denys . Out of Africa seems to run the risk of having too many well-known Americans movie stars in a story that takes place just after turn-of-the century Africa , but because Director Sydney Pollack understands how to mold their star power to the story and to the passion created within the story , we are able to focus on the characters rather than the actors , and envision a time past in a part of the world that is unknown to so many in the audience . Bravo !
I have to imagine that fellow-Brit Alfred Hitchcock would have been absolutely delighted by this little claymation comedy about a mysterious lodger . Hitchcock began his career with a film about a Lodger ( recently made into a Luke-warm remake ) , so surely he would have gotten a kick out of Wallace & Gromit's run-in with a mysterious lodger of their own . Wallace has been perfecting his work on a pair of robotic trousers that he plans to use to take Gromit for walks so he doesn't have to , until he notices that his expenses are running a little high and he and Gromit will have to take in a lodger to help make ends meet . They take in the first one they meet , who turns out to be a curiously Far Side-looking penguin who seems to prefer Gromit's room . They really need the money , so the penguin moves into Gromit ' room and Gromit moves into the doghouse in the backyard . Wallace and the penguin develop a close friendship ( made even closer by Wallace's delight that he's getting money out of him ) , while Gromit sits outside in the rain stewing . Something doesn't seem right about the penguin , but he's not sure what it is . One day , Wallace is woken up by his automatic bed , which this time drops him into a pair of modified robotic trousers and he becomes the perpetrator of a major diamond theft . The animation is roundly superb , as always , and the attention to detail is as wonderful as ever . There are plenty of cool gadgets around the house that make for some wonderful sight gags , but the real jewel of the movie is not the stolen diamond but the thrilling train chase at the end , which is just as well-planned and executed as the most thrilling Hollywood action movie . The final ten minutes of the movie are a spectacular achievement alone , but with the rest of the movie it all comes together as a short animated film that should be treasured . Don't miss this one !
Jim Carrey is back to much the same role that he played in The Mask , a timid guy who is trying to get ahead in the world but who seems to be plagued with bad luck . Even when he tries to help a homeless guy from being harassed by a bunch of hoodlums ( and of course they have to be Mexican , obviously ) , his good will towards his fellow man backfires . In that case , it wasn't too hard to predict that he was about to have a handful of angry hoodlums , but I like that the movie suggests that things like that shouldn't be ignored . I'm reminded of the episode of Michael Moore's brilliant The Awful Truth , when they had a man lay down on the sidewalk and pretend to be dead and see who would actually stop and make sure he was okay . The results were not very promising , so it's nice to see someone in the movies setting a good example . Jim Carrey plays the part of Bruce Nolan , the nice guy mentioned above whose entire life seems to be falling apart . Or even better , it seems to be breaking up by the blows of bad luck like an asteroid entering the atmosphere ( a little metaphor that comes up when Bruce miraculously finds himself a gigantic news story later in the film ) . Bruce is nearly 40 years old and all he has to show for it is a position as a news reporter of the sort that reports on such exciting news as the local bakery that's seeking to bake the world's biggest cookie . He's desperate to obtain the job of head anchor at the TV station , but he loses his cool on live TV when he hears that the job went to his rival colleague . You have to love how they time the revelation of this news to him seconds before his first live report . Needless to say , he loses his temper on live TV in one of the funniest scenes of the entire film . Morgan Freeman delivers a fantastic performance as the Man himself , displaying a God whose infinite wisdom is somewhat reflected through Freeman's massive talent as an actor . He is the kind of God who takes his job very seriously , but in such a way as to advise his followers ( as well as the viewers of this movie ) that there are times when you need to slow down and do some manual labor in life . I love his line that some of the happiest people in the world come home smelling to high heaven at the end of the day . There are a lot of people in the world ( maybe more than our share in America ) who are so absorbed by their money and their possessions and their jobs and everything that they completely lost touch with the natural side of themselves as humans . One of the biggest strengths is that the movie is able to provide great advice to people in general about improving their lives , and this message is clear and acceptable regardless of the viewer's religion . I , for example , tend to reject organized religion in all forms and I see God and Satan to be metaphors for different aspects of nature and human psychology rather than actual figures who ever lived or continue to live . But despite the fact that I don't believe that God exists as an entity overseeing the universe or as a janitor dressed all in white who mops the floors of his downtown office in his spare time , I was able to appreciate the messages that were delivered in this movie . Jim Carrey's movies display this fantastic evolution that ties them all together and makes the newer ones look even better just because you can see how far he's come . If you compare Bruce Almighty with movies like Ace Ventura ( both of which I loved , by the way ) or a lot of what he did before he got into film , it's amazing how far he's come . He has moved from cheesy TV comedy to cheesy comedic films to comedies that are truly intelligent and meaningful like this film as well as others like The Truman Show , Man on the Moon , and The Majestic ( easily one of his greatest films ever ) . Jim Carrey has unmistakably moved from the cheesy comedy of his past to become one of the most important comic actors working today . Jennifer Aniston also once again provides an excellent addition to the movie ( as she did in the side-splitting Office Space ) as Bruce's girlfriend , who becomes increasingly exasperated by Bruce's growing stress about his life as well as his negligence to ask her to marry him . There is definitely some low-brow comedy in the film that doesn't really fit with the importance of the film's meaning or the quality of the delivery , such as the dog reading the newspaper on the toilet and the whole monkey scene , but it was definitely pretty nice to see Ace Ventura's friend Spike make a cameo appearance . As Stephen King very well knows , it's always nice to see familiar characters . It's almost like seeing family again . Bruce is endowed with the powers of God for a given period of time so that he can understand life a bit better , and he says a lot about himself when he uses the powers only for his own purposes rather than to help all of the people who pray to him . The thing I love about this is that , like I said before , religion is absent from my life , but I was able to watch this and learn a lot about myself as well by thinking about what kinds of things I would have done had I been endowed with such powers . The movie allows us to learn vicariously this way , which empowers the message even more . The scenes that involve the news station are easily the funniest in the entire film , such as the scene when Bruce loses his temper about the anchor position , the Jimmy Hoffa scene ( who was conveniently buried with an original birth certificate and a complete set of dental records ) , the scene where Bruce's rival colleague is made to go nuts on camera , and my favorites , the ones at the beginning and the end involving the local bakery's cooking . The movie has plenty of time for Carrey to deliver some excellent jokes , such as when he says to God ( who reveals that he's the janitor , the proprietor , the electrician , etc ) that his Christmas parties must be real bashes , and to be careful about drinking , because on of him might need a ride home ! I also loved the end when he says that behind every great man is a woman rolling her eyes . A little too true , and as Gallagher would add , behind every great man is also an amazed mother-in-law . Bruce Almighty is one of the more memorable comedies to have come out for quite a while , and is probably the only directly religious that I can remember seeing that I am anxious to buy on DVD to add to my personal collection . It is a comedy written and performed in good taste , but with enough relatively low-brow humor to keep the kids entertained . This is a meaningful comedy for the whole family , which is becoming rarer and rarer these days . In a world that is about to be flogged with yet another American Pie film AND another Scary Movie ( which are only scary because of their sheer barbarous idiocy ) , it's nice to see that there are still people making comedies worth watching . Don't miss this one .
( spoilers ) While it was definitely a shame to see that Ferris Bueller has grown to be exactly the kind of person that he hated back in the good old days when he decided to take the day off , it was still good to see a refreshing version of the much-depreciated teen comedy . Matthew Broderick is strikingly effective as the unattractive high school teacher Jim McAllister , a man who is unsatisfied with his work , drives a ridiculous car , and can't seem to get his wife pregnant . The film as a whole follows Jim most of all , and his descent to the lowest point possible , which he reaches through nearly constant bad choices . Reese Witherspoon is especially noteworthy in this film , because she fulfills her role so well . She plays the part of Tracy Flick , the aggravatingly perky overachiever who is originally the sole candidate in the race for class president , but whose evil and manipulative side is revealed when the infinitely good-natured Paul Metzler ( Chris Klein ) enters the race , thanks in no small part to the persuasion of Jim . The reason that Witherspoon pulls this role off so well is because she's such an annoying actress . Her high pitched , nerve shattering voice gives this movie an entirely new level of realism , and makes her eventual ( although temporary ) demise very satisfying . I probably got the greatest of many laughs when she stood up confidently as the winner of the election was announced , only to realize that her name was not called . It was also good to see Chris Klein in a role that wasn't as dumb as his roles in such bonehead films as American Pie and Here On Earth ? he was definitely one of the better actors in this movie . One of the many things that really caused Election to move along at a fast pace was the subtle rivalry between Jim and Tracy , which is what really keeps you entertained . She's such an aggravating person that you just love to see Jim pull out those two votes and throw them into the trash , thus erasing Tracy's victory , although nothing in the film even remotely parallels the sheer , unfiltered stupidity of leaving those ballots in that trash can for the janitor to find . That one dumbass move alone made it possible to sincerely enjoy this otherwise enjoyable character's eventual downfall . Besides that , there can be no mistake about how this film predicted the heavily flawed Presidential Election of 2000 ? the election that was screwed up so badly that we eventually watched the inauguration of the candidate with less votes . If only there was a trash can somewhere in Florida where a janitor found some kind of concrete proof that the wrong guy is in the White House right now . The main message that Election delivers has to do with making bad choices . From the beginning to the end of the movie , Jim McAllister makes every bad choice imaginable . He cheats on his wife , he recklessly alters the outcome of the election , etc . And as a result , everything imaginable goes wrong . The woman that he cheated with tells his wife about it and then says she was just lonely and that Jim ' took advantage ' ( which is crap , of course . We , as the all-seeing audience , know how badly she really wanted it ) , it is quickly discovered that he threw away Tracy's two critical votes , he loses his wife , his job , everything . He even gets a freakin ' bee sting on his EYE ! What the hell else could possibly go wrong ? ( That was the point of the bee sting , by the way , in case you missed it ) Well , he should feel pretty dumb because one of his former colleagues lost everything because he was having sex with Tracy . This guy had sex with a student and lost everything , Jim had sex with some other woman and manipulated the future of a student and lost everything . However , it's ironic that Jim is the character that the audience initially identifies with the most , but he is also the one who eventually suffers the most , and yet the film as a whole is still so satisfying , especially since it seemed that that damn Tracy Flick would go on to eventually become the nation's first female president . Election twists stuff around like that , and results in an excellent comedy . Don't miss it .
Renee Zellweger plays the part of Betty , a woman who lives an unexciting life stuck with a dirtbag husband , stuck in a monotonous day-to-day existence and with nothing really to look forward to or up to . When Charlie ( Morgan Freeman ) and Wesley ( Chris Rock ) show up to collect from her bonehead husband on a bad drug deal , they wind up killing him and throwing Betty's life into complete turmoil . Just as Ellen Burstyn's Sara Goldfarb was sickeningly obsessed with being on television in the stomach turning but surprisingly impressive Requiem For A Dream , Betty is obsessed with soap operas , particularly ' A Reason To Love , ' starring her hero , Dr . David Ravell , played by Greg Kinnear . It seems that Betty has been tottering on the edge of reality for some time , and her husband's death ( or , more likely , the fact that she actually witnessed it ) is the event that really sent her over the edge of reality , and made her believe that she had once had a romantic relationship with Dr . Ravell , and now that her husband is dead , she is free to seek him out to start that relationship up again . Charlie and Wesley pursue her as she travels to Los Angeles to find Dr . Ravell , at first seeking only the drugs that she unknowingly has in her car , and Charlie gradually begins to identify with her and fancy her on entirely different levels . It's not immediately clear what we are to think of Charlie after he kills Betty's husband , Del , because Del is the kind of person that we're not exactly sad to see dead , and also because his murder was , I guess , a mercy killing of sorts , since Wesley had already scalped him . This presents Wesley as the more brutal of the two , which is probably why the comical Chris Rock was not exactly the best person to play the role . The guy's just too well known as a comedian to satisfactorily play someone so vicious , and he just doesn't have the caliber that a great actor like Joe Pesci has . Pesci can easily go back and forth between comedy and violence , Rock can't . At any rate , Wesley and Charlie are clearly meant to be something of an odd couple . There is obviously meant to be more than a little bit of comedy to be taken from their adventures , but it's a strange combination to see someone like Charlie undergo the fantastic change that he experiences throughout the film . It is , on the other hand , rather interesting to see two people who differ strongly in their violent content , clearly a very important personality trait in their line of work , as one of them transforms and their mutual goals begin to blur and change . There are several plots going on in this film , and the thing that really makes it strong is that they never get confused and none ever really overshadows any of the others . Wesley and Charlie are chasing Betty because she has their drugs and she has witnessed their crime , Charlie is becoming more interested in Betty than in the drugs or in her knowledge as a witness , Betty is pursuing this soap opera celebrity who she can't even distinguish from the character that he plays on the show , and Betty and Charlie and each in similar situations , in that they are both fantasizing about people that they can't have . There are spectacular performances left and right in the film ( Morgan Freeman , obviously , Renee Zellweger , Greg Kinnear , etc . ) , and the story is one of those rare gems that entertains without really revealing how you should feel about what goes on in the film . Nurse Betty is a movie that manages to be hugely entertaining while at the same time leaving the vast majority of the response up to individual interpretation , which is exactly what makes a movie like this so smart and sets it apart from other black comedies . This movie is not easy to figure out right away , but it is definitely easy to enjoy .
OK , so anytime I hear the name Paul Verhoeven I always immediately think of Robocop , which I saw for the first time when I was about ten years old and I never quite recovered from that scene where Murphy gets all shot up by the bad guys . It was a movie moment at a formative point in my life where I really learned the extent to which people can go in doing terrible things to each other ( years later , I saw things like Texas Chainsaw and Wes Craven's Last House on the Left and The Hills Have Eyes and realized that I hadn't seen anything yet ) . Verhoeven began his American film-making career with Robocop , an enormously violent and hugely popular success , and began a career spanning nearly two decades of working on a lot of big budget Hollywood movies like Basic Instinct , Total Recall and the disappointing Hollow Man . I wouldn't expect a respectable World War II film to come from someone with such a filmography , but Black Book is sort of a return back to Verhoeven's days as a filmmaker in the Netherlands , where he had a successful career before coming to Hollywood . It's becoming more and more difficult for people to come up with unique and interesting stories involving the widespread struggles against the Nazis in WWII . I would even suggest that it's becoming safe to say that a WWII film can be made or broken solely by the performances , which are becoming more and more the most memorable things about these movies because so much of the stories are already known . In Black Book , however , Verhoeven's European film-making sensibilities mix nicely with his Hollywood experience to bring together a fascinating and even fresh , albeit fictional , story of a small group of people fighting back against the Nazis as the war slowly begins to go wrong for them . The title of the movie refers to a book that lists the names of wealthy Jews who pay handsome fees to be transported to safety , only the be killed and robbed be the Nazis . The movie takes place in Holland in 1944 . Carice von Houten plays Rachel Stein , a young Jewish singer living in hiding . She and her family come into contact with a man who claims to know a way to transport them all safely out of Nazi territory and into a neutral zone . During their night escape , however , they are gunned down and Rachel is the only survivor . She eventually joins a group of Dutch resistance fighters where she works menial jobs for a while before finally being promoted to a job of much higher importance and danger . Her task ? infiltrate the Nazi hierarchy and seduce a high-ranking officer , Ludwig Muntz and bug Nazi headquarters so the resistance can listen in on the Nazis war planning . Muntze is attracted to her and the seduction is easy , but Rachel fails to hide the fact that she's Jewish and , even worse , she ultimately falls in love with him . This all starts to sound a little cheesy , but it's actually one of the movie's strong points . I've read that the movie has been shrouded in some controversy , particularly in America , for having the audacity to portray a high - ranking Nazi official as anything other than pure evil , although I tend to doubt very much that any lack of deserved recognition that the movie found is probably a result of being filmed all in original languages . This was an artistic decision , not an economic one , and it was a smart one . Had they made the movie in English , a huge element of authenticity would have been lost . Indeed , portraying a Nazi official in a respectable light is a lofty goal but the movie pulls it off amazingly well . And the authenticity of the movie is astonishing . It has all the polish of a Jerry Bruckheimer production but none of the stupid plot devices or cheap romantic subplots generated to drive the weak story . This is a stunning story of betrayal and total sacrifice in the face of insurmountable odds and adversity , and a brilliant cast arranges themselves behind Carice von Houten , who delivers a spectacular performance as a woman forced to bury intense emotions even while she strips herself of her dignity for the benefit of her oafish enemies . The plot is too thick to explain in its entirety in a review , and it would also subtract from the fun of watching it all develop yourself . But there is real betrayal on the Nazi side and suspected betrayal on the side of the resistance that leaves Rachel and Muntze on the run from their lives , both of them fleeing from the very people that have been providing them with their safety . There is also a powerful statement on the endlessness of war as the movie shows us that the killing doesn't always stop when the radio announces a victory for either side . It reminds us that after countless thousands of years or wars , human beings are no closer to world peace now than we've ever been . Paul Verhoeven has done something noticeably different with Black Book than we have become used to seeing from him over the last few years , but he has definitely turned around a worrisome direction that his movies started taking with Showgirls and bottomed out with Hollow Man . It's nice to see that Verhoeven has gotten his magic back !
I think pretty much every lesser known Hitchcock film has a whole society of people who call it " one of Hitchcock's great unsung masterpieces , " and The Wrong Man is no different . The wrong man theme is one of Hitchcock's favorites and he has used it a great many times to create some of his most suspenseful films , and he uses that and almost nothing else to create the considerable suspense in this film . Hitchcock had a genuine fear of the police , and you can see it in many of his films , this one more than most . Henry Fonda delivers a wonderful performance as a regular man who just wants to be a good man and a good husband , but suddenly finds himself embroiled in this case of mistaken identity . The film is structured differently from a lot of his other films , which often showed a man forced into isolation by misplaced accusations , only to slowly reveal himself to be a hero and gradually get the girl , who paid him no attention at the beginning of the film . ( spoilers ) In this film , Christopher Balestrero ( Henry Fonda ) is never a hero nor does he try to be , and his wife not only does not gradually grow more and more fond of him despite the accusations against him , but she grows more and more distant due to the accusations . Hitchcock personally introduces the film in his only speaking role in any of his movies ( he introduced his television series episodes , but mostly as comic relief ) , and warns that the movie is completely true and absolutely frightening . It is a successful adaptation of a true story , although clearly highly polished to satisfy the studio . Definitely one of Hitchcock's more notable efforts .
I use the term predictable above , as you'll soon see , in the most respectable and positive way , of course . Seabiscuit is a film based on a novel and is a true story . You know pretty much how the movie is going to end , if only simply because of the fact that it is a story about which a book was published AND a major motion picture was made . That being said , it's not too hard to hypothesize about what the ending will be like , but along the way the film takes you on a wonderful journey through the hardships suffered by a particular family and especially a particular boy during the Great Depression . ( spoilers ) I also have to admit that there were times during the last quarter of the film that I was not sure that my initial theory of a happy , underdog ending was in store for me , especially having seen and been immensely impressed by films like Rocky and Mystery , Alaska . In a film like Seabiscuit , a huge success is not necessary in the final race for the film to succeed . In some ways I actually think it might have been better had Seabiscuit lost the final battle . And by the way , I don't even know for sure that I should be required to mention ' spoilers ' above , given that the very tagline of the film gives away the ending . But just so you know , there are much more substantial spoilers to follow , so if you haven't seen the movie you might want to stop reading my review now ( but make sure to come back and read the rest after you see the whole movie ! ) . Seabiscuit is obviously the underdog from the beginning . He's too small , he has completely the wrong temperament , he would rather lounge for hours in the sun in the afternoon than run around a track , and probably the worst of all , his jockey ( although pretty much a lifelong jockey ) is too tall , too heavy , and in a lot of ways , also has completely the wrong temperament . But these things , as the movie progresses , are the things that I think the film should be more concerned with correcting , instead of having such a heavy emphasis on winning that last rematch . Having Seabiscuit win the final race is certainly one of those big jump - out - of - your - seat - cheering events , but consider how the film's message would have been different had he lost . Seabiscuit had already lost to War Admiral and his arrogant owner once , which only served to intensify the desire to beat him . Much publicity is made of their desire for a rematch , which is ultimately granted , although entirely on the conditions and to the advantage of War Admiral and his jerk of an owner . Seabiscuit and the rest of the team arrive , and there are thousands upon thousands of people there to watch the race , plus countless more listening to this immense race over the radio , even though Seabiscuit and War Admiral are the only two horses racing . The tension is increased by the fact that Red Pollard ( played by Tobey Maguire with charming red hair ) has a leg that was broken in 11 or 12 places and is barely holding together ( although aided with a home-made leather brace , which must have provided plenty of support ! ) . It is the reason that he is barely able to get permission from his manager ( intent on canceling the race because a fall could mean he would never walk again ) and his doctor ( visibly impressed by the home-made brace ) to ride Seabiscuit in the race . Seabiscuit wins , of course . You know that , otherwise the tagline wouldn't be talking about a long shot becoming a legend . So it's a true story , which provides the main reason for not ending with a loss , I just think it's interesting to consider how the film would have been different had it not ended with a huge victory . First of all , the reason that Seabiscuit was so immensely popular and managed to completely fill up the stadiums was because the movie takes place during the Depression and symbolizes the working man , beaten down but , as Seabiscuit symbolically states , not defeated . Millions look to Seabiscuit for inspiration and hope , so his victory / loss has a huge effect on the will of all of these people , many of whom have lost everything because of the Depression , to go out there and actively seek to get back their lives and livelihood . But to me , Seabiscuit winning the last race is not pivotal as to whether people would have derived hope from his success story , which I suppose is a testament to the meaning of the Seabiscuit story itself . The most important thing is that Seabiscuit and his team put themselves out there at great risk in order to make an achievement , and winning or losing that last race is , ironically enough , not the determining factor as to whether or not they achieved what they set out for . It actually runs the risk of having the opposite effect should someone strive for success and fail . On the other hand , given the ultimate success in the final race , Seabiscuit encourages people not to give up . As Charles Howard ( Jeff Bridges ) says , you don't just lay down because of a defeat , you have to keep fighting . But like I mentioned earlier , I think that the main goal for them all was to overcome the adversities operating against Seabiscuit and Red , and they did that with huge success . I obviously have never had an experience even close to what people suffered during the Great Depression , but I think that Seabiscuit and his team setting out to overcome their own challenges would be enough to inspire people to do the same about their own lives . But I digress . This is , after all a true story . So Seabiscuit is a huge success , but there were certain things about the victory that I think were contrived and overdone . I could have done without the conversations out there on the track , for example , I just think that riding a horse going that fast and that close to other horses would simply not be an atmosphere conducive to conversation , both because of noise and the demand on the jockeys ' concentration . The final ' See you later ' was a little too cocky and cheesy , too , illustrating that all of the tension that the audience had been experiencing through this whole race was fake because Seabiscuit was only going at maybe 60 % until that last corner . And I don't like false tension . But Seabiscuit as a whole is a fantastic film , historically accurate and with a definite purpose , whose success and meaningful application to modern society as well as that of the 1930s is a testament to the relevance of the story . Jeff Bridges delivers yet another wonderful performance ( illustrating his adaptability , since he was also fantastic in his performance of The Dude ) , as does Chris Cooper ( who , I think , is one of the finest actors working today ) as Seabiscuit's trainer . Tobey Maguire captures the heart of Red Pollard , and William H . Macy , another of the finest actors working today , provides wonderfully appropriate comic relief as the breathless Tick Tock McGlaughlin , a radio host who shouts his commentary along with a startling array of strange sound effects , the occasional meaninglessness of which suggest their main purpose of gleeful effect rather than to further illustrate the meaning of anything he's talking about at any particular time . Set against the background of one of the milestones in American history , Seabiscuit is a smashing presentation of a true story that inspired the downtrodden of the time and also has the capacity of inspiring the downtrodden of today , as well as the affluent , who might be able to stand to display a little bit less heartlessness and arrogance . But rather than speaking against mean-spirited and self-righteous people like War Admiral's wealthy owner , the movie speaks positively to people looking for not only some great entertainment , but some inspiration as well , whatever their founding needs for it might be .
Seemingly endless repetition can make things grow rather tiresome , like when you hear a great song on the radio a few hundred times , you start to hate it . I still love all of the Lord of the Rings movies and remain immensely impressed by them , but I have to admit that by the end of the 76th Academy Awards , I was getting a little tired of hearing about it . I'm sure it has something to do with the fact that the last movie to sweep the Oscars like that was the ridiculous Titanic , which certainly deserved some of the awards that it won but it is absolutely ludicrous to call it the Best Picture of 1997 . The second sequel in the Lord of the Rings trilogy is the third in an absolutely spectacular trilogy , I guess it just takes away a lot of the appeal of the awards when you hear the nominees and know immediately which one would win just because of the simple fact that it was nominated . The only thing more repetitive by the end of the night were those incessant Cadillac commercials ooh yeah , ooh ooh yeah . That being said , I was highly impressed with this year's ceremony . The opening sequence wasn't quite as side-splitting as Jack Black's Lord of the Piercing from last year , although I loved Michael Moore's good-natured appearance during the battle scene from Return of the King , in which he rants on and on about the fictitiousness of that war before being stomped on by a gigantic beast . Billy Crystal , one of the best hosts of the Academy Awards , returns for the evening , making lots of jokes about how long it's been since he's hosted ? by far my favorite of which was that , the last time he was the host , George Bush was the president , the economy was tanking and we had just finished a war with Iraq . But overall , my favorite thing about the Academy Awards this year were things like the In Memoriam sequence and the lifetime achievement montage for Bob Hope , because they showed all those clips from all those classic films , and it really reminded me how little I know about movies . It has inspired me to start going back and watching the classics , especially since lately I've been on this weird kick where I've been watching all of the new horror movies that come out , arguably the worst of all movies released . What a waste of time . The presenters , although mostly Academy Award winners themselves , came on stage and , as always , delivered a few wooden lines of speech before naming their respective nominees . I'll never understand why the ceremony that awards the best of the year's films and film-making is incessantly peppered with dumb jokes and stiff delivery like that , and strangely the one exception was from one of the more controversial winners last year , Adrien Brody ( no , not Michael Moore ) . Last year he gave a teary speech about the sadness of the war in Iraq ( a violation of the sort of unwritten agreement to leave your feelings about the war on the back burner during the ceremony ) , but even more , he planted a not-so-welcome kiss on Halle Berry on stage last year , about which he joked this year . He comes on stage , telling people not to worry because of a restraining order that has been served to him , and then sprays breath freshener into his mouth just before announcing the winner in the Best Female Actor category . I love it when people can poke fun at themselves like that . As for the winners , Sean Penn was finally awarded the elusive Oscar for his performance in Mystic River , as did Tim Robbins for Supporting Actor in the same movie , Charlize Theron won Best Actress for Monster ( silencing cynical critics who credited her performance more to make-up than acting ) , Renee Zellwegger received a much-deserved Supporting Female Actor for Cold Mountain , and I'm pretty sure The Lord of the Rings won just about everything else . Sophia Coppola , in fact , would surely have been snubbed had the Return of the King been an original screenplay . And then , of course , there are the awards like Best Documentary Short Subject , Best Animated Short Film and Best Live Action Short Film , but I won't get into those because no one's seen them anyway . Where do you go to see these movies ? I don't even know where they come from . Steven Spielberg announced a clean sweep as he opened the envelope for Best Picture and gave the Oscar for Best Picture to The Lord of the Rings , the movie's 11th Oscar of the night . I saw all of the Lord of the Rings movies , and I've been saying since 2002 when The Fellowship of the Ring was nominated but didn't win that if The Two Towers was also nominated and didn't win , The Return of the King would certainly win . I based my prediction on the idea that it was simply too far-fetched for all three films in a trilogy to be nominated and none of them win . I don't think that's ever happened before , but I had no idea how right I would be . I definitely didn't see 11 Oscars headed to The Return of the King , but at least they were granted to a worthy film . I'm still bummed that Big Fish was so tremendously overlooked though . It may have earned itself the unfortunate distinction of being one of the most underrated films of the last decade or so ?
Tommy Lee Jones and Will Smith are the two most aptly named actors ( Mr . Jones and Mr . Smith ) to play the intensely secretive secret agents J and K , of the Men In Black , a secret organization that protects humankind from the threat of aliens , which are a lot closer to us than we realize . The premise of the film leaves open enormous opportunities for comic relief , and they wisely make use of this , not only with Smith's seemingly endless talents ( ' It just be rainin ' black people in New York . ' ) but also with the ironic humor that Jones is so good at . He has developed one of the most rigid iconographies in Hollywood , but still manages to take on a wide variety of roles in more serious movies like The Fugitive and entertaining comedies like Men In Black with equal effectiveness . As is most often the case with fantastic movies like this , the thing that makes it the most interesting and believable is that it makes itself so compatible with reality . The reason that The Matrix was so good is because it left open a lot of questions that were not immediately dismissible , which is often something that brings down even the best science fiction movies . Who is to say that what The Matrix suggests , that we are all a lot of lifepods supports by machines for their own nutrition , is not true , and that we are not really only living in a reality created and implanted into our heads ? Sure , it's not very likely , but it's definitely possible , which is certainly refreshing for the science fiction genre itself , which is mostly populated with laughable tales of aliens and space ships and lazer guns and whatnot . Similar to The Matrix , Men In Black suggests that the human population is heavily infiltrated with aliens that disguise themselves as humans and have a relationship with the Men In Black not too different from that that we so often see in gang movies between the police and regular criminals . Almost a teacher / pupil relationship , the aliens treat the Men In Black as obvious authority figures despite quite often being enormously superior in size . Will Smith is able to milk his part for all it's worth as the New York police officer who is a little too good for his own good , as he rushes into the Men In Black outfit , thinking that he is such a good cop that he has seen it all and can handle anything that comes his way . There are several delightful scenes that make up his introduction to the truly weird world of the Men In Black and their duties , and it comes around full circle ( as usual ) with Smith taking Jones's role and inserting Jones back into the normal human race with a quick flash of the deneuralyzer . Anytime civilians are exposed to the aliens or the Men In Black in the performance of their duties , they are flashed with a deneuralyzer and new memories are inserted into their heads , keeping them safely ignorant to the things that go on around them , which seems to be the way most people in this country prefer it anyway . The gadgets in the movie are some of the most interesting things in the movie , much like just about any James Bond film . The Men In Black of course have access to some truly space-age weaponry and the cars they drive are not that special looking but have some serious accessories , making them able to handle just about any alien-emergency . This is a classy , stylish science fiction movie that sets itself apart from other science fiction movies by being believable enough so that the audience doesn't sit there and try to count the times that it parts from reality . It presents some creative aliens , plenty of amusing and exciting situations , and a variety of one-liners that makes you believe that the James Bond series has miraculously not been able to pound this precious screenwriting trick into ridiculous oblivion . Entertainment for all ages . Don't miss this one .
I awaited Cloverfield with almost wild anticipation . Sadly , it was released in theaters about two days before I had to go back to China ( I was home in California visiting family for the winter holidays ) , and I didn't have time to see it before I had to leave . It would have been nice to see it on the big screen ( this alleged " motion sickness " has never affected me in the least , either here or in the similarly photographed Blair Witch Project ) , but even on pirated Chinese DVDs the movie looks pretty good . Given that so much of the monster portion of the movie passes without us ever really learning much about the monster , it's odd that the beginning of the movie , which is just a personal home video taken by some friends to congratulate someone on getting married , seems like it goes on about five times longer than it should . Maybe that's because for much of that part of the movie , there seems to be developing a very involved romantic drama which will become meaningless within a few minutes . Of course , it doesn't become entirely meaningless , only about half of it does . In fact , I should mention that , for a romantic subplot squeezed into a monster movie , this one actually works quite well . I hope Bruckheimer is taking notes . At any rate , it is well known that the Statue of Liberty does not fare well in the movie . One of the original teaser trailers famously showed the statue's head being thrown down a New York City street , and they really should have left it at that . In the movie , they don't know how to have people react to such an occurrence . As soon as the head comes to rest , a lot of people gather around it like mindless zombies , snapping photos of it with their cell phones . Evidently these people are so brainwashed by technology that they are more concerned about e-mailing these amazing photos to all their buddies than they are in what exactly threw that head . Personally , I like to think that I'd be amazed if such a thing happened , but for at least the following few seconds , I would be more concerned about where the head came from ! Once the movie gets going , however , it never lets up . The monster is a brilliant creation of digital effects , which detract from movies far more often than they add . Th CGI is spectacular in this movie , and that is not a comment that I make often ! In the extra features on the DVD , there is a lot of talk about presenting the monster not as an angry beast bent on destroying , but as something like a frightened infant fighting for it's survival . A scared baby monster ( one as massive and frightening as this one ) being injured and not knowing why is definitely a force to be reckoned with , although there is nothing in the movie to let us know any of that . For all we can see , it's just an angry beast bent on destroying . The only major drawback of the movie is the bonehead holding the camera . Another idea mentioned in the extra features on the DVD is that the movie originally came about as an effort to create America's own movie monster , given that Godzilla , so many decades after its debut , is still a major part of Japanese pop culture . Sadly , this guy " Hud " ( which stands for Heads-Up Display , not Humanoid Underground Dwellers , but good guess ? ) strikes me as the results of an effort to create the most idiotic , dumbed-down American caricature possible . Here's a bit of sample dialogue : Hud : " What time does the chopper take off ? " Rob : " 0600 . " Hud : " Uh , what time is that ? " Rob : " 6am ! " Hud : " Oh , yeah . I knew that . " Good thinking , moron . Way to represent the homeland . I live in the heart of Communist China , and I feel I should tell you that , especially with all of the controversy about American protests about Tibet and the Beijing Olympics , many people in the world have much difficulty differentiating between the American people and , say , their government , or their movies . One of the main difficulties that the movie has to overcome , however , is why this Hud would go on holding a video camera while his whole world was being destroyed around him . He was reluctant to take on the job of filming at the beginning of the movie , so it's strange sometimes that he always holds on to it and always points it at what needs to be seen . But surprisingly , this never really seems like a problem to me . Sometimes we have to wonder why he's holding it , like when he climbs onto the roof of a high-rise apartment building which is leaning precariously on the building across the street , but they make excellent use of broken clips , and cuts back to what was originally on the tape , to show times when Hud stopped filming and then started again later . I think many people will be put off by the fact that so little is actually learned about the monster , but I think this might be the film's strongest point . First of all , the movie is left wide open for a sequel , not the least reason for which is because the entire movie consists of a single DV tape that the government found at the " former location of Central Park . " Think of how many other tapes might be found and made into more movies ! But most of all , pay special attention to the right side of the screen in the very last shot of the movie , which looks out over the ocean . In my opinion , that's all we really need to know ?
I had a hard time motivating myself to watch Bleu , which I have only ever heard glowing reviews about . People have been recommending the movie to me literally for several years , and I never got around to watching it until last night , after I recently purchased the trilogy for a whopping 30 yuan ( about $4 . 25 ) , thanks to China's total indifference to copyright laws . The movie is suitably depressing and highly artistic , and although some of the technical experiments didn't really work for me , the story itself is outstanding . Early in the movie there is a clumsy use of a flashing blue screen that might remind some Hitchcock fans of the psychological use of color in Vertigo , but it's one of the examples of the overuse of blue in the movie that came to me to be a little redundant . The movie is called Blue and it's an emotional color , I don't think we really need to be hit over the head with it so many times . Juliette Binoche stars as Julie Vignon , the wife of a famous composer who dies in a car crash , along with their daughter , throwing her entire life into total emotional chaos . She responds by trying to erase her memories of her lost past . She sells all of her possessions , moves to a new place , and goes back to her maiden name . Throughout this time , she immerses herself in her sadness , just like that astonishingly blue swimming pool . Obviously , music is an extremely important part of the film , it takes us on an entirely separate journey through Julie's sadness and emotional development . The movie illustrates her loss of feeling , her inability to form meaningful connections with other people after her catastrophic loss , and through the thoroughly unexpected turns of events that take place throughout the movie to allow her life to continue , in completely unexpected directions . There is a lot of focus on minute details in the film , long shots that focus on seemingly trivial objects but that create a surreal environment that is almost impossible to create in any other way , similar to the effect that Binoche gets with her particular style of under-acting . There are a few moments in the film when the screen fades to black for a few seconds and then fades back in to exactly the same shot . I imagine Kieslowski was going for some kind of temporary mental blackout , triggered by an emotion or a sudden painful memory , but it just came across as campy to me . Nevertheless , the movie has such a powerful and involving story that it's easy to overlook things like this , although this is certainly not the feel good movie of the year . By far the film's best feature is the story , which is brilliantly written and takes us on a fascinating journey , followed by the stupendous performances . Kieslowski is not one of our most accessible directors , but certainly one of the most enduring .
Mission : Impossible is a great action film . Tom Cruise delivers a great performance as the famous Ethan Hunt , and the technological toys that he has in this film rival many of the toys seen in the James Bond films , very few of which are as good as this film . The story is very interesting , but is also hard to follow at some points . However , the end of the film actually goes back to recap what has happened , pointing out some things that you were almost guaranteed to have missed on the first viewing , and this retelling is flawlessly worked into the movie , so it's not like being told all over again what you have already seen . What makes this movie so good is that the mystery is so well presented , and all of the performances are very good . It's true that a lot of the situations were fairly unrealistic ( I don't think I even need to mention the fact that it is physically impossible to fly a helicopter in a tunnel ) , but the quality of the rest of the film more than makes up for these shortcomings . At least the movie wasn't manipulative . It's not excessively gory , there isn't unnecessary violence , there's no goofball romance , and the twists and turns are unexpected and very effective . And , most importantly , there is a brilliantly written script , with endlessly amusing lines like , ' I want him manning a radar tower in Alaska by the end of the day , just mail him his clothes . ' Why can't there be more movies with cool lines like that ? James Bond sure as hell never uttered anything that clever . Some of the action sequences in Mission : Impossible have become famous , such as the nail-biting break-in scene where Hunt is hanging over the glowing floor in the room protected by the world's greatest alarm system , as well as the less effective helicopter tunnel scene . As a whole , this is a very high quality action film . It does have a few problems , but the rest of the film is so good that you are able to easily overlook them .
I am writing this review on the afternoon of February 27th , a couple hours before the Academy Awards begin , and I really think that the Best Picture category is going to be mostly a contest between The Aviator and Million Dollar Baby , both of which are spectacular films , as are the rest of the nominees ( Finding Neverland , Ray , and Sideways , in my order of preference ) . I caught this movie about a week ago at a theater a block from my house . The one thing that I really like about living in LA is that , especially at Oscar time , just about any movie nominated in any category is bound to still be playing somewhere , regardless of how long ago it was released . Except Best Animated Short Film , of course . I still think those never play anywhere . I have a feeling that Mystic River was passed over for the Best Picture award because of too much similarity to Clint Eastwood's outstanding 1999 film True Crime , and I had anticipated something in that general vein with Million Dollar Baby , if only because the appearance of the film is so similar . Eastwood has gone from making westerns to making one exceedingly dark film after another , and in this film he has succeeded like he never has in his storied career . Eastwood plays Frankie Dunn , the owner of a pretty run-down boxing gym where hopefuls come to work out and get some training from him . It's the kind of gym from which you don't really expect to see many people rise to boxing stardom , so Frankie concentrates hard on one man that he's training , who has a chance at a title bout . It is during this time that Maggie ( Hillary Swank ) walks into the gym and starts calling him Boss , which he does not appreciate because , as he flatly tells her , " I don't train girls . " Up to this point in the film the plot has not really revealed itself . We know we are watching a movie about boxing that's not really about boxing ( a sports movie cliché that Million Dollar Baby brilliantly sidesteps ) and that Maggie is more than likely going to turn into the brilliant boxer that Frankie has been looking for . But beyond that the movie could go in a hundred different directions , and it promptly goes exactly where you didn't think it was going to go . This could very easily have become a quickly forgettable sports film that disappeared into video store obscurity like even the good sports films like Miracle and Mystery , Alaska seem to have done , but by the end of the movie it has gone in such an original direction and given the audience such an emotional workout that , on my way out of the theater I saw people leaning against the handrail . This movie is so powerful that you have to rest after you see it . Frankly , given how violent some of these sports movies are , especially ones like this , it amazes me that no other ones have gone as far as Million Dollar Baby does . The boxing scenes are thrilling to watch , even providing good comic relief as Maggie consistently knocks girls out in the first round and then looks sheepishly over at Frankie in her corner , who has instructed her not to knock them out so fast because it's getting so no one wants to put their boxer in the ring with her . He ends up having to bribe managers . The conflict comes from the fact that Maggie is desperate for a title fight . She has come from a trailer in middle America where she worked as a waitress for something like 17 years , and she knew that she would never do anything else until she got herself out of there on her own . Her family certainly was not going to help . My God man , I could not believe those people . She was uneducated and unskilled , she didn't even know how to box but she had the determination and the motivation to learn , and learn she certainly did . The problem is that one of Frankie's past trainees who managed to get a title fight was Eddie " Scrap-Iron " Dupris ( played in the movie by Morgan Freeman ) , who not only lost the fight but also was knocked blind in one eye . By the end of the movie , by the way , I like to think that Eddie may have considered changing his nickname to Eddie " 110 " Dupris . Frankie blames himself and he doesn't want to have another fighter injured . An honorable feeling , but it clashes with Maggie's goals , for whom not getting a chance to a title fight means she'll have to go back to being a waitress , which to her is nothing more than waiting to die . The interaction between the three characters is some of the best I've seen in years . And I've seen a lot of movies in years . I am reminded of Friday Night Lights , which came out in late 2004 and was hailed as the best sports movie ever made , a bold statement that inspired me to eventually watch it . Fairly entertaining movie , but the ludicrous statement that it's the greatest sports movie ever made becomes even more ludicrous if you consider Million Dollar Baby to be a sports movie . This is one of the great films in all of film history . Do NOT miss it . And with that , it's almost 4 o'clock . I'm going to go up to Hollywood Blvd . and see if I can catch a glimpse of Clint Eastwood .
There's really only one good part of The Big Lebowski , but it's a REALLY good part . It's one of those scenes that you see in a movie and you tell your friends about it for years , you constantly spout off hilarious quotes from that scene that you remember laughing so hard about , you develop inside jokes about the scene with the friends who were lucky enough to be there to watch it with you , and you may even begin to regularly consume certain types of alcoholic beverages that you saw enjoyed by the main characters in that scene . The earth-quakingly memorable scene ( indeed , as I said before , the only good scene in the entire film ) is the one that begins immediately after the opening credits and ends approximately 117 minute later just before the screen fades and the end credits roll . Not laughing ? To hell with you , that's funny ! And the movie's even funnier ! Every character in The Big Lebowski is developed perfectly to serve the purpose of the story . These characters truly have personality , especially The Dude ( ' Who the fk IS this guy ? ! ' ) , Walter ( ' Donny , you're out of your league ! ' ) , and even Mr . Lebowski's geeky assistant , Brandt . They may occasionally be stereotypical characters , but they fit perfectly with the story , augmenting it even though it's already complex and interesting . This movie has an excellent plot line that is punctuated with endlessly hilarious dialogue ( ' Donny , you're outta your element ! ' ) , and peppered with well-developed and interesting characters . Jeff Bridges delivers a spectacular performance as the Dude , flawlessly capturing the slacker attitude and lazy lifestyle that that character lives . His love for White Russians has made that drink a staple at my house , and is now among my favorite alcoholic drinks . Yeah , big accomplishment , but that's the kind of thing that makes a movie like this even better . As a college student , I can see the difference between the slacker life that I lived in high school , and the extremely busy one that I live now . The Dude has chosen to perpetuate that lifestyle , living his life on the couch and at the bowling alley , constantly dirt-poor but obviously perfectly content with himself . The only time he is even the slightest bit upset is when something disrupts that lifestyle and his rug gets ruined . Clearly , a nice rug is not something that a person in The Dude's line of work ( i . e . unemployment ) can easily replace . He is even almost completely calm when the guys break into his apartment at the beginning of the movie , and doesn't really seem to be too upset until one of them ps on his rug . The interactions between The Dude , Walter ( John Goodman ) , Donny ( Steve Buscemi ) , and , eventually , the Jesus combine to make some of the most amusing moments of the film , but it is enormously entertaining from beginning to end . There cannot possibly be enough praise given to this movie to do it justice . Watch this movie , you are sure to love it . And if you don't , watch it again , because you must have missed something . A true contemporary classic of modern comedy .
( spoilers ) A Simple Plan , while the foundation of the plot seemed rather unoriginal , was surprisingly realistic and convincing . The overall meaning of this movie deals with the consequences of a few regular people running into a very large amount of money , especially when they have to bend the law in order to keep it . I think it also deals with the importance of obeying the law , because throughout the movie , the three guys , Hank , Doug , and Lou , seemed to be a bit like a rolling snowball as far as what they had to do to keep the money a secret . It demonstrates the startling ease with which the common man can be driven to commit unspeakable atrocities , such as shooting his own brother despite the utter absence of any direct conflict between them , just to keep his hands on a large sum of illegally obtained cash . I think that there is also an underlying theme dealing with the closeness between brothers , much like the closeness felt between sisters in other films like Hillary and Jackie . I think that the relationship of Hank and Doug , the two brothers in A Simple Plan , is much more realistic than Hillary and Jackie's . Although they do get along , they have what appeared to me to be a common occurrence of disagreements . For example , they disagreed on chasing the animal into the woods at the very beginning of the movie , as well as whether or not they should keep the money they found . The fact that neither of them were the ? beautiful people ' usually found in Hollywood films ( particularly Billy Bob Thornton's character ! ) made their roles even more convincing . I think that cinematics played an unusually important role in A Simple Plan . The very first thing that really stands out is in the very beginning of the movie . When the three men finally reached the decision to keep the money , there was a very high angle shot of the three of them , as if the camera was sitting in the trees above them , and in the foreground was a black crow . Black crows are often associated with bad luck , and just by showing this crow in the foreground the audience knows that the three men have just made a bad mistake , almost as if it was said out loud . I think that the snow was also very important to the presentation of the film . The fact that the three men were bundled up in coats pretty heavily seemed to give them a look of vulnerability . It made them look helpless against the cold , calling attention to their mortality , and thus subconsciously enhancing the suspense later in the film . Also , the snow provides a kind of a muted atmosphere . It is very overwhelming of everything so it creates a great sense of isolation for the town where the story takes place , and I think that this adds to the theme about three regular guys . I don't think this film would have been nearly as effective if it had happened to three guys in New York City . There is also a lot of foreshadowing in this film . One example is when Hank is in the sheriff's office with the sheriff and the pseudo-FBI agent . The sheriff keys into his gun cabinet , and then there is a quick cut to Hank's face as he watches where the key is placed , and then a close shot of the sheriff's hand placing the key under his memo pin on his desk . I think that by showing Hank's face looking at the key being hidden on the desk hints that he is going to try to get into the gun cabinet soon and , sure enough , he did . I also think that this knowledge adds to the suspense because the viewer knows that guns are soon going to be involved . A Simple Plan is a very original and very effective thriller that is very inviting but surprises you because it turns out to be much more intense and much more moving that you would expect . It's about ordinary people dealing with extraordinary circumstances , and the resulting message is powerful and unmistakable . The skill in this film is not only heavily present in the acting and directing , but also in the cinematography and editing departments as well . Don't miss this one .
While The Bookkeeper doesn't quite meet the standards of The Maddest ( let's face it , Gallagher's portrayal of the discovery of America in The Maddest is not likely to ever be surpassed ) , this is still a very worthy addition to Gallagher's unfortunately short list of excellent videos . In all of Gallagher's videos , he bases a good portion of his act on the title of the video ( Stuck in the 60s is an excellent example ) , but there is also a substantial portion in which he goes off on his traditional style of comedy that doesn't fit with the theme of the video but is always welcome because of it's comedic value . There is almost always , for example , a segment dealing with sex and the differences between the sexes . In The Bookkeeper , the segment dealing with the theme is a hilarious political bout of Gallagher's ideas about saving a lot of money by not paying the national debt , and an amusing way to expand the size of the United States ( ' We loaned the same amount of money to Tanzania last year as they paid in property values , it wouldn't cost us any more to own ? em ! ' ) . There is also a less amusing but as creative as always skit involving invisible elephants , but the value of the video itself is in the overall comedy appeal . Gallagher is just a funny guy , and it really comes across in these videos . The Sledge-O-Matic segment is also just as fun as always as well . This is yet another of Gallagher's intellectual and highly entertaining comedy acts that is sure to be loved by his fans and should not be missed .
SPOILERS SPOILERS When you have a movie as hugely popular as Kill Bill Vol . 1 , it is to be expected that it's sequel , or in this case it's other half , generates a huge amount of expectation and attention , especially when it also involves a director as hugely ( and deservedly ) popular as Quentin Tarantino . Combine this with the depth of Tarantino's films and the amount of subject matter that he wisely leaves up to individual interpretation , and you have a virtual blank canvas upon which just about anyone can insert almost any meaning that they want the movie to have . This makes for some pretty interesting film criticism read , on the IMDb and elsewhere , but the reason I bring this up is because I just read an article in the April 26 , 2004 issue of Time magazine in which Richard Corliss claims that Kill Bill II has ' enough blood to appease the Passion of the Christ crowd . ' Is it just me or is this a display of a massive misunderstanding of the Passion of the Christ and it's intended audience ? Anyway , back what is arguably the less violent of the two movies under discussion . Kill Bill II is not a sequel and it's not a prequel , but while it is simply the other half one the same story , it has elements of both sequel and prequel . It's part II but it also tells about the story before part I began but it also picks up directly in the middle of a story , in the middle of which Part I also ended . We learn about what exactly was going on at the fateful ' wedding party ' where the first film began , we learn about the past of The Bride , why Bill tried to kill her , why she was getting married , and why she is so heavily trained in martial arts ( hint : it's not just because she's starring in a movie directed by a life-long lover of kung-fu movies ) . ( spoilers ) There is a memorable scene where The Bride , whose real name turns out to be Beatrix , is enduring some of her early training from an old kung-fu wizard who , when he stands up and fights , reveals that he is not as old as he looks from far away , but rather about as old as he looks close-up . No that the make-up was bad . In fact , that endless beard managed to earn itself a spot as one of the best sources of comic relief in this movie which , being a Tarantino film , is literally brimming with comic relief . Like Part I , however , Tarantino is very aware of which scenes should have a comedic edge , and which scenes would destroy the movie if they were made amusing . The scene where Beatrix is buried alive , for example , is like the scene in Part I where she realizes that she is no longer pregnant . Neither should be funny , and neither are . In this case , it comes dangerously close , as Budd ( one of Beatrix's targets ) and one of his Texas hillbilly friends are looking down at the restrained Bride , and said hillbilly , in his miniscule amount of screen time , presents himself as a staggeringly backwards and idiotic inbred moron , such a clod of a man that you almost have to laugh in pity . There really are people like that in the world , it's tragic . Volume II has been called a character study , and I have to agree . The movie is essentially , and importantly , about the vague and blank spots in Volume I . Specifically , the other characters in the Deadly Viper Assassination Squad . While it's true that much of the suspense is killed by the little factoid that it's not hard to guess that these former partners of Beatrix are going to meet an unpleasant end at some point in the movie , the ultimate face-off with Bill could not have been less expected . At least one of the characters , Michael Madsen's Budd , believes that Beatrix deserves her revenge , but none of them , himself included , are planning on allowing her to achieve what she deserves . I was initially pretty surprised at how talky Volume II is , mostly because I expected it to be even more violent given the fact that is necessarily includes the climax of the overall story . On the other hand , after a movie like Kill Bill Vol . 1 , Quentin really had a lot of explaining to do . The dialogue in the movie is unnervingly thoughtful , much of it , especially in the scene with Bill , even psychological , which is another of Tarantino's signature film tricks . He can make brutally violent characters speak like philosophers and you don't even really realize it until you write a movie review about it later and think to yourself , Hey , who talks like that in real life ? Or maybe that's just me . My favorite example is most of the dialogue between Vincent and Jules in Pulp Fiction . The females in Kill Bill are famously much deadlier than the men ( Budd , for example , has graduated in life to a dingy trailer in the middle of the Texas desert and earned himself the highly skilled job as a bouncer at a topless bar ) , which is good , because our hero is a woman and what would be the fun of her just running around and exacting her revenge on a lot of men ? Compare Daryl Hannah's Elle Driver to Madsen's Budd ( and the way she calmly killed him ) and you'll know what I mean . Speaking of which , here's an interesting scene . Elle Driver comes to Budd's house because he's called her to inform her that he has buried alive their highest value target , and he wants to sell her priceless Hattori Hanso sword to Elle for a measly million bucks . Elle shows up , gives Budd the money as he stumbles around the trailer in true redneck form , spilling his drink everywhere ( doesn't matter , he's rich now , he won't be living there much longer anyway ) , and as he sits down and starts greedily pulling out wads of $100 bills , he uncovers a black mamba snake , for which Beatrix was code named . I assume Elle used a black mamba both for symbolism reasons , as well as to punish him appropriately for burying Beatrix alive before she was able to have her way with her first . At any rate it provides an excellent opportunity for Elle to provide the toxicological contents of the black mamba's venom as it seeps into Budd's bloodstream from all of the bite wounds to his face . Animal Planet was never this muc fun ! What makes no sense about the scene is that after the snake delivers a series of fatal bites to Budd's face , it disappears and Elle walks calmly around the trailer , even stooping to the floor to gather the pile of now-loose $100 bills back into the suitcase , never once worried that the snake might still be around to deliver another fatal dose a venom . I doubt if black mamba snakes take sides in such a conflict as these people are engaged in . And besides that , how did she get it in there in the first place ? Sure , there are some holes here , but I like to think that despite such inconsistencies and loose points like these , the movie doesn't even falter . Indeed , it is surely a testament to both the popularity and skill of Quentin Tarantino that he is able to so smoothly get away with a scene like this , where literally the only thing that makes sense is that the snake would be in a biting mood after being stuffed in a suitcase packed with wads of $100 bills . I've read articles here and there about Quentin talking about putting together a Kill Bill Vol . III sometime in the distant future ( after part 1 I had a theory that Vernita Green's daughter would come back in Vol . II to get her revenge against her mother's killer the way O-Ren Ishii did for her parents ' killer , but then I realized that she would still be a little girl in Vol . II ) , as well as an animated prequel in the same style as the animated sequence in Vol . I . Tarantino is , however famous for leaving projects on the back burner for years and years , if not indefinitely , so while a Vol . III would not be released for years anyway , there may be little use in holding your breath waiting for more of the Bill saga to come from the Tarantino camp . I can't believe I just said that . I hate it when people talk about this camp or that camp . Anyway , Kill Bill as a whole is an intricate and self-sustained movie that is not in need of any other movies to supplement it , but it is also clever in that it leaves tons of room for at least one more or two more movies . And given the popularity and quality of the two parts so far , I don't imagine there would be a lot of complaints about more .
1998 was one of the most controversial years ever as far as the Best Picture Oscar winner , but I think that this is only because Saving Private Ryan and Shakespeare in Love , the two front-runners for the award , were both such tremendously spectacular movies . There was a similar situation the year before , in 1997 , with the rivalry between Titanic and As Good As It Gets , it's just too bad that the Academy chose to give the award to Titanic's ticket sales rather than the sheer earthquaking quality of As Good As It Gets and the fabulous talent within it . Thankfully , the Best Actor and Best Female Actor awards were given to the stars of As Good As It Gets , clearly showing that the Academy realizes that the content was in As Good As It Gets , but chose instead to award the financial purging and pretty pictures and sparkly oohs and aahs that were in Titanic . The Oscars , it becomes clearer and clearer , are entirely a commercial event and have little to nothing to do with furthering film as an artistic medium . 1998 , then , may be seen as something of an apology , where the Academy tries to show that they know about good film beyond goofy romantic set pieces like the joke that Titanic has turned out to be , but unfortunately in 1998 they awarded a worthy film but had to also turn down another equally worthy film . Like I always say , though , movies are not a stratified medium that releases one great film every year and a lot of pretty good movies every year so that the Oscars can be neatly distributed and we can all go home smiling , which is why I don't involve myself too much in who gets what Oscar , but rather watch the Academy Awards for entertainment purposes and , most of all , to develop a list of the quality films that I missed during the year . I wish people wouldn't get so freaked out about it and just enjoy the show , because it is quite often these same people that go out and pay full ticket prices for crap like Big Momma's House and Gone In 60 Seconds and the Scary Movies and whatnot . We have a consumer responsibility people ! These trashy movies keep getting made because someone keeps buying tickets to see them ! Who are these people ? ? But I digress . As Good As It Gets , as the title refers , is just about as good as human interest dramas get . I have read reviews complaining that Melvin ( the mentally flawed character played flawlessly by Jack Nicholson ) is a man who it is impossible to like or love , whose compulsive , antisocial behavior is sad and disturbing , neither cute nor funny , to put it in the words of one of these unsatisfied reviewers , Christopher Brown , my colleague and good friend . Quite the contrary , however , Melvin Udall is a man who suffers from obsessive compulsion , severe antisocial tendencies , and whose interaction with the world , like Vincent Gallo's Billy in Buffalo ' 66 , is limited to harsh insults intended to harm . I think it's true that the character is presented in such a way that he doesn't seem to realize how hurtful his statements can be ( such as in the diner scene when he makes a touchy comment to Carol ( Helen Hunt ) about her son . The major flaw of the film is that the plot boils down to a fairly familiar formula , in which the man who hates everyone he comes into contact on a daily basis softens and ultimately grows to accept everyone from women and children to his gay neighbor's dog . Given the fact that the film is peppered with high priced Hollywood movie stars ( Jack Nicholson , Helen Hunt , Greg Kinnear , Cuba Gooding , Jr . , etc . ) , it's obvious that it's not a cheap production , so the crowds have to be pleased to some extent , but even the rather conventional path that it follows to the end is made into a tremendously enjoyable ride because of the quality of the performances . You can clearly see the difference between where the money goes in a movie like this and a movie like Titanic . You can either have enormous special effects and fancy cinematic trickery dumbed down by wooden performances , as was the case in Titanic , or you can have a movie that takes place in a familiar setting and is bursting with Oscar worthy performances from top to bottom , as in As Good As It Gets . That being said , I am willing to forgive a little bit of bending to the crowd-pleasing formula , which is something that I generally hate more than anything else because it is so rarely done right . Most producers ( Jerry Bruckheimer ) try so hard to please so many different people that they end up pleasing no one at all . In this film , the conventional formula is the price that we have to pay to see the quality of the performances and the story . Clearly , no one but Jack Nicholson could play a character like Melvin and still be liked by the audience , so his character is a success despite the callousness of him as a person . I can understand that there are a lot of people who may have been put off by a purely superficial look at the movie , maybe they couldn't look past Melvin's insults or maybe they weren't satisfied by the ending , which left very open the possibility that the future would hold more trouble like we had already seen up to that point in the movie ( I felt this way myself , to a certain extent ) , but there can be no denying the enormous quality of the film and it's inarguable superiority to Titanic . As Good As It Gets is such a fun movie that it's almost hard to see how anyone could not like it , unless maybe they were in bad mood when they watched it . If you are one of these people , I would advise you to watch it again and pay close attention to Melvin's character throughout the film . You may be able to profit from his lessons .
Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory is a truly magnificent piece of filmmaking and remains one of the most fascinating and wonderful adventure films ever made . One of the things that makes this film so intriguing is that it could have been made at any time . I mean , just from watching it , you can't really tell when it was made . It has been one of my favorite films for almost 20 years now , and it wasn't until today that I actually realized when it was made . Watching it again last night , I had convinced myself that it was made sometime in the early to mid 80s , and I was shocked to find out that this year is the movie's 30 year anniversary . Until now , pretty much the only movie I associate with 1971 is A Clockwork Orange , and it's just strange for some reason to find out that this classic movie was made so long ago . At any rate , Willy Wonka is a tremendously imaginative and inspiring film . It's a family film , but one of the most important aspects of a family film is that it has to be enjoyable for a variety of ages . This is what makes movies like Toy Story and Shrek such huge successes - the adults will love it just as much as the kids are sure to . Hence : ' family ' film . On the other hand , this is also the downfall of such other movies that are strictly for a much younger audience , like Cats & Dogs . The makers of Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory understood this very well , and you can see that just by the way that the cast is divided . Here are all of these kids ( funny how it was only kids who found those golden tickets ? ) who were at this candy factory , and they had each elected to bring one of their parents with them as the one admissible member of their family who was allowed by Wonka to accompany them to the factory . One of the best elements of this film is the excellently written script and , even more , the songs . These are some of the best songs in any movie ever made , rivaling even the best of the songs from Disney's films ( hey , some of them are really good ? ) . There are , of course , some exceptions , such as ' Cheer up , Charlie , ' which I have been fast-forwarding through for as long as I can remember , but for the most part , the songs are fun to listen to and they pertain to life outside the movie . They are not just songs about the candy-making genius of Willy Wonka or the excitement of being able to tour his mysterious factory , but they are about life in the real world . They're about believing in yourself and being motivated in life ( ' Anything you want to , do it . Want to change the world , there's nothing to it ? ' ) , but there are also some that have to do mostly with the movie but are still just as enjoyable , such as the classic song that Wonka sings in the tunnel on board his boat ( curiously named ' Wonkatania ' ) , which was creepily covered by Marilyn Manson a couple of decades later . The dialogue in the film contains some of the most interesting little tidbits in the entire movie . Wonka's lines , in particular , are wonderfully strange and amusing ( ' A little nonsense now and then is cherished by the wisest men . ' ) . He is a truly eccentric and fascinating man , and Gene Wilder captures the character flawlessly , as he delivers the lines from the brilliantly written script . Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory is one of those rare movies that comes along and completely changes the way that fantasy films are made . It's all about having fun in life and being hopeful against all odds and , most of all , being able to have fun in life . There are times when you have to let things go for a while and just act like a kid . Eat candy , run around and play , steal fizzy lifting drinks and bump into the ceiling that now has to be washed and sterilized , it doesn't matter as long as no one's looking . That's such a trivial little quirk of Wonka's ( who sterilizes their ceiling ? ) that it becomes obvious that the movie is trying to say that it's okay to break the rules every once in a while . Have fun in life . Besides being absolutely mouth-watering ( to this day , I still fantasize about sinking my teeth into one of those gigantic gummy bears ) , the movie is an uplifting adventure that warms the heart and sends people of all ages away with fairy tale candies dancing in their heads and wonderful songs just behind their lips . It is an always-welcome vacation from reality for people of all ages , and it should always be remembered and loved for that . This movie will ALWAYS be a must-see .
It really is a testament to the power of the story told by this film that it stars the French army and they all speak nothing but English , and yet it is still be incredibly moving and compelling . On the other hand , the movie is not really about war but about the soldiers , kind of like Full Metal Jacket . It is structured almost exactly the opposite , with the first half of the film taking place on the battlefield and the second half off . Kirk Douglas plays Col . Dax , whose platoon is ordered to take a hill called the Anthill against staggering odds , almost surely a suicide mission . As the men rush out of the trenches in an attempt to complete the mission , I was reminded of Gallipoli as they were all mowed down within feet of exiting the trenches . It becomes clear that the mission is , ahem , impossible , and is abandoned . Where the movie is truly great is in its characterizations and the complexity of their relationships with one another . Watch , for example , the roles that certain characters play at the beginning and where they end up near the end of the film , such as the General who ordered soldiers to fire on their own men and the man who abandons two of his men on a watch , resulting in one of their deaths and the subsequent court martial and trial of the other . The situations that they end up in are what make the movie powerful . Clearly , the accepted forms of punishment for failing to accomplish a mission are frightening . I have no idea how accurate they are as to French military practices at the time , but for three soldiers to be taken at random and tried and sentenced to death because their entire platoon failed in an impossible mission is scary indeed . I wonder how they would have handled a few soldiers who refused to go on a mission to deliver contaminated gasoline because the vehicles had almost no armor on them whatsoever . What is truly amazing to me is that Kubrick was able to make a movie about massive military injustice and still make the audience laugh at certain times . The cockroach scene , for example , is wonderful comic relief . You get a good laugh without losing sight of the drama and the importance of the rest of the film . It is not uncommon to read that this is the greatest anti-war film of all time , and while there are other anti-war films that I think rank right up there with Paths of Glory , this certainly is one of the greatest ever made .
Edward Norton returns after his earth quaking performance in American History X to play the part of Jack ( who has no last name for a reason ) , a typical white-collar guy who works in an office , makes a good salary , and spends his time trying to find that perfect furniture set or that set of the ideal matching dishes . He lives in an empty world defined by possessions and income ? a world that is empty beyond his paycheck and his high rent apartment . He realizes this on a subconscious level and begins to have trouble sleeping , so eventually he goes out and joins support groups for afflictions that he doesn't have , just for the emotional release and the feeling of belonging and of meaning . He almost immediately finds relief to his sleeping problems ( ' Babies don't sleep this good . ' ) , and makes the support groups a regular activity . Unfortunately , one day he runs into someone else who is doing the same thing , Marla , and it ruins everything for him . This woman disgusts him ( for obvious reasons ) , but he ultimately tries to reason with her so that they can both do the support group thing and not run into each other . The movie really starts moving when Jack runs into Tyler Durden while on a business trip . They meet on an airplane , and Jack is immediately impressed at what an interesting ' single-serving ' friend Tyler is . Tyler gives Jack his card , and Jack later calls him after his apartment explodes . Jack goes to stay with Tyler out of necessity , and Tyler introduces Jack to his world . Jack is fascinated . Tyler lives in a world devoid of personal possessions and responsibilities . He lives in a disgusting house , has no job ( no steady one , anyway ) , pays no bills , and would more than likely be in trouble with the IRS if he were to be audited . He lives below the poverty line , obviously , but he is free , and Jack admires his ability to reject all forms of authority . Out of the blue one day , Tyler asks Jack to hit him , and after some convincing , they get into the fist fight that sets off the chain reaction which results in the formation of the tremendously popular Fight Club , Jack's most violent but most successful support group , a club that grows exponentially despite it's own first two rules . The goal of Fight Club is to get it's members to analyze their own lives and eliminate unnecessary garbage ( ' The advertising world has us working jobs we hate , so we can buy sht we don't need . ' ) and to obtain psychological freedom through mutually agreed violence between members . Sure , this sounds a little weird , but there really is something to be said about the psychological states obtained from pain . To put it in the immortal words of Beavis & Butt-Head ( just after Butt-Head has ' smacked Beavis upside the head ' ) ? Butt-Head : ' That was cool ! ' Beavis : ' No it wasn't , that sucked ! ' Butt-Head : ' Yeah but like , after it's over , doesn't it like , feel pretty cool ? ' Beavis : ' Oh yeah , do that again ! ' This is not something that is likely to be practiced by everyday society , but a club like Fight Club would probably be successful on many levels ( one of which , of course , would not be the legal level ) . There are a few things in the film that could have done with a little bit more explaining , like why Jack is so interested in fighting William Shatner , but it doesn't matter that this is not explained . Fight Club is one of those movies that not only invites , but also REQUIRES a second viewing , and for countless reasons . Fight Club asks audiences to re-evaluate their lives , noticing the superfluous quality of the material obsessions of modern society . It is one of the most cinematically unique films to be released in years , and easily earns it's place among the greatest films of 1999 ( and possibly of the entire decade ) , alongside such other classics as The Matrix , The Sixth Sense , and American Beauty , although it has much more in common with the first two . There is an obvious correlation between Fight Club and director David Fincher's previous classic , Seven , which is another spectacular dark film from the same director . Fight Club is definitely aimed at a male audience , and it should actually be commended , in my opinion , for not sacrificing any quality just to attract a larger female audience , which is something that is almost universally seen in Jerry Bruckheimer productions like The Rock and Armageddon and Pearl Harbor . Fight Club does not pretend to be something it's not , and it comes off with tremendous success . I have heard professional film critics give Fight Club the lowest rating possible , foolishly focusing on the violent aspect of the film and entirely missing the point of the film as a whole while at the same time proving without a doubt that some critics simply cannot be trusted . Be advised that this is an almost stomach-turningly violent film at some points , but instead of condemning the film for that , it should be recognized for fitting that much violence into what is ultimately such a skilled and memorable film . It's too bad that films of this quality are so rarely seen in modern cinema .
Cathedral is such a simple film that it is even more amazing how powerful it is . There is not a word of dialogue and almost no plot , but there is just enough going on so that you can insert your own meaning onto it , it means whatever is most important to you . The animation is spectacular , it reminds me of Final Fantasy , from a purely technical standpoint ( this film is much , much better than Final Fantasy ) , and the music , by far my favorite part of the film , is breathtaking . There is a fascinating cross breed between techno and classical chant that fits with the material like no other kind of music ever possibly could . When the music picks up near the end of the film , it is some of the best combination of sound and sight that I have ever experienced . The movie delves into the meaning of existence and suffering in such an obscure but powerful way that it is unbelievably moving to witness the fate of a person who we do not know anything about , especially since it plays off of the meaning of cathedrals themselves in a way that pays respectful homage . It uses them as a catalyst to tell the story but does so respectfully , returning the power to them that it borrowed for its own purposes . Bravo .
My grandparents still consider the 1950's to be the golden age of pure , unblemished Americanism . A time when teenagers were respectful , parents were bright , smiling examples of friendly authority , sex was post-marital and marriage was a time of apple pies and cheerful strolls down the charming neighborhood lane . I don't know at the moment if my grandparents have seen Revolutionary Road , but rarely do movies come along when the opinions of our elders would almost surely prove to be enormously valuable and insightful . The movie is based on the novel by Richard Yates , which attacked the very normality and pleasant conformity of the 1950's that forms the basis of so much of the modern nostalgia about it today . There has been a lot of expectation about the movie that would bring Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet together again for the first time in more than a decade , but the romance that they share in Revolutionary Road could not possibly be more different from the one they developed on the Titanic . They are Frank and April Wheeler , an outwardly charming husband and wife who live in a beautiful dream house on Revolutionary Road . They radiate an atmosphere of perfection and happiness and are loved by the neighbors . We meet them just after they've made what they promised each other was only a temporary move from Manhattan to the sprawling suburbs . The movie begins with April in an unsuccessful play , and we learn very quickly about their relationship in the car on the way home as Frank thoughtfully assures her that it's okay that she didn't become an actress , it's not her fault that the play was lousy , and then in the fight that ensues , Frank tells her that she acts " sick " when she gets mad like this . It seems that the most important thing that Frank and April embody about the traditional 1950s couple was the routine sacrificing of dreams upon the altar of conformity and fulfilling expectations . April dreams of a romantic life in Paris , and Frank has artistic ambitions as well . But he is stuck in a job that he hates despite a good salary , they have two kids already and a third accidentally on the way , and adultery's going on left and right . April suggests that they drop everything and move to Paris where , with money that she could make working combined with whatever they could get for the house , they could live comfortably until he could get on his feet artistically and they could both live the lives they have always dreamed of . They are doing what is expected of them already , but they're both deeply unhappy and they see no improvement ahead . It is one of the movie's more successful tragic moments in the way that everyone Frank and April know react to the news that they are moving . Responses range from friendly disbelief to outward remarks of irresponsibility and suggestions that such a move would be " irresponsible . " It's hard to watch Frank and April let go of their dreams when it was right in their grasp . It's not unrealistic , ladies and gentlemen . It's uncommon and unexpected , but unrealistic ? Irresponsible ? I should hope not ! It's commonly believed to be irresponsible and unrealistic , but it's not , trust me . I'm doing it myself . I left a job in Los Angeles two years ago that paid well but that I didn't like , and I've been living in China ( decidedly less romantic than Paris , I admit ) ever since . I now have a job that pays less than I made in LA , but my lifestyle is much more comfortable and I work 10 hours a week , which leaves me time to pursue my artistic endeavors . See how that works ? Granted , I don't have any kids , but I also didn't have a house to sell to put together some money to support myself while I found work . " I just think people are better off doing some kind of work that they actually like , " Frank complains . I tend to agree . But ultimately life gets in the way , as they say . A gossipy real estate agent , played perfectly by Kathy Bates , makes friends with April and nervously asks if she might bring over her son John , who has been in a mental institution and who she thinks might benefit from meeting a happy couple like April and Frank . April agrees , but when John comes over , it seems that his only mental problem is an inability to adhere to accepted models of conformity , which manifests itself mostly in the form of cutting through other peoples ' facades like warm butter and laying bare the sad , bitter reality of their lives . When he does this with April and Frank , the results are not pretty , but they are some of the best movie moments of 2008 . Kate and Leo both approach perfection in their performances . Both of them have appeared in other brilliant films in 2008 ( Kate in The Reader and Leo in Body of Lies ) , but in Revolutionary Road their performances reach such a level of pitch and depth that , when combined , they reverberate against each other and turn into something entirely different . If there were an Oscar for the best combination of two performances , there would be no need for any other nominees . Revolutionary Road is not the most uplifting film of the year ( although it's also not nearly as depressing as , say , Rachel Getting Married ) , but it is definitely among the most important . It's not so much that the movie attacks conformity , but that it attacks that little voice inside us that prevents us from doing what we really want in life because it goes against the accepted norm . Watching the movie kind of takes a bite out of you , but it takes a bite of that part of you that gets in the way of your dreams .
Primal Fear is one the best films that I have seen in years . Richard Gere portrays a glamorous attorney handling a case that has horrified the public and which seems to be a slam-dunk . He seems to be the only person who believes that young Aaron Stampler did not murder Archbishop Richard Rushman , a grisly crime which is tastefully portrayed at the beginning of the film . Edward Norton , in particular , was startlingly convincing as Stampler . This was really his chance to let the world know what a phenomenal actor he was and still is . Unfortunately , this film did not get the recognition that it deserved , which may have been a reason why Norton's next film , American History X , was also not as big as it should have been . Edward Norton was about 98 % of the reason to watch both of these films , which were both absolutely amazing and intense . Primal Fear is a film that can be enjoyed by pretty much anyone . The story is so well-told and well-acted that it holds your attention firmly and does not even begin to let go for all 130 minutes . It easily achieves the level of intensity that is desired by all mysteries and thrillers , with an ending that is both shocking and disturbing . Primal Fear is destined to become a classic , regardless of how relatively unknown it may be . This can be said about an extremely small number of films , but no matter what kind of movie you enjoy , if you haven't seen Primal Fear , go out and find it . You will not be disappointed .
Taxi Driver deals with the perils of big city life , and the film works so well because it adds a touch of mental instability to this otherwise tired theme . It focuses on the life of a lower middle class man who lives in a city that he finds filthy and that is full of people who disgust him . Everyone has impulses to do things that they know they would never actually do , and the vast majority of people generally listen to the voice of reason . Taxi Driver deals with what happens when a man acts on those impulses , driven away from reason by the multitude of atrocities that surround him . Travis Bickle seemed to be a person who had a very lonely life . The film begins with him applying for a job as a taxi driver because he can't sleep at night , and this may be a symptom of his loneliness . He likes to spend his free time at the adult movie theater , and he even took a date there , which tends to give the impression that he is not very experienced with women . Like most introverted people , he kind of kept to himself a lot of the time , and almost always seemed to be fairly deep in thought about something . As he took in everything around him , he constantly saw terrible things ( bums , drug dealers , twelve-year-old prostitutes , etc ) that drove him closer and closer to the proverbial ? edge . ' His inability to establish healthy relationships is more than likely a result of bad experiences during childhood , which also gave him this mistrustful and overall negative perception of the world . His rescue attempt , although seemingly insignificant in such a huge city full of crime and corruption , was his personal endeavor to try to make a difference , to do something important and good which would give a specific purpose to his otherwise meaningless life . Travis Bickle seemed to gradually begin to realize his own dire intentions and at one point even seeks advice from one of his fellow cab drivers . He goes to an experienced cab driver known as the ' Wizard , ' and basically asks him for direction in life , but walks away without having received any comprehensive advice . It seems that he felt that there was something positive in the world that he was missing and that was why he had such negative feelings about it . When he found that the ? Wizard ' evidently either had no idea what he was talking about or had a very hard time explaining himself , he seemed to be discouraged . The fact that he was not reassured at all by this guidance troubled him , and it seemed to narrow his options . It made him feel that the world really did exist exactly as he saw it , and he began to feel even more strongly that something had to be done about it . Taxi Driver is a very dark film . There is a lot of narrative by Bickle , a lot of it as he writes letters , which he may or may not even have anyone to send to . Even more important that that is when he would be driving in his taxi and his thoughts would be narrated out loud for the audience . Often during these narrations the viewer would see the streets as Bickle saw them , very dark , cold , dirty , and filled with questionable and suspicious looking people . Coupled with his unhappy words , this darkness gave the city an entirely dismal look . One of the things that this film is most famous for is Bickle's mohawk . It is such a drastic change that it calls attention to his psychotic condition . The first time his mohawk is shown is while he is at one of senator Palantine's rallies . Bickle is smiling radiantly and capping enthusiastically , but he also has this crude and extreme haircut , and he is wearing an army-green trench coat through which the viewer can clearly see the bulges of the guns that he recently purchased . You know he's not there to cheer on his favorite candidate . This plan to assassinate Palantine , like his conversation with the Wizard , and his relationship with Betsy , was another failure , and this was part of the reason that he put so much more effort into being successful in helping Iris . The countless point of view shots from the taxi window looking at prostitutes , pushers , pimps , thieves , and all sorts of other sleazy people that allowed the viewer to relate to Bickle's view of the world . Robert DeNiro provided a spectacular performance as the mentally disturbed Travis Bickle , and the brilliant direction by Martin Scorsese also served to mold Taxi Driver into the timeless classic that it has become . It's not a pretty film in any way , but the skill and the style are unmistakable .
So the reason my summary line is lower case and in parentheses is because initially I had it all in capital letters followed by your everyday period , but the IMDb politely told me DO NOT SHOUT in your summary line . So it's a whisper . Happy now ? Anyway , when I say that Casino Royale is the best Bond ever , I mean that it's the best film , although I would argue that Daniel Craig is also one of the best actors to play James Bond , maybe second only to Sean Connery . He fits the role of a younger 007 with such flawless precision that it's amazing to me that there is any controversy at all about his casting . I have heard that there were a lot of people that were upset that they cast a blonde guy in the role of 007 , but that just strikes be as such a shallow and ridiculous complaint that I don't bother to take it seriously . Having watched Die Another Day just before watching Casino Royale again , I am struck by how much more realistic the plot of this film is . There is nothing totally outlandish about the villain or the plot , and Bond is not presented as an infallible superspy . In fact , I think that's one of the best things about the movie . It's a prequel to all of the preceding films in the series , and Bond has just received his 00 status . Craig gives us a portrayal of James Bond that's totally different from anything we've ever seen before . He's reckless and unpredictable , he allows his emotions to control him and he makes drastic mistakes . Craig gives us a younger and less experienced 007 , showing us some of the formative experiences that made him into the character that we have come to know and love . Bond is embarking on his first mission since being granted 00 status , and his learning experience is not without difficulties . A man named Le Chiffre makes a living by bankrolling terrorists , and after losing $100 million of his terrorist investors ' money in a botched attempt to destroy a prototype plane that would revolutionize the air travel industry , he has to win back the money in a high - stakes poker game or face their wrath . I just have to say that it's amazing that a Bond film that's about 30 minutes longer than the average 007 movie can be centered around a card game and still flow so smoothly and so quickly . Despite having not the slightest interest in poker , I was never for a second bored during the card playing scenes , which should tell you something about how well-made the movie is . Le Chiffre is also one of the best villains of the series . He's scarred and has a bad eye that occasionally leaks blood ( although he assures one of his investors early in the movie , " Weeping blood is only because of a deranged tear duct , nothing sinister . " Right ! ) . He has no plans for world domination of global destruction , but is instead in the very real world position of a bank-roller of terrorist organizations . After the botched attempt to destroy a prototype airplane and thus generate a tremendous amount of money in the stock market , Le Chiffre instead loses more than $100 million , so he sets out to use his tremendous mathematical ingenuity to win back the money in the high - stakes poker game . MI6 sends Bond to participate in the game , informing him that if he loses , the British government will have directly financed terrorism . The stunningly beautiful Eva Green stars as Vesper Lynd , who must surely be the classiest and most intelligent Bond girl ever , as well as the one with the most important and unique role and impact on Bond's life . Bond's experience in knowing her is not always good but it has an effect on him that affects who he is , and no Bond girl has ever done that before , except maybe for the woman Bond married in On Her Majesty's Secret Service in 1969 . Best one-liner : Bond : " Vodka martini . " Bartender : " Shaken or stirred ? " Bond : " Do I look like I give a damn ? " By the way , can I just ask one question ? Why doesn't anyone EVER do CPR right in the movies ?
