This is , at best , an average short which has a few good moments , but is mostly a rather dull and flat affair . It's kind of predictable in spots , yet it's not sufficiently interesting to overcome that deficiency all that often . As I want to discuss some details , this is a spoiler warning : For the first three minutes or so of this one , Bosko doesn't really have much to do and is only seen briefly playing a musical instrument . Instead , the bulk of the time is spent following a lamb and its interactions with a couple of insects . Except for some of the animation of the insects , this part of the short is even less interesting than it sounds . There's a repeated gag that was interesting the first time , but boring in repetition . The best part of the short involves another of Bosko's conversions of other items into " musical " instruments , here taking a beehive and some branches and fashioning a set of " bagpipes " . A sleeping Bruno , with some little animals acting as stops , snores into a log with holes in it and creates a tune to accompany Bosko . This was rather clever . Then ( oh , joy ! ) we have the " pleasure " of watching Bosko eat a sandwich , the same way he's eaten sandwiches in at least two other shorts . It wasn't that interesting the first time they did that bit . The final part of the short has a wolf trapping the lamb which was the focus of the first part of the short and taking it to a cave . Bosko and Bruno track it to the cave and a major fight takes place ( off-screen , inside the cave ) with a very predictable outcome and a gag repeated from other Bosko shorts . While this isn't all that memorable , I do hope it is released on a Looney Tunes Golden Collection in the future . Worth watching at least once .
This short is a fairly predictable short , with the only really notable aspect being the appearance of one of the two dogs who act as foils for Heckle and Jeckle as the shepherd ! Though there really isn't much to spoil , I will be discussing some detail , so here's a spoiler warning : This is pretty much " The Boy Who Cried Wolf " , only this is the " Sheep Who Cried Wolf " in this case . Five young sheep tended by a dog are going out to graze and one , a troublemaker , throws a tomato at the dog . Not satisfied , he repeatedly warns of a wolf and-well you can guess the rest . A wolf comes along and catches the bad little sheep . His brothers plead for Mighty Mouse to come save him , which ( of course ) Mighty Mouse does . The wolf , not able to stand up with Mighty Mouse , calls on other wolves for help ( notice that he didn't call them when there was a flock ripe for the picking , though ) and eventually all are bested by a caped mouse small enough to fit in one of their paws . What will the boys at the union hall say at Wolf Local # 342 ? Enjoyable for kids , but nothing terribly inventive here . Worth watching once .
Famous Studios had been a by-the-numbers studio for years by the time this was made in 1960 . They made cartoons designed almost solely geared towards the tastes and attention spans of young children . The backgrounds and animation were basic and rather bland ( nice colors , though ) and plots were simple . This cartoon concerns a very henpecked husband who buys a robot with the idea that it will simplify his life-an old plot done more successfully in one way or another by virtually every studio . The cartoon is rather bland and quite predictable , though the ending is quite cute . Famous Studios created some memorable characters , like Casper and Baby Huey , but this was a one-shot . Memorable only because of the ending . For children under seven , it probably works better . Recommended for that audience .
The Hubleys used a technique a number of times where the simply recorded their children at play and then constructed the animation around whatever they did and said . Often , this worked out fairly well , Moonbird and Windy Day , for example . Here it did not work . The short is well animated , but the dialogue here becomes tedious and grating after a bit . Perhaps if it had been shorter , it would have worked better . Not one of their best . The more you like the Hubleys , the greater latitude you give them in cases like this . Still moderately interesting . Worth watching for the animation .
This cartoon was nominated for an Oscar and the only reason that I can see is because it was released by Disney . It's at least 2-5 minutes too long , has not nearly enough music and too much Ludwig von Drake ( a character I normally like , but here , for some reason , he's like fingernails on a chalkboard ) . Disney's done much better work in the same vein , like Toot , Whistle , Plunk and Boom . Here , Drake's commentary is unfunny and excessive . Disney runs this during Vault Disney occasionally-not too often , though . Has it's moments . Probably worth seeing if you like Disney .
This is the third of the three Foxy cartoons , an obnoxiously , relentlessly cheerful short that probably hastened the retirement of the lead character . Notable for the title tune and for Friz Freleng serving as an animator , this is a curio more than anything else . A few cute bits , but not terribly special or memorable in and of itself . Worth watching and recommended if you really like old black and white animation .
This cartoon , which has some funny moments , but isn't really terribly novel , uses an old gag about finding an old reel of film that it purports shows " life as it was " , way back whenever . The narrator is a spoof on Dave Garroway , a television personality back in the 1950s and 1960s . If memory serves , he was one of the first , if not the first , to host the " Today " show . What follows are a number of gags ( lots of sight gags ) and a very loose plot , the kind of thing Tex Avery did to better effect twenty years and more earlier . The ending is telegraphed rather obviously . Okay , but nothing special .
" Cheaters " , cartoons that use stock footage and clips from previous cartoons to form the bulk of a " new " cartoon , usually with new footage as a framing device to incorporate the re-used clips , are not all that unusual . What makes this one of the strangest compilation cartoons is the fact that Paramount Famous Studios uses clips from Popeye Meets Sinbad the Sailor , which was made by Fleischer Studios ( ! ) in 1936 ! Fleischer Studios made three color Popeye two-reel " Specials " in the mid-to-late 1930s . Paramount Famous Studios made three " cheaters " using footage from those three Fleischer shorts . The truly sad thing is , using the older footage makes it crystal clear how much better the old Fleischers were in terms of animations , backgrounds and plotting compared to the 1950s Paramount Famous Studios product . To be fair , cost had a lot to do with the disparity-it was a lot more expensive in the 1950s to make cartoons . But mostly , the 1950s Popeyes were remakes of old Fleischer shorts done in color with a few changes . Here , the framing footage is nice , but 75 % of the cartoon is older material and they re-looped some of the dialogue and changed it , losing some of the charm . This is the saddest of the cheaters , because Sinbad was the best of the two-reel Specials . Big Bad Sinbad isn't that bad a cartoon , actually . It simply isn't that good , either . For completeists only , or people who just like Popeye , period .
This short is aptly titled : it is a birthday party for Mickey . Disney released much more interesting and engaging shorts than this , but it is quite a collection of the majority of significant characters in Disney shorts and is at least worth seeing on that score . The animation , as is typical , is excellent . Worth seeing at least once .
The Bears were a relatively brief ( thankfully ) series of shorts that featured an irritable ( and irritating ) Papa , a Mama that would have driven Carrie Nation to the Demon Rum for refuge and an obnoxious Baby . Not to be confused with the more enjoyable series that Warner Brothers did somewhat later , this MGM series had a few good moments , but the characters are such a waste of space that the viewer has no reason to care what happens to them and thus doesn't give a flip about anything on-screen . The most notable thing about this is the title , which is a play on words with an alternate meaning that got past the Production Code office , probably because they didn't get the joke . The title gets this one six points alone . The short rates a one by itself . For MGM completeists .
This short is visually impressive in spots ( a hallmark of the studio ) , but the characters aren't that interesting and , for all that this was nominated for an Academy Award , it points up the problems with the Color Classics series in general : they tried to be something Fliescher Studios was not , namely Disney Studios . Overall , the Color Classics range from watchable to quite good ( the more Fliescher-like ones are the best ones ) , cute and cuddly was not the strength of the Fliescher Studio . It would be akin to Tex Avery suddenly going saccharine-it just doesn't come across terribly well . The mean prospector is the strength of the cartoon , particularly his predictable but enjoyable defeat . Worth watching , but only average .
This short , which I must confess has two characters I find very unappealing , starts out marvelously for about the first 90 seconds , but the action quickly turns almost entirely to a series of setups for a running gag which is repeated ( to varying degrees of effectiveness ) so often that it starts to get tedious . The fact that the dog is a one-dimensional character of limited personality and that Claude Cat is limited here by the running gag only makes things more problematic . To a degree , the cameo by another Warner Brothers character and the ending of the short , along with a wonderful beginning , salvages this short and raises its overall score . This is on Looney Tunes Golden Collection Vol . 3 and is worth watching , though the Collection as a whole is most highly recommended without reservation . Not the best short I've seen , but far from the worst I've watched . Recommended
This short features Goofy going up against Peg Leg Pete . It's cute enough , but thoroughly predictable and not all that memorable . It is well-animated , though . The concept really doesn't work as well as it should with the personality of Goofy for some reason . Worth watching at least once , but nothing terribly notable with this one .
This is enjoyable , but overwhelmingly cute . Well animated and quite well done in all other respects , but my tastes run more towards Tex Avery and Bambi Meets Godzilla . It is , however , an Oswald short and Oswald is one of the classic old time characters , one sadly neglected today because the Lantz material is largely unavailable . Worth watching , particularly if you like Cute . Recommended with that caveat .
This is a short from Pixar , their first , I believe . It looks it , too . The animation is good , but there's not much here to speak of and it looks more like test footage than a full , coherent cartoon-a dry run , if you will . They did much better work with later efforts . Not bad , but nothing special here either . Worth seeing .
This is a short that looks at the perils of being overly curious . Several penguins , even after stern warning , get themselves into a predicament , with colorful ( if somewhat predictable ) results . While this has some nice sight gags and is visually nice to look at , it really an average , rather run-of-the-mill cartoon . Nice to watch , but ultimately quite forgettable . Worth watching for all that . Recommended , in a lukewarm sort of way .
This cartoon , nominated for an Oscar , was actually a Henery Hawk cartoon . But Foghorn Leghorn-a takeoff on a radio character of the 1930s-1940s-steals the show and launched himself to fame and fortune , while Henery saw his career fizzle . The Foggy in this is the Foggy everyone knows today . Very little change from the first appearance to the familiar figure , unlike Bugs , Daffy , Porky , Elmer or most of the others . Well worth watching .
This short won an Academy Award . Not having seen either of the other nominees , I can't say whether it should have , but it is a head-scratcher . The animation is good and it's an enjoyable short , but it isn't terribly special . It may well be suffering by comparison to the shorts that it accompanies on The World's Greatest Animation . The short is a good one , but it really isn't one of the greats . Still well worth seeing .
This short is one of Frank Tashlin's better efforts as a director , though not his absolute best . This ( and many other shorts ) show that Tashlin approached animated shorts with the eye and sensibility of a director of live-action features , which he generally did , because that's what he ultimately aimed to be and later became-a director of live-action features . Because I want to discuss some details of this short , there will be minor spoilers : This short succeeds as an animated short , but has the " look " of having been shot like a live-action feature . The director used a lot of the conventions of both animation and of feature film . It's a beautifully laid out piece of work , with two separate setups which later have montages of the scenes to speed up the action-first , early on , we see squirrels gathering and storing nuts in a number of short and very effective vignettes , which are then superimposed in a small section , one after another , in a montage to indicate lots of activity without using up a great deal of the short's running time and then , later in the cartoon , we see the main character , a young squirrel given more towards gambling , rather than working hard , as a means to gather nuts for the winter , who is being systematically fleeced in a series of games like roulette and craps , which play through once at normal speed and then are depicted rapidly in a montage . The basic story is fairly straightforward-it's summer and the squirrels are busy gathering and storing nuts in preparation for the coming of winter . One young enterprising fellow sees no percentage in working , when he can just win the nuts of other squirrels with a pair of dice . His father does not share his viewpoint and is less than pleased with his son's attitude . No amount of persuasion or punishment can get through to the young squirrel . At the onset of winter , the father sends his son to get the family's stash of nuts from the bank , with orders to go there and return home immediately . Junior decides to engage in some games of chance with a stranger he meets on the way home . He , of course , loses everything but the sense of taste in his mouth and trudges sadly home to answer to his father , whom he tries to fool with absolutely the worst cover story ever committed to celluloid . The end of the short is wonderful , so I won't spoil it here . This short is available on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Volume 4 and is well worth watching . Recommended .
In my opinion , there is more than one type of Woody Allen film . There is the antic lunacy of films like Bananas and Sleeper , the serio-comic " serious " film with " meaning " , like Annie Hall , Husbands and Wives and Deconstructing Harry and then there are what I think are Woody Allen's " love notes " , if you'll bear with the expression , films like The Purple Rose of Cairo , Bullets Over Broadway and Sweet and Lowdown , films as a general rule that are period pieces ( generally the ' 30's or thereabouts ) that are basically mash notes from Allen to something Allen particularly cares about , such as jazz in Sweet and Lowdown ( specifically jazz guitar and Django Reinhardt ) . The score is great , which is typical for a Woody Allen film . Allen does these little films vey well and they are almost always worth watching . Sean Penn plays a self-centered , egotistical creep with talent . I will leave any further interpretations regarding the preceding statement to the Gentle Reader . Why he was nominated for an Oscar escapes me . Samantha Morton , on the other hand , gives a sweet , if almost one-note , performance , which basically sums up the movie : worth the time and effort to watch , but a one-note film . If you like this side of Woody ( and I do ) , this is worth seeing .
This is a brief ( perhaps a a minute or so ) short produced by the National Film Board of Canada and consists of animation timed to the musical soundtrack . Extremely bright and colorful , this is quite engaging visually . This type of short is part of the dessert cart-sort of like cotton candy , in this case : sweet , tasty and a pleasure while you have it before you . Nothing profound here , just a pretty little bit . Hey , whoever said everything had to be profound anyway ? I liked it very much , thank you . Well worth tracking down . Recommended .
This is a nice little cartoon . It isn't a ground-breaking piece of animation to catch the eye and impress , it's just an entertaining short and that's good enough for me . Because I want to discuss some details , this is a spoiler warning : Little Pancho wants to be a bullfighter more than anything else , but no one else believes he'll ever make it in the arena . His mother tells him it will never happen and that he's just wasting time dreaming , while all the little girls are swooning over a poster of the bullfighter-who looks a lot like Clark Gable ! Pancho tells them that he's even better and they laugh at him . Pancho tries to sneak in through the door on " Amateur Tryouts " , but is told they need men , not " shrimps " . He sits out in a wagon while the fights go on in the arena . The bull is making short work of the men and tosses one out of the arena , right into Pancho's wagon . Pancho vaults into the arena to land right on the bill's head , knocking him out . Pancho receives the cheers of the crowd and bends over to pick something up-just as the bull comes to and charges ! The bull collides with a wall and is out cold again . Little Pancho is now a bullfighter and a hero . The cartoon ends with Pancho enjoying the fruits of victory , as does his mama . This short is available on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Vol . 4 and is well worth getting . Recommended .
Bosko shorts generally have very good animation and there are some very nice visual sequences . I want to talk about some specifics here , so there are spoilers : This is the second war-oriented Bosko ( after the earlier Dumb Patrol ) , both using World War I as the setting . While Bosko was an aviator in the first one and it was a good deal lighter in tone and mood , Bosko is an infantryman in the trenches in this one and some of the gags are actually a bit like " gallows " humor-characters get shot and collapse in comically exaggerated manners , weapons are hit and " die " just like the other characters . This being a Bosko short , he and other characters play music at odd times and in unusual ways . There are some very dark and somewhat serious animated bits here , mixed in with the comedic absurdities throughout the short . Bosko has a running bit with his helmet whenever he tries to get out of a trench . Some of the typical gags found regularly in Bosko shorts are here , of course-Bosko is eating from a can when we first see him , in the same exaggerated style the animators tended to use , for instance . There's also a gag involving a pair of long johns and the back flap in this one . That said , there are some stylistic flourishes here that aren't standard in a Bosko and this is a fairly good short which holds up well after roughly 75 years . Well worth seeing . Recommended .
This movie is basically a showcase for James Garner . He was nominated ( deservedly ) for an Academy Award for his performance . Sally Field does well in her role and there is a chemistry between Field and Garner on-screen . The script is good , although a sub-plot with Brian Kerwin as Field's ex doesn't really work too well , there is a decent supporting cast , but it's really Garner's movie . There is a beautiful scene where Garner gives a ride to an older gent walking down the road that you have to see and is worth the price of admission alone ! Well worth watching and recommended to anyone who likes James Garner .
This Daffy Vs . Speedy short works better than the norm because there's a logic behind the adversarial nature implicit in the nature of a chase cartoon . Daffy and Speedy doing battle makes sense here within the context of the short more than is often the case in these later cartoons . Here we see the mean and greedy Daffy . The greedy Daffy is funny , but sometimes the mean Daffy leeches the humor right out of things . A nice balance is struck here and the short works very well . Worth seeing . Recommended .
This is one of the cartoons where we meet the Abominable Snowman , a parody of Lenny from Of Mice and Men , which became a staple joke at both Warner Brothers and MGM ( courtesy of Tex Avery for the latter studio ) and virtually every less than bright secondary character was modeled to some degree after Lenny . Daffy is his usual charming and affable self and much chaos follows . Good to see that it's available . Well worth watching . Recommended .
This movie , while by no means a masterpiece , is actually a fairly decent movie that is seriously undercut by the fact that Malcolm McDowall seems to be totally bored by the whole thing and it comes through in his " performance " . Given that he has one of the lead roles , this is something of a problem . Kinski and O'Toole do excellent work and the cinematography and score are wonderful . Not a great movie but better than many people think . Worth watching .
In the late 1940s , Columbia decided to farm out the production of their animated shorts and UPA offered to do them . Columbia had visions of just continuing along the same lines as before and do cartoons heavily weighted towards the standard talking anthropomorphic animals and made it clear they wanted the Fox and Crow characters to continue . UPA really didn't want to just do the same old thing , but needed the contract , so the first two shorts they made were Fox and Crow , but both were atypical of the series Columbia had done previously . This is the second ( and last ) Fox and Crow UPA made and both are very good . The third short UPA made proved so popular ( and more lucrative for Columbia ) that they saw the light and gave UPA their head and let them do pretty much what they wanted , as long as it made a profit . The third cartoon ? Ragtime Bear , which featured the first appearance of one Quincy Magoo and the rest , as they say , is history . Magic Fluke is a funny , well animated marvel and worth watching . Recommended .
Of the various characters Woody has run-ins with , Wally Walrus is probably the best foil for him , as the funniest situations arise when Woody makes a pest of himself for whatever reason and Wally is the perfect character for such antics . The personality lends itself well to a good slow burn . One of the better shorts with Wally and fairly typical . Well worth hunting up to watch . Recommended .
This cartoon deservedly won an Oscar for Animated Short in 1959 . It came about in an intriguing way-John and Faith Hubley taped their two sons at play and structured the animation around the conversation between the two . Fascinating though this is ( and the animation is excellent ) , toward the lattr part of the short , the dialogue starte to become tedious and distracting , at least to me . This technique would be used again to quite good effect in later shorts . Still an excellent short and most recommended .
The line I quoted as the subject line fair rips my heart out every time I hear it in this film , because it is , sadly , all too true in real life . Leaving aside the somewhat improbable romantic outcome ( rarely outside of film does life work things out as it concludes here ) , there is much to recommend this film-the " duels " between Martin and several rather moronic clods , particularly the verbal one in the bar . As a side remark ( semi-spoiler-but only a small one ) : Martin's character has to come up with 20 more creative insulting remarks , but he actually does 25 instead . Not that I'm complaining , mind you , as it's one of the funniest scenes in this film , possibly of Martin's film career . Says a great deal about tolerance , vanity , our own inability to see what's right in front of us while searching for happiness and the value of dreams ( even small ones ) . Not a masterpiece , but a nice little movie in its own weight-class . I like it , for all its implausibility at the end . Recommended .
This is an early Warner Brothers black and white , more charming than funny . It more or less did what the studio wanted-it showcased a song from their music library . Not much was expected from the early shorts . Because I want to talk a little about the short , this is a spoiler warning : A little orphan trudges " home " to a beaten up shack , hoping to find something from " Santy Claus " , only to be disappointed at finding nothing . But all is not lost , for who should come up to the door and burst into the title song ? That's right - " Santy Clause " , who , after doing most of the song , invites the orphan back to the North Pole for Christmas . There , we see the standard " toys come to life " , with at least one caricature , of Kate Smith . There are one or two scenes featuring ethnic humor . The close of the short has the orphan saving the day by putting out a Christmas tree fire . During the Depression , there were quite a few such orphans and such an ending would have been enjoyed by audiences of the day . This short is well worth seeing at least once . Recommended .
If Jerry is moonlighting here , he'd best not count on keeping his teaching position unless he already has tenure ! Things don't run to form for Jerry as everything he tries to " teach " to " Tuffy " turns out badly for him ( some of it rather painfully so ) and in the end , the student is far more successful . I love the ending . which is 180 degrees opposite the typical Tom and Jerry ! Good sight gags , a fair number centering around The Mouse Formerly Known As Nibbles . Well worth watching . Recommended .
This is a very amusing and entertaining short , though I'm at a loss to understand some of the comments here regarding the behavior of the mouse toward Sylvester . They seem to be missing the point to the cartoon . There may be spoilers ahead , so consider this a spoiler warning : The cartoon begins with Sylvester realizing , belatedly , that he's been left inside when his pet humans have gone on a trip . The point of the cartoon is set up extremely well-the whole purpose here is to have Sylvester panic at the thought of being left alone , trapped inside and left to his own devices . The gags are extremely well executed and this is a hilarious cartoon . Sylvester ( like most of the Looney Tunes characters ) works best with a foil-the short wouldn't be half as funny if Sylvester was by himself , slowly losing his marbles . Enter the mouse , along with an obvious motivation for Sylvester to contend with the mouse within the context of the short . This isn't just the standard " cat chases mouse " plot . The mouse possesses something Sylvester desperately needs-a can opener . The point of the cartoon-Sylvester placed in a situation where he completely falls apart-is completely blown if Sylvester resolves his principle dilemma easily . It's also weakened without some tangible source of aggravation . Thus the mouse's refusal to give Sylvester the can opener . If Sylvester gets the can opener and resolves his difficulty , the tension is gone and the short has nowhere to go . If the mouse is kind-hearted , there goes the plot of the short . It would make very little sense to have the mouse play nice and give Sylvester the can opener anyway . Cats and mice are , at best , adversarial in nature and , at worst , natural enemies , which makes sense , much as Tweety and Sylvester have an adversarial relationship . Tweety does things to Sylvester as bad or worse than what happens to Sylvester here and Tweety is the hero in their shorts . While it may perhaps have been wiser to establish that there was no love lost between the two early on in the cartoon , that's beside the point . The focus here is completely on Sylvester . Though I can't prove it , it's my opinion that it was intended to make Sylvester a sympathetic character here-that's why Tweety isn't here . The mouse is in no way , shape or form a sympathetic character and makes Sylvester a sympathetic character , which is not something which happens as a general rule . The short is more enjoyable because of that comparatively rare change in sympathies . Excellent cartoon which can be found on the first Looney Tunes Golden Collection and is well worth watching . Recommended .
This is a very funny short which gets virtually all its laughs by playing off the personality of W . C . Fields ( here represented in caricature as a pig names W . C . Squeals ) . The few gags which don't center around this central joke are relatively minor and mostly pale in comparison , though the new lyrics set to " The Blue Danube " are interesting . Because I want to discuss details , this is a spoiler warning : W . C . Fields was frequently used as a source for caricature because he was such a colorful character , both as part of his act ( that being a cantankerous and cynical horse thief and a fair man with the bottle ) and , to a significant degree , in reality ( he really was a heavy drinker ) . Even the title of the short is a double-edged play on words , as the cartoon features a figure-skating contest and cracked ice is frequently used in mixing drinks . Here , caricatured as a pig , named W . C . Squeals , he's seen a short time into the short , after some perfunctory gags which principally serve to set the atmosphere ( it's cold , animals are skating , etc . ) Squeals sees a crane fall through the ice and frantically calls for help . A St . Bernard shows up , rescues the bird and pours spirits into him , at which point Squeals develops a notable thirst and a need for " medicinal " help that only the keg can provide . Alas , the St . Bernard ignores his comically " heart-rending " appeals for the kindness of a stranger and Squeals decides that a feigned drowning and rescue is in order . The St . Bernard comes out , mixes a drink and then downs the toddy himself and leaves ( a bit unsteadily ) . So Squeals resorts to a complicated scheme , involving a magnet and a metal dish filled with dog bones . All through this sequence , Squeals is heckled from the audience by a disembodied voice patterned after Charlie McCarthy , Edgar Bergen's primary ventriloquist's dummy . Fields and Bergen were both prominent on radio for a good number of years and Fields and McCarthy carried on a " feud " for some time , where they would trade insults . The two caricatures here follow suit in trading the same types of insult . Audiences of the time were well familiar with the whole thing and it gave the animators a solid frame of reference which made the gags even funnier . Squeals tries to get the St . Bernard to chase the dish , but things don't go as planned and the magnet and a fair amount of alcohol wind up in the water , where the magnet winds up stuck on a fish who then gets drunk . The magnet attracts Squeals's ice skates and the fish lurches drunkenly under the ice , dragging Squeals into the middle of a figure-skating competition , which he wins . Squeals wastes no time in filling the cup he receives as his prize with the remaining alcohol from the dog's keg , all the while gloating to the McCarthy caricature in the audience-until the cup , with its precious cargo , comes into the grip of the magnet and starts careening across the ice , to the sounds of laughter from a very satisfied McCarthy . This short is available on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Volume 4 and is well worth seeing . Recommended .
One of the few Captain cartoons done in color , this was a parody of the travelogue shorts popular at the time . The narration is a large part of the success of this short . Funny , pointed and often sarcastic and / or irreverent , the narration is the funniest aspect of this particular cartoon , part of a series MGM did based on the comic strip featuring Der Captain and the Kids . The Captain is his typical bumbling , ill-mannered self , of course . Well worth watching . Recommended .
This is an entertaining little short , nothing special but enjoyable . Donald , under the best of circumstances , is rarely charming and often a handful . Here , he's quite seriously irritating and irksome . It is truly a tribute to the patience of others that he is not under glass and coated with and orange glaze , surrounded by peas and carrots ! Many a Chinese restaurant should put " Peking " in front of him with the full treatment . Worth trying to find , Disney runs this on Quack Attack on Toon Disney and Ink and Paint Club on The Disney Channel . Recommended .
This is a somewhat atypical short ( if there is such a thing ) produce by the National Film Board of Canada . The title is a reference to the string game called Cat's Cradle and the short is a moody and evocative work . One of Driessen's better works , it should be better known than it is at this point . Well worth hunting up . Recommended .
This is an exceptionally funny cartoon , in spots , but it will never see print , for many reasons , not the least of which is the fact that it uses what are commonly referred to as " racial stereotypes " . Never mind the fact that the title character is for all practical purposes , Bluto with a headdress and no beard . There is a hilarious line by Popeye that makes no sense if you have no knowledge of an old-time radio show popular in the 1930s nd a visual gag that calls to mind the more surreal days when literally anything could happen in a Fleischer cartoon ! Very good short ! Catch it if you can ! Recommended .
Even Tex Avery's lesser work is enjoyable and this short is a case in point . Avery was still feeling his way here and his style was still in its formative stages . Porky was still being developed as a character as well . Some good sight gags here . Not the best short I've seen , by any means , but I've seen worse . Worth looking for and recommended if you like Tex Avery .
This short , most accurately titled , was released the year I was born . About a man who plays the violin with great enthusiasm , if with limited ability . Charming and engaging , with a good story and dialogue to go along with a limited animation style . Ernest Pintoff had a light touch with comedy and made some very delightful shorts in the late 1950s and early 1960s . I wish he'd done more of them . Well worth tracking down . Most recommended .
This cartoon actually has more energy before its ' main premise begins . The idea of playing " The Mexican Hat Dance " on a flute to mezmerize mice is marginally funny , but the chemistry really isn't there with Sylvester and Speedy like it is with Sylvester and Tweety and the chase scenes aren't really that novel . It has enough moments in it that are enjoyable enough to make it worth watching ( even good enough to recommend , if you like Speedy ) , but the cartoon isn't that special in it's own right . It's not too easy to find , but it has been on VHS in the past . Recommended , particularly if you like Speedy .
This is one of the first half-dozen or so shorts from Iwerks and is exceptional . Flip is actually interesting and has a personality-what happened later on ? There's a discernable plot-not Shakespeare , but decent enough . The music ( not all Ragtime , but why quibble ? It's good ) is a primary component , the characters are well-executed and it's just an all-around success . If Iwerks had produced more shorts like this , the character ( and the studio ) would have been more successful . Great cartoon , good to see it in print , available on DVD . Well worth watching . Most recommended .
This is a cute , though somewhat limited , cartoon which is one of the earliest ( if I recall correctly , the very first ) Warner Brothers cartoons done in color . Because I want to discuss some of the details , this is a spoiler warning : The short begins with three billboard painters painting the lyrics ( with one straight , quick brush-stroke putting the lyrics down in readable form ) to the song they're singing , which is all about Bugville . It's a nice little lead-in to the main plot line , which is about two bugs who fall in love , get married and go to the Honeymoon Hotel ( watch for a funny gag involving their car as they enter the Hotel ) . They go to the front desk , where they sign in by using a rubber stamp indicating that they are " Mr . and Mrs Smith " , the first of a number of arch jokes directed more toward the adults in the audience than the children . Along the way , we see a house detective with a fondness for looking into keyholes , with very unfortunate results ( from his point of view , at any rate ) , a household staff with a significant interest in the goings on in their room and an inquisitive ( if bashful ) moon . As the happy couple begins to celebrate , the heat in the room causes the thermometer to explode and sets the hotel ablaze . Some nice sight gags involving the Bugville Fire Department and the rescue efforts at the hotel are next , with our couple trapped in their room by some quite lively flames-so they jump in their Murphy bed and it folds back into the wall . Later , after the hotel has been leveled and the fire is out , they emerge , the husband puts a " Do Not Disturb " sign on the door and they go back into the wall again and we see the closing sight gag on the exposed underside of the bed , which I won't spoil here . Cute short , well worth watching , if you can find it out there . Recommended .
At the risk of sounding heretical , I've always found the character of Mighty Mouse rather bland and , wel , boring . This short is actually rather creative and one of the better entries in the series . It was nominated for an Academy Award and has fairly good music and the production values may just be a hair better than typical Paul Terry standards . Check it out if you can find it anywhere . Worth watching .
This is one of a series of shorts where Tom and Nibbles are " the king's Mouseketeers " with Tom as their main foil ( sorry ) . While this is not the best of them , I personally love this one , because I have a soft spot in my heart for Nibbles ( the little mouse who gets all the hazardous duty here and none of the benefits ) in this one . The ending is quite appropriate here . I don't blame Nibbles one bit , either . Well worth watching . Recommended .
This short was nominated for an Academy Award , which is quite a feat , considering that it was produced for the Department of Health and Welfare in Canada by the National Film Board of Canada . The NFBC has done a fair number of similar projects , which can be expected , as it is a government-funded entity . It's actually quite well-done and worth tracking down . The subject ? The health risks of smoking . Recommended .
This cartoon parodies the old Ralph Edwards show , " This Is Your Life . " and does quite well at that . Daffy outdoes himself this time . Granny engages in wish-fulfilment for a great many people in her methods of dealing with someone sitting next to you who does not understand the basic fact that you did not pay good money for your seat to listen to them talk ! Daffy gets what he deserves ( as usual ) and it couldn't happen to a nicer duck ! Worth your time . Reccomended .
This short from the UPA studio was nominated for an Oscar . Based on the Madeline series of childrens books that recently received a boost and have led to a feature-length live action movie as well as an animated series , UPA did this short back in the 1950s and it captures the books ' flavor very well . This short can be found on one of the Columbia Classics series of tapes released some years ago and is well worth watching .
There is a marked difference in the cartoons starring Betty Boop before and after the censorship code and the arrival of the Hays Office . The obvious changes aside , like her hemline , the manic , zany quality seems to fade away in later shorts . That quality is what makes cartoons like this one special . In print and available . Recommended .
This is one of a relatively small series of shorts done by the Van Beuren Studios which starred a comic strip character named The Little King . It's a reasonably good short , but it's difficult to describe . Because I will be discussing some details , this is a spoiler warning : The Little King is a difficult character to describe because , in many ways , he's very bland and unexciting . In general , he doesn't speak ( the only short I've seen where he does speak was a Fleischer Studios appearance in a Betty Boop short and the voice is a bit ridiculous ) . He's very child-like , almost to the point of being annoying . In this short , he has a trip scheduled to visit the state prison . The funniest part of the short is his preparations to go to the prison and the trip there . He's aided by a butler to get ready and then slides down a long bannister , at one point getting off to allow the butler to get ahead of him in sliding down in order to catch him when he reaches the bottom ( the butler misses him ) . On the way to the prison , the Little King gets distracted by flowers and winds up falling out the window of the carriage . He tries hitching a ride , finally finding a bicyclist who carries him on his head until they reach the carriage , where the coachman and footman are searching under and around the carriage in vain for their king . Everything-Little King , bike , cyclist-goes into the carriage and off they go . When they reach the prison , the Little King is allowed to wander off on his own and he finds two inmates playing a game of checkers . He suggests a move to one which naturally causes him to lose the game immediately , whereupon the inmate breaks out of his cell and begins chasing the king , who timidly gives him the keys to the prison . The obvious happens and a riot breaks out . The ending is a bit predictable , but still cute anyway . This short is well worth seeing and can be found on the DVD The Attack of the ' 30s Characters . Recommended .
This short , which technically was not listed as part of the True-Life Adventures series , but has the look and feel of those shorts and features , was nominated for an Academy Award and was extremely well shot . because I want to cover this in some detail , this is a spoiler warning : This short covers some of the wildlife ( predominently birds ) on four islands-the Galapagos , Guadelupe , Falklands and an island in the Midway chain . While touching very briefly on the turtles of Galapagos and a bit more in-depth on two varieties of iguana and a species of crab , the documentary focuses primarily on birds , including several species of penguin on at least two of the islands , cormorants , frigate birds and the albatross . I found the sections on the various penguins fascinating , because penguins are typically thought of as belonging to colder climates than you would find around the Galapagos or the Falklands . There's just something about penguins that interests me , I guess . There's at least one moment of tragedy shown , which is to be expected in one of these Disney releases . For anyone who's seen many of the Disney wildlife productions , the usual flourishes are here-they show albatrosses , which are also known as goony birds , trying to land after a flight and mainly crashing . They also show a few aborted takeoffs , adding sound effects ( screeching brakes ) at least once , presumably for comic effect . The thing about these shorts is that , even after the passage of decades ( more than 45 years in this case ) the quality of the camera-work is still exceptional and can hold its own . Say what you like about Disney , but they did excellent work from a technical standpoint and were clearly ahead of the curve-which is understandable , as they were frequently creating the technology which pushed the curve forward . This short can be found on Volume 2 of the True-Life Adventures DVD sets issued under the Disney Legacy label and the DVDs are most absolutely recommended .
This is an extremely odd cartoon to describe . The premise is that a harmonica playing quartet essentially destroys a general store by virtue of rather energetic playing of their instruments . The sight of the poor shopkeeper as he watches his livelihood disintegrate ( despite his best efforts at damage control ) before his very eyes is both comic and a bit sad at the same time . The running gag features a rather wizened old bird in Confederate gray popping up and trying to choose the next song on the program by force of his own fife-playing . He's clearly single-minded and carries a grudge a long time ( no doubt against Yankees ) . Hilarious , particularly the running gag . Well worth tracking down . Recommended .
For the majority of the major studios , sports were a frequent source of fun . Disney did a whole series of sports related shorts featuring Goofy . Baseball and football were the most frequent subjects and offhand I think football was slightly more often the target . There were two or three Disney ( of course , there were also the Casey at the Bat shorts ) , several Popeyes and a fair number of others . While this isn't the best football cartoon or my favorite , I'd call it the most creative one I've seen . A beautifully executed idea , funny and inventive . Jack Kinney was an excellent and far too overlooked director . Hopefully this will make a Disney Treasures DVD collection at some point . Well worth looking for . Recommended .
This is a very well-done adaptation of the H . G . Wells novella , with an Oscar for the special effects that are still impressive more than 40 years later . Good performances by an ensemble cast and a good script also help . One interesting side note : character actor Whit Bissell was in both the 1960 version here and the version done for television in 1978 , playing essentially the same part with two different character names ! Recommended .
This cartoon's use of color and background detail is excellent . Sometimes , the story and the action is just too cute for my tastes , but it more than makes up for this visually . The dragon is great ! Nominated for an Academy Award for Animated Short , this runs on Cartoon Network occasionally and , when TCM does its annual " Salute to the Oscars " in March , this has been used as filler between features in years past as have other shorts , both animated and live-action . Recommended .
This short is a very good Tex Avery Droopy . Droopy is the cartoon " Everyman " who somehow manages to come out on top whatever the odds are or the forces arrayed against him . Tex Avery's principal continuing character while at MGM , I wouldn't be at all surprised if Droopy was the character appearing in the most Tex Avery shorts of any continuing character Avery ever worked with . Given the characters he worked with at Warner Brothers , that's saying something ! Good to see that it's in print . Well worth seeing . Recommended , particularly for Lina Romay sigh
This is a BImbo cartoon and quite an odd one it is too . Betty Boop makes a relatively brief appearance towards the latter half of the short and at the end and her look is slighly different in this early short . Exceedingly strange things happen throughout to say the least ! Great fun but definitely an acquired taste . In print and available . Well worth watching . Recommended .
This is along the same lines as the Alice shorts Disney did in the 1920s , only the star isn't the live-action little girl but Ko-Ko the Clown , the first animated star Fleischer Studios had . Here , Ko-Ko has a series of adventures with a little girl who shrinks in size and goes with Ko-ko . Very well-executed and the ending is rather charming . At this point in time ( up until The Skeleton Dance ) , it could easily be argued that the Fleischers were Disney's equal and in some ways , his superiors . They were certainly the principal competition until Warner Brothers and , later , MGM leapfrogged ahead of them and Fleischer Studios lost some steam . The Production Code and tunnel vision on their part played significant roles in their slow disintegration . But when they were hitting on all cylinders , they achieved great things . Well worth finding . Most recommended .
While the cartoon does have a dated feel to it in spots , the animation is excellent ( a Disney strength during the 1930s ) and it still largely works for the most part , although probably not as well for the age group raised on jump-cut , fast-pace edits and Matrix style special effects . Well worth watching . Recommended .
Faith Hubley produced animated shorts with her husband John right up until his death in 1977 and continued producing and directing a short a year up until she died in December 2001 . This was her next-to-last one and has aired on the Sundance Channel . Even the more commercial work they did to help pay the bills has a special quality to it and I've yet to see anything that wasn't interesting to watch in some area , even the one or two I didn't care for . They had one Oscar winner I haven't seen and dearly wish I could ( Herb Alpert and the Tiajuana Brass Double Feature ) and I hope her last short airs on Sundance or some other location as I'd love to see it sometime , Recommended .
This cartoon parodies American television in the latter 1950s in general and several shows in particular ( like Art Linkletter's " People Are Funny " ) and provides opportunities for gags galore for Bugs and Daffy in the process . The cartoon pricipally plays on Daffy's greed to set everything in motion and takes off from there . It ends with the best exit line spoken by Daffy ever ! Excellent cartoon well worth watching . Highly recommended .
I generally spend my time waiting for Donald to get his well deserved comeuppance in most of his cartoons . This one , nominated for an Oscar , is one of the few times Donald even comes close to being a sympathetic character . Oh , Donald is his usual considerate , affable self , alright , but at a point in the cartoon toward the end , he actually becomes a bit more likable ad I almost felt sorry for him at times ( almost ) . Very well done . This is shown from time to time on the Ink and Paint Club . Recommended .
I saw this movie when it first came out and I remember it vividly from over thirty years later . I recently saw it again , expecting the passage of time to have dimmed my fondness for it somewhat . It was just as wonderful as I remembered it , but I understood things at the age of 39 that I did not at ten . Melvyn Douglas and Gene Hackman deservedly got Oscar nominations for their splendid work here . There is also a marvelous script , also nominated for an Oscar . I expect I will remember the last line until I die . Most Highly Recommended
This is one of the most delightful cartoons Disney made in the 1940s , as well as being a very effective showcase for Pluto . Good use of music as well . Nominated for an Oscar in 1947 , this shows up every so often on Disney Channel's The Ink and Paint Club . Recommended .
This short would be very difficult to discuss without talking about specific details , so there be spoilers here : This short has far more funny lines than it has visual gags ( though there is one beautiful bit with a little dog expressing its opinion of Steve Brodie in a very visual and hilarious manner ) , with even Brodie getting a few good lines . Bugs is everywhere here ( literally ) as he makes Steve Brodie a very unhappy man through the course of the short . One of the funniest lines here is spoken by a disembodied voice , when Brodie first visits Swami Rabbitima : " Enter , O seeker of knowledge . . . ( pause ) . . . That's YOU , fathead ! " and Brodie is then struck on the head ! Brodie then drops into his very own nightmare-The Land of a Thousand Rabbits ( or perhaps just one a great many times ) . Along the way , he's bounced by a gorilla ( and not just any gorilla , but one wearing a starched collar ) called a masher , beaten by a cop and baked in an oven . Just one of those days , I guess ! There's a framing sequence which bookends the body of the short that's rather cute as well . This short is on Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Vol . 3 and is well worth getting . Recommended .
This short is wonderful ! Take a pilgrim that sounds a lot like Droopy , add a turkey who sounds like Jimmy Durante , add a bear wearing a sandwich sign , let Tex Avery stir it all together and you have a great cartoon . Sight gags everywhere , especially the bear ( typical Avery running gag ) but beware ye old edited print off ye Cartoon Network-this is a classic . Most definitely worth looking for . Most recommended .
Although this short lost the Oscar to another Disney cartoon ( Three Orphan Kittens ) , it's actually got a lot more going for it than the winner . An adaptation of the old nursery rhyme ( very loose adaptation , as is typical of Disney ) , there's a lot going on here . Mae West isn't the only parody here . Hollywood would be parodied quite a bit by both Disney and Warner Brothers in cartoons . Well worth your time . Recommended .
This short , nominated for an Academy Award , is admittedly not incredible . You will not be awed by it nor will you be stirred or moved . That said , it is screamingly funny ! ! I found it delightful and a pleasure to watch ! Another excellent production of the National Film Board of Canada ! Most recommended .
The whole premise of the Pepe Le Pew cartoons is based on a whopping bit of irony-a French skunk styling himself as " the great lover " ( think Charles Boyer squared ) but , for reasons obvious to everyone save himself , he finds it difficult to get a date on Saturday nights . Like a great many would-be Lotharios , when the tables turn , Pepe turns chicken and runs . A very funny cartoon , with a joke that will be particularly enjoyable for horse racing fans , at least older ones anyway . One party-pooper note : by law ( unless it's been changed ) French nationals cannot join the French Foreign Legion , which , given the name , should be stunningly obvious . Well worth tracking down . Recommended .
This short , produced by the National Film Board of Canada , was nominated for an Academy Award . Once you've seen it , you'll see why . Not easily forgotten , although you may wish to . The choice of animation styles was made , I suspect , deliberately , in order to keep viewers off-balance . It's a perfect choice . A thought-provoking , extremely unsettling look at hunger in many forms . If you are easily disturbed or offended , this probably isn't for you . Otherwise , highly recommended .
The early Mickey Mouse cartoons show a Mickey different from the solid , dependable mouse we've grown to know in his later years . Could it be that , in his formative years , Mickey was a scamp and a rapscallion ? Actually , Mickey displays the same irreverence the Marx Brothers display and The Chain Gang is a prime example . Very good cartoon and one that will see print again . It surely deserves to and soon . Well worth tracking down . Recommended .
This film ( one of the better ones Astaire and Rogers did ) probably doesn't get quite the praise it merits because Top Hat and The Gay Divorcee are so widely praised ( rightly so ) . But this movie is equally well executed and any movie that has in it's score the songs , " Shall We Dance " , " Let's Call the Whole Thing Off " and especially " They Can't Take That Away " deserves to be warmly remembered . There's a score by Gershwin , dancing by Astaire , Rogers and others and Edard Everett Horton and Eric Blore in support ( they appeared in so many of the Astaire-Rogers films that their casting must have been legally required ! ) . Well worth your time . Recommended .
This short by Avery is somewhat different from his normal approach of firing as many sight gags at the audience as possible as rapidly as possible . There is actually something of a story here and the jokes principally flow from the premise of a dog who loves Dixieland jazz . There are some beautiful scenes hee and the connection of music and animation is great , particularly in one portion of a chase sequence ! Most recommended
This short won the Academy Award for Animated Short and probably deserved to win . The detail is impressive , but secondary . The plot is marvelous and the character of Geri is well developed . If you've seen Toy Story 2 , Geri makes a " cameo " appearance as the toy repairman . All in all , a remarkable piece of work . Available on some copies of A Bug's Life VHS and DVD and well worth seeking out . Recommended .
This short is a one-shot , that is to say that the characters and situation were not continuing as part of a series , but principally just the one cartoon . It's a thoroughly engaging and entertaining short with excellent use of music ( more or less automatic for Warner Brothers animation for most of their existence ) as is appropriate , given the title . Pinto Colvig is best known to most people as the voice of Goofy , but did a fair amount of voice work elsewhere . Well worth seeking out . Most recommended
This short is a puzzlement . Words fail me here , as this is almost indescribable , Technically exceptional after more than 90 years ( the visuals are remarkable and even occasionally amazing ) , this is not something you watch if you like things that are mundane or " normal'-because it most certainly is not either . This be an odd one , gang . Well worth checking out , but if things like Ren and Stimpy make your head hurt , you may want to skip this . Recommended .
This short is a delightful look at the 1890s-a time not so far removed chronologically from 1941-and the use of Mickey and Minnie as a courting couple is a perfect fit for the whole concept . Enjoyable now , back then , large segments of the audience back then probably could recall the timeframe from personal experience . Well animated , as is generally the case with Disney at the time , it's good to see this in print . Well worth watching . Recommended .
This Popeye , set on New Year's Eve , doesn't feature a brawl over Olive , or over anything else , for that matter . Popeye . a good-natured sort , decides it's not right that Olive's grandma be left at home while they go out , so he invites her along . Bluto escorts Olive and they both find it amusing that Popeye asked out grandma . Popeye is the soul of courtesy to grandma . A perfect example of the type of small kindnesses the world can never have enough of , then or now . Wimpy puts in a cameo ( with a different voice ) and the ending is quite funny . Listen for some of Jack Mercer's asides . This is a wonderful cartoon altogether different in mood and tone from the standard Popeye shorts , appropriately so , for the New Year's Eve setting . I wish all who read this a happy and healthy year . This short is well worth seeking out . Most recommended .
Take one poem by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow , add Porky Pig and put them in the Tex Avery blender , set on " maniac " and this cartoon is what resulted . Tex Avery style of gags abound . Pay attention to backgrounds and the extras . Some very good stuff to be seen here . Well worth your time .
John and Faith Hubley were among the more successful independent animation studios both artistically and commercially . While some of their work is less successful , it's all worth watch and invariably at least interesting . This short , nominated for an Academy Award ( which , were it not for the absolutely brilliant short Closed Mondays , I suspect it would have won in a walk ) this is an incredible piece of work . The selection of Maureen Stapledon and Dizzy Gillespie to do the voices was one of a myriad of touches large and small that make this an excellent animated short . Attention to detail , music , backgrouds-it's all first-rate . Most wholeheartedly recommended .
This short , nominated for an Oscar , features Tom almost at his worst . In an act of self-preservation , Jerry cals upon his cousin ( the very well-named Muscles ) for his help . At times , I almost feel sorry for Tom ( almost ) . Tom more or less gets what he deserves here and , were he not a cartoon , would very likely not survive his encounter here with " Jerry's Cousin " . Cartoon Network shows this one fairly frequently . Highly recommended .
This short spoofs the very popular sport of auto racing . At the time this short was made , Barney Oldfield , an auto racer , was one of the more notable and famous celebrities of the day . This is auto racing , Fleischer style . Bizarre gags and excellent animation highlight this one and it's charming to watch . Fans of Late Night Black and White , the old Cartoon Network show , will recognize this as the cartoon footage is taken from for the " Groovie " ( a series of fillers used to fill out the hour ) titled , " Rollin ' " . Well worth watching . In print and available . Most recommended .
This short , which won an Academy Award , is the best animated adaptation that I've yet seen and is better than a couple of the live-action versions . Everything is top-notch-animation , voice-casting ( particularly Sim reprising his performance as Scrooge ) , production values . The adaptation is quite true to the tone and spirit of the original work , even with the necessary truncation imposed by the brief length . Good to have it in print . Most recommended .
This is the best cartoon they made were Daffy wasn't playing opposite Bugs or Porky Pig . His foils are a dog named Leopold and his master , a parody of Peter Lorre . The best lines in the whole cartoon are spoken by the " mad scientist " and they're some of the funniest I can recall . The cartoon really gets going during the requisite chase scenes . After all , what's a cartoon without a chase sequence ? One of my all-time favorites . Most definitely recommended .
This short was nominated for an Academy Award and , but for the fact that Balance was eligible in the same year , it probably would have won . It did win a BAFTA for Animated Short . I guess if I were to try and sum up an 18 minute short in one word , it would be perspective . It largely depends on how you look at something that determines how you react to a situation . This short examines different people and their reaction to the same surroundings and events . It's by turns humorous and quietly thoughtful in doing this examination . This was included on Spike and Mike's Festival of Animation , which makes this a great tape to grab , if you can find it , all by itself . A marvelous piece , without a doubt . Most Highly Recommended .
This is a short , sharp , delightful cartoon that cannot be adequately described by mere words . It must be seen to be fully appreciated . The director must truly have a fondness for the western , to have so fully captured the atmosphere , right up to the end , when I sat dumb-struck and then almost rolled out of my chair because I laughed so hard my sides hurt ! Gloriously funny and well worth the effort to hunt it up . Most joyously recommended .
This is without a doubt my favorite cartoon by a somewhat overshadowed character . A takeoff on Charles Boyer , Pepe has some great lines in this one and the opening of the cartoon is just a riot ! Although I do have some sympathy for the dog . The reason I love this cartoon is that I agree with one of Pepe's observations about fish in the sea , but don't call it a weakness ! sigh
This short was nominated for the Academy Award . All too frequently , one hears that something was done " in the tradition of . . . " or " In the style of . . . " and it usually is not a flattering comparison . This short is an exception . I had seen comments comparing this favorably to the work of Tex Avery and was not sure what to expect . Lo and behold , it is in , fact , a short that is chiefly sight gag after sight gag , fired rapidly at the audience without pause . Plotting is basic and second to the gags and the ending is vintage Avery . The first time I watched this , I was too busy laughing to make comparisons , but this is a short that could easily fit into the Avery shorts with nary a raised eyebrow and hold it's own with the best that remarkable talent produced . It's a fantastic piece and a good thing that it's in print . It can also be found on The World's Greatest Animation and is more than worth the effort to get . A great cartoon ! Most highly recommended !
I first saw this documentary short ( which won an Academy Award last year ) about ten days ago . I admit upfront a bias , as , like the artist who is the focus of the piece , I have Cerebral Palsy . Although I walk with crutches and my speech is clearer than his , much of what he says and much of his experience in lfe is similar to my own and , I suspect , for many of those who are disabled as well . Although much is made of his disability , much is also made of his art as well and they didn't try to treat him as though he were a dancing bear . It's a powerful affecting film and it haunts me still and will for the rest of my days . It is difficult to be disabled and I'm not talking about physical barriers , but rather the preconceptions people in general have about the disabled . The title King Gimp is apparently a name he was called when he was younger that he adopted for his own use . Althougher he will probably never see these words , I salute him and thank him for telling so much about his life ( figuratively bleeding on camera at times that my heart clenches even now , thinking about his words ) . I am purposely leaving his name out because his story is the story of so many that it does what every artist tries to do at one time or another-create an Everyman . Bravo to everyone involved in this project .
This is a very cute and cuddly little thing , this short is . Nice pastoral music , cute little bird , cute little dragon-looks like a real Barney kind of moment . But looks can be deceiving . Marv Newland is smiling somewhere . As Newton once said , " For every action , there is an equal yet opposite reaction . " To which I would add the Law of Unintended Consequences : for every action , there are unforseen results which carry unforseen and unplanned consequences . I love this cartoon ! Well worth the effort to locate , by all means ! Most highly recommended .
Having known far too many people who've gone through this , I can say without hesitation that they got the details nailed down when it comes to the effects of chemotherapy . Emma Thompson does her usual marvelous job and Christopher Lloyd does a surprisingly understated turn as her doctor . But the actress playing the nurse ( Audra McDonald , I believe is her name ) almost steals the film . I won't be the same for quite some time . Highly recommended .
This Tex Avery effort is virtually a crash course-pun intended-on how to make a Tex Avery cartoon . Take a wholly unsympathetic villain ( in this case , a bully ) , add a victim ( a cute little kitten ) , show the bully in action and then set up a means for the bad guy to get what they deserve and then some , making certain that there's room for roughly 5 , 306 sight gags along the way . Tex Avery created or helped develop Bugs Bunny , Droopy , Screwy Squirrel and Chilly Willy , to name a few . Many of his cartoons centered around that basic outline , with some variation . Sight gags , sight gags and more sight gags . Most recommended .
This cartoon is the definition of surreal and a example of why the Fleischers were the primary rivals Disney had in the early 1930s , before Warner Brothers and MGM stepped up their quality , while Fleischer started to do a slow fade in the late 1930s . A combination of the Hays Office and friction between the brothers and with the Paramount STudio were partly responsible , as was burnout , I suspect . But this is the glory that was Fleischer's and glorious to behold . Highly recommended .
This short does nothing terribly dramatic . No ground-breaking animation , or special voice work . It will not cure the common cold or achieve great breakthroughs in technology or world peace . But it is a rather charming look at a somewhat eccentric couple and their attempts to budget . I consider it one of my favorite cartoons done by a very talented staff at an important studio . It did one thing supremely well and still does , however often I watch it : it made me laugh . That's a good deal to say for anything these days . Wonderful short , well worth tracking down . Most recommended .
This is a very effective and compelling short that looks a perception , in this case perception through the eyes of children . Using very basic and deceptively simple hand-drawn animation ( incorporating some very entertaining visual tricks along the way ) this tells , in effect , two stories : the story the children see and the probable reality the audience may well ascertain from the same " facts " . A bit like Rashomon , but with only one recounting onscreen . Deservedly won a BAFTA , if I recall correctly . Well worth tracking down . Most recommended .
This is a delightful cartoon , with hilarious dialogue moreso than visual gags . The squaredance scene alone is worth the price of admission , but my absolute favorite line , one that just busts me up every time . Bugs says to one of the Martins , " And who might you be ? " to which his response is , " I might be Teddy Rooseyvelt , but I ain't ! " So sue me ! I think it's a funny line ! Highly recommended .
This is my favorite of the shorts starring Marc Anthony , though one of the others , Cat Feud , is a better cartoon . Claude Cat is thoroughly unlikeable in this one . He's deceitful , disgraceful and devious and those are his good qualities ! Marc Anthony ( clearly a dog's equivalent to Prince Valiant ) wins out for the cause and for Truth , Justice and the American Way ( oops , wrong hero ) and the dim bulb that is the human " master " finally realizes that Claude's been playing him like a pipe organ in church . Marc Anthony's final ruse to get inside is priceless , as are Claude's facial expressions as the plot unfolds . The ending is marvelous and Claude's exit line is perfect . Well worth tracking down and watching . Most recommended .
This film , while far from Burton's masterpiece , is a delightful musical that in the end shows that , sometimes , we have things far better than we think we do and the other side of the fence sometimes looks better just because it's different , but that doesn't make necessarily wise to pursue someone else's dream because we mistakenly think we may like it more . Tim Burton's fingerprints are all over this film . Excellent casting of vocal talent , the score is great and the animation is marvelous . A very good film and worth watching more than once . Recommended .
This short , nominated for an Oscar , is one of Chuck Jones's best . You'll never hear The Blue Danube in the same way again . Extremely creative joining of animation and music . One slight correction of another comment on this short : I know I saw this short on television prior to 1977 , because I saw it for the first time before I turned 18 . In any case , Cartoon Network has aired this fairly recently and if I recall correctly , showed it one New Years Eve , as part of a special broadcast . I think it was in 1999 as part of the " Miloony-um " special . Most highly recommended .
