Decided to watch AMC and found this film and decided to give it a try and see what I was in for in regards to entertainment . There was a great deal of humor and Steven Baldwin , ( Sean Linden ) , " In My Sleep " , ' 06 , made very little effort in his acting to convince me that he even enjoyed making this film . Sean played a has-been hockey player who liked the wild life and decided to get in on a deal offered to him and his team as a comedy hockey team . Added to the action in the film was , Jessica Steen , ( Jessie Dage ) , " Homefront " , ' 91 , a gal who was the granddaughter to a very famous hockey player from the past . The film was very boring and never seemed to end and made absolutely no common sense at all .
Decided to view this film simple because of the title and I was probably thinking about Lon Chaney and his many faces of Horror . Well , this film was a horrible mess and a big Horror to watch . I will have to say that Dana Carvey , ( Pistachio Disguisey ) , " The Shot " , ' 96 did a great job of acting crazy and I am sure it was not easy to follow the script . Jennifer Esposito , ( Jennifer Baker ) , " Crash " , ' 04 , was rather cute and very attractive and gave a good supporting role . Last but not least , James Brolin , ( Fabbrizio Disguisey ) , " A Guy Thing " , ' 03 , added his talents to this picture , but I began to wonder if Barbra Streisand enjoyed this film and her husband's performance . WOW
Paris Hilton , ( Victoria English ) does not care how bad her pictures are , she still receives a big pay check . In this picture Victoria English is President of A South Beach University sorority and she seeks to obtain pledges who are definitely unfit in looks or brains . Girls like this are accepted into the sorority and they are mistreated beyond words . Victoria has many boyfriends , however , she meets a guy she knew years ago and they both become very close in many ways . There is plenty of nudity and wild parties and the film is filled with double meaning words and lots of sexy . If you like Paris Hilton and don't care very much for a story , this is the film for you to watch and enjoy .
This film kept my interest for a very brief period of my time and then I started to find myself becoming very detached from everything that was going on in this film . There was some drama and mostly comedy and my interest soon faded away and I could hardly wait until the film ended . I felt like I had been watching a pure messed up film with all kinds of messed up people creating a film that made very little sense . I applaud the poor actors who had to act in this film and keep it going , especially Patrick Muldoon , Paul Sampson and of course , the charming Carmen Electra who carried the entire picture on her back . Please don't waste your time like I did .
Purchased a DVD with three ( 3 ) films and this film was one of them , so I decided to see just what this film was all about . Earle Edgerton , ( Tom ) , Judith Resnick ( Laura ) and Martin Barlorski ( Dan ) all made just this film or maybe two after this production . The star of the film was Burt Young , ( Gimpy ) , " Nicky's Game " , ' 05 who is a great character actor and is presently making great films . The background has scenes from Coney Island , Brookly , N . Y . and even Nathan's Hot Dog Stand is shown with Gloria Spivak , ( Dumpy Gal ) who made only this one picture and faded out from stardom . All I can really say it was a Big Joke to watch , horrible horror film and it made absolutely no sense at all . Oh , I forgot to say if you like lots of Teddy Bears to hug , there are plenty in this picture .
Decided to view this 2001 film on Lifetime and hoped to view a film that would hold my interest as it was suppose to be a murder mystery . Wendy Crewson , ( Joanne Kilbourn ) , " Perfect Pie " , ' 2002 , lost her husband and the story went in all kinds of different directions involving all kinds of characters and everyone was investigated by Victor Garber ( Insp . Philip Millard ) , " External Affairs " , ' 99 , who was a friend of Wendy Crewson and a partner on the police department . The plot of the story went in so many directions , I found myself getting lost until the film finally ended . Everyone involved in this story had some very deep dark secrets and all had good reason to be a suspect . Wendy Crewson and Philip Millard finally put some brief romance into the story and I was very glad the film came to and END .
This is an outstanding film about a killer whale named Naumu who is being protected by an oceanographer , Robert Lansing , ( Hank Donner ) and has a very hard time trying to tell the local towns people that this whale is not harmful . John Anderson , ( Joe Clausen ) is more worried about his salmon business and does not want a whale eating up his profitable business . There is a little boy and girl and Hank Donnear who even communicate with the whale and ride on his back in a row boat all around in circles . There is Comedy , Drama and excellent photography and the background music flows throughout the entire picture . Lee Merriweather , ( Kate Donner ) is a shop owner in town and has some secrets that she keeps to herself until the time is necessary to tell Hank Donner . If you are an animal lover and enjoy a good fish story , this is the film for you .
Watched this film on TV and found this film one big COMEDY with also murder , steam rooms , message parlors , dead bodies appearing in almost every room of a hotel . Jean Parker , ( Kitty O'Day ) , " Dead Man's Eyes " ran around and sounded like Lucille Ball and always had a hat on her head no matter where she was ; in elevators where a man was electrocuted . Kitty also ran around in circles with Peter Cookson , ( Johnny Jones ) , " Detective Kitty O'Day " , who was trying to keep Kitty safe and out of his way so he could solve a crime and at the same time try to keep her safe . This film was so way out in left field , I could hardly believe that anyone would find this film entertaining . I love old time films from way back when , but this particular film I really could have avoided watching .
Viewed this film a few years ago and enjoyed it the second time around . Sean Penn , ( Officer Danny McGavin ) was a rookie who started out knowing just how to handle the various gangs in Los Angeles and even got all hot and bothered about a nice looking gal who could Tease and Please without any problems . His old time partner was , Robert Duvall , ( Bob Hodges ) , who was married and had a family and tried to take Danny McGavin under his wing and calm him down . Bob Hodges was about to retire and had handled the various gangs a different way that most of the other Police officers and it seemed to work out very well . Bob got all kinds of information he needed by just treating the gangs and their leaders with a certain kind of respect . The film had plenty of action , but was entirely too long for a story we have seen many times on the Big Screen . However , Duval and Penn gave outstanding performances and were great working together .
Samantha Mackenzie , ( Katie Holmes ) plays the role of a President's daughter who has to live under the close rules of the White House and has Secret Agents always at her elbows no matter what she does and really has no life of her own . Michael Keaton , ( President Mackenzie ) is a good President and loves his family but like any President he has very little time to spend with this wife or daughter . James Lansome , ( Marc Blucas ) is a Secret Agent who is Samantha's special body guard and after being with her for quite a few years , begins to fall in love with her and does not seem to realize what is happening . However , Samantha feels a great warmth growing inside of her whenever she see James Lansome and a spark starts to become a flame between the two of them . There is some behind the scenes between these two lovers and all kinds of problems come between Samantha and James . This story is very realistic as I am sure many such things have happened in the White House with quite a few First Daughter's . Enjoy .
Please , no more Grudge films , the first film was rather hard to understand , however , this # 2 Film explained in more detail how this curse started and was passed down to many people unrelated . There is plenty of horror , thrills and scary graphics coming out from everywhere , even in a film developing room , when a face appears in the pan of developing fluid and grabs hold of their victim . This film still was rather hard to follow , but a great improvement from the first film , but please , no more films about Grudges . All the actors did a great job to support this film which had a story line which went in every direction .
Enjoyed this film from the very beginning to the end and it had me laughing until my sides hurt . Jamie Foxx , ( Bunz ) along with Tommy Davidson , ( Rushon ) gave an outstanding performance as two guys trying to score with two gals who demanded Glad Wrap and were very particular about the type of condoms the guys were going to utilize . Vivica A Fox , ( Lysterine ) and Tamala Jones ( Nikki ) gave a great supporting role as the gals who Bunz and Rushon tried to score with . This film goes all around in Chinatown , a hospital and plenty of bedrooms and even a taxi cab . If you like Jamie Foxx and love his acting and comedy , this is the film you will greatly enjoy viewing .
This is one film that I missed seeing over the years and was quite surprised to see Edward G . Robinson , ( John Lindsay ) play the role as a law professor who decides to accept a position to clean up the corruption of gangsters and the protection rackets . John Lindsay soon learns how hard it is to fight these racketeers and hoods and he also has dealings with Eugene Ferguson , ( Otto Kruger ) the top mob boss who controls all the criminal activities and he also has a son , Paul Ferguson , ( John Beal ) who is a lawyer and close friend of John Lindsay . Wendy Barrie and Barbara O'Neil gave an outstanding supporting roles and of course Edward G . Robinson looked great playing a good guy for a change . Enjoy .
This was an okay film about Detective Marlow played by James Garner , however , I firmly believe that Humphrey Bogart gave a more classic approach to the role of this detective . Bruce Lee makes an appearance as Winslow Wong and completely destroys the shabby office of Philip Marlow and almost sends Marlow flying through a window . Carrol O'Connor appeared as Lt . Christy French who did not seem to fit into this role and had a blank expression on his face most of the time and probably hated this role he had to play . Gayle Hunnicutt , Rita Moreno both gave a great supporting role , but this film was not exactly what I expected and I felt like I wasted my time viewing it .
This film was a big loss to MGM in 1938 , most people did not find that Gary Cooper was suited for this type of picture and his leading lady , Sigrid Gurie was a star from Norway who lived in Brooklyn , N . Y . and not many people knew anything about her . Anyway , Cooper played Marco Polo and tried his hand at comedy which did not suit him . Sigrid Gurie , ( Princess Kukochin ) , " Sofia " fell in love with Parco Polo ( Gary Cooper ) , " The Plainsman " even though she was going to have an arranged marriage to another man she did not know . Basil Rathbone , ( Ahmed ) , " The Black Sleep " , played the evil person who had strong desires for the Princess and wanted to kill Marco Polo . Alan Hale , ( Kaidu ) , " The House Across the Street " , gave a great performance as a supporting actor and gave the picture a great deal of humor . Sorry to see Gary Cooper in this picture which was a box office failure .
Always enjoyed the films that dealt with the House of Wax and especially the Vincent Price film . However , this film tops all of the films and made a very realistic effect with fantastic graphics and more than you can expect with blood and gore and horrible ways to die . This film starts out with guys and gals deciding to have a great camp out in the woods and wind up with car trouble and a kind local guy leads them to a nice town in order to obtain a fan belt for their car . Chad Michael Murray , ( Nick Jones ) and Elisha Cuthbert , ( Carly Jones ) both gave an outstanding performance in this film and Carly Jones showed off a great figure along with Paris Hilton , ( Paige Edwards ) . Paris plays a minor role with just making out with a guy away from everyone and when it comes time to scream , Paige needed help from the extras behind the scenes to scream louder . This is a film you will enjoy viewing and really should be shown on Halloween night . Enjoy
This was a very entertaining film from 1956 with some great veteran actors who have had great roles in their careers and this is a rather silly film which seems to go on and on . However , this is a comedy concerning an American Ambassador's Daughter named Joan Fisk , ( Olivia De Havilland ) who live in France and meets up with a soldier named Danny , ( John Forsythe ) and Joan is modeling various dresses for an American Red Cross Benefit and Danny becomes very attracted to Joan . Joan does not tell Danny she is the daughter of an American Ambassador and pretends to be a French girl who is a professional model . There are wonderful actors in this film , namely , Myrna Loy , ( Mrs . Cartwright ) ; Adolphe Menou , ( Sen . Jonathan Cartwright ) and Tommy Noonan , ( Cpl . Al O'Connor all gave outstanding supporting roles . If you like old time comedy films , this is the film for you .
The title of this film captured my interest and there is a scene where a little girl goes out with her dad hunting in the woods near Hidden Lake and he expects his daughter to hit the target immediately . The little girl finds eagle feathers and it is from that point on that the story goes down all kinds of different paths and the little girl becomes a mature woman who leaves Chicago to visit her dad . The little girl is Rena Sofer , ( Maggie Dolan ) , " March " , ' 01 who really is the star of this TV film and sort of carries the film on her back through out almost every scene . The story disappointed me in many ways and it seemed to go on and on like a Merry-go-Round .
There is plenty of action in this film dealing with people from another planet who send information to some scientists who are interested in UFO's and communicating with them . These scientists obtain information from outer space about a DNA embryo which they fertilize and a baby by mistake is born and escapes into the world . Xavier Fitch , ( Ben Kingsley ) is in charge of this experiment and calls in a group of people who can help him locate where this baby has disappeared to . Dr . Laura Baker , ( Marg Helgenberger ) assists Xavier in their search and finds out that this baby is no longer a child but a full grown woman and they have to locate this person quickly because she has already killed quite a few people and desperately wants to have a baby whenever she can find the most suitable man . There is plenty of blood and guts and very romantic scenes which usually wind up in a blood bath death . Marg Helgenberger , star of CSI Las Vegas gave an outstanding performance in this film and I can fully understand why she was selected to star in the CSI TV Series where she deals with DNA all the time .
Enjoyed this great Alfred Hitchcock film starring Robert Cummings , ( Barry Kane ) and Priscilla Lane , ( Pat Martin ) along with Otto Kruger , ( Charles Tobin ) This story is about Barry Kane who works in a aircraft factory during the war and encounters a serious fire that breaks out in his plant and he hands a fire-extinguisher to his friend in order to try and stop the fire and it becomes a raging fire ball of flames . The man is killed and Barry is investigated by the police . Barry realizes he is going to be held responsible for this crime and decides to take off on some serious leads he has as to who the real saboteur is . He runs into a man who is blind and has a daughter named Pat Martin , ( Priscilla Lane ) who wants to turn him over to the police . This story becomes very involved as Barry tries to find out who is really responsible for this horrible crime .
If you like to see camels grunting and crying in the desert and plenty of Arabs with swords clashing in the bright sun along with Omar Sharif , ( Emir Beni-Zair ) , you will enjoy this film . The film deals with a very pretty and sexy gal with beautiful eyes named Christine Sanders , ( Carol Alt ) whose son has been taken away from her by her ex-husband who is the son of an Arab Chieftain back to Morocco . Christine is a very successful business woman in New York City and is also very wealthy and she hires a man named Tom Burton , ( Rutger Hauer ) to hunt down her son and bring him back home . However , Christine wants to go along with Tom and she eventually convinces him to let her go along and I think she bit off more than she can chew on this dangerous adventure in the desert . During some very action scenes , Christine and Tom do find time to passionately embrace each other and their kisses were very very long . Omar Sharif , Elliott Gould gave great supporting roles to this film which is very entertaining and different . Enjoy .
I was very young when I first viewed this film in 1946 and never dreamed that this film would still be viewed and commented about in this 21st Century . All the stars in this film were great actors and gave fantastic performances and it is great to see films like this being shown and enjoyed by future generations in America and around the world . Claudette Colbert , ( Leola ' Lee ' Addams ) , " So Proudly We Hail , " ' 43 , played a very strong mother who lost her husband suddenly and found herself very much in debt and having a daughter , June Allyson , ( Penny Addams ) , " The Glenn Miller Story " , ' 53 , who seemed to have mental problems dealing with past experiences of her father . Lionel Barrymore , ( Dr . Rossiger ) , " Duel In The Sun " , ' 46 , was the doctor treating Penny Addams and also her mother Leola . Walter Pigeon , ( Chris Matthews ) , " Funny Girl " , ' 68 , was a very good friend of the family and stood in the background and gave the family all his support to bring happiness to the family . This is a great Classic drama with a very haunting piano selection which is played through out the picture and adds to the deep secrets hidden in Penny Addams mind and soul . Enjoy . "
Had no idea just what type of film this was going to turn out to be , in the opening scenes there is a gal who used a complete dictionary of real foul language and I mean real bad , the guys tried to match her , but failed . This is a very interesting story about a gal who is supposedly having a child and is very pregnant ( 9 mos . ) throughout the entire picture , this poor gal is Juliette Lewis , ( Robin ) who does fantastic acting . Robin has body guards protecting her during this pregnancy to make sure the concerned party receives the baby when delivered . There are also some bad dudes who try to interfere with the safety of Robin and one of the guys tells a story about how he prays the pray : " Now A Lay Me Down to Sleep I pray the Lord my Soul to take , if I should Die Before I Sleep , I Pray the Lord my Soul to Take " , indicating this was the only pray he could pray . I found this quite strange , because this film is rather full of blood and gory , murder and plenty of killing . If you like a way out film with James Caan , ( Joe Sarno ) playing a real cool Cat , this is the film for you .
Liked the film , " In Cold Blood " which made Truman Capote a very wealthy man and also a famous celebrity who appeared on many TV shows and a few films . Toby Jones captured the entire film with his life like portrayal of the real Capote and made him come alive once again to tell a deeper and darker side to his childhood and true feelings towards one of the killers . This film also revealed the type of people that Truman Capote associated with in New York City high society and what a gossip he was among all the ladies and a few men . Sigourney Weaver , ( Babe Paley ) along with many other famous actors gave great supporting roles to this picture . However , this is truly a great masterpiece for Toby Jones who put his heart and soul into this role . Enjoy .
This is a story about a young ambitious man who likes being a gangster and when he is young the role is played by Young Gangster , ( Paul Bettany ) . Freddie Mays , ( David Thewlis ) is the head king pin and decides to hire this young gangster who wants to fill his shoes someday . There are many flashbacks concerning the life of the young gangster and the older gangster played by Malcolm McDowell who managed to send Freddie Mays to prison and he also took over his entire business . There is plenty of blood and gore and rough and tough British crude language which is very hard to understand . This is a very unusual film and it will hold your interest right to the very end .
The Big Knife was a Broadway Play starring John Garfield and when John passed away , Hollywood made this story into a film in which Jack Palance played the role of ( Charles Castle ) along with Ida Lupino , ( Marion Castle ) who plays Charles's wife who also have a young son . Charles has been a successful actor and made many films in Hollywood and really wants to quit the movie industry and get back together with his wife and child who he has been separated from . However , Rod Steiger , ( Stanley Shriner Hoff ) is a famous Director and Producer who wants Charles to sign a seven ( 7 ) year contract and will not take no for an answer . Stanley does everything possible to make Charlie see his way and uses all kinds of strong arm tactics which creates a real drama . Great film and great acting by the entire cast . Enjoy
Greatly enjoy these classic films which featured Dr . Robert Ordway , ( Warner Baxter ) who plays the role of doctor and also a detective who always manages to catch the killer . In this story , Dr . Ordway cancels all his appointments at his office in New York City and hands all his cases over to his assistant and tells everyone he is going on a vacation way out in the country for some good fishing and hunting and he will not involve himself with anything else , because he has not taken a rest for a very long time . Dr . Ordway no sooner gets to his location that the local town becomes sick with a Typhoid epidemic and everyone is getting sick and some people are dying . There is a local doctor who mixes all kinds of herbs and way out contents and Dr . Ordway has to take matters into his own hands . Dr . Ordway runs some tests with the state health department and discovers that someone has been poisoned and then the story takes on a different twist and Dr . Ordway stops enjoying any kind of vacation and tries to find out who the killer is . This is a great look back at films in 1947 and is lots of fun to watch .
This is a very good early film with Christopher Lee who portrays in this film a very evil man who loves to cause troubles an simply enjoys giving one particular young pretty woman a whipping on her back after tearing off her blouse . This whipping goes on and on and then they manage to make love right after she is almost beaten to death . This woman who is getting all the beatings is a newly wed to another man however , she did know Christopher Lee from her past and liked his rough and horrible way of making love . This is a very good Christopher Lee classic where he is not really the star of the film , but manages to take complete control of almost every situation right to the bitter ending . The beatings get boring after awhile and it is really too drawn out , but lets remember it was 1963 and there really was no sexy scenes at all , only BEATINGS !
Enjoyed viewing this old timer from 1943 and seeing Lucille Ball acting as herself and getting plenty of laughs . In this film , Lucille's career is sort of fading and her agent thinks it is a good idea for her to get some press coverage by becoming a date for a Senior Prom at Winsocki Military Academy . The lucky guy is Bud Hooper , who at the same time has a girl friend who wants to go with him to the prom also . June Allyson , ( Ethel ) does some fancy dance steps and sings a few tunes , which sort of launched her career in films . There is some great entertainment from Harry James and his orchestra , he plays a great version of " Flight of the Bumble Bee " and also does a funny dance routine with Nancy Walker , who really was the great comic in the film and got most of the laughs . This is definitely a look back in the past , with plenty of 1943 entertainment . Enjoy
Usually I do not care very much for mountain climbing films as they usually have a very similar plot . This film had plenty of action with Helicopters flying all over the place and horrible snow storms and also entrapment in caves deep under tons of snow and ice . The film starts out with a father , son and daughter adventuring up a steep mountain during a very sunny day and having a wonderful time with each other . Their father was a very experienced climber and all of a sudden a tragic situation happens and a horrible life or death decision had to be made within seconds . There is lots of scary scenes and plenty of explosions and more action than you can handle .
Always enjoyed the great acting of Claudette Colbert , ( Tomorrrow Is Forever " , ' 46 and especially her role in this picture as Agnes Keith , who is captured along with her husband and son in a Japanese prisoner-of-war camp during WW II and towards its Victory . This film clearly shows how people in our past Wars were treated by their captives during this terrible time in American History . Agnes Keith is a successful writer and is admired by a Japanese Colonel who enjoyed her writings and even asks her for an autographed copy of her books . However , once the Colonel turns his back , all Hell breaks loose . Hollywood did a great job of trying to show the American Public what horrors went on in this Prisoner Camp and others during the entire war in the Pacific , which is quite mildly accomplished . War creates monsters out of many people and the opportunity to seek power over other human beings is an on going struggle in this world . After viewing this picture I became very interested in this subject and read , " The Rape of Nanking " , by Iris Chang . This is definitely a great film that should be view by many generations in the future .
This film held my interest from the very beginning to the very end . The cast was comprised of all great veteran actors of the silver screen . The story is about a small Western town with everyday living people who are having trouble with their marriages and at the same time some bandits decide to hold up the local bank and are busy at work making their plans . In many ways , the town people can be glad a bank was held up which changed the lives of many people who were having problems . An Amish family was depicted in this film and the bandits even broke them away from their customs of living . This is a very well written story and a top cast of actors who have made this a gem of a picture to watch and Enjoy .
If you love to see old planes of the German's and British , this is the film for you . There is excellent photography and you actually see how the German's bombed London and destroyed many parts of the city and also how people ran to the air-raid shelters . There is a husband and wife who have joined the RAF and it clearly shows the problems of a married couple both serving in the same unit . There were many young British gals who joined up to serve their country and it showed the dramatic strain it had on all these very young girls . This is a great film because it shows how the British had to fight with the German's and the horrible bombings the German's did to the British people .
Whenever a picture is produced by Val Lewton , you know it will be something different and mysterious . Val had to work on a shoe string budget in making this film , which he was very skilled at doing . He produced " The Body Snatcher " , ' 45 and many other weird pictures , " Cat Woman " , etc etc . However , all the props and doors on hotels and subways looked like plywood and just bounced around trying to close . Tom Conway , ( Dr . Louis Judd ) , " The Falcon's Brother " , 42 , was a head shrink in this picture an gave a great supporting role . Jean Gibson , ( Jacqueline Gibson ) , " The Falcon in Danger " , ' 43 , was a rather mixed up gal who got involved with some organization that like to look into the dark world of Spirits and turned up missing . Kim Hunter , ( Mary Gibson ) , " A Streetcar Named Desire " , ' 51 , was Jacqueline's sister and decided to leave a school for young girls and traveled to NYC in order to find out just where her sister wound up . There are many people that Mary Gibson ran into trying to find her sister and many older men interested in her youth . Doctor Louis Judd , surprised me when he quoted a passage from the Lord's Prayer in order to slap down the doubting of an evil minded poor soul . You will find the ending rather hard to believe . Enjoy !
Considering this was a 1943 film , I was quite surprised and entertained by the story and great acting by many veteran actors . Errol Flynn , ( Corporal Steve Wagner ) was a Royal Canadian Mountie who found a man who was exhausted and found in deep snow . This man was Colonel Hugo Von Keller , ( Helmut Dantine ) who is a Nazi officer and also a pilot who was on a secret mission in Canada . These Nazi's entered the Hudson Bay area in a submarine from Germany and headed North Northwest across Canada through deep Arctic temperatures . Gene Lockhart , ( Ernst ) is a spy for the Nazi's and manages to contact Steve Wagner and use him as a guide under false pretensions . There is plenty of action and a very surprising ending . Enjoy
Enjoyed this great Classic film from 1956 starring a great cast of actors , namely : Van Johnson , ( Donald Martin ) who was serving time in Joliet Illinois Prison and seeks the help of his brother , Joseph Cotton , ( P M Martin ) who is a very successful rancher and well known throughout the community . P M is not very happy about his brother showing up , because he never told anyone about his brother and that he had a bad problem with drinking which caused most of the problems in his life . Ruth Roman , ( Nora Martin ) played the role as wife to P M who did not really get along and now that Donald Martin appears , his wife becomes interested in her husband's new friend , not knowing it is his brother . There is plenty of action and this is truly a great classic from the Year 1956 , enjoy . Nora Martin teaches her husband about being your Brother's Keeper , the hard way .
Enjoyed Blade 2 more than the first version , there seemed to be plenty of action between vampires trying to make peace among each other in order to get the real Blood Suckers . Wesley Snipes , ( Blade ) was kept busy almost every minute through out the film and had more tricks and special devices in order to bring plenty of light into the eyes of the blood suckers . Blade even takes a nice bath in a deep pool of thick blood which made me stay away from tomato juice for my entire life . Kris Kristofferson , ( Abraham Whistler ) acted at first like a very old man who just came out of a coma and then he started to use his brain power and helped Blade accomplish some of his tasks . There was very little time for any real sex in the film , I guess that all came into play after the Mission was completely accomplished .
Since Janet Leigh is one of my favorite movie stars from the past , I really enjoyed this 1952 film where she stars as Lucy Duncan , a lawyer who had to work her way through some rough times in order to become a lawyer . Lucy has a boyfriend who is a civil engineer and makes eight-five dollars a week and Lucy finds out she has a new client who is willing to pay her fifty dollars a week and between the two of their salaries , they would be able to get hitched . The client Lucy has is Judge Samuel Coulter , ( Lewis Stone ) who wants Lucy to have a sort of power of attorney over the trust fund of Mark Maclene IV who is very wealthy and simply spends his money like water on all kinds of gals , giving them jewelry , furs and the list goes on and on . Lucy takes control and takes back all the items that Mark purchased and makes him live on fifty dollars a week , plus 50 cents for lunch . Lucy even shows Mark an auto mat where he can get his lunch for a quarter and takes him on a Staten Island Ferry ride for only 5 cents one way . Janet Leigh was twenty-five when she made this picture and was recently married to Tony Curtis . Great film to view , Enjoy .
This is a great film produced by Val Lewton , who made great pictures like " Bedlam " the " Bodysnatchers " and many others starring Boris Karloff . This film starts off with a young man who is boarding a ship to begin his new job as the ships 3rd officer , the man's name is Tom Merriam . Tom has been hired by a Captain Will Stone , ( Richard Dix ) who check out his military record and decided to hire him on his cargo ship . Tom enjoys his first few weeks aboard the ship and his best friend is a man called Sparks , ( Edmund Glover ) who is a radioman . Capt . Stone has many discussions with Tom about the role he is suppose to play as 3rd Officer of the Deck and there are times when Tom disagrees with the Captain's point of view . There are various things that happen aboard the ship and some men die in unexplained reasons for death and Tom begins to feel there is something wrong aboard this ship . This film will hold you in suspense and wonder just how this film with end . Enjoy .
Enjoyed viewing this Belgium Film concerning a murder mystery involving a very high government official . Eric Vincke , ( Koen DeBouw ) and Freddy Verstuyft , ( Werner DeSmedt ) are both of Belgium's best detectives who are assigned to this case which involves many dark dirty facts that eventually become revealed . There is a very young girl about 12 or 13 who escapes being killed and then a hit man appears named Angelo Ledda , ( Jan Decleir ) who has Alzheimer's and is assigned to kill this young girl . There is one sex scene with a Belgium Prostitute which adds some so called romance to the film . Despite the hit man having Alzheimer's , he is deadly with a weapon and hand to hand combat for an older man . Enjoy , it was very entertaining .
If you liked Robert Taylor , ( Bushrod Gentry ) in many of his films , you will enjoy this comedy with Eleanor Parker , ( Mary Stuart Cheme ) . This film opens up with Bushrod traveling through the woods of Kentucky as a hunter to just sold $400 . 00 worth of furs at a trading post and the young girl at the post had her eyes on Bushrod for marriage , but this was not what Bushrod wanted in his life for a long time to come . Bushrod runs into an Indian who attacks Mary Stuart Cheme , and saves her from being scalped and raped . It was from that moment on that Mary Stuart was determined to have this man as her husband . There is plenty of comedy and Victor McLaglen , ( Mr . Cadmus Cheme ) gave a great supporting role along with many other famous actors . Enjoy .
John Travolta , ( Howard Saint ) played an entirely different role than I have ever seen him portray . He plays the role of a real underworld mob boss who loses his son and is bound and determined to find out just who is responsible for his loss . The guy he is looking for is Frank Castle / The Punisher ( Thomas Jane ) , Frank Castle was an FBI agent and had a very sweet and loving wife and also a young son who he rarely was able to spend time with because of his many assignments all over the globe . Frank decides he is going to retire and has a big party for a family reunion . It is from this point on in the film when things start to get real interesting and the film escalates into one big action filled film with all kinds of cruel hatred and murder after murder and beatings you will not be able to believe . This film had me glued to the TV Screen from beginning to the very end . If you have not seen this film , by all means get to see it soon .
Great story about a young girl who loved her father very much and followed in his footsteps in the world of mathematics in Chicago , Illinois . This girl is Catherine , ( Gwyneth Paltrow ) who learns that her father is mentally going down hill and she cares for him and goes to college at the same time . Robert is the name of her father , ( Anthony Hopkins ) who thinks he is writing a proof in mathematics , which is a step further in the mathematician field of science . After Robert dies , Catherine goes to pieces and worries that she will become mentally disturbed like her father and she pulls into herself and just stays at home . Eventually , Catherine's sister who lives in New York City intends to take her sister from her home and bring her into the New York City area . This is a very deep film with plenty of flashbacks , along with great acting between Paltrow & Hopkins . Enjoy .
Great 1968 film which I have very much wanted to view over the years and it is very hard to obtain and when I was in England , I was able to view this film and enjoyed it greatly . Michael York , ( Peter Strange ) played the role as a London policeman who is being arrested in the opening scenes of this movie and then it flashes back to when he first joined the force . Detective Pierce , ( Jeremy Kemp ) is a detective who likes Peter Strange because he is a cop who goes strictly by the books . It is not too long when Peter meets up with a hot to trot Fred March , ( Susan George ) who is under the age of 16 years until one more month and she is out to seduce the apple of her eye , Peter . Peter meets her family who live in a big mansion and they immediately take a liking to him and this paves the way for Peter & Fred to make very warm and passionate love with plenty of nudity by Susan George . Susan was just starting out in films and this is one of her early films which I am glad I was able to view in Europe . If you like Susan George , don't miss this one ; the other film I want to see her in is : " Neat With Black Stockings " , 1968 . Enjoy .
This film starts out very calm and you meet a young pretty gal named Lisa Reisert , ( Rachel McAdams ) who is a very efficient manger of a hotel and she meets a friendly young man , in an airport and has a drink with him at a bar and they seem to be getting along This young man's name is Jackson Rippner , ( Cilliam Murphy ) and he also sits next to Lisa on a flight to Miami , Florida . Jackson tells Lisa some very frightening information about her father , Joe Reisert , ( Brian Cox ) and Jackson threatens Lisa and demands she follow his instructions . The film at this point in the film increases a great deal of terror and some very horrible situations . Whenever you watch a film directed by Wes Craven , you know you will be entertained right to the very end . Don't miss this film , it is really great and enjoyable .
Enjoyed this 1930's film starring Joan Crawford , ( Gerry March ) who lives with several girls who all work for a department store , some girls sell perfume and most of them are fashion models . All the girls are looking for the right man to marry who has money and they also want to throw away their alarm clocks and stop working and have babies . Gerry March has been around the block a few times and is always on guard against men who try to hit on her mainly because they have hurt her very badly in the past . Gerry tries to caution all the girls and stays pretty much to herself until Tony Jardine , ( Robert Montgomery ) enters her life and she really falls for him in a big way until he brings her to his secret tree house which looks like a penthouse suite and stairs that fold up . Tony is her boss at the department store and after the tree house scene , Gerry writes him off her list as a typical male trying to score . Great entertaining film , and if you like to see what women wore in the 1930's this is the film for you .
Enjoyed this silent film from 1922 with great German directors and plenty of talented people . This story starts out with a family consisting of two brothers , sister and a mother who are not very well off and the sister hates her life and gets in a fight with her mother and she turns to the streets and the fast lane in life . Lorenz Lubota , ( Alfred Abel ) is one of the brothers who loves to read books and is also a poet and works as a clerk for the city . One day Lorenz was walking in the street and a blonde girl is driving a chariot and runs him down , the girl checks to see that he is okay but Lorenz immediately falls in love with this girl . After this event in Lorenz's life he completely goes crazy and his life changes for the worst and he gets involved with money that does not belong to him . Grete Berger gives a great supporting role as a pawnbroker , Schwabe . Enjoy
Enjoyed viewing the youthful faces of Julia Roberts , ( Sabrina Peterson ) , " Closer " , ' 04 and Nick Nolte , ( Peter Brackett ) , " Clean " , ' 04 . I thought that Nick Nolte was too old an actor to play against Julia Roberts , but naturally , that is my opinion . The story starts out with a mysterious man carrying a business case containing a gun and various other items and all of a sudden there is bad train accident which disrupts the lives of Peter Brackett and Sabrina Peterson ; who happen to be newspaper reporters for two different Chicago Newspapers . Peter Bracket is also an author of a new book that was recently published and becomes distracted with Sabrina Peterson in more ways than just one . They are both rivals for a big news story and are very much at odds with each other through out the entire picture . Funny and entertaining film from 1994 .
This is a Classic John Ford Film dealing with old time politics in a small town , but hinting to be Boston , Mass . Spencer Tracy , ( Major Frank Skeffington ) , " Guess Who's Coming to Dinner " , plays the role of mayor who has been around for many elections and this is his final try at winning over his town . However , there are many changes starting to appear in the town and people are beginning to demand more improvements to their community . John Carradine , ( Amos Force ) , " Prison Ship " , runs the local paper in town and is not the best of friends with Frank Skeffington , however he hired Jeffrey Hunter as a reporter ( Adam Caulfield ) , " A Kiss Before Dying " , ' 56 , who is a nephew to the mayor . It seems everybody smokes up a storm and in one scene the room is filled with smoke floating all over the place . ( Glad those days are long gone ) The film has many classic actors , Donald Crisp , Basil Rathbone and many more actors who make this film a very entertaining film ; there is plenty of dry humor and drama , but entirely too draw out . I even noticed that Spencer Tracy used a great deal of cue cards , more than in any other film he appeared in . picture .
Enjoyed this film concerning a girl eighteen years of age who has become interested in a girls soccer team which is called football in West London , England where this film takes place . This young girls name is Jess Kaur Bhamra , ( Parminder Nagra ) who is the daughter of an East Indian father who practices the orthodox Sikh faith . Jess meets up with a girl named Juliette Paxton , ( Keira Knightley ) who plays on a girls soccer team and invites Jess to come on their team and she meets the male coach of the girls team , who is Joe , ( Jonathan Rhys ) . Jess shows she has great talent and is accepted on the team . However , her family is very much against their daughter participating in any sports and therefore , Jess decides to keep it a secret until she goes to Germany for a soccer event . There is plenty of comedy , drama and romance and a wonderful experience of seeing the customs of East Indian people and all the foods that they prepare for themselves as a family . Great entertaining film and a wonderful production . Enjoy
Enjoyed this film directed by a veteran director , George Stevens and the great acting of Cary Grant playing the role as Leopold Dilg who is convicted of burning a wool factory and killing a person in the fire . Leopold is put in prison and escapes and hurts his ankle and finds his way to an old friend he knew growing up The friend is Miss Nora Shelley , ( Jean Arthur ) who is a real estate agent and is renting her home to a Professor Michael Lightcap , ( Ronald Coleman ) and Leopold comes breaking into her home and upsetting her plans to get things ready for her new tenant . Unfortunately , Professor Lightcap arrives early and wants to move into the house this very night that Leopold has escaped . This drama turns into a complete comedy at times and is a very enjoyable film to watch and enjoy from 1942 .
Recently visited the Alcatraz Prison which reminded me of a haunting grave yard for poor souls who wasted their entire lives for wrong turns they made in life . This film portrayed just how Alcatraz really looks with its 5 x 9 cells and all of the accommodations of a toilet , a wash basin , a single pull down seat and a very uncomfortable bed . Clint Eastwood , ( Frank Morris ) , " A Perfect World " , ' 93 , played one of the prisoners who made a career out of breaking out of prisons in Georgia and was sent to the Rock . The dinning room looked exactly as it did when I viewed it , except it is in rather bad condition and the solitary confinement cells were really black hell holes to be placed in . Warden James Johnston who was the first Warden to serve from 1934 to 1948 who treated the prisoners better than most of the other wardens and allowed the men to have hobbies and were given job opportunities within the prison . If you are interested in how a few prisoners escaped from the ROCK , this is the film for you , however , no one really knows if the three of them every lived HAPPY EVER AFTER or just plain drowned .
Greatly enjoyed this great classic 1926 silent film comedy and was amazed at the great performance that Beatrice Lillie portrayed on the screen as Violet . Violet worked as a stage hand for a theatrical company that traveled by railroad all through the small towns of America . Violet would serve meals , clean up , mend clothing , iron and washed the actors and actresses clothes , besides , acting a small role in their play as a maid . Violet meets up with a young man named Jimmy Marsh ( Jack Pickford ) who needs a job and she manages to get him into this theatrical group and falls in love with him . However , Jimmy Marsh is suspected of stealing money in his home town and has some dark secrets he is hiding from everyone . There is plenty of comedy performed by Franklin Pangborn , ( Cecil Lovelace ) who plays a big sissy and has people laughing in stitches . Jack Picford is the brother to Mary Pickford who found a career in Hollywood , but had a very short life . Great Classic Silent film . Enjoy
Otto Preminger presented to the public in 1962 a great film dealing with a behind the scenes of Washington D . C . politics from the President , Vice President and many Senators wheeling and dealing . The subject of homosexual behavior is introduced to this story which was a subject that was kept in the closet by the film industry in Hollywood in 1962 . Franchot Tone , ( The President ) , Henry Fonda , ( Robert A . Leffingwell ) , Charles Laughton , ( Senator Seabright Cooley ) and Gene Tierney , ( Dolly Harrison ) and many other veteran actors gave outstanding performances who all created a very realistic government . I thought that Charles Laughton strongly portrayed an old crafty and wise senior Senator and made you want to hate him for this role he created . Great Classic film from 1962 , Enjoy .
This was a very interesting film from 1943 during WW II which was a propaganda film in order to show the American people how horrible the Nazi occupation of the Czeck Nation and many other countries under the rule of the Germans . This film featured great actors like Brian Donlevy , Walter Brennan , Dennis O'Keefe and Gene Lockhart . There was a top Gestapo Officer assassination and Brian Donlevy was the man that the Nazi's were hunting for . However , the Czeck Underground was very powerful and protected him in every way possible , even will the loss of many lives who were executed by the Gestapo . The real traitor in this film is Gene Lockhart who was a beer merchant who was very rich and was willing to sell out his country to the Nazi's . At one point in the film I thought even Dennis O'Keefe was a spy as this picture went around and around in circles and was entirely too long . The title of this film sounds like a Western Film and has nothing to do with this picture at all .
This film had me captured from the very beginning to the end with great acting by Christian Bale , ( Patrick Bateman ) . Patrick is a man who is a Wall Street magnet who loves to put all kinds of creams and lotions all over his body , tans himself and is as fit as a fiddle . Except his brain gets very confused and he simply loves to kill all kinds of people . Patrick loves to pal around with his buddies and goes to very expensive clubs in New York and has plenty of woman who are crazy about him , especially Evelyn Williams , ( Reese Witherspoon ) who is seriously in love with Patrick . Patrick decides to eliminate one of his buddies , Paul Allen by chopping him up with a heavy ax and simply drags his body out of the lobby with the blood staining he floor . This mad man rapes and performs horrible things to people even animals and also has an apartment filled with dead bodies . However , Detective Donald Kimball , ( Willem Dafoe ) starts visiting Patrick quite frequently and starts to get on Patrick's nerves . The is only the beginning of the film , wait till you see how it ends .
Enjoyed the great direction of John Frankenheimer in this film which did not deal with hand to hand combat with the German Nazi's during WW II . The story is concerned with saving very expensive art paintings from being stolen by the German Army by railroad . Burt Lancaster plays the role of a French Station Master ( Paul Labiche ) and a German Colonel Von Waldheim ( Paul Scofield ) who fight against each other in order to accomplish their goals . Paul Labiche at first is not interested in what happens to these art treasurers and then understands the importance of not letting the German's steal these famous paintings . There is a very big struggle through out this film by Paul Labiche to stop this train and defeat the determined German Colonel . Burt Lancaster and Paul Scofield gave an outstanding performance in this 1964 Classic .
Always enjoy Orson Welles screen writing and film direction and all the great films he produced in black and white , I remember one film he did in color and it was a flop . In this film , Orson Welles , ( Gregory Arkadin ) , " Butterfly " , ' 82 , plays a very rich mysterious man who has problems trying to remember the past and is extremely devoted to his daughter . Akim Tamiroff , ( Jakob Zouk ) , " The Great Bank RObbery , " , ' 69 plays a very comical role and has a very great desire to have GOOSE LIVER with gravy and all the trimmings and somehow manages to get his request . Patricia Medina , ( Mily ) , " Count Your Blessings " , ' 59 , is a very hot sexy gal who gets deeply involved with Gregory Arkadin and gets a very hard time of the affair . Patricia Medina was the wife of veteran actor , Joseph Cotton and gave an outstanding performance . Mischa Auer , ( The Professor ) , " Nathalie " , ' 57 , played a very weird role as a con-artist who trained fleas in a Circus and let them bite his arm for food . If you like Orson Welles and missed this film , you will greatly enjoy this very mysterious film .
This is a very well produced picture from 1940 with Errol Flynn , ( Geoffrey Thorpe ) playing the starring role as a so called pirate for the Queen of England against the country of Spain . Spain at the time was superior in their naval fleet of sailing ships and were seeking world conquest according to this story . Brenda Marshall , ( Doria Maria ) gives a great supporting role with great beauty and falls in love with Geoffrey Thorpe after a very bitter experience with each other aboard his pirate ship along with her uncle , Claude Rains , ( Don Jose Alverez De Cordabo ) . Jose Alverez De Cordabo plays the role as a Spanish Ambasador to the King of Spain . Henry Daniell , ( Lord Wolfingham ) , " The Body Snatcher " , ' 45 is a British subject who is very sympathetic to Spain and is sort of a spy against the Queen of England . There is a good sword battle between Geoffrey Thorpe and Lord Wolfingham in one of the final scenes and plenty of swashbuckling action . These Sea Hawk seamen wind up in a jungle wadding through swamp land and then becoming slaves on a ship as oarsmen and beaten constantly . This is definitely a picture that will take you back in time when Errol Flynn was at the height of his career after playing Robin Hood . It was interesting to learn that Brenda Marshall was married to William Holden in real life . This is a must see picture , enjoy ,
It was very hard for me to believe that this film was produced in 1948 and portrayed such great professional dancing and music with a story that touched the heart strings . There was never a dull moment throughout the entire picture as Moira Shearer , ( Victoria Page ) tries to break into the world of ballet and has to meet up with Anton Walbrook , ( Boris Lermontov ) who rules the entire world of ballet . Marius Goring , ( Julian Craster ) is a composer who realizes that some of his music compositions have been stolen by Boris Lermontov and works out an arrangement to compensate for his trouble . Victoria Page gives a great performance wearing her Red Shoes and dancing herself to death . This is a great classic and will be for many generations and people who love the arts and especially ballet .
Was definitely looking forward to seeing this picture starring John Travolta , ( Hardy ) , " Swordfish " , ' 01 , who plays an expert in being able to interrogate prisoners and decides to do his buddy a favor and see how he can help him crack this case . Samuel L . Jackson , ( West ) , " The Man " , ' 05 , plays a rough and tough Drill Sgt . who really over does his training and causes all kinds of problems with his group of trainees , some even go bananas and cause people to lose their lives . Hardy finds out he has to deal with Connie Nielson , ( Osborne ) , " The Ice Harvest " , ' 05 who assists Hardy with his interrogating routine of " Good Cop , Bad Cop " . If you try to figure out how this picture will end , you will definitely get lost and you will need plenty of patience to see this film to its Final Ending !
Missed this film and recently viewed this great film going back into the 1940s . It was great to see a very young Denzel Washington ( Easy Rawlins ) , " Training Day " , ' 01 , who managed to have his own home in Los Angeles and was very well liked by his neighbors and many friends . The photography was outstanding and depicted what life was life after WWII and how living conditions were among the black and white communities . Easy Rawlins meets Jennifer Beals , ( Daphne Monet ) , " Break a Leg " , ' 03 , who seems to get him in all kinds of trouble , however , there is a great spark and attraction between the two of them . After viewing this picture , I can fully understand why this picture is Titled , " Devil in a Blue Dress " , Daphne managed to get quite a few people KILLED !
Tony Danza ( Tom Action ) surprised me with his complete change of character from anything he has ever performed , he gave up his NY ( Brooklyn ) accent for a real down to earth SOUTHERN DRAWL ! ! If you liked him in " Who's The Boss " , get ready to completely hate the role he plays . If you had any doubts about Tony Danza as an actor , his junkyard character will change your mind completely . His wife Pamela Reed ( Carol ) ( " Proof of Life " ' 02 and " Standing on Fishes " ' 99 ) played a great supporting role as a very simple minded down to earth good mother and wife who depends completely on her husband Tom and looks up to him NO matter how he seems to ACT at TIMES ! ! Ving Rhames ( Detective Jackson ) ( " Sin " ' 03 ) was fantastic in his role trying to figure out this crazy household and just what happened to the missing daughter Kathy Action , ( Heather Tom ) " Young & The Restless'73 TV series ) This is a great film to view the next time it is on the TV Screen .
If Morgan Freeman , ( Eddie Scrap-Iron Dupris ) did not appear in this film it would have failed on its face , because he gave the best supporting performance I have ever seen him create . Hilary Swank , ( Maggie Fitgerald ) put her heart and soul into this role as a prize fighter who climbs to unbelievable heights in the world of women boxing with the great help of both Eddie Dupris and Clint Eastwood , ( Frankie Dunn ) . Frankie Dunn constantly has gone to his church and asked the priest many questions concerning the Catholic Faith and even runs into trouble with the Priest trying to understand his frame of thinking . Frnkie Dunn asks the priest a question that will change the entire mood of the film and put it into a very controversial film concerning Life or Death . Nice film .
Greatly enjoyed the acting performed by Bruce Willis , ( David Dunn ) , " The Whole Ten Yards , " ' 04 , David Dunn was a man who escaped death and was trying to find out WHY ! and what his purpose in life should be . Samuel L . Jackson , ( Elijah Price ) , " South Africa " , ' 04 , tried to find David Dunn in order to direct his life and his destiny . It is very easy to find this film boring if you do not understand the deep Spiritual meaning the director of the film is trying to portray . Bruce Willis and Samuel L . Jackson both had difficult roles to perform and did an outstanding job . The director of this film has also produced another great picture for the Summer called , " The Village " , ' 04 with William Hurt in the starring role . If you love Bruce Willis and his acting , this is the film for YOU !
Have not viewed " Ben Hur " since it first came out in 1959 , and was thrilled by the great acting of Charlton Heston , ( Judah Ben-Hur ) , " Any Given Sunday " , ' 99 . Heston , portrayed a Jewish man beaten down by the Roman's and even his best friend turned against him and he was a slave on a ship , rowing himself to death . This film was a Hollywood production , but it showed the great Passion of Jesus Christ in different ways that all the family could enjoy , both YOUNG and OLD , were able to view this picture without any : - SHOCK FACTORS ! You could actually see Jesus carrying his CROSS and also hanging on the CROSS which was graphic enough for me ! Sam Jaffe , ( Simonides ) , " Ben Casey " , ' 61 tv series , gave an outstanding supporting role to this picture along with Stephen Boyd ( Messala ) , " Kill " , ' 72 , who passed away early in life and Martha Scott ( Miriam ) , " Sayonara " , ' 57 . Future pictures like this one should be created with more details given to the Life Of Jesus and his great healing powers and the great influence He had while he was living briefly on this earth !
This was a very soul searching film with great acting by Jane Seymour who played ( Jenny Cole / Mary Sutton , " Touching Wild Horses " , ' 02 . Jenny Cole seems to have troubling dreams about a family in a small town in Ireland where a woman has to put up with a drunkard of a husband and a child abuser . He is told that his wife with lose her life if she has any more children and her husband is too busy drinking to really care . There is great photography in Ireland and former veteran actor Hume Cronyn , ( Sonny Sutton ) , " The Pelican Brief " , ' 92 , plays the older son to Mary Sutton and gives a great supporting role . You will need some tissues to view this film and some belief in the Spiritual World !
Found this film for sale for only one dollar on DVD and enjoyed every minute of the story which involved two young girls who were tourists and wound up getting caught in a sort of triangle . Peter O'Toole , ( Emil Saber ) , " Romeo & Me " , ' 06 was a coin collector and was seeking another coin to increase the value of his collection . Emil was a sort of nut , who would do anything to obtain another coin . Alexandria Powers ( Ronnie ) , " Zigs " , ' 01 was a young boy who went around stealing items from the tourists in order to feed and care for his elderly grandfather . Ally Walker , ( Lisa ) " Happy Texas " , ' 99 and Jill Novick , ( Brenda ) are young ladies who get deeply involved with Ronnie and the nut case , Emil . There are quite a few funny scenes where nudity is shown , especially when men go into a woman's public bath and vice versa . All the actors gave an outstanding performance and it was quite an entertaining film to view and enjoy .
It was very refreshing to view this Dracula film without the sexy women and the two ( 2 ) marks on their neck , like the Bela Lugosi classic films . I could write two-hundred words about this film and even tell you the ending . However , if you are a fan of Jane March ( Lidia ) " Amdnt , L " 91 you will love her performance as the wife of Rudolf Martin ( Vlad the Impaler ) " Swordfish " ' 01 . Lidia plays a young sweet and innocent virgin who plans to become a Nun and is charmed by Vlad and the sparks fly immediately and the baby soon arrives . Peter Weller ( Father Stefan ) " Styx " ' 01 tries to prevent Dracula from spreading his evil in the world , unfortunately , Dracula movies must continue to be produced from one generation to another . If you like History of Dracula , this is the film for you ! !
Yes , this was a B picture in the late 40's and actors still had to make a living and ( Boris Karloff ) as Gruesome was the best selection by director John Rawlins . It seems a mysterious gas which temporarily paralyzes people falls into the possession of a disreputable doctor , L . E . Thal ( Edward Ashley ) . Realizing the great criminal opportunities of the strange gas , Gruesome , an ex-convict , enlists Thal's aid in a bank robbery . " Dick Tracy Meets Gruesome " is a thriller-diller only because Boris Karloff is the star performer . The picture has Karloff putting his victims in a huge furnace for safekeeping . Chester Gould , the creator of the comic-strip was proud of this picture in 1947 .
This film presented a different story than the original we all associate with a slipper and having to return at Mid-Night . Leslie Caron , ( Ella ) played the role as a girl who became a servant in her own home and was treated poorly by her mother and two sisters . Ella was the laugh of the town because she always looked dirty from ashes she had to handle along with all the other menial duties she had to perform on a daily basis . When Prince Charles , ( Michael Wilding ) arrives in town after many years going to college , he eventually meets up with Ella who he remembers when she was a very little girl . There is plenty of dancing and Ella performs a great ballet performance along with Prince Charles . Estelle Winwood , ( Mrs . Toquet ) played the role as a fairy god mother and gave a great supporting role . This is a great entertaining film and is rather delightful to view .
Any time " Frankenstein " is shown , whether in 1931 or to this present day , this story will remain basically the same , however , in this TV presentation , Hallmark gave the story more reality with its great photography of the countryside and the local people who were very colorful and enjoyable to view . Luke Goss , ( Creature ) , " Cold & Dark " , ' 04 , gave an outstanding performance as a man made creature who has to learn his lessons about life from a mother teaching her little girl in the backyard . Alec Newman , ( Victor Frankenstein ) , " Bright Young Things " , ' 03 , brought a frog back to life and a dog and drove his professor , William Hurt , ( Waldman ) , " Body Heat " , ' 81 , absolutely CRAZY trying to tell him he could bring the dead back to life . The professor kept telling him over and over , " God is the only Person to Give LIFE " . I enjoyed seeing Donald Sutherland , ( Captain Walton ) , " A Time to Kill " , ' 96 appearing on a sort of Ghost Ship sitting in foggy , ice bound waters . I will always love Boris Karloff as Frankenstein , in 1931 , however , this was a great attempt to make Frankenstein more up to date with this CENTURY !
This film reminded me about a film called , " The Man with the Golden Arm " starring Frank Sinatra and Kim Novack and this film clearly shows the horrors of withdrawal from the drug of heroin . Three young men get involved with a suitcase that holds a very large supply of uncut heroin and wind up throwing it away , thinking it was a cleansing powder and it winds up in a garbage dump which they manage to rescue . The young men decided to sell this drug and are able to make plenty of money by filtering it out through and old time heroin user . There are some girl friends in this film who try to stop these guys and tell them to turn the drugs into the police , but they do not face the consequences of turning themselves in . This is a great 1958 classic film filmed in Los Angeles , California and there is also some pretty way out music through out the film that makes this a very exciting black and white film .
This B & W film is a great film to view because of the many famous actors who contributed their great acting skills . Robert Mitchum ( Dan Milner ) , " BackFire " , ' 95 , gave a great performance as usual . Vincent Price , ( Mark Cardigan ) , " Edward Scissorhands " , ' 90 , provided humor and drama to his supporting role in this film . Jane Russell , ( Liz Brady ) , " Darker Than Amber " , ' 70 , provided sexual charm to all the gentleman she met , along with dresses that showed plenty of Jane , nothing like the " OutLaw " 1947 . Raymond Burr , ( Nick Ferraro ) played a real bad bad gangster from Chicago and if you look close , you will see Jim Backus , famous for the voice of Mr . Magoo ! Great entertaining of the 1950's ! ENJOY .
Always enjoy a film which takes place in an old castle with all fantastic antiques from the past and the huge doors and large rooms with all kinds of creepy hidden mysteries surrounding these dwellings . The photography through out the picture was great and the acting of Catherine Zeta Jones , ( Theo ) , " Chicago " , ' 02 , was very outstanding . Theo was very sexy and showed her great beauty in all the modern fashions that she wore in many of the scenes . Liam Neison , ( Dr . David Marrow ) , " Gangs of New York " , ' 02 gave a great supporting role and appeared as a very confused Doctor who had a bad experience climbing on a spiral staircase ! Bruce Dern , ( Mr . Dudley ) , " Madison " , ' 01 , was a mysterious grounds keeper who gave a few quick chills as he opened and closed the huge castle gates . If you love Catherine Zeta Jones , this is the film for you !
In this film Bela Lugosi was the first to be harmed . Lugosi tried to make an atomic superman but what he got was Tor Johnson , a bald and bulgy wrestler . There is no doubt that this is a B Film from the middle 1950's , however , we must remember that Bela Lugosi ( Dr . Erick Vornoff ) , " The Black Sleep " , ' 56 , was one the greatest Classic Horror actors besides Boris Karloff . These films were Mr . Lugosi's last pictures before he went on to another Spiritual Stage ! His last picture was playing Dracula 1966 ! You can pick a part this picture all you want to , but always remember that Bela Lugosi will out live EVERYONE ! ! Bela Lugosi was trying to make a come back after having been a drug addict for years and these films helped him to try and gain his self-respect ! ! ! !
Have not seen this film in a very long time and greatly enjoyed the great acting by Kim Novak , ( Madeline Elster / Jude Barton ) . I also enjoyed the great film locations in San Francisco , California where I lived for a few years and recognized all the places that took place in this film . Alfred Hickcock did an outstanding job of directing this film and in most of his films , he loves beautiful blonde's and he sure pick a great actress in this film . Detective , Scottie Ferguson is asked by a long time good friend to keep an eye on his wife because she has started acting very peculiar . Scottie has just retired from the police force because of a problem he encountered chasing a fugitive on a high building and he developed vertigo . Scottie follows Madeline Elster all over San Francisco and even saving her from jumping into San Francisco Bay . These two people begin to fall in love with each other and that is when the plot gets very interesting . This is a great film you can watch over and over again over the years . Enjoy .
Have not viewed this film in years and was amazed at how well made this picture was for the year 1951 . It depicts what was going on in th 50's , clothing , cars and the strong desire to see world peace . Michael Rennie ( Klaatu / Carpenter , " The Third Man " , ' 59 TV series ( as Harry Lime ) gave an outstanding performance as a very calm and gentle person from SPACE . His space ship was quite elaborate for the 50's and Patricia Neal , ( Helen Bensen ) , " The Fountainhead " , ' 49 fell in love with Klaatu and remembered the secret pig latin language to save the world from destruction . Sam Jaffe ( Prof . Jacob Barnhardt ) , " Ben Casey " ' 61 TV series acted liked an Einstein and needed Klaatu to figure out his Math problems . There was a great moral to this picture and it was simply this , Wars accomplish nothing and trying to get along with all nations might someday bring about PEACE ! We have had plenty of wars since this picture Korea , Vet-Nam and the list goes on and on !
Greatly enjoyed viewing this fantastic portrayal of a rich man who owns a Coal Mine and treats the miners as slaves with low wages and poor working conditions . This rich man puts Ernesto Malbran , ( Mister Davis ) as foreman who brutalizes the men and even kills them if they ever think about having a Miners Association , or type of union . Francisco Reyes , ( Fernando ) , " Docteur Chance " , ' 97 grew up in the mine and lost his own father while he was working deep down below in Hell . Paulina Galvez , ( Virginia ) , " Face of Terror " , ' 03 was a former girl friend of Fernando and their romances is renewed as she returns to Lota , Chili to teach in the local school . Virginia and Fernando burn up the bedroom and bed sheets in quite a few scenes and they also look great dancing together . The story of Coal Miners is true in every country in this world , they are never given the true wages they deserve or the safe working conditions , lets hope things improve in the 21st Century . Good Film to Enjoy Watching .
Viewed this film years ago and never forgot the great acting and comedy scenes between Cheech Marin , ( Pedro ) and Tommy Chang , ( Anthony ) . Anthony is a rich kid who simply will not go to work or conform to anything his parents want him to accomplish in life . His dad tells him to get a job or else he is on his very own . Cheech manages to pick Anthony up along a highway and is even carrying his complete set of drums . There is one scene when a gal drives me crazy with laughter , when she sniffs up AJAX like the real Stuff and makes wild faces and tongue expressions you have never seen before . This is a film you need to see over and over again , it is great entertainment and a true Hollywood Classic .
This is truly a great Classic 1954 masterpiece with fantastic acting by Anthony Quinn , ( Zampano ) and Guilietta Masina , ( Gelsomina ) who pour their heart and souls into their roles . Zampano was an entertainer , like Houdini , breaking out of chains and traveled around with a motorcycle hitched on to a wagon and traveled from small Italian towns throughout the countryside , in all kinds of weather . Zampano purchased Gelsomina from her mother who could not afford to keep her daughter at home any longer . Gelsomina plays a very simple minded young girl who starts to learn the hard way how to deal with her male companion . There is very deep and spiritual meanings portrayed throughout the film and it is a must see film .
This film deals with POW's who are sent to a new German prison camp with very tight security mainly because most of these POW's were all professional escape artists who have dug tunnels from many other German camps or simply escaped by climbing over fences and many other ways of escape . Steve MacQueen , ( Capt . Hilts , ) was also called " The Cooler King " because he always wound up in solitary confinement which was called the Cooler . James Garner , ( Flight Lt . Hendley ) was called the " Scounger " because he could obtain all kinds of necessary items in order to make escapes , like forged identification and many other items . Charles Bronson , ( Flight Lt . Donny Velinski ) was called the " Tunnel King " because he was great for making all kinds of tunnels . This film will keep you on the edge of your seat and the entire picture is not spent in the prison camp . There is great photography throughout Bavaria , Germany and Munich , Bavaria and great scenes with Steve MacQueen riding his bike and James Garner flying a German Training plane . Don't miss this film , it is great .
Never got a chance to see this film from beginning to end and I must say , Julia Roberts , ( Vivian Ward ) , " Closer " , ' 04 played the role of a hooker and put her complete heart and soul into this role . Julia was comical , dramatic and very sexy to say the very least . Richard Gere , ( Edward Lewis ) , " Shall We Dance " , ' 64 , decides to pick up Vivian Ward on Hollywood Blvd . , and takes her to the best Hotel in town and the both of them get very much involved with each other . The big scene is when he finally kisses her on the lips and the steamy heat blows up on the screen . Ralph Bellamy , ( James Morse ) , " Rosemary's Baby " , ' 68 , played a business man in this picture and made this his final film , going to the big screen in the Sky . Ralph Bellamy was a veteran actor from the early 20's , 30's & 40's . If you missed this film , make sure to see it the next time it is on TV . The music is fantastic and you will remember these songs like they were yesterday .
This film starts off with a young girl talking on the Internet with an older man and eventually they both agree to meet at a certain place . This girl is Hayley Stark , ( Ellen Page ) and she is a very mature girl at the age of 14 years compared to Jeff Kohlver , ( Patrick Wilson ) age 32 . Hayley goes along with their visit together and there are times when she teases him , but in the back of her mind she believes he is a pedophile . All of a sudden Hayley decides to take matters into her own hands and she decides to practice being a surgeon from a textbook . This is a very shocking film and I know you will never be able to figure out how this film will end . Surprise WOW
I have never seen this film up until recently and was amazed at the great talent of Joan Crawford ( Ivy " Bunny " Stevens ) " Humoresque " ' 46 with John Garfield . Joan was very sexy and wore very revealing clothes for the early 1930's , her dancing and singing was unbelievable and she was so very pretty , slim and trim , not like the real " Mommie Dearest " character her daughter told us about . Clark Gable ( Carl Loomis ) , " Gone With the Wind " ' 39 was Ivy's prince charming as a Salvation Army convert and when she appears in the park with her beautiful white dress , you just knew there was going to be an immediate CONVERSION OF SOULS ! Veteran actor , Roscoe Karns , ( Gred Geer ) played a great supporting role . This film is filled with surprises , even a little African American Boy stealing a bite from a girls doughnut tore me up , there is many deep soul searching messages in this film and LOTS OF LAUGHTER and one attempted jump off a bridge . ENJOY !
Greatly enjoy films concerning the Vikings and their history , and the entire way they constructed their sailing ships . However , I admire Richard Widmark , ( Rolfe ) , " Kiss of Death " , ' 47 , trying to play the role of a Norwegian explorer and treasure hunter looking for a huge " BELL " , but every time I saw Rolfe on the big screen I kept seeing Kirk Douglas , Sr . in the role he played in the " VIKINGS " and unfortunately Widmark did not measure up Kirk Douglas as a great Viking . Sidney Poitier ( Aly Monsuh ) , " A Patch of Blue " , ' 65 , was a great supporting actor and finally found his BELL which sorta did him IN ! Oskar Hamalka ( Krok ) , " War & Peace " , ' 56 put some comedy into this film and helped Rolfe right to the bitter END ! ! Glad to see they did not start looking for anything else .
As many times as I have viewed this film , I greatly admire the entire picture for just plain enjoyable entertainment and seeing great actors such as Clint Eastwood ( Joe ) " Absolute Power " ' 97 and the entire cast make this an all time classic . However , Eli Wallach ( Tuco ) " Mackenna's Gold " ' 69 put his very heart and soul into his film role and gave a fantastic performance that over powered the entire cast . Trying to put this film under a magnifying glass and trying to be critical and tearing it into little pieces is not necessary , just sit back and enjoy a great masterpiece of GOOD ENTERTAINMENT !
Greatly enjoyed this film which had great photography in Arizona and showed in great detail the Native American dwellings and customs . Tyrone Power ( Constable Duncan MacDonald ) , " The Eddy Duchin Story " , ' 56 , played a young Canadian Mounted Police Constable who was on a mission to rescue settlers who were captured and held hostage . Thomas Gomez , ( Natayo Smith ) , " Key Largo " , ' 48 gave an outstanding performance as a guide to Duncan through the Indian country and demanded great rewards for his services . Penny Edwards , ( Emerald Neeley ) , " Two Guys from Texas " , ' 48 was the only white woman around and was greatly abused through out the entire picture . Despite all the conflicts among the Indians and the White folks , Duncan MacDonald was able to adopt a young boy as his son with the Indian community blessings . I have seen Thomas Gomez perform in many Classic films , but I truly enjoyed his great acting abilities in this film and regret he had a very short lived career .
This is a great film because it shows how people took the law into their own hands and judged men before they had a fair trial in this Western Film from 1943 . Henry Fonda , ( Gil Carter ) gave a great performance in this film and it was a film that Fonda enjoyed making and even requested being able to play this role . Anthony Quinn , ( Juan Martinez ) portrayed a Mexican man who spoke many languages and was being accused of a crime he did not commit and gave a great supporting role through out the entire film . Dana Andrews , ( Donald Martin ) also was accused of a crime he did not commit and had a young wife and children who was blamed for cattle stealing and murder . I was surprise to see Jane Darwell , ( Jenny Grier ) being the only woman who was out for blood and loved to see a hanging . Great Fonda film , worth seeing , enjoy .
The Nazis took film making very seriously . It was one of the many areas covered by the Ministry of Propaganda led by Joseph Goebels . In 1943 , Germany was beginning to face defeat and Goebels decided to make a comedy , drama like the Americans were able to accomplish , like , " Wizard of Oz " and many other films . I decided to view this film and find out just who Baron Munchhausen was and why they picked this person to make a film about . It seems Munchhausen pretends to be 200 years old , narrates his supposed travels and fantastical experiences with his band of misfits . He had hunting adventures , his experiences in the Turkinsh wars and an account of his incredible travels - - be it on the Ocean , the Moon or in a Volcano and in Venice . I was surprised in one adventure that they even showed women bouncing around near a pool Topless , hardly a Walt Disney film or American entertainment in the 1940's . Hans Albers , ( Baron Munchhausen ) , " Carl Peters " , ' 41 played an outstanding role and was a good actor . However , just knowing that Joseph Goebels , who was the promoter of this film , gives me the creeps . Goebels hated everyone in the world except Germans and the Jewish people who were his main target . This sure is a Nazi circus of a film which is the complete distortion of what that country stood for during those war years . Thank God America WON !
Dave Mallory ( Boris Karloff ) is robbed of his invention , a burglar alarm system and a gang of thieves kidnap Karloff so they can use his invention to commit robberies . In this picture Karloff changes from a medieval monster and in NIGHT KEY he has relaxed into a soft-spoken , hazy-eyed old man who promises to become Hollywood's favorite grandpa . However , his invention performs Si-Fi gamma rays which proves deadly in a novel and exciting way to his enemies . The story does slow down for occasional time out for side romance .
Really enjoyed viewing this film which starts off with two crazy looking guys in a Bronx , N . Y . stationery store waiting for a shipment of ice-cream , which is believed to be a drug shipment . Shawn Wayans , ( Kevin Copeland ) and Marlon Wayans , ( Marcus Copeland ) are the crazy guys and are suppose to be undercover FBI agents . This mission gets all messed up and these two guys get assigned to some very rich white chicks who are going to the Hamptons on Long Island , N . Y . Things get messed up again and the guys decided to dress in drag will all the bulges in the right places . There is drama and plenty of laughs and if you want a good entertaining film , this is your best bet .
Jack Palance was always a great star , ugly face and hateful roles with lots of heavy breathing through his nose . In this picture as Lt . Joe Costa , he could do anything , blacksmith to all time Army Hero ! I call him PUSH UP JACK , after his acceptance of his Oscar in ' 92 for " City Slickers " 91 . Eddie Albert ( Capt . Erskine Cooney ) made you hate him , especially when he ignored a request from Lt . Joe Costa to back up his platoon when trying to attack a German Pill Box . If Eddie made you hate him , he performed his role just as the director wanted . However , he was better cast in " Green Acres " ' 65 TV Series along with one of the GABOR'S ! ! Lee Marvin , ( Lt . Col . Clyde Bartlett ) clearly showed his great acting talents and quickly became a Super Star after his performance in this great Classic Film . This is a must see movie for all generations .
Missed viewing this film in 1995 and was able to enjoy viewing all the great actors in the film and the wonderful portrayal of young girls growing into a very warm and loving relationship . Rosie O'Donnell , ( Dr . Roberta Martin ) , played an excellent role as a young girl who had a very bad habit from childhood of eating food all day long , non-spot . Melanie Griffith , ( Tina , ' Teeny ' Tercell ) was a very charming gal who desired to become a great sexy movie star and arrived at the gals reunion with a stretch limo and driver . Demi Moore , ( Samantha Albertson ) , played a very troubled young gal , who seemed to be lacking in love and the full meaning of life . This film showed very clearly how young gals confront young boys and in one scene in the old swimming hole of Summer , the gals stole the boys underwear and left them stark naked , except for a few towels the young boys were able to cover up with . Enjoy !
Every time I view this film , I enjoy the great photography of Honk Kong , the beauty of the country , excitement of the night lights and the forbidden areas of the dark back streets and its perils ! Claude Van Damme ( Alex Wagner ) gave the audience a double take every time he made a fantastic martial arts endeavor . His great supporting actor was the veteran actor , Geoffry Lewis , ( Frank Avery ) , " Mind Games " , ' 03 , whose main goal was to protect the twin boys who were almost killed as infants and see that they obtained the wealth that belonged to the both of them . The gals in the picture add some hot steamy scenes , especially in the Boiler Room ! If you are not a Jean Claude Van Damme fan or do not like the great acting of Geoffrey Lewis , this is not the film for you . You will probably like the " Terminator Films " !
Producer Joel Schumacher who also directed " Phone Booth " , ' 02 , and many other great films showed in great detail how no one person can really be trained to be a killing machine with out destroying their own personalities and the real fears that a person has to face when going into COMBAT ! ! Colin Farrell ( Roland Bozz ) , " Intermission " , ' 03 , gave one of his best performances and actually carried this entire picture on his back . Matthew Davis ( Jim Paxton ) , " Blue Crush " , ' 02 , gave a great supporting role and Shea Whigham ( Pvt . Wilson ) , " All The Real Girls " , ' 03 , showed his true acting skills in the role that he played . There was two brief scenes where the soldiers were able to find some hot romance on a short leave in the local town and had to pay for their love and sexual desires . One Army Veteran instructor from Viet Nam told the soldiers how to really torture the enemy by using electrical wires in all the wrong places on a human male body . Enjoyable and entertaining film to view .
Enjoy viewing Classic Musical films that were made in the 50's and this film was full of great talented actors , singers and dancers . Jane Powell , ( Susan Smith ) was at the top of her career along with a great performance by Debbie Reynolds , ( Carol Pace ) who put her heart and soul into her role as a girl whose father was Walter Pidgeon , ( Rear Adm . Daniel Xavier Smith . Vic Damone , ( Rico Ferrari ) sang some great songs along with Tony Martin , ( Chief Boatswain's Mate William F . Clark ) . J . Carrol Naish , ( Mr . Peroni ) played the role of a florist who wanted to marry Rico Ferrari mother and his acting kept me laughing at his great performance . If you looked close , you will see the great comedian Alan King perform as a Shore Patrol Petty officer . I almost forgot that Ann Miller , ( Ginger ) showed her great talent as a fantastic dancer . Enjoy
This is truly a great Classic Western with the best super stars of all time . The special photography with cattle going up and down rocky hills and the many covered wagons and beautiful scenery of the Northwest was outstanding . James Stewart , ( Glyn McLyntock ) , " Broken Arrow " , ' 50 , was a wagon train guide , and also had a wicked past life he was trying to forget about . Glyns wicked past came in hand having to face many situations that required lots of fighting and gun action . Arthur Kennedy ( Emerson Cole ) , " Nevada Smith " , ' 66 gave a very outstanding performance and also gave Glyn a real hard time because they both had past careers that were almost the same , however , Glyn was hateful deep in his very soul ! Julie Adams , ( Laura Baile ) , " Slim Carter " , ' 57 was very beautiful and had a hard time trying to find out which guy she really wanted to HOOK ! Rock Hudson , ( Trey Wilson ) , " Iron Man , " , ' 51 , was a gambler and gave a rather weak performance , however , he was just starting his career and took almost any role that he was presented with . Jimmy Stewart always was very particular about any picture that he appeared in and I can see why he liked this film . Enjoy ! !
This film starts out with a family who were all going in different directions and their teenage daughter Martha MacIssac ( Olivia Dunne ) was very much in love with Joe MacLeod , ( Zack ) . The mother is played by Mitzi Kapture , ( Jill Dunne ) who suddenly walks in on her daughter and Zack making out and then all kinds of problems seem to surface . Jill Dunne has a husband who is always traveling or staying away from the home quite often . There are also big problems that occur when the family decides to go on a camping trip which their daughter Olivia dislikes and just cannot adapt to sleeping outdoors and requires a tent to be kept out all the bugs . In many ways , Olivia does an outstanding performance as the teenage and Nick Mancuso , ( Richard Grant ) gives a great supporting role as a hotel owner . This film will keep you guessing how it will end and you will enjoy a film filled with plenty of horror and terror . Enjoy
Horror films are a big interest to me and I enjoy them very much . However , this film made me very nervous and some what upset , I actually had to look away from the screen . Kimberlee Peterson , ( Dawn Cottrell ) , " Farewell My Love " , ' 01 , gave a great performance as a very very disturbed young gal in high school and having problems trying to adjust . A great deal of her problems were found in her own family and the way her Mom & Dad and step brother treated her . Dawn was on a stairway in the boiler room of the high school and was jamming something in her leg and at first I thought it was a needle for drugs , but later found out it was a big gash in her leg . This film clearly shows a new illness that has come to pass in our Society that needs the attention of all parents and students . It is a very hard film to watch , but very down to earth and quite possibly helpful to anyone having these Horrible Problems . Please don't make yourself a Pin Cushion , GET HELP ! ! !
