Nervous radio entertainer and his girlfriend are going to be married . So to unwind a bit , they go to his family estate which turns out to be a really huge castle replete with all manner of weird characters . Some guy dressed up like Lon Chaney was bumping folks off , then running to his secret hideout . I suppose he had his reasons . The cute little twist at the end did nothing for the film either .
Once again Jerry stinks up the big screen with his hyperactive sthick . Here he offers the ultimate in corny jokes along with a ' hoods become angels with the right kindly influence ' story . If you really like Jerry then you'll most likely go for this one , otherwise it will bore you senseless .
What drivel ! Lame jokes , and I do mean lame . Pitiful choreographing job with the " karate " sequences . Not to mention that incredibly stupid knife fight on the balcony . What was the purpose of this film anyway , to show the talents of the Lovin'Spoonful ? That was the only good part I saw , and they didn't even do " Do You Believe in Magic ? " Probably because it hadn't been written yet , but that is a different story . This picture was a lame duck turkey that went above and beyond the call of boredom . Avoid it at all costs ; even if it means divorcing your wife or selling your kids into slavery . Gadzooks ! !
This movie was plain sorry . Thin plot , pitiful acting , senseless action scenes . This was just another program aimed at the mindless action crowd . Two or three million rounds were fired between 2 groups at odds with each other . Very few of them hit their targets . . . who teaches these hit men to shoot ? This was nothing but " Last Man Standing " done in Chinatown . Instead of hiring a high priced actor like Bruce Willis to make the film , the producers opted for some Chinese guy named Lo Fat Wu or whatever . His performance was a joke ; I haven't seen this much ham since last Thanksgiving . 2 thumbs down .
This was a total wipeout : not one minute amount , not a smattering , of anything worth seeing . I usually like Quaid but he had nothing to work with on this flopperoo . The cycle scene was particularly annoying ; the guy could barely ride it off at first , then he is makes a spectacular jump successfully shortly thereafter . Who was the dude who looked like Russell Crowe ? Had me going for a bit .
A salty sailor of the seven seas , acting like Indiana Jones with a wraparound do-rag , vies with a venomous demon worshipper for a golden amulet which will allow the holder to rule the world . . . . or some such crap . The story was dumb , the special effects especially non special , and the props looked like they were purchased at Woolworth's end of the year super blowout sale . This may rate as the yawner of the decade .
Unutterably boring dialogue , completely silly story , but lovely scenery . I kept waiting for something to happen , but all that ever went on was a group of folks kept burying and digging up a dead guy . Two of the people thought they were responsible for the death and were trying to hide the evidence and circumstances continued to require that they keep shuffling the body around . Very tedious . I would rather watch a red oak grow that waste my time watching this drivel .
Well , Big John fights and loves his way across the 7 seas in this one . Whatta guy ! What a load of propaganda drivel ! The Big Guy storms the beaches with his gang of hard drinking , 2 fisted construction workers . Amid stirring patriotic music and a touching love triangle , The Duke opens a can of whup-ass and douses the nasty Nips with it . Pathetic acting , phony battle scenes , and ditzy dialogue made for movie masochist mayhem . I'll bet this fluff swelled the ranks of the U . S . Navy back there in ' 44 . What a stinker .
This is a very popular movie , and I don't see why . It had good actors and actresses in it [ with the glaring exception of Brad Pitt - this guy simply can't act ] , but the story was vapid to the extreme . The whole thing was silly and boring with , however , an interesting and unusual ending . A fitting end for these 2 dumb broads . I suppose it had plenty of action to it , but is that enough to carry it ? I don't think so . Thumbs down all the way .
The usual Batman and Robin story . This one had more overblown special effects than the others , a sexy Uma Thurman , and a vivacious Alicia Silverstone , but still managed only to be mundane . I did think the Batmobile was cool , though .
When the reigning Santa is no longer fit for duty his helpers must search for a replacement . This leads to a wacky , exhausting hunt and doesn't turn up exactly what Santa's angels hoped for . To make matters worse still , " Santy " winds up being just this side of totally undesirable . This is the worst Christmas tale I've seen yet , and I had no trouble spotting the shameless subliminals . The producers could have picked another genre to promote their silly assed agendas .
If I could turn this thinly plotted , badly acted rotting corpse into blood , Dracula and all his kin could feast one time and never be forced to look for human blood again . The vampire bit was the best of the 3 , but was in no way a high grade production . This phony baloney bilge wouldn't scare a 4 year old at midnight on Halloween Night . There was so much heavy breathing in these plays it sounded a meeting of Emphesema Anonymous . And just where did all those lovely lights in the old ruins come from , Frankenstein Power & Light ?
Not as bad as Frankenstein or 2-headed transplant , but close . I don't appreciate the horror genre so this was not very entertaining to me . I did get a few laughs and there were some good effects but for the most part it left me cold . Buckets of blood and several walking dead for all you lurch lovers out there . . . all others beware .
Although Trixie had a certain goofy appeal , especially her reversal or confusion of certain words and phrases , I found the film way too slow moving . It was well enough done and not a complete waste of time but it tried too hard to be comedy and drama winding up being just a mishmash of silly dark comedy .
Besides being pretty dull , I don't see how any of this could have happened . No way could this lunkhead hole up in the attic without being found out on day one . Why didn't someone notice the wall with a door in it ? Three windows were showing from the outside and only 2 inside . Doesn't that give somebody a clue ? The wall was such an obvious add-on that a ten year old could have spotted it . What a dumb film .
Not exactly a boring film but close . All the characters were just the most pathetic losers imaginable . . . . especially the obese pizza slinger . Those jittery , wet eyes gave me the creeps ; not to mention his mother dominated , go nowhere , do nothing , I have a need but don't know what it is and couldn't fulfill it if I did , screwball existence . Yes , he was a sad character , but mainly he aggravated the living hell out of me with his mopey , dragass , poor pitiful me attitude . I don't mind a way too slow movie but this one went nowhere having no apparent beginning , middle or end . Strange picture .
Slow moving , dull tale of a spoiled rotten teen-age girl who spent the entire film pouting and throwing tantrums . Everyone around her constantly bent over backwards trying to please the little snot which , of course , made her cut up even more . This little brat should have had her backside warmed up and made to wash horses tails all day . Could have been a good movie , but just fell flat to me .
Houston must be getting sick and tired of all the problems from outer space . Here we have more trouble with this combo of Apollo 13 , Red Planet , and Marooned , with a smattering of Contact , 2001 : A Space Odyssey , 2001 : A Space Oddity , plus a touch of The Abyss . I enjoyed it but probably not as much as Art Bell and some of his " they are really out there " Bellheads . Me , I figure Mars is just a big empty rock , hot as hell and useless as props on a space shuttle . Not bad but perhaps Hollywood has ridden this rocket around the solar system enough .
This was one of those hokey , overbaked dramas meant to bring a tear to the eye . It just make mine want to close in a deep sleep . Not that it was a total boring loser , but the idea of a group of hardened criminals turning into loving , decent folks so quickly after contact with Rover was a tad hard to swallow . I don't doubt that the events were based on fact , I merely feel it was played out in an unbelievable and corny fashion .
Boring crime tale not helped any by the cornball acting and really lame storyline . I objected mostly to Barry Fitzgerald's annoying attempts at bringing comedy to his role ; he just wasn't up to it . However , like the coppertop bunny he just kept going and going . And the killer - cool as a hog in a wallow , till the end when he suddenly lost his ability to reason things out . The only reason I didn't fall asleep during this movie was that I was riding my exercycle . 30 days in the hole would be preferable to seeing this turkey .
Ho Hum . Another story of government coverups and folks who want to expose it . FBI agents Scoobie and Modem find that the U . S . Government is hiding violent space men in various areas around the country . Seems the space men have some deadly virus in them which is bad for earthlings . Yawn . This one had all the action cliches firmly lodged within the plot . A blown up building which Scoobie and Modem barely escaped , a building full of killer bees which they narrowly exited with their hide , and even the overdone chopper chase through a corn field . This wasn't a bad film , just dull . Pass it up .
Thrill seeking lady judge masterminds a series of armed robberies before being found out by a foreign criminologist . When the magistrate decides to stop the robberies she is persuaded to continue by a psychotic man who appears to be an ally of the police . Part of her enjoys the thrill but another area is abhorrent of the passionate , violent partner she has taken on . Soon it becomes apparent she has gotten in over her head with a man who isn't what he seems . Fair suspense drama .
Average serial killer romp , this time through the world of big time chess . Too many slow spots to be called really good : I especially detest those time slowed , useless sex scenes : all that slow motion nipple sucking lends nothing to the program . High tension ending , although not all that surprising .
Didn't care for this one , way too slow and the subject was uninteresting . Why do folks want to adopt , especially from a pack of mobile home misfits ? One look at these losers and I would have been hanging an exit . This trash couldn't afford a whiff of fresh air but they always had their beer and ciggies . Not a bad production , I just found all the people involved very irritating .
Pretty good musical with some good songs and a great little dance by Sammy . My favorite of all the hoods was Falk ; his corny tough guy act was really funny . The jokes and gags were pretty lame by today's standards I suppose , but I still got a few good laughs . Not a great film but worth seeing .
Comeuppance comes to a small town prom queen when she grows up and finds that the world is not , after all , her own private oyster . When she returns home , depressed and despondent , after an unfaithful hubby dumps her , she meets up with a town full of gossip mongers intent on giving her no peace and quiet and also discovers there is a small job market for a former beauty princess . On top of all her other problems is a rebellious daughter and a lovesick man who remembers " the queen " from the good old days . Not Sandra's best flic , but a decent enough film nonetheless .
Didn't really care for this one . A guy letting all these big shots have his apartment while he stands outside and smokes Chesterfields just grated on my nerves instead of amusing me . This was just another in a long line of droll romantic comedies which gave neither romance nor humor .
Painfully predictable spook film about a young woman who keeps having weird glimpses of stalking corpses . The acting was pretty bad , the plot was warmed over been there-done that , and the make-up looked exactly like what it was . It did have some creepy spots , but overall it was a loser picture .
Fairly good yarn with Samuel L . playing a different role from his usual hard-ass bad boy . He suffers from some kind of psychosis which keeps him from doing concerts even though he is a fine musician , but his problems do not stop him from figuring out whom is the criminal and whom the scapegoat in an elaborate murder case .
When convicted felon Billy McCain gets paroled from the big house , his troubles are far from over . A sinister man wants to get his hands on the stash that Billy supposedly hid away before doing his stint in the gray bar hotel . Is the money there or was it destroyed before Billy ever got caught ? Can Billy and his daughter escape the clutches of this evil person and live happily ever after ? Will Mighty Mouse never come ! ! ? ? To find out go see this excellent film which shows the power of love , the ugliness of greed , and the joy of repentance .
A pizza joint is the setting for much of this film . The 3 waitresses working there are in and out of love and lust all the time , causing themselves a lot of grief . So-so romantic comedy .
Very good drama with some excellent acting and photography showing life on the wild side . The film started off pretty slow but by the ending I was on the edge of my seat wondering if Cage would ever resolve his problem . Nerve wracking scenes that made me cringe thinking " what if that was me dealing with those psychos ? " , made for a very entertaining 2 hours . A definite must see .
Very good film showing how the police can go overboard when things look bad for a suspect . A murder is committed during an overnight party at a home and a boy is the prime suspect after he becomes confused over his actions after the party was over . He couldn't remember whether or not he did the crime ; leading to his arrest , the ostracization of the family , and a big court action . Do attorneys really go home with their clients and have dinner with them ?
Sweeping story of a loser who takes up with a alcoholic actress running from her past . He hopes she will get him a role in the movies , but all she cares about is herself . When they come into his hometown , he wants to see his old girlfriend , but is unwelcome by her family . This sets off a hothouse of emotions on both sides . Good drama dealing with the good and bad side of man .
Woman loses her husband and begins seeing him after awhile as though in the flesh . This caused her to go from being depressed to a state of exuberance . For awhile . He hangs around for a while , then begins bringing his ghostly friends to her home . They begin to get on her nerves so he tells her " if you don't want them here just tell them to leave . " I didn't understand why he and the other ghosts came to her until the end of the movie when all was explained in the final scene .
Good drama showing how a family can be far different than what it appears when certain members refuse to live in the present . Nolan was good as the bantam rooster of a father and Franciosa shone as the drunken yet solid older brother . As always Silva , with that cruel face , was well cast as a heartless pusher whose love for money can only lead to disaster . I wanted to slap his hyper little helper ; what a creep .
Bizarre black comedy about a life lived from birth in front of a camera . Very good show , highly unusual , and well worth the price of admission . Has to be one of the oddest films I've ever seen : Carey gives his usual great performance - as did all the other players .
A tough gunslinger , his brother , and their friends clean up a town full of bad guys . Good action , though I thought it could have been done a tad more realistically .
This reminded me more of a Bruce Willis shoot-em-up than something Mel would do as he pumps his enemies full of holes , smirks , and fires up a cigarette . The story was as full of holes as a slice of swiss cheese and about as tasty . Lots of blood , guts , weirdos , and mobsters in this extremely violent tale of backstabbing and revenge . Mel was interesting , and I liked the film for the most part , but it was hard to believe that anybody would go up against such formidable odds for a paltry 70K . Really , the movie was pretty corny , and much of the action was just plain off the wall . I did love that Val Resnick character , though ; colorful , to say the least .
Good remake of the John Wayne film . While this is not the best western I've ever seen , it did have some of the most exciting scenes around . I really enjoyed the comic relief of Bing Crosby as the boozed out doctor , Red Buttons as the misunderstood drummer , and Bob Cummings playing the frantic embezzler . Good performances by the entire cast kept the show going right along , and the 2 big shoot-outs near the end were dandies . I really liked the part when Alex Cord came crashing through the window of the saloon and a large piece of plastic remained quivering in the frame .
After losing his cattle herd to a dishonest lawman , a trail boss winds up in the Yukon gold fields with a bad reputation and small chances of being able to return to the states . While there his fortunes take a turn for the best until a bad luck specter from the past comes calling . Good western with many favorite old faces in the lineup .
Fairly good comedy featuring an ultra smart little boy who is used by swindlers for their own gain despite the over protectiveness of his father . Meanwhile , the boy is scheming to meet the famous French actress while his sister is anguishing over boys and proms . Typical 60's comedy .
Exciting , but still just another disaster movie . Not realistic to me , but the story and acting were good enough to keep me glued to the action . A far more plausible , not to mention entertaining , film than " Barfageddon " . Great graphics of a giant wave wiping out tall buildings , cars , and assorted folks .
I had trouble following what exactly was going on in this mixed up crime caper . Lots of cursing , screaming , and angst by the police as they go about tracking down a mad shooter in the streets of San Francisco was mostly what went on . I never figured out why the psycho went on his rampage , why the policeman laughed so much , or why I sat through the whole confusing picture .
When I first watched this production back during the stone age , I thought it was a grand epic . I find out all these years later that it was indeed not so grand . The fight scenes were totally faked looking , the dialogue was way beyond corny , and , obviously , much of the scenery was painted . If this turkey ever gets re-released the price of ham and corn will skyrocket . I enjoyed seeing it again , but it was definitely a fourth rate film by today's standards . I'll wager the real Davey wasn't as handsome as Fess , and stunk like a piney woods rooter in a mud waller . And did he really have such a clever , amusing , home-grown wit ? Also , why was he killing all those hispanics ? It was their property .
If you want a real treat read the book . Decent enough film but too long on the home front and not enough on the front lines . Brando was good as the idealistic kraut who believes it takes war to end war . Unfortunately , each new generation breeds a fresh supply of these dupes to keep battle a booming business . I felt much of the dialogue was good albeit thinned down , however the writer still managed to capture some of Shaw's insights into the horrors of war that were apparent in his excellent novel . The story bounced around way too much with little in the way of explanation and covered too many years too fast , but at least we weren't forced to submit to an overload of Dino's silver throated warbling . And just why was L . Q . Jones uncredited ? What an injustice !
This was a big favorite of mine back when it came out . I loved the corny gaglines like " leg of lamb " for the murdered woman named Lamb , whose body parts were served up in the Greasy Spoon Cafe . Crafted mostly for shock appeal , it came off , to me anyway , as a very funny comedy . Wish I could see it again .
This film came out during the big disaster epic period of the 70's which is why I never saw it . Most of these things are standard boredom filler material . This one didn't bore me except for a few slow spots , however , it was still just another catastrophe movie . I enjoyed it for the most part and it was fun seeing McQueen and Newman in the same show , plus the special effects were pretty well done . A fair picture .
This was one of the strangest films I have ever seen . It started off slow , almost boring , but finally became more interesting . It centered around an angel and his desire to become mortal after he becomes involved with a lady surgeon . It was a good story , though eerie , with excellent photography and performances .
Who ever heard of a town called Big Table ? Anyway , it was over run with the criminal element who would knock off stupid gold miners who didn't have brains enough not to come to town and shoot off their mouths about the big strike they just made at their secret gold mine . When Hoppy comes to town as the new marshall things change , you can bet . Good action western with lots of gunplay ; and Hoppy even found himself a girlfriend .
Ernest Borgnine was superb as the murderous railroad agent intent on keeping a legendary hobo off his train . Lee Marvin gave one of his best performances as A # 1 , the hobo's hobo , who is equally set on riding the rails on Borgnine's unrideable # 19 . Keith Carradine almost stole the show as a useless , me first punk out to prove his manhood in the harsh hobo camps . Very realistic looking sets and the entire film captured the flavor of the depression era perfectly . 4 stars .
Totally hilarious comedy with the adorable Goldie superbly playing a con artist who b . s . ' s her way into the lives of a group of complete strangers , upsetting the existence of many and enriching others . One of Goldie's and Martin's best .
Good little romantic comedy showing 2 social outcasts falling for each other out of sheer desperation . Things are lovely until the girl discovers her boyfriend is overly attached to his mommy and appears to be unable to break the maternal ties . O'Hara was a howl as the doating mom . Funny stuff : this and " Planes , Trains , & Automobiles " are my fave Candy films .
First off , what was the big trip with the soundtrack ? Next , what was the big deal with this pointless film ? It was merely a succession of unbelievable acts thrown together so a man could get back his useless wife who only wanted a man who had his " bonafides " in place . It had a few interesting moments but far more droll .
Good western featuring Karl Malden in his usual nasty , backstabbing role . Brando was good as the brooding gunslinger who was bent on revenge until he fell for a Mexican girl . Not a lot of action , but the little that did occur was realistic and well done , especially for a film made in 1961 . A little slow in spots as the love angle was built , but over all this was a fine picture .
If they did I wouldn't be required to get behind the wheel anymore and what a joy that would be . With this auto the owner's body repair bills would be zilch . I loved the flaming car scene ; had be rolling in the floor . Actually , I'd love to own this car : I would be guaranteed never to be bothered by anyone . . . . ever . Much better than the book and far superior to many of King's adaptations . Worth a look .
If you are looking for a film with big names you won't find it here : many of these actors are working for the first and last time ; which may be a Godsend . I thought it was an effective and fun movie as this group of devil busters head off into the wilds of Jersey looking for this area's version of Bigfoot . If played out well right down to the realistic looking footage they were shooting , including the " interviews " with various associates and professionals . In the end the producers give the entire thing away with a rather hokey finale . The players were just unprofessional enough to come off as the real McCoy and in a way they really were since this was a first and only shot for many of them . I liked the concept of the entire picture , unique and interesting .
After losing it's mother to an accident , a young bear must strike out on it's own to survive . Along the way the cub gets into some hilarious , sometimes dangerous , situations . Aided many times by an older grizzly boar , the little feller learns the lessons of life .
Fine courtroom drama which appears to be about a small change murder involving a pair of street people . But is it ? An attorney takes on the case and begins digging deep into the case when evidence turns up that suggests the culprit may have connections other than with simple street bums . Interesting and exciting , though improbable .
My favorite comic will always be Uncle Miltie and he was a scream in this one . Hammy and corny beyond belief , this slapstick had me rolling on the floor . The story involved a up and coming third rate comic trying to break into big time show biz . He must first work second rate clubs and resorts , but finally gets his big shot when taking over a routine for a fellow actor . Lots of good hoofing , sight gags , and joking around in the famous Berle style .
After a woman fervently wishes for another chance after a terrible tragedy , she is mysteriously granted one year of her life to be lived over . Vowing that things will be different this time around , she sets out on a new job in a new locale . Instead of being able to control things the second time around , she is repeatedly frustrated at finding herself helpless to stop events from unfolding in eerily similar ways . Decent enough film , but no great shakes .
Lightweight romantic comedy featuring the always delightful Babs as the put upon housewife who goes all out to put hubby into a higher tax bracket . Fairly funny in spots , dull in most : the slapstick was a tad overdone for my tastes . She did a better job in " What's Up Doc ? "
A reluctant deputy takes an even more reluctant posse after 4 dangerous thugs who killed several townspeople and left with a hostage . The posse is so inept that several of them are gunned down while engaging the enemy on 3 or 4 occasions . Ol ' Murph tried to keep them in line but they were mostly pretty hopeless . Lots of gunplay made for a good western , even if it was a little lame .
Authentic costumes and sets , a creepy castle with secret passageways and a nice torture dungeon made for a very entertaining film . There was a definite mystery unfolding throughout the picture instead of the mindless slash and splash of a lot of movies in this genre . Moody music and dramatic dialogue kept the show racing full tilt all the way to the satisfying conclusion . Of course , the climax contained the requisite lightning storm .
Life just doesn't go well for a 2 bit thief and his family when he teams up with an ex-con to steal a fancy necklace . Lots of death and violence follow as the jewel gets away from the 2 crooks who discover in the end that there is more to life than money . Good one .
Pretty good picture about a man being in the wrong place at the wrong time . If the murderer wanted to whack the dame , why not just off her and let the cops try to figure out whodunnit ? Involving all these characters in the plot is dangerous , not to mention all the mouths you'd have to worry about staying shut . Why did the depressed lady go out to the bar when she could barely sit up in a chair or say a word ? Are there really cops out there who are wise cracking , gum popping , grinning apes who approach a suspect in such a glib manner ? This probably played well back before the wheel was invented , but it is so corny and unbelievable today . Catch the manic drum break by Elisha Cook ; his frenetic hammering never once matched the recording . His mad facial expressions made up for the off kilter stick sync .
This was an excellent film , that was aptly titled . The blow up of a negative which showed a murder committed was the key to the whole mystery . I watched as the characters played and replayed the murder sequence , and never caught on to the killer's use of the weapon . This movie reminded me a lot of Hitchcock's work . An added attraction was the brief clip featuring the Yardbirds on a rave-up .
Lots of gorgeous scenery , beautiful Oriental women , great props and colorful clothes , sterling performances , and interesting dialogue and songs makes this one of the most lively musicals I've seen to date . Yul was perfect as the arrogant , deluded King ; I loved his crisp gestures and butchery of the English language . He was most amusing . I bet this one would be great on stage .
At Normandy Ike wanted untested troops for the invasion because seasoned vets knew what the price of war was . At Gallipoli the combat hungry kids learned the price very early on but it was too late to un-enlist . If only the young were smarter maybe no wars would be fought . Good show and not just about war either .
When a unfeeling mayor refuses to render aid to an injured city employee he opens a can of worms which he goes nuts trying to close . Reminded me a bit of Jack Finney's novel " The Night People " because the hero's stunts got more and more outlandish until his outings culminated in the mother of political harassments . Thumbs up .
Man is going to have his war even if it kills him . This was a brilliant depiction of how we humans allow ourselves to be hoodwinked into buying into the loathsome futility of world combat , all in the name of patriotism , flag rallying , and keeping the home fires burning . Johnny couldn't wait to go off to the front lines ; felt it was his duty , you see . Preserving democracy and all that rubbish . He felt this way because he was fed the party line at an early age . Get them early and they will never leave the fold , right ? Poor Johnny didn't realize that there may be other forces at work behind the scenes ; organizations that don't mind it a bit if he becomes a quadriplegic living a nightmare existence . This is not a war movie , rather a harsh look at the results of man's most insane undertaking .
Good lesson in not being unobservant concerning your surroundings . Such an attitude led to this man losing his memory , identity , and family . He became a dirty , homeless street person who wound up in a trash box just for a scrap of food . When he received sympathy from a kind woman , not only his fortunes changed but her's also leading to a strange outcome .
Decent enough shoot-em-up which relies too heavily at times on ridiculous overkill to make the anti-heroine look way bad . How would one describe this killing machine anyway ? Sexy ? Yes . Evil ? Most assuredly . Sociopathic ? Don't think so . She appeared to wear her feelings on her sleeve all the way through the picture which no self respecting nutcase would ever do . Every time things began to go wrong for little Nikki she would break down in hysterics crying for mercy , her mommy , or a little peace please Mr . Policeman . This idiot could go from coldly murdering her victims to blinding rages in which she threatens to kill everybody present to sweating over a kill she is about to make . The whiney / slobbering lunatic weirdo bit was incompatible with a hired gun working for a clandestine government unit . Furthermore , large jumps in time were momentarily confusing and could have been better explained by the writers . Not a bad film , just full of holes . . . . but didn't that girl have a set of legs ?
This big Cray should have crashed from all the programs it was running . Why didn't Forbin just reach behind it and pull the plug when it started doing the Hal ? That's what I do . This was a good picture with a story that can still play today , in my opinion . The computer itself may have been a bit of a monstrosity and impractical looking , but was still futuristic in appearance . First rate performances by the cast as they went from amusement to disbelief to horror over the comp getting more and more out of hand . And the ending . . . . perfect .
Excellent little one hour drama from the Hour of Stars about a British embassy worker who steals top secret documents strictly for profit . Things go well in his operation until the Allies get wise to a leak and he must flee fearing Allied prosecution or Axis assassination . Very enjoyable production with a smoothly done finale . As always Montalban gives a commendable performance .
I love this kind of film : funny , touching , and oh , so romantic . And so totally out of touch with the real world . But so what ? It's a movie . . . . and a pretty good one at that . Perhaps if I watched this film enough I , too , would find a small portion of passion in my life . Perhaps , but most likely , I would remain a hopeless cynic and merely murmur , " ah , love , so romantic , so wonderful , so utterly unattainable " .
Yaaaaawwwwwwnnnnnnn . Another in a long line of ' lowly underdog strives valiantly and comes back to win the big one ' bores . Phony tale of a middle aged man who suddenly discovers he has a major league arm after all . I can't believe this watered down heart wrencher was based on truth . Whose truth ? Some Hollywood producer ? If you want to see an ' underdog ' film with a lot more believability and nervous tension watch " Hossiers " . Thumbs down .
Oh , how much simpler our lives would be if we would just be content with what we have . This woman almost got exactly what she deserved from her jealous hubby : too bad he didn't succeed in knocking off the 2 timing slut . Here was a well played out murder yarn which keeps the viewers on their toes with clue after clue and lots of sneaky little scampers by the shrewd husband . Another fine production by the master of suspense .
Fairly good story about a 2 bit scoundrel private eye who apparently becomes involved in a double homicide while running a sleazy con game . A large insurance settlement is at stake and the police must figure out if the victim's wife did the deed or if it was her rival , hubby's mistress . Or could it have been someone else . . . . . ?
Spanning 25 years , this film chronicles the life of 4 students at a Louisiana university . One , a football hero , must come to grips with his life after the glory years are over . His wife becomes unhappy with the way her marriage is going as her husband ignores her more and more . Tragedy follows one of the other students , while the last is the most successful of the four . Good performances were given by all , however , I felt the story could have been presented better in some places .
Klein was superb as the bookish teacher intent on molding boys ' characters ' as well as teaching them . When he went out of his way to aid a troubled student he wound up depriving another causing some concerns for his conscience . The boy he felt he should help was the son of a bigshot politico who had no clue as to the needs of his son . Too busy being a power broker this ass arrogantly claimed he would mold his son's character . How ? He's seldom around and when he is there is no communication between himself and his offspring . Like so many fathers , I wonder why they even want children knowing there is no inclination to interact with them . Brings to mind the Harry Chapin song " Cat's in the Cradle " which speaks to many , many dads . The Emma Willard School provided a nice backdrop for a very good film . 4 stars .
Very strange film . A former cop kills criminals with 2 shots to the head , then leaves a rabbits foot near the body . A team of FBI agents are assigned to track him down , and one of the agents becomes emotionally involved with the killer . Unusual use of cameras adds a lot to the appeal of the movie ; however , the film still came off as a high end ' B ' movie . Too many glaring holes took away from the story , leaving it unrealistic . Corny one liners and overdone dialogue also acted as a detraction . Still it was an interesting show ; different from a lot of films in this genre .
Ex-Beatle Starr joins a jock and some real actors in this zany stone age romp . I suppose the ringed one will never be a top actor but I always enjoy his films . This stuff was so goofy it kept me in stitches the whole time . Solid fun with loads of laughs .
One of the better shoot-em-ups I've seen . Welch turned in her usual lackluster performance as the female version of Josey Wales , but Culp and the Clemens boys kept things moving right along . Borgnine , Elam , & Martin were superb as the hilarious , yet dangerous " 3 Stooges " villains . Their slapstick antics had me rolling in the floor more than once . Why did the silent gunfighter hang around the old prison all the time ? Where did he sleep , what did he do all day ? Who kept his clothes so nicely pressed ? Lots of holes in this one , but a thoroughly enjoyable western .
This must have been written by the same guy that did the Jackie Chan films . Anybody who likes all that far out Kung-fu crap will be right at home with this one . Lots of colorful costumes and cool sets , along with some goofy comedy kept me glued to the screen all the way . Russell was perfect as the verbose , confused trucker . Thumbs up .
Mighty good drama depicting corruption in the justice department intending , on the surface , to solve a crime , but , beneath the waters , to further political careers . Sally Field played the self centered , self deluded reporter perfectly against Newman's confused , angry victim . Worth seeing .
Excellent tale about a man who gets involved with 2 men intent on getting their hands on a stash of stolen loot from an armored car robbery . Unique story with an actor I haven't seen since he hit middle age . Peter Fonda still has the same soulful eyes he had when I first saw him in " Wild Angels " back in the mid-60's . His acting has improved considerably over the years ; I thought his old underground films were somewhat amateurish back then . This was a fine movie which reminded me a little of his western " The Hired Hand " from some 20 years ago . Well worth watching .
Tense action drama with plenty of lead slinging , torture , blood ; a plain out and out violent film . When 2 thugs go after a pregnant woman in order to ransom her out for big bucks things immediately go awry . The old boy they planned on cheating has some pretty tough boys on his side which leads to lots of gunsmoke and dead bodies . The final shootout was a doozy which should cause the saliva to flow from the lips of all action lovers . Woulda been easier to plug the bitch and start over . . . . but the baby was gonna be a boy .
An executive leaves his hometown to complete a $140M deal . Along the way he loses his wallet which contains the main ingredient for closing the deal . While trying to get the wallet back he meets every manner of opposition and zany characters . I really liked Jim & Jim and the Siskle & Ebert clones . One of the funniest comedies I ever saw . 4 stars .
Excellent documentary dealing with a almost likable used car pitchman , his sidekick Mud , a glum disk jockey , and a host of car salesmen . I refuse to buy a car from a lot just because of the phony " smiling faces " which were represented here in abundance . These salesmen all were adept at saying one thing while plotting how to run a game on the buyer . A game in which the dice were loaded heavily in favor of the dealership , of course . The Slasher claimed he never lies to a buyer , yet in reality the entire shell game he is running is based on a layer cake of sweet sounding half truths , deceptive number crunching , and a sham facade of glib friendliness hiding a hideous mask of evil greed . It was sad to see easily swayed folks wanting to believe they were getting a good car for $88 , but what may have been even more grievous was the toll on the Slasher himself ; not to mention his cronies . One simply cannot build a fruitful life leading into a pleasant future while deceiving not only his customers but himself with shady business practices . I feel that goes doubly for the " dollar is God " money men who hired this hyperactive , miserably unhappy ' whore ' to do the dirty work they were unable to do themselves .
Another in a long line of excellent , quirky Buscemi films . This one started out making me squirm in aggravation as a film crew couldn't seem to do anything right . As the picture rolled out , I began to get more and more involved until finally I was totally engrossed . Dramatic as well as funny . . . . go see it .
Get ready for some extremo salty language as a murderous gun runner goes all out to salvage his money . Hot performances by the entire crew , good location shots , and some cool camera work , not to mention a taut , well written story gives the viewer a thrilling ride through the seamy gutters of crime . Nobody says mother like Samuel Jackson : others can try but he can't be matched . Great film which reminds me of " Pulp Fiction " .
Action and intrigue abounds in this thriller about a group of government haters who set out to blow up a federal building . The unique way in which they went about carrying out their plot was well done , believable , and very intense . Great acting and dialogue carried the movie very well , and I especially appreciated the subtle twists and turns the plot offered . I saw a few holes in this production , but it didn't detract one bit from the overall impact . 2 thumbs up .
A woman who was tortured by a fascist regime never got over the fear it instilled in her . Years later she thinks she recognizes her chief interrogator as he visits her home . She ties him up and begins a psychological interrogation , trying to get him to admit his guilt . Her husband waffles back and forth between believing the man is guilty and then wondering if he is innocent . The viewer is left wondering about the man's guilt or innocence until almost the last frame . Intensely dramatic , I was unable to take my eyes off the screen . 5 stars .
Interesting look at the thoughts and behind the scenes lives of several well known and not so well known headbangers . Since I'm not up on many of the performers I remain curious as to whether or not many of them went on to reaching their goals or just faded away . Strange characters made me wonder about a society that allows them to become so popular . The title says a lot about that , I suppose .
Police try to solve the murder of a businessman . Unknown to them , the man's attorney is implicated and , of course , she wants to keep her involvement secret . This leads to the wrong person being charged , causing the lawyer to go looking for the real culprit . Good mystery with lots of action and tense drama .
Very good drama concerning twins involved in a murder plot . One of the women wanted out of her marriage to a wealthy man so she devises an elaborate plan to make her identical twin the fallguy in his death . As the falsely accused woman tries to prove her innocence she runs into one dead end after another because her sister covered her own tracks with perfection . A thriller right down to the last frame . 5 stars .
This is told in flashback form . A middle aged man remembers a girl that came to live with his family when he was in his early teens . She was a very nice girl , but highly sexed . At one point she tried to seduce the father , which was the funniest scene in the film . The story of her life with the family , though brief , was interesting and well done . Rose was a free spirited girl that you couldn't help but love . Good show .
A jury has eleven votes to prosecute a young man for murder . They become angry at the one man who wants to talk a bit more before jumping to any conclusions . The dialogue in this movie simply sparkled with realism . I hung on every word as the men debated the fate of the young man . The ending holds a big surprise for the viewer .
Take a great story , brilliant acting , and biting , often hilarious dialogue , and you get one of the finest films around . Possibly Nicholson's best effort ever , and Helen Hunt was nothing short of sensational . Plus , you just gotta love Virdell . 5 stars and 2 thumbs up .
