Freddie Starr was , and still is , known as the ' wild man of comedy ' . He shot to stardom in the ' 70's after appearing on ' Opportunity Knocks ' , went on to headline L . W . T . ' s ' Who Do You Do ? ' , had a chart hit ( the soppy ' Its You ' ) and starred ( pardon the pun ) in several one-off specials . By far and away the worst thing he ever did , however , was this dreadful series , which looked as though it were televised live from a seedy Northern workingmen's club . The endless stream of tenth-rate gags was poorly delivered , though it didn't stop the studio audience from sounding as though they were on laughing gas . When Freddie , in the first episode , shrieked : " Ow ! My Nipple ! " , a woman could be heard expiring from hilarity . The poor quality of the show was all the more surprising because of the talent involved ; as well as Freddie , there was Russ Abbot , Bella Emberg , Toni Palmer , Norman Collier and Mike Newman . After one series , Freddie quit , and the show was relaunched as the much funnier ' Russ Abbot's Saturday Madhouse ' .
When I heard about this , I thought it sounded interesting . How , I wondered , would they fit a street inside a small television studio to face an audience of D-listers ? Then I watched and realised my mistake . It was the cast of ' Coronation Street ' , not the street itself . Silly me ! With L . W . T . now part of Granada , I suppose a programme like this was inevitable . In terms of sheer inanity , it almost beat ' Russell Harty Meets Upstairs , Downstairs ' from way back in the ' 70's . Isn't it bad enough that we have to endure the ' Coronation Street ' gang doing whatever it is they get paid huge sums for ( it sure ain't called acting ) most week-nights , without this bilge being inflicted on us ? If I want bad singing , dancing , jokes etc . , I'll go to my local workingmen's club , not stay at home and watch the telly . At least there you get the privilege of heckling . The reverential tone displayed towards ' Coronation Street ' is disturbing to say the least . Its like watching a bizarre religious cult at work , preparing to hand over their cash and lay down their lives in a futile cause . ' Star Trek ' fans are often the butts of media sneers , yet soap opera addicts are regarded as nice , normal people indulging in a healthy obsession . Well , take it from me , there's nothing healthy about being obsessed whether or not Emily Bishop's remembered to put roses on Ernie's grave on the anniversary of his shooting .
Shameful Confession Time : I used to find Little & Large hilarious . Already I can hear the sound of jaws dropping in amazement . That time , dear friends , was in 1970 when I was eight years old , and Syd and Eddie were to be found each week on the long-running kids ' variety show ' Crackerjack ! ' . Michael Aspel did the quiz show section , but Little & Large ( supported by Stuart Sherwin ) got to do the funny stuff , as successors to the golden team of Leslie Crowther and Peter Glaze ( I recall them in a ' Star Trek ' spoof with Eddie as ' Mr . Spock ' ) . For the uninitiated , Little & Large were a comedy double-act who came to public prominence on ' Opportunity Knocks ! ' and who basically consisted of Eddie Large and . . . Eddie Large . There was another guy in glasses and white hair , but I forget his name . Oh yes ! I remember now ! John Major ! Had John ( sorry , Syd ) and Eddie stuck to amusing us tots , all would have been well . But in 1976 , Thames unwisely gave them a peak-time extravaganza , wittily entitled ' The Little & Large Telly Show ' . Frankly , it stunk . As Clive James pointed out at the time , the boys had one act between them which they flogged to death , namely ' Supersonic ' Syd attempting to sing a song while Eddie interrupted him with ( admittedly good ) impersonations of Cliff Richard , Deputy Dawg , Benny from ' Crossroads ' , Hylda Baker , Oliver Hardy , and others . They were still using this basic routine in 1991 when they got fired from the B . B . C . Tony Hatch conducted the orchestra and occasionally was the butt of the lads ' jokes . He later commented : " When I watch , I think ' oh God , how can I go on ' New Faces ' again after this ? ' . He was right to be embarrassed . The show only had one basic set . In addition to Syd , Eddie , and Tony , there was also a gaggle of female backing singers , who trilled the names of the stars by way of a theme tune . If ' Telly Show ' deserves to be remembered at all , its for putting the horrendous novelty single ' Ma-Na-Ma-Na ' back in the pop charts . That should tell you how bad it was . Thankfully , only one season was made , but Syd and Eddie did not need to worry as they were snapped up by the B . B . C . where their show became a Saturday night fixture for years , along with ' All Creatures & Small ' and ' Jim'll Fix It ' . I am not averse to childish comedy ( I rather like Norman Wisdom , The Grumbleweeds , and Don Knotts ) but Syd and Eddie's seeming inability to develop their comedy made them for me about as amusing as having teeth drilled . I also hate double-acts where one man does all the work . Interviewed some years back on ' Who Killed Saturday Night T . V . ? ' , Eddie Large made the following interesting observation : " You put two men hitting each other with frying pans on B . B . C . - 1 on a Saturday night , and people think its stupid . Show the same thing on Channel 4 at 11 P . M . and people think its cutting-edge comedy . " . He never said a truer word in his life .
In the final ' Not The Nine O'Clock News ' , Mel Smith and Griff Rhys Jones famously put the boot into ' The Two Ronnies ' with ' The Two Ninnies ' . It wasn't an affectionate parody , more a savage attack . They cruelly berated Barker and Corbett for doing the same sort of jokes twenty years later ( inaccurate as ' The Two Ronnies ' had only been on for ten years at that point ) . How hypocritical for Smith and Jones then to front this show , which features them doing exactly the same thing ! ' Alas Smith & Jones ' was one of the best sketch shows of the ' 80's , but this ' tribute ' series did it no favours . ' The Two Ronnies ' compilations featured uncut material , here we got only excerpts interspersed with weak links . Are today's viewers so dim they need to have a joke explained before they see it ? Even Mel and Griff looked embarrassed , as well they might . Fortunately , the ' head-to-head ' sketches stand up well even now . After ' Morons From Outer Space ' and now this , a little humility from Mel and Griff would not go amiss .
Though it began in 1988 , ' M . S . T . 3 . K . ' didn't arrive in the U . K . until the late ' 90's , when Season 9 was shown by The Sci-Fi Channel . I was given to understand it had a cult following among American teenagers , presumably the sort who chew gum a lot and wear ear-plugs to bed to stop their brains spilling out on to the pillows . The first edition I saw featured Jack Arnold's ' Revenge Of The Creature ' , a mediocre film to be sure , but no turkey . I enjoyed the film as much as I could , but the segments involving Mike Nelson , Mary Jo Pehl , the robots and apes were so painfully unfunny I wanted to brain the writers and cast with that cheap-looking Airfix model that's supposed to represent a spaceship . And Bridget Jones should stick to sliding down fireman's poles . We were not allowed to view the films properly as they were continually talked over and interrupted by the dumb stuff . Some , such as ' Riding With Death ' and ' Cosmic Princess ' , were not movies at all ( a fact the cast conveniently neglected to mention ) , but compilations of old T . V . shows ( ' The Gemini Man ' and ' Space : 1999 ' to be exact ) and therefore should not have been included . One of the earlier editions had ' Revenge Of The Mysterons ' , made up of four episodes from ' Captain Scarlet & The Mysterons ' , a 1967 children's sci-fi show which is rightly regarded in the U . K . as a classic ( its recently been remade ) . To see the country that gave the world ' Galactica 1980 ' and the second season of ' Buck Rogers ' ( the one with ' Hawk ' ) sneering at this wonderfully imaginative show made me want to puke . An outrageous insult to Gerry and Sylvia Anderson . Its possible that ' M . S . T . ' was a good show in the early days , but there was no sign of quality in the episodes I viewed . Nelson had all the charm of a lavatory brush , while the tacky sets and tin-bath robots appeared to be left-overs from a bad kiddies show circa 1970 . Some of the movies , such as ' Agent For H . A . R . M . ' . and ' The Horror Of Party Beach ' deserved ridicule , but this was not the place to do it . The net effect was akin to a bald man laughing at one with a receding hairline . I have noticed that a number of I . M . D . B . reviewers have based their strong views of the films not on the originals , but on the ' M . S . T . 3 . K . ' versions . This isn't right . In Britain , ' M . S . T . 3 . K ' proved a ratings loser ( another triumph for British good taste ! ) . Seasons 10 and 11 were never shown here . I do not think we missed anything special . Thankfully , it is no longer with us . I hope that one day the show itself comes under fire from the comedians of the future , who regard the spectacle of a bad television show mocking bad movies as an act of hypocrisy .
What do Richard Beckinsale , Leonard Rossiter and Harry H . Corbett have in common ? Aside from being brilliant comedy actors ( and all sadly dying within a few years of one another ) , they had the misfortune to end their television careers by starring in sub-standard sitcoms . Beckinsale in the thankfully forgotten ' Bloomers ' ( set in a flower shop ) , Rossiter in the even worse ' Tripper's Day ' ( in which he played a supermarket manager who shouted non-stop ) , and Corbett in the Thames-made ' Grundy ' , scripted by the brilliant Ken Hoare , co-writer ( with Mike Sharland ) of ' Mr . Digby Darling ' starring Peter Jones and Sheila Hancock , and author of the award-winning L . W . T . Stanley Baxter shows . His wit sadly deserted him here though . ' Grundy ' was a chore to sit through . Corbett had high hopes for the show . Interviewed by ' The News Of The World ' prior to its screening , he said : " I hope to bury Steptoe for good . " . This proved to be wildly optimistic . ' Grundy ' was a newsagent whom Mary Whitehouse would have gotten along with famously . He too despised the so-called ' permissive society ' and attacked it at every opportunity . The first episode opened with him leaving a court , having successfully divorced his wife on the grounds of adultery ( she ran off with a bookmaker ) . The experience has made him so unhappy he covers his face with his jacket to prevent anyone from recognising him . Boarding a train , he finds himself sharing a compartment with the attractive and earthy Beryl Loomis ( Lynda Baron of ' Open All Hours ' ) who , wouldn't you know it , is the wife of the very bookmaker Mrs . Grundy ran off with . He opens up to her . " I got my load of legal rubbish out of The Yellow Pages . " , says Grundy , sadly : " The firm of Pratt , Pratt , Pratt and Malone . I got Malone . He was the biggest pratt of them all ! " ( and that was the funniest line in the entire series , believe me ) . Beryl is strangely attracted to Grundy and begins pursuing him . It is hard to see why as he is a miserable , self-pitying old git . Harold Steptoe has suddenly become Albert . Each week , Beryl would hound him no matter where he went , including a library . Today this would be called ' stalking ' . Her infatuation with Grundy is mirrored by her son Murray's ( Get Some In's David Janson ) lust for Grundy's pretty daughter Sharon ( Julie Dawn Cole ) . I remember thinking the casting was slightly awry . Cole looked like Lynda Baron , while Janson could easily have passed for a young Harry H . Corbett . Oh well . I have no idea how the series was resolved as I gave up on it well before the end . Grundy was such a misery-guts you felt like giving him a good shaking . ' Victor Meldrew ' of ' One Foot In The Grave ' was like that too , but then David Renwick always gave him a good reason for being so . You felt for him . It was impossible to feel the same about Grundy . He had no redeeming qualities whatever . The show was not helped by the fact that Corbett suffered a heart attack prior to recording and thus his performance seemed unnaturally tired . The really sad thing was that it was just not worth the effort . Corbett died two years later , and the ' Divided We Stand ' episode of ' Steptoe & Son ' was shown on B . B . C . - 1 as a tribute . I . T . V . could have paid its respects by showing an edition of ' Grundy ' , but chose not to . Wise decision .
In 1977 , there was a unpopular Labour Government in power , the economy was in bad shape , the Tories had a charismatic new leader , and Bruce Forsyth was to be found on Saturday night television . Funny how things change , eh ? ' 1990 ' was a B . B . C . - 2 drama set in a Britain where freedom is a myth and bureaucracy rules . Identity Cards are carried by citizens , and The Public Control Department ( P . C . D . ) watches us at all times . It was the creation of Wilfrid Greatorex , a writer for whom I have a lot of respect , as he wrote episodes of ' Danger Man ' and ' Man In A Suitcase ' ( two of my all-time favourite shows ) . Edward Woodward starred as ' Jim Kyle ' , a crusading newspaper man out to undermine the authority of the P . C . D . He is alas smitten by ' Delly Lomas ' ( the stunning Barbara Kellerman ) , second-in-command at the P . C . D . Its chairman is Herbert Skardon ( Robert Lang ) , a sneering villain who , if not quite ' Big Brother ' , certainly qualifies as ' Big Stepson ' . This episode - the second broadcast - continues a storyline begun in the first - ' Creed Of Slaves ' . Dr . Vickers ( Donald Gee ) wants to leave Britain to take up a job in Arizona , but the Government rejects his application for an exit visa . Desperate , he turns to dissidents for help . You would think that this could easily have been resolved in a single fifty-minute instalment , but Wilfrid strings it out to two . By the middle of the second , I had lost caring whether Dr . Vickers would ever get to sip Coca-Cola in the Arizona sunshine . He tells the authorities he wants to go because of his asthmatic daughter , but at the end only he and his wife escape , leaving the girl behind . It could not possibly be that the new job is better paid ? Oh no , that would put him in a bad light . We never find out which party is in Government , but mention of a ' wealth tax ' leads me to suspect it must be Labour . Of course taxing the rich and ensuring they pay their dues is just not on is it ? In today's world , immigration is regarded as a problem , but here its emigration that the writer gets steamed up about . Words fail me as to how boring this is . It consists entirely of long , drawn-out scenes in offices where everyone talks constantly , without a trace of wit or anything resembling character development . You have not seen such a bunch of po-faced people in your life . Take it from me - ' Newsnight ' is more fun . When Kyle takes Delly ( what an odd name that is . Is it short for something , like ' Delphine ' of ' Delbert ' ? ) out to dinner , and they go back to his place , you think " Great ! We're going to get some naughty business ! " but it never happens . Modern drama series cannot get the main characters into bed fast enough , so it comes as a shock to see an old one which has them behaving as though they live on Caldey Island ( a monastery off the coast of Tenby , South Wales ) . The sight of Babs Kellerman in the buff would have gone some way towards making this interesting . Woodward gives a solid performance , a bit too solid methinks . At times he looks as though he wishes he were back inside ' The Wicker Man ' . Kellerman's Delly Bird is beautiful and haughty , but that's about it . Robert Lang's ' Skardon ' is a clone of ' Number Two ' from ' The Prisoner ' T . V . series . I have no objections to the political sermonising , it is just that I wish it had been done in a more subtle manner . George Orwell's ' Nineteen Eighty-Four ' covered similar ground , but he told his story in an entertaining manner , unlike this . ' Author's Message ' is plastered across every frame . After two seasons , the show ended . Margaret Thatcher won the General Election in 1979 and as we all know Britain became a land of peace , prosperity and freedom . Interestingly , in the real 1990 , 471 people were injured and 341 arrested in the poll tax riots , arguably the single greatest demonstration of public feeling the country has ever seen . Thatcher became so unpopular her own party booted her out later that year . Paul Chapman , an excellent actor from ' Colditz ' and ' A Bit Of A Do ' , is ' Randall ' , in charge of public surveillance , which basically consists of him staring at television screens . I hope he fired his agent soon after doing this . The excellent theme music was by John Cameron ( no relation to David ! ) .
Fox pinned hopes on ' Modesty ' becoming a franchise to rival Bond , but these were cruelly dashed as Joseph Losey's film played to mostly empty theatres in the U . K . and U . S . A . ( it did rather better on the Continent ) . Taken on its own terms , its not too bad . Jack Shampan's production design is superb , as is John Dankworth's music , there are a couple of decent performances ( Clive Revill , Harry Andrews , and a wonderfully camp turn from Dirk Bogarde ) and some good moments such as Modesty finding herself trapped in an op art cell . But as an adaptation of Peter O'Donnell and Jim Holdaway's comic-strip , its a non-starter . Monica Vitti fails to project warmth and charm as Modesty , while Terence Stamp sounds like Michael Caine on an off-day . The scene where they sing a romantic duet whilst under fire is just painful . Losey was clearly not the right director for this project . Fox made a rather more successful ' girl power ' Bond thriller a year later - ' Fathom ' , starring Raquel Welch .
Something is wrong with XR40 or ' George ' as he is more commonly known . George is the country's most brilliant computer . An unknown intruder breaks into the top secret establishment where he ( it ? ) is housed and shoots him . George manages to convey his feelings on a printout : " I Have A Message For You Of The Utmost Importance . . . Help ! " . The computer had discovered the existence of a traitor in the Ministry and was about to disclose the information when it was shot . Computer scientist Ardmore ( Anthony Nicholls ) tries to restore George , while Steed and Tara hunt for the gun man . The trail takes them to the home of Pelley ( Clifford Evans ) , George's creator . . . If this were made today , it would probably be titled ' Whoever Shot Poor George Forward Slash XR40 ? ' . A rare misfire from the pen of the normally reliable Tony Williamson . The notion that anyone would try to murder a machine is pretty silly even for ' The Avengers ' . An exemplary cast , including Frank Windsor , Clifford Evans , Dennis Price , Anthony Nicholls , and Judy Parfitt , are wasted . As ' Loris ' , Parfitt looks stunning . I was looking forward to seeing her fight Tara , but it never happens . George himself is not particularly well designed , being little more than a big box of lights . The scene where Ardmore tries to repair him closely resembles a heart transplant operation . Anthony Nicholls was ' Tremayne ' in ' The Champions ' . Dennis Price , cast as the creepy butler ' Jason ' was ' Jeeves ' in ' The World Of Wooster ' which starred Ian Carmichael . Frank Windsor is , of course , well remembered for his role as ' Watt ' in ' Z-Cars ' and ' Softly Softly ' . Cyril Frankel , this episode's director , is better known for his I . T . C . work such as ' The Champions ' and ' Department S ' . He is a good director , but I do not think he suited ' The Avengers ' . Mind you , with this script no-one would have . The main point of interest ( for me ) was the sight of Tara dressed as a cat ! ( she had been on her way to a fancy dress party when summoned to Steed's side ) . She later impersonates Pelley's American niece Prunella , and Thorson makes good use of her natural Canadian accent .
When Peter Sellers died , you'd have thought they'd have let the ' Pink Panther ' series die with him . But money talks and in 1981 we got the dire ' Trail Of The Pink Panther ' . ' Curse ' , its successor , was an improvement , thanks to a funny performance from the likable Ted Wass , best known as ' Danny Dallas ' from the long-running T . V . show ' Soap ' . His character , Clifton Sleigh , had more than a touch of Harold Lloyd about him but alas Sellers proved irreplaceable ( Dudley Moore and Rowan Atkinson knew this too . They both turned it down ) , and we never saw Sleigh again . Some good visual gags include Dreyfus falling from his office window and Sleigh's problems with an inflatable doll . The film might have stood a chance had it not been continually looking over its shoulder at what went before . Especially confusing was Joanna Lumley's appearance as Countess Chandra - a totally different character to the one she'd played in ' Trail ' . The decision to turn Clouseau bad rankled with audiences as well . David Niven's final film , sadly .
I read an article in ' Dreamwatch ' magazine a good few years back which included the lines ; " Science fiction and comedy are difficult to mix . For every ' Red Dwarf ' , there are about ten ' Come Back Mrs . Noahs ' . At which point I fell on the floor laughing . " Come Back Mrs . Noah ' wasn't intended to be science fiction comedy ! I'm sure Jeremy Lloyd and David Croft would be the first to admit that . The premise is this ; Mollie Sugden plays ' Mrs . Gertrude Noah ' , a prize-winning housewife on a tour of a British space station ( ! ) . Unfortunately , there's an accident and said station is blasted out of orbit , beginning a course that will take it out of the Solar System . Rescue is , for the moment , impossible . Also on board are two scientists played by Michael Knowles and Donald Hewlett , and Ian Lavender as a news reporter . The humour is crude and coarse ; for instance , when in the first episode Mrs . Noah becomes weightless , the ship's computer advises her to propel herself forward by means of expelling natural body gas . Farting , in other words . Instead she takes a bottle of perfume from her handbag and uses that to do the same . If ' Grace Brothers ' had been a space station instead of a department store , this is what it would have been . But what do you expect from Lloyd and Croft ? There were also a number of scenes back on Earth with Tim Barrett as the harassed head of the British space exploration centre and Ann Michelle as his sexy assistant . Spoof news broadcasts read by Gorden Kaye prefaced each edition . Great comedy ? Absolutely not ! But its not as half as bad as F . Gwynplaine McIntyre makes out . I think we should be allowed to see it for ourselves so we can make up our own minds . Besides , after the fiasco of ' Hyperdrive ' , could anything possibly be worse ?
I have heard it said that this film took more money at the U . K . box office than ' Taxi Driver ' starring Robert De Niro ! Easy to see why . Scorsese's film lacked the magic ingredient - Barry Evans ' old boy . Poor Barry . Having starred in the T . V . series ' Doctor In The House ' and ' Doctor At Large ' , he was fired for ' erratic behaviour ' and subsequently forced to appear in tat like this . As you may have guessed , the ' Adventures ' series is a shameless rip-off of the ' Confessions ' movies starring Robin Askwith . The main gag in all these films is the hero , in bed with a love-starved nymph , being caught by her husband / boyfriend , and having to make a break for it by shinning down a ladder / drainpipe , his bare bottom exposed to the world . Evans ' character is ' Joe North ' , a chirpy Cockney cabby who lives at home with his mum ( a criminally wasted Diana Dors ) and his younger brother and sister , the latter fond of throwing food around the kitchen . He is betrothed to Carol Hotchkiss ( Adrienne Posta ) , whom he hates the sight of . He eventually moves in with his mate , garage owner Tom ( a pre ' Citizen Smith ' Robert Lindsay ) , and that's when the fun really begins ( sort of ) with knickers and bras flying about confetti . At the end , North gets involved with jewel thieves and you think ' Great ! We're going to have a ' Carry On Cabby ' type finale ! " , but no , instead everyone stands around talking for what seems an eternity . Another reviewer has stated how uncomfortable Evans looks in the role , and I would agree . Unsurprisingly , he was in neither of the two sequels . His career recovered though when he starred in the hit L . W . T . sitcom ' Mind Your Language ' . In a sad irony , he became a taxi driver for real when his acting career foundered . As was the case with ' Confessions ' , there is a stellar line-up of British comedy talent on display here , including Ian Lavender , Stephen Lewis , Brian Wilde , Liz Fraser , and Henry McGee , none of whom get the material they deserve . Three of Evans ' co-stars - Angela Scoular , Adrienne Posta , and Judy Geeson - had acted with him a decade earlier in the superior sex comedy ' Here We Go Round The Mulberry Bush ' . Scoular charmed George Lazenby out of his kilt in ' On Her Majesty's Secret Service ' , but looks a lot less sexy here ( probably due to that awful new hairstyle ) . Posta is rather good as the annoying ' Carol ' , even if her vocalisation of the title theme put me in mind of the mice from ' Bagpuss ' . Unable to secure the talents of Linda Hayden , producer Stanley Long settled for her sister Jane , playing a would-be suicidalist . There are some nice shots of late ' 70's London , especially at night , but much of the comedy is forced , at times resembling the ' Fast Show ' parody ' Confessions Of A Cucumber Salesman ' . However , there are at least three genuine laugh-out loud moments , one involving two nuns , another a bathtub , and in the best scene , Liz Fraser's prostitute performs fellatio on a rich client in the back of North's taxi . He breaks suddenly to avoid knocking someone down , the cab lurches forward , and Fraser's client unleashes a terrible scream . Ironically , the movie showing nearby is ' Jaws ' ! Moments such as these go some way towards making the film at least partially endurable .
St . Swithins is in a bad state - the corridors and wards have not been painted in years , the internal telephones do not work properly , dustbins overflow with rubbish , even the lettering on the sign outside is incomplete . Duncan , Dick and Paul angrily confront Adrian Quint , the hospital's new ' manager ' , in reality an hard-hearted accountant more interested in saving money than lives . He pours scorn on their concerns . The lads decide to stage a scam ; by making Quint think that a V . I . P . is due in for a minor operation , they get him to release the funds required to give St . Swithin's a full make-over . . . Angus Deayton brightens up this episode ; his ' Quint ' is reminiscent of the show's old-style ' nasties ' such as ' Sir John Pollock ' ( from the ' In Charge ' episode ' The Merger ' ) and ' Mr . Gascoigne ' ( from the ' On The Go ' instalment ' For Your Own Good ' ) . In the old days the lads would have debagged him , covered him in yellow paint or thrown him into the canal . The worst that happens to him here is that he is made to look extremely foolish . Nice to see Robin Nedwell regaining a little of his old fire , the scene where he rages at Quint is superb . Once again , George Layton the writer is at odds with George Layton the actor . There's no denying that Layton is as good here as he was in the original show , sadly he fails to give himself ( along with everybody else ) any decent lines . With N . H . S . cutbacks very much in the news in 1991 thanks to the horrendous Virginia Bottomley , the then Minister Of Health , this plot was certainly timely , even if it really belongs on ' Casualty ' . Twelve million viewers tuned in for the first episode of ' At The Top ' , but by this one went out that figure had decreased to five . Funniest moment - Quint entering a ward expecting to see the V . I . P . - Charles Windsor - but instead of the future King he sees only a little boy with the same name !
In the mid-'90's , B . B . C . - 2 screened ' The Outer Limits ' in the slot vacated by the ratings-busting first season of ' The X-Files ' . They gave it a ' Radio Times ' cover and loads of publicity , but unfortunately shot themselves in the foot by opening with the execrable ' Blood Brothers ' instead of the excellent pilot episode ' Sandkings ' . Ratings plummeted , and the show eventually disappeared . It was a shame because ' Outer ' had some good stories , special effects and performances to offer . By far the best episode was ' A Stitch In Time ' in which Amanda Plummer played a time-travelling scientist who executes the men who will one day become serial killers . On the down side , the show featured gratuitous nudity and sex ( particularly ' Caught In The Act ' ) , something the original managed to do without . A number of episodes from the old show were remade ; ' I , Robot ' was passable , but the less said about ' The Inheritors ' the better . The quality varied , but overall it was worth watching .
Sharon is working at the ' Dolls House ' boutique , managed by the camp Mr . Winters . Visiting her there , Duffy ( wearing decorator's overalls ) manages to get paint on an expensive dress . To get her own back , Sharon agrees to go on a date with a good-looking rep , Tony Lawson . As Duffy and his mate Batch have various run-ins with the police ( mainly concerning illegal parking of their van ) , Sharon is being wined and dined by Lawson , and they go back to his place . Unbeknowest to her , hard-boiled private eye Frankie ' Hank ' Abbott is keeping watch on the apartment block . . . A young Christopher Timothy appears here as ' Lawson ' , the master of seduction . Mike Grady , who plays ' Batch ' would go on to be ' Ken ' in ' Citizen Smith ' and more recently , ' Barry ' in ' Last Of The Summer Wine ' . Carmen Monroe , cast as ' Yvonne Parker ' , Sharon's work colleague , went on to be ' Vilma ' in ' The Fosters ' . She's a great actress , far too good for this thankless role . No laugh-out-loud funny moments in this Geoff Rowley and Andy Baker penned episode , I'm afraid , but Frankie's ridiculous private eye act raises the odd smile .
Craven , now a G . P . O . courier , fears the sack after wrecking his motorbike . Reporting it stolen , he along with Duffy and Frankie , push it off a bridge . But a woman sees them and calls the police . Frogmen search the river for a body . Meanwhile , Dennis has been invited to a trendy party by Maureen . Feeling out of place , he goes home . Maureen follows , and on seeing the police dredging the river , thinks he has committed suicide . . . No horses appear in this Geoff Rowley and Andy Baker penned episode , which makes the title a bit of a mystery . There's a touching moment as Dennis tells Maureen he misses his friends , and wishes they were all back at school . Sally Thomsett appears as ' Kathleen ' , a dizzy blonde who mistakes Dennis for a private eye . Two years later , her pert bottom would grace the opening credits of ' Man About The House ' . Funniest moment - a paralytic David Dunstable admonishing his son for coming home drunk !
Gareth Hale and Norman Pace rose to fame part of the alternative comedy boom of the ' 80's , which was strange because strictly speaking , they were far from alternative . Their repertoire of comic characters included the ' Two Rons ' , thuggish gangsters whose catchphrase was " We are The Management ! " ( based on the Kray Twins , who allegedly were fans ) , the idiotic children's T . V . presenters ' Billy ' and ' Johnny ' ( " We know a song about that , don't we ? " ) , and a pair of drug-addled Hell's Angels . In short , they were the dark side of ' The Two Ronnies ' . Traditional in tone , but going just that little bit further . Following several series in which they played supporting roles , such as ' Pushing Up Daisies ' ( later to be retitled ' Coming Next ' ) , ' Saturday Live ' , and ' The Saturday Gang ' , they finally landed their own sketch show in 1988 . Made by London Weekend Television , the first edition got them into trouble with an item in which they microwaved a cat ( it wasn't a real one , of course , but a lot of people were upset nonetheless ) . A later sketch had frogs used as tennis balls . One of the ' Billy & Johnny ' items featured the daft duo engaging in a threesome with Johnny's sexy wife . Another was set in a house constructed entirely from human waste . Gareth and Norman relished in flaunting their political incorrectness - particularly with the Teutonic country and western singer ' Hank Von Schweinhund ' whose backing group consisted of sexy , goose-stepping Nazi girls - and audiences loved them for it . As a mark of their popularity they landed guest roles in what turned out to be the last ' Dr . Who ' story for sixteen years - ' Survival ' in 1989 . The show ran for the best part of ten years in a late Sunday night slot . But not everyone appreciated Hale and Pace's ' poo and pee ' humour . A letter writer to ' The Daily Mirror ' said : " I agree that Hale and Pale are not afraid to be offensive . They're not very funny either . " . The outspoken Alexei Sayle took a swipe at the lads on his B . B . C . show : " When Oliver Hardy went golfing , Stan Laurel would time gags , edit scripts and cut film . When Gareth Hale goes golfing , Norman Pace goes with him . Which explains why their show is so awful ! " . He had a point . The later ' Hale & Pace ' shows looked tired and flat , and they faced tough competition from Vic Reeves and Bob Mortimer , so they killed it off and crossed over to the B . B . C . to do a new version of ' In At The Deep End ' in which they performed unlikely tasks . ' Hale & Pace ' is not widely remembered as a comedy classic , but it was fun - at first , anyway - its only major flaw being that the lads didn't know when to call it a day . Nothing lasts forever . Matt Lucas and David Walliams would do well to remember this as they continue to reap the ' Little Britain ' dividend .
Fenn Street Secondary Modern are planning an ' Open Day ' , but 5C's contribution will consist of ' coats and teas ' . Hedges is having none of it , and suggests the class make a movie entitled ' Our School ' . The class are thrilled , particularly Sharon , who sees it as her chance to break into movies . But the resulting film is a disaster , consisting of monotonous shots of the school , and unconvincing footage of both teachers and pupils attempting to look natural . Then Hedges hits upon an idea - to turn the film into a critique of the education system . This does not make him popular with Mr . Cromwell and Miss Ewell . . . A standard sitcom plot line for years was ' the home-made movie ' . ' Man About The House ' used it in ' The Last Picture Show ' , ' Only Fools & Horses ' in ' Video Nasty ' , and ' The Goodies ' did ' Movies ' . Here ' Please Sir ! ' does its version of the idea , but the execution is not as good as it might have been . Miss Ewell steals the film , end of story . So why does Hedges not make another ? He gives in all too easily . The beautiful Suzan Farmer crops up briefly as journalist ' Judith Howard ' . Funniest moment - the film itself , which looks like it was made by Benny Hill on an off-day . At one point , Mr . Cromwell is seen nervously edging off screen , then reappears from a different direction !
Upton is summoned to the Dean's office . A photo in a newspaper shows him participating in a students ' protest . It looks as though Upton faces expulsion from St . Swithins until Loftus points out that the picture was , in fact , taken in New York . Upton was at the Dean's tea party the day before , a fact the old duffer had forgotten . The hospital is invaded by hippies protesting about declining education standards . Duncan and the gang take the rise out of them mercilessly . Loftus tries to quell the protest but is himself arrested . . . Topical episode from Garden & Oddie . Student protests were worldwide at the time , thanks to the Vietnam war . It is unfortunate though that the protesters here include a smattering of ethnic groups , making Duncan and co . ' s mocking of them seem slightly racist . No Briddock , Evans and Collier either . Funniest moment - despite their mockery of the earlier protest , Upton and the others stage one of their own to complain about Loftus ' arrest !
The television version of ' Logan's Run ' begins in much the same fashion as the 1976 movie of the same name ; we open with an aerial shot of a fantastic city of domes , decades after nuclear wars have ravaged our planet . The year is 2319 . It is a perfect world of pleasure - but only if you're under 30 . Then , on ' Lastday ' , citizens must subject themselves to the ghoulish ritual of ' Carousel ' , believing it to be renewal . Logan and Francis are Sandmen - security officers whose task it is to hunt and kill ' runners ' - people who have realised ' Carousel ' is in fact population control . Logan is under surveillance as he has been overheard questioning authority . We are therefore unsurprised when he throws in his lot with runner Jessica . After a chase through the city , Logan and Jessica venture outside , finding the air to be clean and the water and soil uncontaminated , the exact opposite of what they'd believed to be true . Now the plot ventures in a different direction from the movie ; Francis goes before the Council Of Elders , a group of wizened men who hold the real power in the city . He is offered a place on the Council if he brings Logan back for reprogramming . Finding a solar-powered craft , Logan and Jessica begin searching for ' Sanctuary ' - a mythical refuge for runners - only to find a community living in a fallout shelter , which is constantly under threat from ' riders ' - warriors on horseback , kidnapping people to use as slave labour . Logan and Jessica may be free of the city , but haven't escaped from danger yet . . . I prefer the ' Logan's Run ' television series to the movie . Gregory Harrison and Heather Menzies make an attractive couple as ' Logan ' and ' Jessica ' respectively , and British actor Donald Moffat adds a welcome touch of humour as the lovable cyborg ' Rem ' . Hiring the co-author of the original novel as one of the pilot's writers was a smart move . Quite a bit of recycled movie footage , most notably the ' Carousel ' sequence , but not as much as there would have been if this were an Irwin Allen series . The pilot barely sketches in the characters before they start running . Logan seems to have quite a lot of ammo about his person ; perhaps he knew in advance he was going to run ? How come Francis is always one step behind Logan and Jessica even though he's on foot and they're not ? How come Jessica's hair always looks great ? Don't question - just enjoy . A decent series opener .
With Peter Rogers and Gerald Thomas in charge , the film version of ' Bless This House ' was bound to wind up looking like a ' Carry On ' . No bad thing , it has to be said . The first and most sensible thing they did was replace Robin Stewart with Robin Askwith as Sid's son Mike . Stewart was boring , Askwith is cheekier and funnier . Secondly , they brought in Peter Butterworth to play Sid's friend and next-door neighbour Trevor . While I liked Anthony Jackson's ' Trevor ' , Butterworth and Sid are a far more natural comedy team . Thirdly , they had Terry Scott and June Whitfield as the Abbott's new neighbours , the Baines . Scott's character is not the lovable ' Terry ' of ' Happy Ever After / Terry & June ' , in fact he's a pompous snob . These changes benefited the movie , though I wish the Geoff Love theme tune had been retained . Favourite bit ? Sid mowing the lawn with a tattered Panama hat on his head . ' Bless This House ' offers no startling insights into the human condition , but its a nice way to chill out on a Sunday afternoon .
With his mother away , Frankie has the house all to himself . He boasts to the other Gang members that he intends getting ' a couple of birds ' . With Dennis in tow , he chats up a pair of Italian girls ; Liza , who is pretty , and Gina , who isn't ( and also upset because she is pregnant ) . In the nearest bus shelter ( a favourite spot of courting couples ) , they blow their chances with the girls . But news of their amorous intentions reaches ' Papa ' - the Godfather like leader of the girls ' family . Thinking Frankie to be the father of Gina's child , they force him to propose marriage . . . I suppose ' The Godfather ' was uppermost in the minds of Geoff Rowley and Andy Baker when they wrote this , hence the reference to ' sleeping with the fishes ' . Its a good episode , even if the Italians are hand-waving , pot-bellied stereotypes ( and that's just the women ) . David Barry gets to do some physical comedy as he struggles to elude Gina's brothers when they invade his house . Lynda Bellingham plays ' Liza ' . What a lady ! Great actress and beautiful to boot . The ' 70's were a good time for her . After seeing her flashing her boobs in ' Confessions Of A Driving Instructor ' , it was difficult for me to accept her as ' the Oxo lady ' . Her overwrought sister , Gina , is portrayed by Rosalind Eliot , who became a semi-regular in Season 2 , though as a different character - the dimwitted ' Celeste ' . Funniest moment - a policeman and policewoman turf snogging teenagers out of the bus shelter , and as soon as they are alone begin snogging each other !
' Please Sir ! ' was a massive success for I . T . V . in the late ' 60's / early ' 70's , making John Alderton into a household name . He left the show at the start of its fourth and final season in 1971 . Naturally he was not about to sign on at the local Employment Exchange . Television companies kept him gainfully employed for much of the decade . His next sitcom role would be as ' George Bassett ' in the B . B . C . - . 1 show ' My Wife Next Door ' . George and Suzy ( the lovely Hannah Gordon ) are newly divorced , and have moved to the countryside . But - in one of those incredible coincidences you only ever find in sitcoms - they find they have unknowingly bought cottages next door to each other . Each tosses a coin to see who will move out . But it does not happen ( naturally , or there would have been no show ) , and they have to make the best of a bad situation . It was like a middle-class version of ' Love Thy Neighbour ' minus the racial element . When I tell you that Tim Barrett played George's friend and colleague ' Henry ' , Diana King played Suzy's mother , and Mollie Sugden was cast as George's mother , you should be able to correctly guess what it was like . It was one of several middle of the road sitcoms penned by the late Richard Waring , whose other credits include ' Not In Front Of The Children ' starring Wendy Craig , ' The Many Wives Of Patrick ' with Patrick Cargill , ' Rings On Their Fingers ' with Martin Jarvis and Diane Keen , and ' Marriage Lines ' with Richard Briers and Prunella Scales - shows that somehow managed to pull off the trick of being pleasantly amusing without ever being particularly funny . The basic idea for ' Door ' was co-credited to Brian Clemens , best known for his work on ' The Avengers ' television series . Middle of the road or not , it topped the ratings in 1972 , helped along by the the charm of stars Alderton and Gordon . William Franklyn and ' Dad's Army ' star James Beck made one-off guest appearances . Rather like the later ' To The Manor Born ' , there was an element of ' will they , won't they ' to the show . As it progressed , George and Suzy stopped hating one another , and the fire that was their marriage slowly rekindled . In the last episode , they raced to prevent the divorce from becoming final . It meant that there was no chance of a second series , but did not matter as the comic possibilities had more or less been exhausted by the first . In one episode as I recall , George and Suzy had to pretend to be still wed so as not to upset an elderly relative . He found out at the end though , and was far from pleased . The thirteen episodes were repeated well into the ' 80's . ' U . K . Gold ' showed it several times , but have not done so now for over a decade . Its continuing absence from D . V . D . is perplexing given its enormous popularity at the time . If it were to become available , I would buy it , mainly for the pleasure of seeing these marvellous actors at their best . I would like to end this review by wishing a Merry Christmas to all I . M . D . B . users - in particular fellow comedy fans ' cornonthecobb ' , ' Ecky Thump ' , ' Cyril Blake ' and ' Deathmark VIII ' . Have a good one !
Concerned by his son's inability to tell a truthful word , Mr . Fisher consults eminent psychiatrist Dr . Smiley . Questioning Billy , the doctor concludes that the elaborate fantasies are as a result of his craving for affection . Hence the Fishers , Gran , and even Mr . Shadrack , endeavour to be as nice to Billy as possible . But the strain of smiling all day long proves too much for them , and they start hitting the bottle . . . The peerless Roy Kinnear guest stars as ' Dr . Smiley ' . If nothing else , this episode gives us a chance to see George A . Cooper's father in a different key , being quieter and less aggressive towards Billy . By this stage in the series , Mr . Shadrach was almost one of the family . Though he does not really need to go along with the ' be nice to Billy ' deception , he pitches in all the same . Funniest moment - Gran sneakily helping herself to Mr . Fisher's whisky !
An episode of the second series of ' The Worker ' . Charlie reports to the Employment Exchange . As Mr . Pugh rants and raves about how he has devoted twenty years of his life trying to find him steady work , Charlie is secretly listening to a horse race on the radio . He has a gambling problem - namely , he is no good at it . Instead of giving up as any sensible person would do , he goes on betting in the hope that his bad luck will somehow change . Mr . Pugh gets Charlie a cleaning job in a betting shop . But the lure of ' having a flutter ' proves too much for him , and soon he is blowing one week's wages after another on the nags . In desperation , he goes to work for ' Gamblers Anonymous ' , an charitable organisation dedicated to helping poor unfortunates such as himself . His first client is Mr . Niggs , a compulsive winner . Niggs ' house is full of colour T . V . sets , uncashed cheques , motor cars , and other valuables he has won as prizes . Charlie suggests that he play on his behalf in an effort to lose the money . . . Poor Charlie . Some people just never know when to quit . This fun episode actually has quite a serious underlying theme , namely that gambling can be as addictive in its own way as alcohol or drugs . Charlie was said to have suffered from such a problem in real life . Glyn Houston , brother of Donald , guest stars as ' Mr . Niggs ' . Funniest moment - Charlie's attempts at placing bets are constantly frustrated by shabbily-dressed ( and taller ) punters . Each time he loses , he takes out his anger by repeatedly pushing the same man over .
Fritz Braun ( Ronnie Barker ) , butler to Kaiser Wilhelm ( Dennis Ramsden ) , is believed to be a security risk , so the Kaiser orders Captain Otto Von Diesel ( Graham Armitage ) to shoot him . But Von Diesel , Braun's brother-in-law , only pretends to do so . Glamorous German agent Lola Fisher has gone missing , hence Braun drags up to impersonate her . Von Diesel places a message on Braun's back using special ink that only shows up when exposed to heat . It is intended for the eyes of British officer Major Yappe ( Freddie Jones ) , meaning Braun has to go back to the randy old goat's flat . . . The third episode of ' Six Dates With Barker ' may or may not have been inspired by The Kinks ' hit ' Lola ' which was in the pop charts the year before . It contains the line : ' she talks like a woman but walks like a man ' , and that certainly applies to Ronnie here . I could not help but think this would have been funnier as a vehicle for Frankie Howerd . He later did do something like it - 1973's ' Up The Front ' . The writers , Ken Hoare and Mike Sharland , were responsible for ' Mr . Digby Darling ' starring Peter Jones and Sheila Hancock . Hoare also worked solo as Stanley Baxter's head writer . O . K . , but the cast deserved something stronger . Hugh Walters is rather good as a young Hitler , and Valentine Dyall appears briefly as ' General Kitchener ' , taking a break whilst posing for that famous ' Your Country Needs You ' poster . Funniest moment - Braun ( as ' Lola ' ) having the message written on his back while on a train . " Be careful where you dot the ' i's ! " , he tells Von Diesel . A passing waiter , hearing Braun grunting from discomfort , peeps through the keyhole and jumps to the wrong conclusion . Incidentally , the fate of the real Lola is never revealed .
' Doppleganger ' , ( or ' Journey To The Far Side Of The Sun ' as it is more commonly known ) was written ( with input by the late Donald James ) and produced by Gerry and Sylvia Anderson , best known for their ' Supermarionation ' television shows such as ' Thunderbirds ' . The international space agency Eurosec discovers the existence of a mysterious planet on the other side of the sun , and proposes a manned flight be sent there . The committee balk at the exhorbitant cost , and shelve the project . But when a security leak at the agency is discovered , fearing that the Russians might get there first , the project gets the green light . American astronaut Glenn Ross ( Roy Thinnes ) is teamed with British scientist John Kane ( Ian Hendry ) . After weeks of gruelling training , the Phoenix blasts off , heading for the unknown . Three weeks later , their ship crashes in what appears to be a bleak , mountainous landscape . Ross survives , but Kane is badly injured . A light is seen moving towards them . . . I will leave the synopsis here . Until this point , the film has been gripping , with excellent special effects ( by Derek Meddings ) and music by Anderson's resident composer Barry Gray ( why it has not been issued on C . D . is a mystery ) . But when Ross and Kane crash land , and we discover the secret of the alien world - it is a duplicate of our own , everyone on it is the same , the only major difference is that things are reversed - it becomes less interesting , and ends with a shattering anti-climax . I think the cinema was the wrong place to do this idea , in fact Gerry & Sylvia later did something similar on their ' Space : 1999 ' show . Ross risks ( and ultimately loses ) his life in an effort to return to Earth - his Earth . But why ? The new Earth is so similar he might as well not have bothered . Roy Thinnes had recently done ' The Invaders ' television series , and gives a competent performance ( pity there weren't more scenes like the one where he rows with his wife ) . Ian Hendry is good as ' Kane ' , but vanishes from the story too soon . Several actors went on to appear in the Andersons ' ' U . F . O . ' such as Ed Bishop and George Sewell . Blink and you will miss Nicholas Courtney ( ' The Brigadier ' from ' Dr . Who ' in a tiny role ) . But the acting honours go to the late Patrick Wymark as ' Jason Webb ' , head of Eurosec . The character is not far removed from ' Sir John Wilder ' , the one he played in A . T . V . ' s ' The Power Game ' . Webb is such a devious character he is marvellous to watch . Herbert Lom's contribution ( as a spy with a camera hidden in a false eye ) amounts to little more than a cameo . Like I said , the special effects are marvellous , as are the sets . So the film is worth watching , but do not expect very much to happen once the action moves to the mirror planet . With a stronger script , this could have been another ' Planet Of The Apes ' or - dare I say it - ' 2001 : A Space Odyssey ' . In Anderson's productions , he made the future seem like a great place , an adventure playground where science was cool , everyone had swank cars whose doors opened vertically , sexy women , and absolutely no suggestion that anything is seriously wrong with the world . We are in the future now and people are still watching ' Coronation Street ' every other night . How disappointing . If a mirror Earth really exists somewhere , one hopes that is a better place than this one . If all the women there look like Lynn Loring or Loni von Friedl , I will be on the next flight !
Like Philip Levene before him , Jeremy Burnham was an actor ( he appeared in the ' Avengers ' episode ' The Town Of No Return ' ) who switched to writing . He penned five of the 32 Thorson adventures , all of them good , of which this is one . Tara has been assigned to try and break the security of the War Room - an underground centre where a computer known as ' The Field Marshal ' is in control of Britain's nuclear defences . Gilpin ( Alan MacNaughtan ) , the man in charge of the War Room , informs General Hesketh ( Ralph Michael ) that the Field Marshal thwarted a rocket attack in 1961 . Incredulous , the General says : " But there was no rocket attack in 1961 ! " . " Precisely ! " , responds Gilpin . Following an unsuccessful break-in ( why she is blacked-up ? It is daytime ! ) , she prepares to organise another . But unbeknowest to her - foreign agents Gregory Zaroff ( Alan Browning ) and Dangerfield ( Alan Wheatley ) plan to discredit her by making it appear as though she has gone over to the other side . When pictures of Tara chatting to Zaroff in a London street are sent to Mother , he immediately reduces her Departmental rating . She is kept prisoner in her flat , but escapes and sets out to clear her name . Her only ally is Steed . . . The late Alan Browning is best known for his role as ' Alan Howard ' in ' Coronation Street ' . The character married the Street's resident sex bomb Elsie Tanner ( Pat Phoenix ) as did the actor who played him . Like Ian Hendry , he was a good actor who would have gone on to bigger things had it not been for a drink problem . He died in 1979 . Alan Wheatley - the elegantly dressed ' Dangerfield ' - was the ' Sheriff Of Nottingham ' in ' The Adventures Of Robin Hood ' which starred Richard Greene . Why his base of operations is a boxing ring in an opulent drawing room is not made clear ( though its no more bizarre than some of Mother's hide-outs ) . The concept of a computer controlling a country's defence system would be explored in the movie ' Colossus : The Forbin Project ' , released in 1970 . The villains ' hope that by discrediting Tara they can force the War Room to dismantle the Field Marshal for a limited time , leaving the country wide open to rocket attack . The scene where Tara drives up to a red phone box in the middle of the English countryside inspired the original opening of the 1998 film . Steed's trick with the house of cards is clever . How did he do it ?
' Braden's Week ' was a popular Saturday night consumer affairs show . After being seen in a margarine commercial for commercial television , Bernard Braden was fired by the B . B . C . , the show handed over to co-presenter Esther Rantzen , and renamed ' That's Life ! ' . Bob Wellings ( of ' Nationwide ' fame ) and George Layton ( best known as ' Dr . Paul Collier ' from I . T . V . ' s ' Doctor In Charge ' ) sat at her side in its first year . The change was more than just cosmetic ; ' Braden's Week ' was a serious consumer affairs programme with comedic undertones , whereas ' That's Life ' veered more towards the humorous . Each Sunday , that brass band theme tune heralded a hodge-podge of a show in which newspaper misprints would be read aloud by a dinner-jacketed Cyril Fletcher , companies apologised for their mistakes in the form of over-twee songs , Jake Thackray , Victoria Wood or Richard Stilgoe sang humorous ditties , and there'd be a vox pop sequence in which Esther terrorised shoppers ( one in particular , giggly old age pensioner Annie Mizzen , became a popular character in her own right . One of the first reality T . V . stars ? ) Then there was the ' Jobsworth ' Award - a gold , peaked cap awarded to sticklers of bureaucratic rules , no matter how foolish . As well as the talking dogs , tap-dancing ducks and beer-loving bats . One well-remembered item concerned a strange animal called a ' Lirpa Loof ' . It was a hoax ; all one needed to do was reverse the letters of its name to find that out . Every comedian has a catchphrase ; Esther's was her penis-shaped vegetables . All she had to do was hold one up to the camera and the audience had hysterics . But the show had a serious side too . In the mid-80's , it launched a campaign to find an organ donor for a dying little boy named Ben Hardwick . One was found , and Ben duly got his new liver . Sadly , it came too late . Even so , thanks to ' That's Life ! ' , his story touched the nation . Then there was the expose of paedophilia at a boys ' private school , which made chilling viewing . During its twenty years on air , presenters came and went . For my money the best were Kieran Prendiville ( later a script writer ) and Glyn Worsnip ( who died tragically young from a brain disease ) . Paul Heiney and Chris Serle also proved popular , going on to front their own show ' In At The Deep End ' . In 1979 , Esther launched a short-lived spin-off aimed at children called ' Junior That's Life ! ' . It was a disaster . Viewers thought the whole show was supposed to be funny , and laughed at the serious bits . ' That's Life ' was not without its critics . Some felt it inappropriate to feature real-life tragedies side by side with schoolboy jokes about bums and wee wee . The ' Not The Nine O'Clock News ' gang did their usual hostile send-up , with Pamela Stephenson as Esther ( " Sorry said The Gas Board . This has absolutely nothing to do with us ! " ) . ' Spitting Image ' went further , accusing Esther of tastelessly exploiting Ben Hardwick's illness in the name of ratings . The sketch was itself attacked in the popular press . The best spoof was done by L . W . T . ' s ' End Of Part One ' ; entitled ' That's Bernard Braden's Show Really ! ' it featured Sue Holderness as Rantzen and Denise Coffey as Annie Mizzen ! In 1994 , viewers decided they had had enough and so ' That's Life ! ' was put out to pasture . The entire cast reunited for one final show entitled ' That's Life All Over ! " . Gone it may be , but its spirit lives on in the form of the B . B . C . ' s ' Watchdog ' and I . T . V . ' s ' House Of Horrors ' .
Billy Dainty ( yes , that was his real name ) won this show on the strength of a show stopping appearance at the previous year's Royal Variety Performance , whereby he reduced The Queen Mother to tears of laughter . Famed for his ' eccentric dancing ' , he was a marvellous physical comedian , vocalist , not to mention outstanding pantomime Dame . ' Esq . ' combined sketches with music , and occupied the ' Opportunity Knocks ' slot on Monday evenings . It gave him full rein to display his numerous talents , particularly a sketch entitled ' The Eurovision Dance Contest ' . I can recall falling about at an item in which he played a man in a library who annoys the staff with his squeaky shoes . He was ably supported by Graham Crowden ( often cast as authority figures ) , Derek Deadman , and of course the lovely and talented Sheila White , at that time appearing in the hit ' Confessions ' movies ( in which she was one of the few females not to take off her clothes ) . ' Esq . ' afforded Sheila the opportunity to do some amazing impersonations of Suzi Quatro , Cher and Nina ( of ' Nina & Frederick ' fame ) . In addition , she and Billy played a warring middle-aged couple who conducted a fierce row in the manner of a televised boxing match . Despite having many excellent qualities , the show was surprisingly not recommissioned , although it was repeated in full a year or so later . Billy went on to become a regular in the B . B . C . children's show ' Emu's Broadcasting Company ' ( E . B . C . ) . He died in 1986 , and an edited episode of ' Esq . ' was shown on I . T . V . by way of a tribute . Sadly only two editions are known to have survived .
On a Sky One retro programme ( ' T . V . Years ' ) a while back , disc jockey Mark Radcliffe said : " The only thing I can remember about ' Duty Free ' is that it was bloody awful . " . Peter Kay was not impressed either : " I hear they're going to ban ' Duty Free ' next year . They should have banned it after the first series . " . Ho , ho . We can take it then that these gents were not among the ten million or so fans who watched back in 1984-86 . Its popularity was so great that at one point it challenged ' Coronation Street ' . It was written by Eric Chappell ( in collaboration with his secretary Jean Warr ) , author of ' Rising Damp ' , ' The Squirrels ' , and ' Only When I Laugh ' , and many other hit sitcoms . The premise is this ; Amy ( Gwen Taylor ) and David Pearce ( Keith Barron ) are in Spain on a package holiday , spending his redundancy money ( nice topical touch . Everybody had redundancy money in those days it seemed ) . David , suffering from a mid-life crisis , becomes infatuated with Linda Cochrane ( Joanna Van Gyseghem ) , the elegant wife of Robert ( Neil Stacy ) , a stuffy ultra-English type forever moaning about the behaviour of the German guests at the hotel . David's infatuation is reciprocated ( the Cochrane's marriage being a sham ) to the point where he and Linda contemplate running away to start a new life together . But it never happens . Over the course of the series , events conspire to derail the romance , and in the last episode David meekly returns to his wife's arms . The first thing to be said here is that it is no ' Rising Damp ' , but then neither were Chappell's other shows . It owed a debt to those old British stage farces in which trouserless men were forever hiding in wardrobes and pretty girls scampered about in their underwear . You had to wonder why Amy did not simply call a halt to the holiday instead of letting David make a fool of himself by behaving like a love-sick puppy . Roger Sloman appeared in one episode as David's old pal ' Kev Wilson ' , whom he had secretly envied for years . It turned out Kev envied him in return ! The first two seasons were good , but then they laboured the joke by making a third . It beggared belief that the same people could turn up at the same time in the same Spanish hotel to begin the saga all over again . A couple of episodes were extended plugs for ' Emmerdale Farm ' ( as it was then called ) and ' Wish You Were Here ' , also made by Y . T . V . Of the cast , Gwen Taylor was the stand out . I had only previously seen her in Eric Idle's ' Rutland Weekend Television ' so it came as a surprise to see her in sitcom ( I had forgotten ' Ripping Yarns ' ) . She was great as the wronged wife ( she played another four years later in ' A Bit Of A Do ' ) . I never understood why David wanted to ditch her for Linda . Amy was sexier by far . Keith Barron had done sitcom before , as Leslie Crowther's friend in ' My Good Woman ' . Joanna Van Gyseghem , who played ' Linda ' , first appeared in the crime drama ' Fraud Squad ' as ' Vicky Hicks ' . Neil Stacy was terrific as the pompous ' Robert ' , all blazer and blazing indignation , a kind of younger version of Arthur Lowe's ' Potter ' character . Carlos Douglas made an big impression as the waiter , often getting big laughs by saying nothing . Another outstanding attribute was Peter Knight's theme tune . One or two poor souls grumbled that it was not actually filmed on location in Spain . So what ? ' Red Dwarf ' was not filmed in outer space , yet was still funny ! ( The Christmas Special did have some location filming , but sadly due to prior commitments Gwen Taylor was only seen in interior shots ) . David Nobbs ' B . B . C . sitcom ' The Sun Trap ' was also set in Spain - and partly filmed there - yet turned out a stinker . So no classic but not as bad as Radcliffe and Kay would have you believe . Having just sat through two hours of the spectacularly awful ego-trip ' Britain's Got The Pop Factor etc . ' , I suggest the latter watches ' Duty Free ' closely to learn how to structure ( and more importantly pace ) comedy .
The first episode of Tony Hancock's ill-fated A . T . V . series . A London department store has had a window broken , so an assistant is told to move out stock in case people try to make off with it . Hancock , passing by , is shocked to see what appears to be a woman undressing in full view of the public . Of course she is only removing an expensive garment from a mannequin . He goes to cover it with his jacket and , not realising there is no glass there , falls through . He takes the dummy into the shop and complains to the manager ( Patrick Cargill ) about the poor service . The manager challenges Tony to work there for one week without managing to lose his temper . . . Probably the single biggest mistake of Hancock's career was his decision to sack Ray Galton and Alan Simpson . Those men understood the character of ' Anthony Aloysius St . John Hancock ' better than anyone else , and this is evident from viewing ' The Assistant ' . It was written by Terry Nation ( creator of ' Blake's Seven ' , ' Survivors ' , and the ' Daleks ' from ' Dr . Who ' ) from a story by Rhy Whyberd ( better known as ventriloquist Ray Alan ) and , while not being particularly bad , could have been written for anybody . It is as though Hancock has wandered by mistake into Charlie Drake's ' The Worker ' . Though it has some genuine laughs , the major flaw is the ending - we never find out whether or not Hancock won his bet . Ray and Alan would not have made this mistake . At least he had the good sense to keep supporting actors of the calibre of Patrick Cargill , who was ' The Doctor ' in the classic ' The Blood Donor ' . Kenneth Griffith is very good as ' Owen Bowen ' , a fiery history-obsessed Welshman who Hancock encounters in the packing department . The annoying little girl whom Tony meets while dressed in a rabbit costume ( ' Uncle Bunny ' ) is Adrienne Poster , later to change the spelling of her surname to ' Posta ' and appear in films such as ' To Sir With Love ' and ' The Alf Garnett Saga ' . Funniest moment - the aforementioned brat denouncing Hancock's ' Uncle Bunny ' as an impostor , to which he replies : " Clear off before I fetch you one around the ears ! " .
Harold has fallen asleep while waiting for his father to come home . An unusually well dressed Albert steps in out of the pouring rain , and reveals he has been to see a spiritualist called Madame Fontana . Harold laughs at his father's gullibility : " Its some old boiler doing a Mike Yarwood ! " . To prove it is all true , Harold agrees to a little experiment involving a Ouija board and a glass . But Harold decides to have a bit of fun by pretending that Hitler wishes to speak to the old man . Albert wants to stage a sance in the Steptoe house in the hope that it might enable him to contact his late wife . Albert has been getting friendly with a widow named Dorothy , and wants to ask for permission to remarry . . . Another ' Steptoe ' movie spoof , this time of Bryan Forbes ' 1964 film ' Seance On A Wet Afternoon ' which starred Richard Attenborough . Only the sance aspect of the plot is used , however . Patricia Routledge is ' Madame Fontana ' , a role she plays in much the same way as ' Audrey Watt ' , the white witch in the ' Doctor At Large ' episode ' Its All In The Mind ' from 1971 . Her vocal talents are put to good use here . She openly fancies Harold , causing him to refer to her as ' Fiona Richmond ' , named after the ' 70's porn star . Its an okay episode , but did not deserve to be the very last one of all , which it sadly was ( apart from that year's Christmas Special and another movie ) . The ' 70's revival of ' Steptoe & Son ' proved an unqualified success , but the time had arrived to bring it to a close . It is alarming to think that , had it never happened , ' Steptoe ' would most likely have been forgotten as black and white shows were rarely repeated after the introduction of colour . Funniest moment - Harold using the Ouija board to spell out the following message for his father ; ' You Are A Silly Turd ! '
Stan is engaged to Sally , a clippie who happens to be Blakey's niece . The inspector isn't too happy about the situation . Inviting her home for tea , Stan tries to create a good impression by wearing the kipper tie Sally has bought him - but it makes him look like a twerp . Sally aggravates Mrs . Butler by continually correcting Stan's speech patterns . and criticising the food . A row blows up across the kitchen table , with Stan , Mrs . Butler and Arthur on one side , and Blakey and Sally on the other . She calls off the engagement . A reworking of ' The Inspector's Niece ' . Madelaine Mills would reappear in the ' Vacancy For Inspector ' episode , as ' Christine ' . Arthur reveals that he and Olive have been married for nine years . Instead of taking a neutral stand in the family argument , as one might expect , he pitches in . Blakey shows Stan a photo of his twin sister , also played by Stephen Lewis . She would feature in the spin-off ' Don't Drink The Water ' , played then by Pat Coombs . Funniest moment - Stan's ' with it ' hairstyle which makes him look like one of The Beatles !
Picture the scene : Marty is on a holiday flight to Spain . Wearing sunglasses and with a white towel over his head , he thinks he looks cool . On his way to the john , he picks up a toy sub-machine gun a kid has dropped . Before he can return it the plane hits an air pocket and Marty is propelled into the cockpit , where the crew take him for a would-be hijacker ! Later , our hero arrives in Spain to find the hotel he is booked into is not finished . Off he goes to a beach when he gets an unusual request from a topless British sunbather . A dog has made off with her bra so , ever the gallant rescuer , Marty agrees to ride a tandem back to the hotel with him seated behind her , holding sombreros over her breasts ! All goes well until he spots an old friend and absent-mindedly doffs one of the hats ! This one-off silent comedy , shot on location , featured Marty Feldman doing what he was best at - visual comedy . His favourite support comedian John Junkin was at hand , cast as a smarmy hotel manager . It was one of Marty's last television projects ; not long afterwards , he succumbed to the lure of Hollywood .
Surely this was one of Mike Myers ' favourite movies from his childhood ? ' Salt & Pepper ' was produced by its stars Sammy Davis Jr . and Peter Lawford . ' Charles Salt ' and ' Christopher Pepper ' are owners of a seedy Soho nightclub who get into trouble when a beautiful Chinese agent dies in Salt's dressing room . Then , one by one , V . I . P . ' s start dropping like flies . Despite continual interference from the law , Salt and Pepper manage to uncover a diabolical plot by extremists to take over the country using a stolen nuclear submarine , H . M . S . Hercules . Its like watching a ' Matt Helm ' picture without Dino . The opening scenes are atrocious , but as soon as Salt and Pepper are kidnapped by fake policeman , it perks up . Some of the action is surprisingly violent for a lightweight comedy , particularly the finale in a military academy in which an M . P . dies when Pepper removes the pin from one of the grenades hanging from his belt . The excellent British cast are a big help - Michael Bates as the incompetent ' Inspector Crabbe ' , Ernest Clark as ' Colonel Balsam ' , and John LeMesurier as the eye patch-wearing villain ' Colonel Woodstock ' . Johnny Dankworth's swinging music catches the mood of the film perfectly . Michael Pertwee went on to write for ' The Persuaders ! ' starring Tony Curtis and Roger Moore . Financially successful though the film was , it didn't lead to Sammy and Peter becoming ' the new Hope & Crosby ' . A sequel , ' One More Time ' ( directed by Jerry Lewis ) was an unmitigated disaster . Richard Donner went on to make ' The Omen ' , ' Superman ' and ' Lethal Weapon ' .
The latest directive from Cromwell's office is that the boys have their hair cut short and the girls wear longer skirts . The children are lined up in the playground so that the teachers - including Potter - can conduct army-style inspections . Seeing this as an affront to their civil liberties , 5C - led by Terry Stringer - stage a mass protest in the assembly hall . They call off the sit-in under the condition that one of their number be allowed to attend future staff meetings . Surprisingly , Cromwell agrees . 5C elects as its representative the less-than bright ' Godber ' Gibbons . . . At my school , discipline was enforced to such an extent that anyone daring to turn up for lessons wearing jewellery , jeans or platform shoes was automatically sent home . Long-hair inspections akin to the one seen in this programme were frequent . Some girls protested their right to wear trousers , but their protests fell on deaf ears . No-one apparently thought to stage a sit-in . Two new teachers are introduced ; one is Bernard . No , not Hedges . Holley . Best known for playing ' P . C . Newcombe ' in ' Z-Cars ' , Holley's ' John Hurst ' looks like a belated attempt to recreate ' Hedges ' . Hurst used to teach at Weaver Street School , and knows Stringer to be a trouble-maker . As was the case with his predecessor , he isn't given much to do . 5C don't seem surprised to see him again . The other newcomer is the charmingly-named ' Miss Gloria Petting ' , played by the very funny Vivienne Martin . She is quite unprepared for the horrors of Fenn Street School . Charles Bolton's ' Godber ' takes centre stage in this Esmonde / Larbey penned episode . Fine if you like him ( I don't ) . The ideal place for him is Borstal , not Fenn Street . Funniest moment - Godber smashing Des ' guitar over Terry's head !
The British Pop Charts are in a shocking state , being full of salacious rubbish aimed at sex-mad teenagers . Sensing a gap in the market for wholesome family entertainers , The Goodies audition for top impresario Isabel Chintz ( Barbara Mitchell ) , under the name ' The Cherubs ' . She hates them , so they go on the top-rated ' Maxie Grease Show ' , singing a mawkish song entitled : ' Mummy , I Don't Like My Meat ' . They win - and Isabel is back on the scene . But she only wants Bill . The little bearded bird watcher is given a new name - ' Randy Pandy ' - and sex god image and before you can say ' How's About That Then ' the groupies are all over him . Its up to Tim and Graeme to save their friend before he does something foolish - like actually making a record . . . Originally intended to be part of Season Three , this was one of the first episodes to dispense with the trademark speeded-up film sequences . The ' Maxie Grease Show ' is a spoof of the dreadful ' Opportunity Knocks ! ' , starring Hughie Green . Barbara Mitchell's gum-chewing Aussie sounds an awful lot like Germaine Greer in her ' Super Groupie ' phase . The notion that Radio One would ban pop records for being rude was amusingly far-fetched at the time ; a decade later , D . J . Mike Read banned ' Relax ' by Frankie Goes To Hollywood . Some good gags at the expense of early ' 70's Britpop , including a Jimmy Saville impression by the late John Peel , and armed security guards outside the ' Top Of The Pops ' studio at B . B . C . T . V . Centre . The Goodies appeared on the real thing the following year when they brought out ' The Inbetweenies ' . Funniest moment - The Goodies making Granny cry !
Glen A . Larson was a humble scriptwriter back in 1968 , he went on to create or co-create ' Alias Smith & Jones ' , ' Knight Rider ' , ' Magnum P . I . ' , ' The Fall Guy ' , and the original ( and best ) ' Battlestar Galactica ' . This was one of his early scripts . Willard Knox , an S . I . A . agent , is arrested by the Petrovian Secret Police on charges of espionage . In his possession is microfilm containing The Miloslav Document , which Noah wants . So he asks Mundy to retrieve it . A heavily disguised Al infiltrates the maximum security prison where Knox is held , only to discover that the spy no longer has the microfilm . He smuggled it out , and refuses to say how unless Mundy helps him escape . During the break out , Knox is killed , but passes onto Mundy the whereabouts of the microfilm - it is concealed in a valuable ring belonging to Ambassaddor Marku's wife Trish . Far from being over , the mission is just beginning . . . A pleasing episode , with a good supporting cast including Mark Lenard ( best remembered as ' Ambassador Sarek ' ( Mr . Spock's Dad ) from ' Star Trek ' , and Taina Elg , who was handcuffed to Kenneth More in the 1959 version of ' The Thirty-Nine Steps ' . We never find out why the Miloslav Document is so important , but it hardly matters . Favourite moment - the prison break-out .
It had to happen . Les is in hospital after his motorbike - which he calls ' Gladys ' - collides with a car . After the doctor ( Richard Morant ) and the stretcher bearer ( Gordon Rollings ) argue over the diagnosis , Les ' leg is encased in plaster and he is given a bed . He saved from the ordeal of having to listen to ' The Archers ' by the arrival of Roy , over friendly as ever , bearing fruit and nuts ( having been a health visitor and a coal miner in earlier episodes , here he is a male nurse ) . Roy makes no secret of his attraction to Les , and admits to having helped him out by donating a pint of blood . Les is horrified . . . It has been interesting to compare this show with ' The Galton & Simpson Playhouse ' , also released recently on D . V . D . The two are quite different . The latter being somewhat genteel , particularly with episodes such as ' Cheers ' . ' Weekly ' , on the other hand , is bawdier , boasting gay jokes of the sort no-one would dare make now . But when you have Dawson and Barrowclough together , it is impossible to find the material offensive . Richard Morant , who plays ' The Doctor ' , was ' Flashman ' in the excellent 1971 B . B . C . version of ' Tom Brown's Schooldays ' . I once got a charming message from Justin Rollings , son of the late Gordon , after I'd praised his father's work on another forum . Gordon Rollings is probably best remembered as ' Arkwright ' from the old John Smiths Beer adverts , but he appeared in countless films / T . V . shows of the ' 60's and ' 70's . That wonderful hangdog face brightened up everything he was in . Neil McCarthy is also no longer with us , but I fondly remember him as ' Mr . Bedford ' in an early episode of ' Some Mothers Do Ave Em ' . Georgina Moon , the sexy nurse , was ' Erotica ' in Frankie Howerd's ' Up Pompeii ! ' . Funniest moment - Les enjoying a friendly conversation with the man in the next bed . Then he finds out it is the same bloke who caused the accident that led to him being in hospital !
The second episode of the second season of Douglas Livingstone's ' Born & Bred ' . Molly Peglar ( Joan Sims ) is planning a special Parisian night - complete with fashion show - at her East End pub ' The Crown & Sceptre ' . She hopes to impress enough people to give her a boost in her ambitions to chair the local Women's Committee . Ray and Marge Benge ( Gorden Kaye and Kate Williams ) are flattered to be asked to attend , only to then learn that she wants them only as domestic staff - her regular cook Mildred ( Mollie Maureen ) has walked out on her . Furthermore , as they are relatives , she does not intend paying them . Elsewhere , Frank Benge ( James Grout ) is scouring railway stations in an effort to locate his missing son-in-law Paul Redstone . He bumps into an attractive middle-aged lady named Mrs . White ( Hilda Fenemore ) who is engaged on a search of her own , to find her absent husband Freddie and find out why he ran off with the Guide Dog money . Frank likes her so much he suggests they have an affair , but she is not up for it . Said missing husband ( Milton Johns ) is to be found in Molly's pub ( posing as ' Mr . Green ' ) where he is painting the walls to resemble the Paris skyline . Molly becomes so fond of him she offers him the job of barman . On the big night , Mrs . White learns from Tommy Tonsley ( Max Wall ) that her husband is at the pub . Determined to get him back , she goes there . Pam ( Suzie Blake ) is meant to be one of the fashion models , but she hates the clothes she has been given and won't go on . The occasion looks set to be a disaster . . . One of the lovely things about this show was the naturalness of the humour . No out-of-place laugh lines , no big headed cast member trying to upstage the rest , and , best of all , no artificial sounding laugh track . Molly's growing fondness for Freddie is mirrored by Frank's interest in Mrs . White . The railway station scene has a nice ' Brief Encounter ' flavour to it . We are so used to seeing Hilda Fenemore as dowdy head-scarf wearing housewives it comes as a shock to see her , for once , playing a sexually desirable woman . As Frank , James Grout is , as ever , brilliant . Look at his pained expression when he comes home from work only to find newly-washed nappies all over the place . There appears to be little affection between him and his wife ( Gillian Raine ) hence his interest in the poetry spouting Mrs . White is entirely believable . Funniest moment - the hatch to the dumb waiter in Molly's pub opens to reveal not the expected dinners , but an embarrassed looking Ray , who had been attempting to fix the thing . Second funniest moment - Frank explaining to his baffled wife that ' Mr . Green ' is in fact Mr . White .
St . Swithins gets its very own radio service . Loftus unwisely entrusts Waring and Stuart-Clark with the task of making it a success . Dick sees it as a golden opportunity to make a quick buck by incorporating local business ads into his ' History Of St . Swithins ' broadcasts , while Gascoigne writes a melodramatic play about Louis Pasteur . MacKenzie provides sound effects . It sounds like a recipe for disaster - and is . The patients get bored and watch old George Formby films on television . Until Nurse Sheila Reynolds saves the day by trying to chat up Duncan on air . Their saucy banter makes ' Radio St . Swithins ' a massive hit . Loftus requests further instalments . . . Pretty amusing episode , enlivened by David Kelly of ' Robin's Nest ' fame as a patient , and Alison King as the Duncan-fixated Nurse Sheila Reynolds , ( first introduced in ' When A Body Meets A Body ' ) , clearly in the mould of ' Dr . Mary Bingham ' from ' Doctor In Charge ' . Funniest moment - a drunken MacKenzie rambling on air about his marital problems !
Duncan finds a baby on his doorstep along with the morning milk . A note attached identifies it as ' Baby Duncan ' . He and Dick try to pilfer nappies from the maternity ward , but Sister Raeburn catches them and forces them to practice midwifery on a toy baby . Needless to say , they are not good at the job . Then Kate finds out and Duncan is forced to go on a quest to find the baby's real mother . . . We've been here before , haven't we ? A baby winds up in the care of confirmed bachelors , and just as they are getting the hang of its upkeep the mother returns and takes it back . The 1971 movie ' Steptoe & Son ' had a scene like this incorporated into its storyline , and ' Rising Damp ' did a plot along similar lines . David A . Yallop last worked on the show in its ' Doctor At Large ' days . His script for the opening episode of the second season of ' Go ' is amiable in spite of the over familiarity of the material . Sue Nicholls , years away from becoming a regular on ' Coronation Street ' , appears as ' Lynne ' , one of Duncan's ex-girlfriends and a suspect in the search for the mother . ' Sister Raeburn ' is our old friend Pat Nye , well remembered for battle axe roles in ' On The Buses ' ( ' The Visit ' ) and ' Please Sir ' ( ' Out Of The Frying Pan ' ) . One scene has not aged very well , however - an angry black father accusing his wife of adultery after finding a white child in place of his own . The new titles were an improvement on the previous season's ; instead of dull stills , we see X-ray photographs ( a skull , a knee , a hand , a chest , an elbow and a foot ) changing into the cast regulars . Funniest moment - Duncan and Dick admiring the baby when Kate creeps up behind them , and asks : " Whose baby is it ? " . Together , the two men proudly reply : " Ours ! " .
The students ( minus Hooley ) are allowed to examine patients in the Patrick Snooth Ward . And a right lot they are too . One is more concerned about his missing hat than his illness , another is a compulsive liar who makes his ailment sound worse than it is ( it is gout ) , another is concerned about sexual impotence . Upton gets Mr . Drobnic , an elderly Yugoslavian railway driver who speaks absolutely no English . Just as his attempts to communicate with Drobnic appear to be succeeding ( thanks to a pen and a sketch-pad ) at last , the patient takes flight in a motorised wheelchair . . . David Jason makes the first of a number of appearances in the ' Doctor ' series ; others include ' The Voice Of The Toad ' in the ' At Large ' episode ' Congratulations ! Its A Toad ! ' , ' Victor Bligh ' in ' Let's Start At The Beginning ' , and ' Manuel Sanchez ' in the ' At Sea ' instalment ' Go Away Stowaway ! ' . Quite a few ' Dad's Army ' actors appeared in this show - Arthur Lowe , John Le Mesurier , Harold Bennett . Here a moustache-less James Beck ( ' Private Walker ' ) plays ' Mr . Wale ' . It is little more than a cameo , but he does it in his inimitable style . Joy Stewart , who had been a ' Physiotherapist ' in last season's ' Its All Go ' , is seen here for the first time as the fearsome ' Sister Fowles ' ( though she is only credited as ' Sister ' ) . She would remain with the show until ' In Charge ' . Funniest Moment - Upton finds what he thinks he is Drobnic's wheelchair , and pushes it back to the ward . However , when Dr . Merriford ( Donald Bisset ) requests to see the patient , he sees a pregnant woman instead !
Duncan and Dick settle down to life aboard the M . S . Begonia . They find the crew to be a mixed bunch - Captain Loftus is a virtual replica of his St . Swithins counterpart , the Purser is a snob who grovels after Captain Loftus constantly , the entertainment officer a manic depressive , but there's some consolation in the shape of sexy nurse Joyce Wynton . Loftus intends throwing a cocktail party for the rich guests , including the loudmouthed American Mrs . Tranmere , and wants his crew to be on their best behaviour . Unfortunately , Duncan's present behaviour is far from his best - he is suffering from seasickness . . . Following the previous transitory episode , this Bernard McKenna and Richard Laing one gets the new format fully established . Vomiting is a regular occurrence in modern comedies , but it was rare in ' 70's shows . We're spared the sight of Duncan throwing up on camera - this was a family show - but thanks to good acting on his part Nedwell manages to convince the audience that he is ill . Funniest moment - Dick attempting to get Duncan ready by walking him round the deck . Pausing for breath , Dick watches Duncan stagger off . A second or two later , we hear a splash . A sodden Duncan reaches the party , leaving puddles in his wake .
Disgusted by the poor quality food at St Swithins , Duncan and Paul both go on a macrobiotic diet , which entails them eating seaweed , millet and stuff normally found at the bottom of bird cages . Loftus invites them to dinner . They experience an evening of hell as they eat their own food whilst Loftus and his guests tuck in to succulent roast beef and crispy roast potatoes . Loftus refuses to believe the food in the hospital canteen is substandard - so he volunteers to try it himself . . . The then-trendy science of macrobiotic cooking is given a kicking here . As with the ' Mr . Moon ' episode of ' Large ' , the characters want to be healthy but learn the hard way that the lure of rich food is simply too great . Funniest moment - Duncan ordering a rump steak in the ' new , look ' canteen - and then having a fit when he is told the price .
When ' The Two Ronnies Sketchbook ' was originally announced , you could almost hear the gasps of amazement from the media . In this age of ' Little Britain ' and ' League Of Gentlemen ' , went the cry , why would anyone by interested in two old men doing corny jokes from behind desks ? But the show astonished television executives by pulling in eight million viewers a week , a far better rating than those achieved by many modern shows . The reason was simple - Corbett and Barker were back , and doing what they were best at - interacting with one another . The sketches were shown intact ( although ' The Phantom Raspberry Blower Of Old London Town ' had a couple of instalments removed ) , and good many of them still were . Predictably , a couple of my favourites weren't included , such as ' The Bogle Of Bog Fell ' , ' The Sky At Night ' and ' Star Trek ' , but that was to be expected . They saved the best until last - ' Four Candles ' - and Ronnie Barker told us how unhappy he was with the pay-off , and went on to suggest an alternative . He was in poor health at the time of recording , but he and Corbett were still able to generate a good few laughs after all these years . Had he lived a bit longer , its more than likely we would have gotten another run of ' Sketchbook ' . On 25th December 2005 , a Christmas edition was transmitted posthumously - Barker having died two months before - and it was heartbreaking to see him wish viewers a Merry Christmas , knowing he was not around to enjoy it himself .
As the ' 80's arrived , and alternative comedy got into full swing , a number of sitcoms appeared that were darker than the chirpy fare served up by the B . B . C . and I . T . V . in the ' 70's . Carla Lane gave us ' I Woke Up One Morning ' , a powerful , bleak show about men struggling to beat alcoholism , ' Affairs Of The Heart ' starred Derek Fowlds as a man learning to cope with life following a heart attack , ' Dead Ernest ' was a ( not very ) good attempt at black comedy from the writers of ' Brass ' , in which Andrew Sachs ' character died and went to Heaven but refused to accept the situation . Beating them all to the punch was ' Time Of My Life ' , broadcast in early 1980 , written by Jim Eldridge , and directed by Martin Shardlow , who also helmed the first series of ' Only Fools & Horses ' and ' The Black Adder ' . Mark Kingston plays ' Ken Archer ' , 49 years old , gainfully employed by the same company for 33 years , and happily married to 23 years to Joan ( Amanda Barrie ) . One day , he is summoned to the office of his boss . " I don't quite know how to break this to you . You how hard it is to break bad news , such as you've only got two weeks to live , or you're pregnant , or you've been fired ? " . The truth dawns on Ken . " I've been fired ? " . His boss smiles . " Good man , I knew you'd spot it ! " . Things get worse . He goes home and the first thing Joan says as he opens the front door is : " Ken , I want a divorce ! " . It turns out she has been conducting a secret affair with her son's best friend Stephen , 20 years younger than her husband and with a face that - according to Ken - resembles King Kong's ! " So that explains those headaches you've been getting every night for the past few weeks ! " , shouts Ken : " Stephen's been getting you . All I've been getting is Patrick Moore and the Epilogue ! " . These events are the prelude to a series of catastrophes to befall our luckless hero . Over the next five weeks , he is mugged , taken hostage , forced to earn a living as a street busker , see his cheques bounce , is arrested , declared insane and sent to an asylum . Even his attempt at suicide comes to nothing . Nothing goes right for the guy . All this was a bit strong for a prime-time B . B . C . - 1 slot . Perhaps it would have looked more at home on B . B . C . - 2 amongst the likes of ' Butterflies ' and ' Roger Doesn't Live Here Anymore ' ( written by John Fortune and starring Jonathan Pryce ) . It drew complaints from viewers who felt we were being invited to laugh at a man in serious trouble , but Jim Eldridge pointed out that its main theme was survival against the odds , one man staying intact despite his difficulties . Magnificent performance by Mark Kingston as ' Ken ' , almost Hancockian in fact ( the show was produced by the legendary Dennis Main Wilson ) . Like Anthony Aloysius St . John Hancock , Ken Archer becomes convinced the world hates him , and so he fights back using the one weapon he has - sarcastic wit . Eldridge gave him some cracking one-liners . For example , in the opening episode , Ken's secretary ( Avril Angers ) says : " My husband is very fond of the tea the chimps drink ! " and Ken replies : " Judging from those pictures I've seen of him , I'm not surprised ! " . In another , Ken is with an elderly couple who are watching ' Pebble Mill At One ' ( a long-gone B . B . C . - 1 daytime show ) featuring Kenny Ball & His Jazzmen . The old man ( Leslie Dwyer ) is slightly hard of hearing . " Look its Kenny Balls ! " . " No , dear ! " , replies his wife , " Its Ball ! " . " Eh ? " . " Ball , dear . He's only got the one . " . " What ? " . The wife raises her voice : " I said he's only got the one ball ! " . The old man looks shocked . " Has he ? I didn't know that ? Poor man ! " . Victor Spinetti popped up in one episode as an Italian waiter convinced that Ken fancied him . " He peeench my bum ! " . Perhaps it was right to end this after only one run . After all , how many tragedies can one man endure in a short space of time ? But it was a good laugh , and its status as a forgotten show is - in my view - wholly undeserved .
Sloane goes to Santa Maria , Brazil , in response to a message from U . N . I . T . agent Jacobsen . He finds the man's corpse in a deserted laboratory . A sole locust provides the only clue . Suddenly , gun men appear . Sloane flees . As he drives off , more gun men block the road and prepare to open fire . Swerving , the car goes straight into the river . The would-be killers think Sloane has flipped and laugh . But a moment later , the car emerges from the water and drives to safety up the other side of the riverbank . Sloane gets the last laugh . A farmer toiling in the fields is attacked by a horde of hungry locusts . They are hybrids , produced as a result of mating ordinary bugs with a somewhat more malign strain known as The Devil's Locust . Anyone unlucky enough to be bitten by one dies within ten seconds . They are controlled by KARTEL agent Penelope Chandler , using an electronic device that can simulate the bug's mating call . Sloane goes to Whitley University to meet Dr . Chris Bishop ( Barbara Rucker ) , the country's number one entomologist and wouldn't you know it , a very attractive woman . Her mentor , Dr . Rand , was recently killed in a plane crash . Or so the world believes . In fact , he is alive and well and in the employ of Chandler , who intends to use the locusts to create famine by destroying America's wheat and grain supplies . . . One of the more outrageous episodes in the series , ' Lady Bug ' is also tremendous fun . In a nod to Hitchcock's ' North By Northwest ' , Sloane is attacked by a crop dusting plane , though the resolution is somewhat different . He survives by breathing air from one of the tyres of a tractor . Edie Adams is cast as ' Chandler ' , a lady with a fondness for chocolates as well as surrounding herself with brawny young men in swimming trunks . I have to say I found her more cute than menacing . Jessica Walter would have better suited the role . The business with the Director and Kelly's umbrella gun looks as though the producer realised they were under running and needed to pad the episode out a bit . Sloane's gadgets - where to begin ? Chased by KARTEL men , our hero lobs a dollar in their direction , exclaiming : " Keep the change ! " . The coin then emits an incapacitatory gas . Sloane's amphibious car was obviously inspired by Roger Moore's in ' The Spy Who Loved Me ' . Whether it also fires rockets we can only guess at . Kelly gives Sloane a tape recorder concealed in a watch . He also has a device for electrifying a door handle ( giving him time to search a room ) and a fake bunch of keys that , when touched , gives a nasty shock . At the end , he is seen chatting to the Director on a video screen inside a cigarette case . No wonder I like this episode ! When the locusts attack Chandler's plane at the end , some appear to have grown to giant-size . Either the hybrid's D . N . A . was unstable or else there was dodgy process photography here . I suspect the latter was the case . Pity . A possible follow-up in which gargantuan locusts attacked major cities would have been great !
A good one for Maddy Smith fans this . Made the same year she played ' Miss Caruso ' in ' Live & Let Die ' . I had the privilege of meeting the lady herself the year before . Actually , meeting is too strong a word - seeing would be nearer the mark ( and my goodness , there was plenty of her to see ! ) . She came to my town to be Guest of Honour at the Summer Carnival . My uncle , a taxi driver , was her personal chauffeur ( lucky devil ) for the day and took her through the packed streets in a limousine . I wanted to meet her but it was no use . She had loads of admirers - mostly men - and everyone wanted a glimpse of those famous . . . eyes . I got close enough to see she was stunningly beautiful - sexy , but with an air of innocence , with a face like that of a China doll . I got her autograph ( which sadly I no longer have ) but never got to talk to her . She returned to London and our lives took very different paths . Here she plays ' Tessa Finlay ' , Henry's god daughter . Tessa is about to be married to nerdy Peter ( David Simeon - later to grace the marvellous ' End Of Part One ' ) . Listening to her sing at his home , Henry mentally undresses her , picturing her in kinky clothes . Later , when the gathering is over , he dismisses Peter as an ' iron hoof ' . Finding a note in his pocket from Tessa , Henry suspects something is up . The next day , she turns up at his office . She confesses to being sexually inexperienced ( as is her husband-to-be ) and , fearing the honeymoon will be a disaster , wants ' Uncle ' Henry to take her virginity away . He suddenly turns puritanical and refuses to do the dirty deed . Tessa announces that unless he does it , she will sleep with the first lorry driver she sees on leaving the building . He agrees to her demand , but then finds that he cannot ( ahem ! ) rise to the occasion . After much debate , she agrees to stay chaste until the wedding . Like I said , there's plenty of Maddy here . She was not merely beautiful , but also a great little actress . Her scenes with Phillips have fire in them . It is good to see Henry showing a different side to his character - the heartless seducer suddenly develops a strong moral conscience . Funniest moment - the twist ending . Spotting nerdy Peter holding hands with his wife Carol , the penny drops for Henry !
The third episode of ' 1990 ' is a different kettle of fish ; it has more plot than the earlier ones combined . Charles Wainwright ( Ray Smith ) , a union leader , is sent to America by the P . C . D . to promote their cause , but instead makes a powerful speech roundly condemning them . The Home Secretary ( John Savident ) has Wainwright sent to an A . R . C . ( Adult Rehabilitation Centre ) for ' correction ' . Kyle helps his dissident friends break into the Centre to try to reverse the damage wrought by Dr . Gelbert's drugs , but to no avail . Wainwright's next appearance on television features a completely changed man ; denouncing his earlier broadcast , the union leader goes on to announce his retirement in favour of a P . C . D . - backed puppet . Like I said , quite different to the earlier Wilfred Greatorex-scripted editions . A sympathetic trade union leader was a rare sight on British television in the late ' 70's , as they were being demonised by the right-wing media at the time as ' the enemy within ' . Whenever you saw a photograph of say Len Murray in ' The Daily Mail ' , he was made to look like something out of ' Aliens ' . The writer here is Edmund Ward , who along with Greatorex wrote several fine episodes of ' Man In A Suitcase ' . His other credits include ' The Power Game ' and ' The Main Chance ' . Ray Smith is excellent as ' Wainwright ' , although it is hard to understand why he goes back to Britain after his American speech . Surely he would have guessed what the P . C . D . would do to him ? His recantation is difficult to accept too ; it is obviously coming from the lips of a man whose mind has been tampered with . The P . C . D . could have achieved the same effect by merely discrediting him , making it look as though he were on the take for instance . The idea of there being secret establishments for brainwashing political undesirables was first seen in ' The Prisoner ' . John Rhys-Davies , later to play ' Sallah ' in ' Raiders Of The Lost Ark ' , plays Wainwright's replacement . No much for the Delly Bird to do here , alas . No wonder Babs Kellermann left after the first season . It could not have been much fun playing a woman so completely devoid of personality .
Big things were expected of the talented Enn Reitel in the early ' 80's . This series cast him as Jim Dixon , an ex-University lecturer struggling to make it in Swinging ' 60's London . Dixon is no ' dedicated follower of fashion ' , as he wears glasses and tweed suits with leather elbow patches . The character was originally intended as a spoof of the ' angry young men ' of the late ' 50's . Ian Carmichael played him in a memorable 1957 film . Reitel was perfectly cast as the quick witted , face-pulling Dixon , Anthony Sher guest-starred along with Clive Swift , and the stunning Glynis Barber . It captured perfectly the heady flavour of 1967 , with opening titles played against footage of dancing flower-people , backed by an Alan Price song called " Where Do I Go From Here ? " . Dick Clement and Ian La Frenais's scripts , whilst hardly in the same class as their earlier stuff , were funny , which makes the show's failure all the more perplexing . Reitel went on to provide voices for I . T . V . ' s ' Spitting Image ' .
' Q5 ' ended in May 1969 . Five months later , ' Monty Python's Flying Circus ' debuted on B . B . C . - 1 . Spike Milligan must have watched with dismay as this imitator brazenly stole his thunder ( to be fair , the Pythons openly acknowledged their debt to the earlier show ) . In 1975 , with the team having moved onto films , Spike felt the time was right to do another ' Q ' . Reunited with producer Ian McNaughton , he once again came up with surreal comedy both brilliant and banal . Neil Shand is credited as co-writer , but its hard to ascertain his contribution , seeing as how much of the show feels improvised ( perhaps he was responsible for the filmed material ) . In ' The Groping Doctor Sketch ' , Spike plays a frustrated television director trying to make something out of a weak bit of material , and asks a member of the studio audience ( John Bluthal ) to help out . The result - chaos . The stranger turns up for the scene wearing ' comedy ' clothes such as a spinning bow tie . Julia Breck ( what a gal ! ) keeps coming on set dressed as a nurse ( her costume disappearing one bit at a time ) and uttering the line : " Physician feel thyself ! " in a manner reminiscent of Sheila Steafel . British film star Jack Watling ( whose credits include ' The Wooden Horse ' with Anthony Steel ) appears in a send-up of ' Colditz ' ; he along with the rest of the cast are imprisoned in the B . B . C . T . V . Centre and want to escape , which they do disguised as the casts of various series such as ' Coronation Street ' and ' Upstairs , Downstairs ' ( did no-one tell Spike that these were I . T . V . shows ? ) . Over footage of V . E . Day the theme from ' Crossroads ' is played . The Lone Ranger and Tonto square up to Marshal Matt Dillon of ' Gunsmoke ' on a golf course ( " me and my successful T . V . series are telling you and your even more successful T . V . series to get your balls off my green ! " ) . A commercial for Honson & Bodges cigarettes has Spike in a hospital bed , extolling the virtues of the brand on the grounds that he now has five days left to live , instead of merely four ! We see the contenders for the title of ' The Smallest Police Station In The World ' , Spike does a Marlene Dietrich impersonation ( and collapses in giggles half way through ) , the Governor of the Bank Of England throws himself out of a window wearing a Donald Duck mask , a yokel directs traffic using a false arm , and the picture of the Queen on a pound note comes to life ( its Jeanette Charles again , folks ! ) . All in a day's work for Milligan . The musical item is ' Mr . Skillicorn Dances ' , performed by Doggerel Bank . I could not work out whether this was bad poetry set to good music or good poetry set to bad music . Like I said , there's some brilliant stuff here and a fair amount of rubbish ( just like ' Python ' ) . If you get a chance to see ' Q6 ' then do so . It will never get a legitimate D . V . D . release in this country due to the presence of disgraced comedy star Chris Langham . Funniest moment - dressed as a policeman , Spike reads the parable of ' The Good Samaritan ' from a pulpit : " And they beateth out of him the crap . . . he put oil and vinegar on the victim's wounds , and he screameth saying : " Hast thou never heard of Elastoplast ! " . Great stuff !
Duffy , Craven and Dennis are doing a decorating job for the London gangster Mr . Bowler . His trendy flat comes equipped with all the latest gadgets and labour saving devices , as well as blue movies on tap and lampshades bearing topless photos of his wife . Sacked from Luigi's restaurant , Frankie becomes a security guard at the boutique where Sharon works . Left to his own devices , he stupidly assists two men he believes to be suppliers . They are thieves , and make off with the shop's entire stock of expensive dresses . Concerned for her job , Sharon turns to Duffy . He and the others ( minus Frankie ) set about stealing the garments back . Unfortunately for them , the culprit is none other than Mr . Bowler . . . The final episode of the first series of ' The Fenn Street Gang ' introduces the character of ' Bowler ' , a small-time Cockney crook who fancies himself as an upper class toff . Played by George Baker , ' Bowler ' would return in Season 2 and went on to star in his own short-lived spin-off . This would be the last time Leon Vitali played ' Craven ' as Malcolm McFee returned for Season 2 . Louis Mansi , seen as ' Luigi ' , also returned , but as a different character - ' Guilio ' , boyfriend of Sharon's mum . The actor is best known for his role as ' von Smallhausen ' in ' Allo , Allo ' . While its true that this show - taken as a whole unit - came nowhere near the quality of ' Please Sir ! ' ' s first three seasons , I defy anyone to claim it was inferior to the fourth . Indeed the Gang was lured back to the school for one episode - ' Old Fennians ' Day ' - in a desperate bid to salvage the foundering parent show . Funniest moment - the Gang are passing dresses from Bowler's flat to Duffy's van by sliding them along a wire . An elderly couple - Molly Weir and Ken Parry - are on their way home from a spiritualists ' meeting when they see the garments floating about in mid-air and assume that they are ghosts !
Sacked from Archie's detective agency on account of the quality of his work ( ie . never having done any ) , Frankie decides to enlist in the military . His mother is horrified to learn that ' her little soldier ' intends on becoming just that . Seeing himself as the new Lee Marvin , Frankie reports to barracks , and starts throwing his weight about . Unfortunately , his cockiness soon vanishes when he meets the sadistic Corporal Elliott . . . A very funny episode by John Esmonde and Bob Larbey , and which with the benefit of hindsight can now be regarded as the ' pilot ' for their later hit sitcom ' Get Some In ! ' . There's Frankie acting in much the same swaggering manner as Jakey Smith , a vicious Corporal ( played by Tony Selby , who was ' Marsh ' in the other series ) , and amongst the squaddies is a young Scot ( shades of ' Leckie ' ) . Frankie's stupidity lands both him and the squad in hot water . During target practice , the Corporal is so fed up of his childish antics he commands the others to shoot him . Frankie is genuinely terrified . Luckily , the squad fire their rifles into the air . Dennis and Maureen are the only other gang members to appear in this episode . Funniest moment - Frankie being arrested by M . P . ' s for going A . W . O . L . As they drag him away , he squeals : " But I've a 48 ! I haven't been here a week yet ! " . One of the police points out that the ' 48 ' referred to hours , not days .
Of all the ' Shelley ' episodes I have reviewed , this was the most difficult to do because nothing much actually happens in it . There are no subsidiary characters , just the three main ones . Shelley and Fran are in their bed-sit as usual . She is engrossed in a dog-eared copy of George Orwell's ' Keep The Aspidistra Flying ' while he - plainly lonely - tries to strike up a conversation with her . But her only responses are non-committal grunts . Shelley finds a book by Anthony Smith called ' The Body ' and begins quoting useless facts , hoping to provoke a response . But gets nothing . Mrs . H comes in and Shelley tries to talk to her instead . She looks baffled as he reels off facts about the Human Body she had not previously been aware of . . . With only three characters , and the action remaining fixed in one room , everything is dependent on the script . Luckily with Peter Tilbury at the helm , you cannot go far wrong . Josepone Tewson's expressions are hilarious , particularly when Shelley tells her how long her intestinal piping would be if unrolled . Funniest moment - Shelley saying to Mrs . H : " Do you know that the Human Body is composed mainly of water ? " . Looking at her , he sarcastically adds : " Or in your case , tea ! " .
Albert makes a steak and kidney pie for tea . Alas , his culinary skills are hardly in the Delia Smith class , involving the use of a beer bottle as a rolling pin , and his dentures to make a pattern round the edge of the crust . Harold takes one bite , and encounters a tooth . It isn't his , either . Harold has purchased an old snooker table , and has it installed in the living room . It takes up so much room it is virtually impossible to have a decent game . Furthermore , Harold does not appear to be very good at it , potting the cue ball each time he attempts a shot . Albert , on the other hand , turns out to be a brilliant snooker player . As he loses game after game , Harold becomes angrier and angrier . Finally , he flips , and , after moving the table into the yard , insist they continue to play even in the middle of a storm . . . ' Pot Black ' was one of a batch of ' Steptoe ' episodes wiped by the B . B . C . in the ' 70's ( why , for heaven's sake ? ) , only to be later recovered , thanks to Ray Galton , who had the good sense to record them using an early form of V . C . R . Of all the recovered episodes , this is the one that I think suffers most from only existing in monochrome . The colours of the snooker balls cannot be seen , making the action around the table somewhat hard-going . What keeps it afloat are , as you would expect , the performances of the cast . As was the case with the later ' A Star Is Born ' , Harold embarks on a new hobby , only to be outclassed by his father . Funniest moment - faced with a difficult shot , Harold goes outside and leans in through the window !
Hedges ' latest plan to turn 5C into towering intellectual geniuses is the creation of a library , open after school hours and supervised by Potter . The caretaker isn't keen on the idea though . With him out of the way , the class are free to use the place for non-curricular activities , such as smoking and drinking . The teacher works out what they are up to and leaves behind a message on the library tape recorder , promising to throttle them using the elastic from Maureen's knickers . Hearing this , they flee from the room . More trouble comes when Hedges finds the place vandalised , and wrongly assumes that 5C are responsible . Duffy and co . track down the real culprits - a gang of yobs from 5B , led by Graham Webster , out for revenge for having earlier been brutally evicted from the library by Duffy . With a visit from the Board Of Governors imminent , Hedges tries to get the room tidy in time . . . Very good episode this . I well remember my own school library and what a joy it was to be asked to help catalogue the books therein - it usually meant a welcome respite from normal English lessons . I took dozens of books home with me , most on the subject of space exploration and astronomy , causing my teacher to assume I would become a rocket scientist when I left school . Things did not work out quite as planned - I became a chef instead ! All the cast are put to good use here , particularly Deryck Guyler's ' Potter ' and his suspicions that 5C might be smoking ' that Carnaby rubbish ' ( cannabis ) . I would love to know how 5C managed to smuggle the crates of beer into the school though ! Funniest moment - Hedges ' blustering attempts to keep the bigwigs out of the library . Second funniest moment - the look on his face when his recorded message is replayed in front of them !
Failing spectacularly in various bids for pop stardom , the Goodies become the super-group of all time by stealing ideas from the likes of ' Wizzard ' , ' The Osmonds ' and ' The Rubettes ' . So successful are they that the Queen gives them O . B . E . ' s during a rainstorm at Buckingham Palace . A new dance called ' The Bounce ' is all the rage , and the Goodies run for Parliament as ' The Bounce Party ' , but are soundly beaten by a party which outlaws enjoyment . . . ' Goodiemania ' swept Britain in 1975 . After four successful series , and a regular spot on ' Englebert & The Young Generation ' , ' The Goodies ' suddenly crossed over from cult status to mainstream . With a new , post-watershed slot ( 9 p . m . ) , its ratings went into the stratosphere . ' The Goodies ' were voted ahead of ' The Two Ronnies ' and ' Morecambe & Wise ' in a newspaper poll to find the nation's funniest comedy team , while their books and records sold by the truckload . How did it happen ? Its been suggested that the cancellation of ' Monty Python ' the previous year helped . All the Pythoniacs who'd previously dismissed ' The Goodies ' as a kids ' show tuned in , and saw it wasn't really that much different . I think this explanation tells only half the story . The fact is the fifth season was simply brilliant . ' The Movies ' , ' Kung Fu Kapers ' , ' Bunfight At The O . K . Tearooms ' , ' The End ' and ' Scatty Safari ' are outstanding examples of the show . ' Goodies Rule-O . K . ? ' was a fitting climax to a wonderful year for the team . It wasn't the first Christmas special they'd made ; ' The Goodies ' Travelling Five-Minute Christmas ' holds that honour , but was the first not to be Christmas-themed . It has no unifying plot , it simply moves from one bizarre happening to another , any one of which would have made for a typical episode - the overall effect is akin to watching one of those compilations made from the ' Carry On ' films . As a result , ' O . K . ' never enjoyed the popularity as say , ' The Goodies & The Beanstalk ' . In fact I remember it being repeated only the once . A number of gags about Harold Wilson ( the then Prime Minister ) resulted in ' O . K . ' looking dated only a short time after its original broadcast ( he resigned in 1976 ) . Even so , there's a lot of fun to be had here and it provides a tantalizing glimpse of what a ' Goodies ' feature film might have looked like . Funniest moment - it has to be the Goodies ' battle with Dougal from ' The Magic Roundabout ' ! Amazing , even after all these years !
A regular feature on ' The Benny Hill show ' for years were ' spoof outtakes ' - moments of television when things would , for whatever reason , go wrong . A door refusing to open , an actor fumbling his lines , a bit of scenery collapsing , that sort of thing . These ' quickies ' were very funny and hugely popular . Then , in 1977 , London Weekend Television broadcast ' It'll Be Alright On The Night ' which was more of the same . Only with a difference . The outtakes were real ! Taken from the archives of motion pictures , news broadcasts and television productions , ' Night ' was a glorious celebration of disaster , boasting clips that would become classics . The girl singer whose mermaid costume slips in the middle of her number , exposing her naked breasts . ' John-Boy Walton ' exclaiming excitedly : " They're gonna hang him by his balls ! " ( I wonder what the original line was ? ) . ' Grandma Walton ' spilling soup over the cast . A trailer for ' Bouquet Of Barbed Wire ' ( a notorious drama about incest , starring Frank Finlay ) being overlaid by one for ' The Muppet Show ' ( how hard it was to tell the difference ! ) . A trailer for ' Within These Walls ' ( a British drama set in a women's prison ) interrupted by a commercial featuring singing , dancing puppets called ' The Yogurt Kids ' . A Irishman gives an interview to a reporter , but talks so fast no-one understands a word he says ! An actor filming a scene in a fake WW2 plane is thrown when someone walks in front of the backdrop supposed to represent the sky ( hence the quote above ) . An American reporter talks to camera , unaware that behind him a man is exposing himself on air ! Denis Norden introduced the programme in his usual urbane manner ( though I could never work out why he had an empty clip board on his person ! ) . The show proved a big ratings success for I . T . V . and further shows were assured . Amongst the best of the later outtakes : ' Professionals ' Martin Shaw falling out of the back of a moving van ! Peter Sellers giggling when someone farts in a crowded lift in ' Revenge Of The Pink Panther ' . A lengthy local news item in which a man revisits the area where he planted some trees a decade earlier , and fails to recall the exact spot , then breaks his spade ! My favourite though was the young American girl who , when asked for her opinion of Christmas , replied : " I think they should have it every year ! " . As Richard Littlejohn would say , you could not make it up !
Sue Mandel ( Judy Geeson ) is young , beautiful , and rich . Also a bit of a rebel . Her father ( George A . Cooper ) becomes concerned about the company she has fallen into , namely a pair of upper-class confidence tricksters named Colin ( Peter Blythe ) and Charles ( David Cole ) . Pretending to be her friends , they are secretly breaking into her father's safe , and helping themselves to his money . Wishing to avoid a scandal , Mandel sends for McGill . The ex-American agent decides to play the con men at their own game , by romancing the girl from under their noses . The ploy works . Sue is genuinely fascinated by Mac . Sensing that the golden goose is slipping away from them , Charles and Colin challenge Mac to a no-holds barred game of poker . . . Ah , Judy Geeson . A lady I had a big crush on in my youth . She is gorgeous in this , whether it be in swim-suit or fully dressed . Sue knows that Colin and Charles are crooks , and doesn't care . All she is interested in is aggravating her father , who has been too busy making money to care about her . As cads go , Charles and Colin are like younger versions of the bad guys in ' The Rotters ' episode of ' The Avengers ' . Sue's dad is clearly of working class origin , which probably explains his distrust of anyone of higher breeding . It is never explained whether Charles survives the climactic fight with Mac . One of the great things about this show was that , like real life , problems would not be neatly tied up at the end of very episode . Though Mac has saved Mandel's money , Sue is not particularly grateful , running off somewhere else to do the wild child act all over again . Mandel's relationship with his daughter is no better than it was before . Jacqueline Pearce is seen briefly as ' Miss Brown ' , one of Colin's former victims . Best known for portraying ' Servalan ' in the B . B . C . sci-fi drama ' Blake's Seven ' , she would resurface in ' Suitcase ' ( in a much larger role ) in ' Somebody Loses , Somebody . . . Wins ? ' . Ian McCulloch , cast as ' Kemp ' , later played ' Greg Preston ' in the original ( and best ) ' Survivors ' . George A . Cooper , a . k . a . ' Mandel ' , is best known for comedy roles , such as ' Mr . Fisher ' in ' Billy Liar ' . John Clive , seen as the hotel receptionist , is also a noted supporting actor , and voiced ' John Lennon ' in the animated Beatles film ' Yellow Submarine ' . Terrance Donovan , father of Jason , also has a small role in this . McGill's trick with the coin was something I attempted on many occasions , but somehow never mastered .
The students are watching a drag act in a nightclub . Their exams are fast approaching , hence this is to be their last ' bit of fun ' before the rigours of studying set in . Studying in St . Swithins is not easy , however , with the students constantly dashing about , and sexy Helga proving a distraction . There is one bit of good news on the horizon , though - Loftus will be in Australia for the next three weeks , and therefore won't be on hand to supervise . So they think . Striding into the students ' bar , Loftus proudly announces he is sending someone else in his place , and will be able to do the exams after all . A wave of terror sweeps over Upton and co . . . The final episode of the first season of ' In The House ' provides an effective conclusion , with the students having to ( temporarily ) knuckle down and begin acting like prospective doctors . The finals would not be for another year , hence if the sitcom was a hit , the possibility for a follow-up series was there . As it turned out , this is exactly what happened . Michael MacKenzie had appeared in ' Getting The Bird ' as ' Second Medic ' . Here his character - if it is the same one - is named ' Mickleton ' . Two characters did not survive beyond the first season . ' Huw Evans ' , played by Martin Shaw , was one , and Yutte Stensgaard's ' Helga ' the other . Evans did however made a brief return to St . Swithins in the ' At Large ' episode ' Mother & Father Doing Well ' . Barry Cryer never wrote for the show again , although Graham Chapman stayed on board until the second run of ' In Charge ' , teaming up with first Bernard McKenna and then Douglas Adams ( for one episode of ' On The Go ' ) . During the studies , Dick suggests a mnemonic system as an easy way to remember medical facts . It would be employed again in the ' On The Go ' episode ' Learning By Heart ' . The drag act is Patrick Fyffe , who a few years later hit the big time as one half of ' Hinge & Bracket ' - as the waspish ' Dame Hilda ' . Funniest moment - Duncan nearly starting a fire in the examination room .
Duncan is shocked to find himself overdrawn at the bank . The culprit - one Dick Stuart-Clark , stole Duncan's credit cards while he was drunk . Dick is being threatened by a bookie to whom he owes money . Andy is not exactly solvent either . Acting on a tip off from Gascoigne , the trio volunteer to be guinea pigs at a research clinic , for which they will be well paid . The experiment involves them being injected with a drug designed to relax muscular control , meaning they will temporarily lose control of their bodies . Back at St . Swithins , the doctors endeavour to carry out their duties but both Loftus and the patients are startled by their seemingly erratic behaviour . . . Selwyn Roberts only penned one episode of ' Go ' , but its a good one , affording Nedwell , Davies and Kane the chance to have some fun with their characters , twitching and jumping about like ' Carry On ' star Jack Douglas ' ' Alf Ippititimus ' after a rectal injection of chili . As you would expect , Nedwell is better at the physical comedy than the others . Funniest moment - Duncan throwing beer into Loftus ' face !
For the first time in his life , Duncan Waring is in love and seriously contemplating marriage . But then he and Gascoigne argue over a patient's diagnosis in front of students . Embarrassed , Duncan snaps and calls Kate a ' stupid cow ' . She storms off . So that appears to be that . Depressed , Duncan finds he cannot keep his mind on his work . . . The first season of ' Doctor On The Go ' concluded with this episode , which looked as though it might signal the end of the ' Duncan / Kate ' romance . During a heated row , Kate slaps Duncan so hard he winds up needing treatment in his own hospital . Its one of Jacquie-Ann Carr's best moments . Needless to say , the rift was not a permanent one , and Kate was back for Series 2 . Funniest moment - Duncan flung across the room like a rag doll . Wow ! That's some slap ! Is Kate bionic or what ?
The Purser finds a pair of trousers on deck . Inside is written the name ' Manuel Sanchez ' . Checking the passenger list , he finds no-one of that name is officially aboard , hence the M . S . Begonia has acquired a stowaway . As a hunt gets underway , Dick goes back to his cabin . Manuel is hiding in the wardrobe . The Spaniard went to England to work but started pining for his fiance . Lacking the funds to go home to Tenerife , he hid himself away on the ship . Stuart-Clark took pity on him and has been stealing food . Duncan finds him too , and also begins stealing food . When the doctors realise what the other is up to , they pool their resources in order to get Manuel safely off the ship . . . David Jason plays ' Manuel ' . He had earlier appeared in the ' In The House ' episode ' What Seems To Be The Trouble ? ' as ' Mr . Drobnic ' , and in the ' At Large ' instalment ' Let's Start At The Beginning ' as the behaviourally challenged ' Victor Bligh ' ( we must not overlook his memorable contribution to that same season's ' Congratulations ! Its A Toad ! ' - he voiced the toad ! ) . He gives a wonderful performance as ' Manuel ' . Forget the comic accent , just check out his body language . Humphrey Barclay liked Jason so much he gave him his own series that year - the unfairly forgotten spy spoof ' The Top Secret Life Of Edgar Briggs ' . It does seem a little odd though for Stuart-Clark to be openly aiding a stowaway with no profit whatever to himself . Perhaps its the first sign of change in his character ( which would be completed by the time of ' Doctor At The Top ' ) . Funniest moment - Manuel repeatedly coming out of a wardrobe to make food requests to Duncan . Top marks for Bob Todd too for being such a good sport by doing the swimming pool gag .
Upton and Paul notice that their surgeries are getting decidedly smaller . They have a rival - Audrey Watt - a local widow who claims to be a white witch , and is curing people with ancient remedies . Even Dr . Griffin is receiving treatment from her for his wart . Paul is horrified to discover that by creeping around her secret laboratory he has invoked an ancient curse . In desperation , he turns to the black arts to try and neutralise Audrey's powers . . . Patricia Routledge's ' Audrey ' isn't far removed from the spiritualist - Madame Fontana - she played in the classic ' Steptoe & Son ' episode ' Seance In A Wet Rag & Bone Yard ' . Interestingly , the script seems to infer that Audrey's mystical powers are genuine . Funniest moment - Paul thinking that he may now be impotent because of the curse . Mollie Sugden , who plays ' Mrs . Mollett ' , would reappear in ' Doctor In Charge ' as the mother of ' Dr . Duncan Waring ' .
Loftus asks Duncan , Paul , Dick and Bingham to come up with ideas for the 1973 St . Swithins Annual Garden Fete . Duncan wants a beauty contest , Paul wishes to do conjuring tricks ( as ' The Great Collieto ' ) , Dick ( rather bizarrely ) suggests a puppet show , and Bingham's big idea is . . . donkey rides . Duncan is horrified when he learns his current girlfriend Annabel is to be one of the beauty contest contestants . Paul's expertise at magic rivals that of Tommy Cooper . Bingham's donkeys turn up four days early ( which means he has to hide them in one of the lecture theatres ) , while Dick's puppet show turns out to be a sneaky ploy to sell beer . . . Almost every sitcom at one time or another has featured a plot about a garden fte , from ' Terry & June ' to ' Father Ted ' . This Phil Redmond scripted episode , though playing on familiar turf , manages to be good fun . Though referred to ( she's one of the contestants ) , Helen Fraser's ' Mary Bingham ' is not in this episode . The oft-mentioned ' Nurse Doreen Willett ' is again played by Andrea Lawrence ( last seen in the ' Doctor At Large ' episode ' Pull The Other One ' ) . Funniest moment - Loftus attacked by Mr . Punch !
' The Liquidator ' was based on the first published novel by John Gardner , who'd later continue the literary James Bond saga . Its a lot more fun than his 007 books ( which to be honest are mediocre ) , and in 1965 was brought to the big screen starring Rod Taylor as ' Boysie ' Oakes . Its a splendid film which deserves to be released on D . V . D . in widescreen ( the copy I have was taped off T . C . M . ) , boasting a fantastic cast , exotic locations , and a nice line in humour . Peter Yeldham's script is faithful to the novel , and doesn't try to distort Oakes into a pseudo-Bond clone . You won't find any exploding briefcases or knives in shoes here . As Boysie , Taylor is great ( I disagree with those who claim he was miscast ) , and the title song by Shirley Bassey wouldn't have disgraced a real Bond movie . Its a shame that there were no sequels ( ' Understrike ' and ' Amber Nine ' were both crying out for celluloid ) . Like ' Where The Spies Are ' starring David Niven , this was to be a one-off outing for its leading character .
As the ' 60's progressed , a sea change took place in British film comedy . Norman Wisdom and St . Trinians were suddenly out-of-date ( though they kept on going for a few more years ) , and a new wave of Britcoms appeared , among them ' The Knack ' . Richard Lester had just made ' A Hard Days ' Night ' and brought the same mindset to this picture . Coming a year before Time magazine published its famous ' Swinging London ' article , it depicts a Britain on the cusp of a cultural and ( more importantly ) sexual revolution . As Spike Millgan later put it : " Queen Victoria died in 1960 ! " . It is arty ( shot in glorious black and white ) , sexist , often irritating , yet manages in its own way to say something serious about human relationships . Michael Crawford stars as ' Colin ' , a shy , repressed schoolteacher brassed off because his boarder , the good-looking ' Tolen ' ( Ray Brooks ) has a knack for ' pulling the birds ' . Tolen is the Russell Brand of his day ; girls are literally queueing outside his room at all times for sex . Tolen offers Colin a masterclass in the art of seduction . Tolen's attitude to the fairer sex is : " I see , I want and I take " , the sort of chauvinistic attitude probably responsible for Women's Lib in the first place . But even his powers are about to be tested to the limit when along comes Nancy ( Rita Tushingham ) a Northern lass newly arrived in London in search of lodgings . Nancy is immune to Tolen's ' Mr . Tight Trousers ' persona , and when he tries to get fresh with her she cries ' Rape ! ' . A number of reviewers have described the movie as ' dated ' . They are absolutely right . But it is fascinating for that reason alone . It is now a quaint museum piece , the sexual attitudes and mores of the era are on view and are fascinating . It may surprise some to learn that the play on which the film is based was written by a woman - Ann Jellicoe . Lester took the play and opened it out ( with help from screenwriter Charles Wood ) , turning it into a visual delight . Surrealism had finally joined the comedy mainstream . The jokes come at you so fast you need to be quick to pick them up . For instance , when Colin wonders whether to let his front room to a monk , we suddenly cut to a bus full of monks . When he gets angry and tries to keep Tolen out of the house by boarding up the front door , the film turns into a mini-lecture on carpentry . Throughout a Greek chorus of elderly people comment on events . " I know what she's looking for and its not the Y . W . C . A . ! " . Their remarks are much the same as you would hear nowadays . Being too old for sex themselves , they frown on the younger generation for being able to do it . Its these quirky flourishes that gives the film much of its charm . The famous scene where Colin , Nancy and Tom push a bed through the streets of London employs a style that was later used on ' The Monkees ' and ' The Goodies ' . The cast are excellent , in particular Donal Donnelly as an eccentric Irishman with a mad compulsion to paint everything white . Michael Crawford's ' Colin ' has all the naivety of his later ( better known ) role of ' Frank Spencer ' . Tushingham's innocent waif is appealing . As ' Tolen ' , all quiff and dark glasses , Ray Brooks is the epitome of ' 60's cool , a man who has women falling for him like dominoes . Watching this again recently , it occurred to me what a great vehicle for Peter Cook and Dudley Moore this would have made . The humour is broadly in line with what the duo were doing on ' Not Only But Also ' . You can easily imagine Cook as ' Tolen ' and Moore as ' Colin ' . Perhaps these characters inspired the ones they later played in ' Bedazzled ' . The film has its share of longueurs , however . Colin pretending to be a lion is something I think it could have done without . And Nancy's cries of ' Rape ! ' to passers-by have ensured it a high place on the ' it has not aged well ' movie lists . ' Comedy has a new freedom ' gushed Newsweek magazine at the time of its release . Absolutely . Rather than being brushed under the carpet , sex was now openly talked about on screen . There was to be no going back . Nudity and bad language would soon enter the equation . I must mention John Barry's marvellous score . He was on the top of his game here ( having just done ' Goldfinger ' and ' Zulu ' ) and the music perfectly accompanies the offbeat action . You will be humming that gorgeous title theme for days . If you want a British movie that has ' Sixties ' written all over it , look no further . It also manages to be a life-affirming , witty and accomplished piece of work .
I am too young to have seen ' Twilight Zone ' on its original transmission . I came to it in 1983 when , to tie-in with the movie's release , the B . B . C . ran repeats of the first series . I watched not really knowing what to expect . It turned out to be a stylish science fiction anthology series , mostly written by Rod Serling ( who also presented ) , and starring top-drawer performers of the calibre of Burgess Meredith , Robert Redford , Fritz Weaver , and Charles Bronson . The premise was that the ' Twilight Zone ' was this mysterious place where anything could - and frequently did - happen . Ordinary people suddenly finding themselves in extraordinary situations , such as falling in love with robots , revisiting their childhoods , travelling back in time , or meeting aliens . That is my favourite kind of science fiction . The stories varied in quality , but most were worth watching and even the weaker ones had merit . The show came about because Serling had achieved great success with plays such as ' Requiem For A Heavyweight ' and ' Patterns ' , and wanted to do a science fiction series because he thought the genre would give him greater freedom to express his ideas without network interference . Gene Roddenberry later felt the same way when he devised ' Star Trek ' . Check out episodes such as ' The Monsters Are Due On Maple Street ' ( a wonderful study in paranoia ) , ' The Invaders ' ( containing a bravura performance by Agnes Moorehead ) , ' The After Hours ' , ' And When The Sky Was Opened ' , ' Nightmare At 20 , 000 Feet ' to see fantasy television at its best . Aliens and monsters were only a minor part of the show . The real star was Serling's imagination . The show's title and creepy theme tune ( by Marius Constant ) have both entered popular legend . You only have to hum a few bars of the latter and immediately everyone knows what show you are referring to . It ran for five seasons in all ( the fourth being a misguided attempt to upgrade the format to hour-long shows ) , and returned to television in the late ' 80's . As was later the case with the ' 90's update of ' Outer Limits ' , the new show was only a pale shadow of its predecessor . Incidentally , the title of this review came from a sketch on ' The Lenny Henry Show ' , shown on the B . B . C . in 1984 .
Albert Cakebread ( Warren Mitchell ) , who describes himself as being in the ' eels ' business , loves a flutter on the horses . Following a successful day at York races , he buys drinks for strangers and boards a train . Three smartly dressed men ( Gerald Flood , Robert Dorning and Alistair Williamson ) watch him stupidly splash his winnings about , and plan to part him from them . Albert finds himself sharing a compartment with the would-be card sharps ( who pretend not to know one another ) , along with a Bishop ( Lockwood West ) and a mild-mannered businessman ( Robin Parkinson ) . They decide to while away the long journey by playing Poker . The Bishop does not really approve of gambling but agrees to act as Dealer . He passes the cards around one a time . " One for you , one for you , and another for you ! " . Albert impatiently tells him to get a move on or they will still be on the first hand when they arrive . The game gets underway . . . With his black-rimmed glasses , straw hat and long hair , ' Albert ' looks more like ' Worzel Gummidge ' than ' Alf Garnett ' . He shares Alf's love of drinking though . When we first see him at the railway station he is in high spirits , loading up an empty binoculars case with miniature bottles of brandy . He does not care who sees him chucking his money around . Galton and Simpson's plot could easily have come out of ' Sergeant Bilko ' - a card game , the sharps , the simpleton begging to be fleeced , not forgetting , of course , the tables neatly being turned at the end . Very good supporting cast too . You do not need to know much about Poker to be able to enjoy this episode . As was with ' I Tell You Its Burt Reynolds ' , this could never have led to a series , but as a one-off it is good fun . Funniest moment - asked by the Vicar what his religion is , Albert replies : " C of E . ' Catcher Of Eels ! ' .
Quite simply , this is the best show of its kind . Created by Larry Cohen ( maverick film maker responsible for ' Its Alive ! ' and ' Q - The Winged Serpent ' ) and produced by Quinn Martin , it features the most popular story in the whole of science fiction - the Earth under attack . Roy Thinnes plays architect ' David Vincent ' ( don't ask me why they felt the need to mention his occupation in the opening credits ) who is driving home late one night . Tired , he stops near a deserted diner and falls asleep . He is awoken a short time later by a strange whirring sound . He sees a saucer-like object touching down nearby . When Vincent returns to the same spot the next day with the police in tow , there is no saucer , only a trailer belonging to a honeymooning couple , and they claim to have seen nothing . Vincent notices that the name of the diner has been changed . So is he mad ? Or has someone tried to cover things up ? Late that night , he approaches the couple yet again . The man attacks him . Suddenly he begins to glow . . . So begins the opening episode ' Beachhead ' written by Anthony Wilson . Taut and intelligently written , it could easily have been an instalment of ' The Outer Limits ' ( and shared that earlier programme's composer Dominic Frontiere ) . Vincent learns that the invaders are here , refugees from a dying world , and they are out to conquer the Earth . His task is made harder by the fact that they can assume human form , so they can be anyone or anything . The only way to identify one is by their little fingers - they cannot bend them ! Kill an invader and it disappears in a fiery red ball of light . Each week , the intrepid architect followed the invaders across the country , thwarting their nefarious plots , which include turning insects into carnivores , sending the Earth off its axis by detonating an antimatter bomb , and attempting to sabotage a moon exploration project . He also hoped to be able to capture an alien and take it to Washington in order to prove their existence . Guest stars included Jack Lord , Peter Graves , Burgess Meredith , Michael Rennie , Roddy McDowall and a pre ' French Connection ' Gene Hackman . It anticipated the ' paranoid ' shows of the ' 90's , such as ' The X Files ' and ' Dark Skies ' . After an excellent first season , it returned for a second , but mid-way through there was a change in format . In ' The Believers ' , Kent Smith was introduced as ' Edgar Scoville ' , head of a group who also knew of the invaders ' existence , and provided back-up . Ratings fell and the show was cancelled without a conclusion . In Britain , ' The Invaders ' played in late-night slots on I . T . V . , but in 1984 B . B . C . - 2 screened the first of two bumper runs ( the other being in 1991 ) , and as had happened with ' Outer Limits ' , the show found a new audience . Most recently , it has been seen on ' Five ' at the ungodly hour of 4 . 00 A . M . In 1995 ' The Invaders ' returned in a two-part mini-series starring Scott Bakula with Thinnes reprising his role as ' Vincent ' . It was dire , looking more like an ' X-Files ' rip-off . Luckily , the original is on D . V . D . and has stood up very well . Just keep an eye out for anyone acting suspiciously in your neighbourhood with a stiff little finger !
Sloane and Torque are at a power station in Germany , investigating a tip-off about a possible sabotage attempt . All appears normal , until an engineer acts strangely after hearing a sequence of musical notes on his computer pen . He pushes the controls well beyond the ' safety ' level , and explosions start to go off . With Torque's help , Sloane saves the man's life . Power-crazed cosmetics manufacturer Edward Danton is using glamorous models to lure U . S . Generals into compromising situations - then brainwashing them into disclosing the launching codes of America's nuclear arsenal . Danton intends causing Armaggeddon by means of a pre-emptive nuclear strike against the East . Exciting second episode this , with the novelty casting of ' I Spy ' star Culp as an eccentric dog-loving villain . Sloane has a handy laser in his cigarette lighter . He gets away from the bad guys in one scene by hanging onto the skids of a helicopter , something we'll see him do again later in the series . Sexy Sybil Danning seen briefly .
John Esmonde and Bob Larbey's ' Get Some In ' was one of several military-themed sitcoms inspired by the success of ' Dad's Army ' . The main difference being that while the latter was about old men training for combat , the former concerned young men ( teddy boy Jakey , vicar's son Lilley , academic Ken , and Scot Leckie ) conscripted into the R . A . F . in ' 50's Britain . As someone too young to have experienced National Service , I shuddered at the horrors the conscripts were forced to endure , such as having their boots nailed to the floor ( whilst in them ) , cleaning the latrines and made to go on exhausting , cross-country hikes . As well as being verbally abused by Corporal Marsh , one of the most frightening characters to ever appear in a sitcom . ' Get Some In ' had the ring of truth about it . I expect the reason why it has never been repeated is because of Marsh's homophobic and bigoted attitudes . Ken isn't gay , but Marsh treats him as though he is , while Leckie is so fed up of the Corporal's constant derogatory references to his nationality he even contemplates suicide . Impossible to imagine these things happening in a modern sitcom . But the lads occasionally got their own back . In one episode , Marsh has been stealing coal from the barracks , leaving the conscripts to freeze in the middle of winter , so Leckie coats the anthracite with oil from the armoury . When Marsh next tries to make a fire , the grate blows up in his face . In another , Jakey sabotages one of the supports on Marsh's caravan , causing it to collapse when Marsh climbs into bed with his wife . So popular was the show that when Thames Television announced its cancellation , ' The News Of The World ' started a campaign for its return . It was successful ; unfortunately , it came back without Robert Lindsay , who had left to take up the role of ' Wolfie ' in the B . B . C . ' s brilliant ' Citizen Smith ' . Future ' Brush Strokes ' star Karl Howman replaced him . Talented though he is , Karl just wasn't ' Jakey ' , and the show suffered as a result . Even so , ' Get Some In ! ' remains one of I . T . V . ' s best ' 70's sitcoms , and a D . V . D . release is long overdue .
Stanley Moon , a short ( in more ways than one ) order cook in a London Wimpy bar , is suicidally depressed because he is infatuated with flighty waitress Margaret Spencer , and lacks the courage to ask her out . Then a mysterious stranger by the name of George Spiggot enters his life . Spiggot is The Devil , and in return for Stanley's soul gives him seven wishes . In the first , Moon is an intellectual ( a Welsh one at that ! ) , and tries to sweep Margaret off her feet ( and into his bed ) with clever talk . She cries ' Rape ' ! In the second , he is a millionaire who lavishes expensive presents on Margaret , to whom he is now married . But she is openly sleeping with everyone except him . The third wish sees him as a pop star whom the whole world adores . Alas ' Drimbl Wedge & The Vegetation ' are on the same programme , and Margaret transfers her hero worship to him . The fourth wish occurs when Stanley innocently wonders what Margaret is currently up to . He and Spiggot become flies who buzz around a morgue . The fifth has Stanley and Margaret passionately in love . But she is happily married to another Spiggot lookalike . Stanley details his sixth wish carefully . There must be no men in Margaret's life . He forgets to specify the sex and is turned into a nun . Which means he has one wish left . Or does he ? Though revered now , Stanley Donen's Swinging ' 60's Faustian comedy was a box office failure in its day . ' Beyond The Fringe ' and ' Not Only But Also ' won Pete and Dud many fans , obviously not enough to make the film a hit . In America , the advertising overemphasised Raquel Welch's contribution , a big mistake seeing how she is in it for all of three minutes . ' Bedazzled ' opened when the popularity of British comedies was in decline , with only the ' Carry On ' series and all-star romps such as ' Monte Carlo Or Bust ' ( featuring Pete and Dud , incidentally ) keeping the genre afloat . Donen's glossy direction underlined the satirical intent of Cook's witty script , the way he keeps the episodic plot under control is masterly . Sadly , he never worked with Pete and Dud again . The name ' Stanley Moon ' came from Sir John Gielgud , incidentally , while ' George Spiggot ' was the Moore character in the celebrated ' One Leg Too Few ' sketch in ' Not Only But Also ' . Another recycled idea was the trampolining nuns . Dudley Moore wrote the wonderful soundtrack . Often overlooked when assessing this film is Eleanor Bron , playing multiple versions of her character . Not only is she beautiful but a marvellous comedy actress . Two years before she had appeared as a Kali Priestess in The Beatles movie ' Help ! ' . Funniest moment - too many to name , but I can't watch Wish No . 5 without weeping with laughter . Stanley and Margaret want to commit adultery , but can't because their admiration for her husband is too great ! One of the funniest motion pictures of all time . Watch it and treat yourself to a Frobisher & Gleason Raspberry Flavoured Ice Lolly at the same time ! ( The 2000 Liz Hurley / Brendan Fraser remake was good fun , but not a patch on the original ) .
A well-remembered episode of the first season of ' Some Mothers Do Ave Em ' . Frank and Betty are on their second honeymoon ( what must have the first have been like ? ) . After narrowly catching the train , Frank takes his poor spouse to a drab looking guest house , run by Mr . Bedford ( Neil McCarthy ) who seems about as friendly as a wet weekend in Saundersfoot , South Wales . The only other guest is nervous ( and slightly camp ) Kenny ( Cyril Shaps ) . Finding two single beds in their room , Frank pushes them together - and tears a big hole in the lino . To conceal this , he takes a rug from under a wardrobe , tearing it cleanly in half . The wardrobe is now lopsided , so Frank needs something to go under it . Betty looks on in horror as her husband gradually demolishes the room . Finding his wardrobe gone and his clothes laid out on the bed , Kenny thinks the hotel is haunted . . . Hilarious from start to finish , this episode has two very good guest performances from Neil McCarthy and Cyril Shaps . McCarthy's ' Bedford ' is Basil Fawltyesque at times ( he has a moustache too ! ) , especially when he tells Kenny : " we don't have funny furniture here . . . only funny people ! " . As ' Kenny ' , Shaps is a scream , whining Bedford's name every time something strange happens . He put me in mind of the sheep from the old Hanna Barbara cartoon ' Its The Wolf ! ' . Crawford and Dotrice are great too ( why does Betty never walk out on this guy ? I know that love is supposed to be blind , but . . . ) . Each time Frank damages something , he says : " I'll throw that out in the morning ! " . It ends with the pair doing a moonlight flit ( luckily , Frank did not leave behind a home address ) through a hole in the floor of their room . Funniest moment - Kenny espying his wardrobe on the move !
The Beatles broke up in 1970 , but another Fab Four were waiting in the wings to take their place - Tim Brooke-Taylor , Graeme Garden , Bill Oddie , and director Jim Franklin . They created some of the funniest and most memorable television comedy of the ' 70's . It was not their first series for the B . B . C . ' Broaden Your Mind : An Encyclopaedia Of The Air ' was . I never saw it ( my television set could not pick up B . B . C . - 2 in those days ) so had to contend with odd clips on the viewers ' request show ' Ask Aspel ' . In 1969 , ' Monty Python's Flying Circus ' was launched on an unsuspecting world , so instead of continuing with ' Broaden Your Mind ' the lads decided to create an entirely new show . The result was ' The Goodies ' . The idea behind the show was simplicity itself ; an agency composed of three men ( ultra-patriotic Tim , hippie-like Bill , and brainy Graeme ) who rode about on a three-seater bike and who did ' anything , anytime ' . That was all , but it allowed the writers freedoms they otherwise would not have enjoyed . The chief inspiration seems to have been the American series ' The Monkees ' . The wacky plots , ' Tom & Jerry'-style chases , catchy pop music , and cartoon violence were elements common to both shows . There was satire involved too . A regular feature in the first three series were the spoof commercials . In one episode , the Goodies tried to capture the Loch Ness Monster . In another , they went to the Moon where they encountered super-intelligent rabbits . In yet another , they set up a safari park whose main attractions were showbiz stars . In ' The Goodies & The Beanstalk ' , they spoofed the traditional British pantomime . Because ' The Goodies ' took the mickey out of ' 70's pop culture , some have mistakenly interpreted it as an attack on the decade itself . ' Star Wars ' , ' Close Encounters ' and ' Jaws ' were popular and thus ready-made targets for parody . ' The Goodies ' soon became a part of that very same pop culture , especially when they started having Top Ten hits such as ' Black Pudding Bertha ' and ' Funky Gibbon ' . The show boasted an impressive array of guest stars such as George Baker , Stanley Baxter , Bernard Bresslaw , Patrick Troughton , Beryl Reid , Liz Fraser , Mollie Sugden , Jon Pertwee , Joan Sims , June Whitfield , Ronnie Stevens , Jack Douglas , Alfie Bass , and Jane Asher . Celebrities of the calibre of Eddie Waring , Sue Lawley , Michael Aspel , Patrick Moore , Raymond Baxter , and most notably Tony Blackburn were happy to send themselves up . Because children loved the show , the B . B . C . got uptight over the content , most notably ' Rock Goodies ' in which they tackled punk rock , ' South Africa ' , and ' Royal Command ' which was broadcast in the Queen's Silver Jubilee year , and predictably upset rabid monarchists . ' Monty Python ' also featured near-naked girls , racial stereotypes , and bandied about words like ' poof ' . So did Spike Milligan on his ' Q ' series . The point is this - it was incredibly funny . Yet adults preferred the more anarchic ' Python ' . For my money , ' The Goodies ' was the more consistently funny ; ' Python ' ran out of steam after three seasons , ' The Goodies ' hit its stride with Season Five . After a decade on the B . B . C . , the Goodies defected to I . T . V . for a final ( disappointing ) run . They pedalled off into the sunset in 1982 . Since then , repeats have been noticeable by their absence . Unlike ' Porridge ' , ' The Good Life ' , and ' Some Mothers Do Ave Em ' , ' The Goodies ' was too much a product of its time period . But fond memories linger . Those of us who lived through the ' 70's will never forget ' those blokes and their bike ' .
Stan is unhappy when he learns he has a new conductor . He brightens up when he finds out it is none other than Iris ( Gwendolyn Watts ) from Basildon , a girl who , according to Jack , has worn out more drivers than the five o'clock rush hour ! Iris is not terribly good at the job - she puts make-up on when she is meant to be keeping an eye out for Stan when he reverses into the depot , for instance , thus causing him to back into a sign . However , like the gallant gentleman he is , he takes the blame . A grateful Iris asks Stan if he would like to take her out that night to the Red Lion . He says yes , then remembers he has promised to take Mum to bingo . In desperation , he pretends that his shifts have been changed . So off he goes with Iris . But Arthur spots them there and reports back to Mum . . . With Jack out of most of this episode ( only appearing at the beginning and the end ) , the underrated ( and sadly deceased ) Gwendolyn Watts is given the opportunity to shine in the role of ' Iris ' . Not only is she lovely , but an expert comedy actress . Check out her performance as ' Rita ' in the ' Billy Liar ' film if you do not believe me . Her facial expressions here are just wonderful . She would return later this season in ' The Darts Match ' and I only wish they had put her in a few more episodes . Note that in these early programmes the Butlers ' kitchen and dining area are separate , later shows saw them combined . This story establishes what would become a pattern , with Stan bringing home a pretty girl and his family , particularly his puritanical Mother and jealous Arthur , deliberately ruin his attempts at romanticism . Funniest moment - Iris letting out a high-pitched laugh on catching sight of Mum's bloomers on a clothes horse near the fire . " Are they yours ? " , she asks Stan .
Charlie Drake's previous films - ' Petticoat Pirates ' ( 1960 ) and ' Sands Of The Desert ' ( 1961 ) failed to set the world on fire , but with ' The Cracksman ' he came up with a little beauty . He plays master locksmith Ernest Wright , who becomes the unwitting dupe in a series of robberies . As you'd expect from a Charlie Drake comedy , there's plenty of slapstick , but also an unexpected element of pathos - when Wright gets out of prison and his former friends shun him , its a genuinely moving moment . The gang's plan is a little unbelievable ; they seem prepared to wait years for Ernest to acquire a criminal record , but its done so well you don't really care . George Sanders is his usual smooth self as the gang's leader , while Nyree Dawn Porter shows a real flair for comedy . In addition , the script manages to squeeze in parodies of ' Dr . No ' and ' Birdman Of Alcatraz ' . The prison scene features Ronnie Barker as a prototype ' Norman Stanley Fletcher ' . A cracker of a comedy !
Channel 4's ' Drop The Dead Donkey ' was a classic sitcom set in an office that managed to be funny without any assistance whatever from Ricky Gervais . It centred around the day-to-day goings on at ' GlobeLink ' , a television news station owned by the mysterious Sir Roysten Merchent . Staff fears that the news will be dumbed down are confirmed when Sir Royston hires as its new anchorwoman the pretty but vacuous Sally Smedley . Immediately she clashes with veteran anchorman Henry Davenport , who calls her " Tightarse " . Then there's the appalling Gus Hedges , fluent in two languages - English and rubbish . " Let me drop some descaler into your think-tank . " is one of his many favourite sayings . And Joy Merryweather , a woman so bad-tempered as to be borderline psychotic . The show won plaudits at the time for being recorded close to transmission , so as to enable the writers to be topical in their humour . Unfortunately , this has resulted in the show now looking dated . ' Drop ' had the good fortune to be running during the dark days of the last Conservative administration , when John Major was in Downing Strret . The endless procession of political mistakes , cash and sex scandals were a godsend to Hamilton and Jenkin . One episode cast Stephen Moore as a thinly-disguised Steve Norris . However , the final series went out after Tony Blair's 1997 election win , and came across as strangely muted . ' GlobeLink ' was finally closed down to make way for a home shopping channel . A mercy killing . ' Drop ' was immeasurably funnier than ' The Office ' , and why it is not as well regarded is a mystery .
' Callan ' star Edward Woodward was the original presenter of this light-hearted panel game for Thames Television . However , Jon Pertwee inherited it following his retirement from ' Dr . Who ' in 1974 ( " Welcome to Whodunnit ! " , he said , in the first show he did , " Or if you like ' Dr . Whodunnit ' ! " ) , and it is he who is best remembered as host . His relaxed , urbane manner made him particularly suited to the job . Each week , a dramatised murder would be shown ( the title then burst onto the screen , accompanied by a nerve jangling theme tune , which included the sound of a gunshot ) , and an invited panel of celebrities ( whose number included Wendy Craig , Terry Scott , Arthur Mullard , Lindsay Wagner , George Savalas , Jimmy Jewel , Norman Bowler and Jack Smethurst ) had to question the suspects , and from the answers deduce the identity of the killer . Tough guy actor Patrick Mower seemed particularly adept at this ; perhaps he should have become a real-life sleuth ! Lance Percival ( who co-wrote the mystery segments with Jeremy Lloyd ) cropped up occasionally as a bumbling ' Clouseau'-style French detective . Two of Pertwee's ' Dr . Who ' co-stars - namely Nicholas ' Brigadier Lethbridge-Stewart ' Courtney ( he had a particularly bizarre exit - poisoned by a dart placed in one of his dancing shoes ! ) and Katy ' Jo Grant ' Manning - made one-off appearances . ' Whodunnit ' went out in the old ' Opportunity Knocks ' slot of 6 . 45 on Monday evenings . Some of the murders were surprisingly well-plotted ; you had to be observant to spot the clues . One episode ended with the surprising revelation ( which none of the panel guessed ) that no actual murder had taken place . The victim had committed suicide , but made his death appear like murder . As Pertwee asked the killer to identify himself , a door opened in the wings , and out walked the ghost of the corpse ! A bizarre televisual moment to be sure , but then ' Whodunnit ' was full of them . Another murder took place on a space station . Putting his tongue in his cheek , Pertwee remarked : " In case you think , you've seen me here before , you haven't . I never visited this place on my travels ! " . Yes , it was played for laughs , but was tremendous fun . I . T . V . made a similar series in the ' 90's - ' Cluedo ' , hosted by Chris Tarrant - but it managed to be nowhere near as good . L . W . T . ' s ' End Of Part One ' did a funny parody in which the host ( Fred Harris as Jon Pertwee ) was murdered during the opening moments of the show , leading to other hosts ( also playing Pertwee ) taking over .
This is not a review of the first ( and best ) ' Star Wars ' movie . I take it , fellow I . M . D . B . users , that you are already familiar with the plot , characters and production history , and how its success changed the face of cinema overnight . So rather than rehash all the known facts , I want instead to recount a personal memory . I first learnt of ' Star Wars ' thanks to Granada's ' The Krypton Factor ' , a long-running game show designed to test contestants ' intelligence , physical fitness , powers of observation and so on . I liked the latter round as it often gave one a chance to see a sneak preview of a new movie . One week , they ran a clip of Han Solo , Luke Skywalker , R2D2 and C2PO escaping The Death Star in The Millennium Falcon , and being shot at by pursuing T . I . E . fighters . I fell off my chair . What was this ? 1970's sci-fi movies were mostly depressing affairs , now here was something fast , colourful , and lively , with lasers zapping about outer space and explosions . Right up my street . I had to see it . But the film was not yet on release here . There was no Internet then so I got my movie information from the local paper . I kept checking for news of an impending screening at my local cinema , but no - there was nothing . I began to wonder if the movie actually existed or not . Had Granada pulled off the greatest hoax of all time ? I read the Sphere book voraciously until I knew the story backwards . I played the Meco disco single at every opportunity . When Marvel's comic adaptation went on sale , I was almost thrown out of the newsagent for jumping up and down for sheer joy . At my school , ' Star Wars ' was a dirty word to sci-fi fans , mainly because it was not ' Close Encounters ' . The Spielberg picture was regarded as ' adult ' and ' intelligent ' , while the Lucas movie was deemed ' kiddie stuff ' starring weirdos in fancy dress running around with a bloke dressed as a big teddy bear . The wait dragged on and on . In an episode of ' Coronation Street ' , Gail ( Helen Worth ) asked her then-boyfriend , Steve Fisher : " When's ' Star Wars ' coming round here ? " to which he replied : " It'll be some time I expect . " . His words encapsulated the sheer frustration and impatience felt by all us U . K . fans . The highest grossing film of all time and we can't see it ? What is the hold up ? Are they reshooting bits for the benefit of British audiences ? Peter Cushing and Alec Guinness are in it so this cannot be right . In desperation , I told a blatant lie to my best friend . " I have seen ' Star Wars ' " , I proclaimed . He looked about as shocked as if I'd said I'd spent the night with Carrie Fisher . I claimed that my uncle Eric worked for Twentieth Century-Fox ( another lie . He drove taxi cabs for a living ) as an assistant editor and George Lucas had been so impressed with his work on the film , he had generously given him a print . To back up my claim , I reeled off a long list of plot details and scene descriptions . I got a few things wrong , such as Jabba The Hut and Biggs Darklighter , both of whom were excised from the final cut . But by the time my friend saw the film he had forgotten these . He did beg me to ask my uncle to run the film specially for him on Sunday afternoon , but I deflected this by stating that Uncle Eric's projector had broken down . He never asked again . Being about fifteen , I was too old for the toys , hence on Christmas Day 1977 I was denied the pleasure of restaging the assault on The Death Star in my garden shed , with the aid of elastic bands , old Subbuteo figures and the John Williams soundtrack thumping out of my Hitachi tape recorder . After what felt like an eternity , the movie finally opened here and suddenly it became fashionable to denounce it as ' overrated ' . ' It was childish when they were playing trumpets in the Cantina ' was my best friend's verdict . That was all he had to say on the subject ( he would have made a great film critic ! ) . Many people felt that the film had not been worth the six month wait . I was one of the few to speak in its defence . I was glad that sci-fi movies were fun again , following years of pictures in which bleak futures were predicted for Mankind , such as the ' Planet Of The Apes ' series . Nobody left the theatre with a spring in their step after seeing Milo The Baby Chimp's parents brutally murdered by the U . S . Government . ' Star Wars ' spawned two sequels , neither as good , and inspired the likes of ' Alien ' , ' The Black Hole ' , ' Star Trek : The Motion Picture ' and countless others . Without Lucas , these would simply not have been made . I am not a big fan of the prequels that began with ' The Phantom Menace ' , but then I'm not young anymore , so can't enjoy that kind of movie in the same way . ' Star Wars ' brought ' A New Hope ' to those of us wanting old fashioned escapism on the Silver Screen again . I envy kids today for not having to wait until winter for the latest summer blockbuster .
A fabulous episode from the pen of Dennis Spooner , creator of ' The Champions ' and ' Randall & Hopkirk ( Deceased ) ' . Company directors are being ruthlessly eliminated by a pair of clowns , ' Merry Maxie Martin ' ( Jimmy Jewel ) and ' Jennings ' ( Julian Chagrin ) . Each time they murder someone they exit the scene with a merry little dance . Then Maxie leaves a red nose behind , giving Steed and Tara a major clue . Tara goes to see Marcus Rugman ( John Cleese ) , who keeps a record of copyrighted clown make-up , stored in a room of specially-painted eggs . He identifies the nose as belonging to Martin , but then the clowns show up and kill him . Martin , a one-time music-hall entertainer , is a resident at ' Vauda Villa ' - a retirement home for showbiz entertainers . A Punch & Judy man is guiding the actions of the residents , forcing them to commit murder in revenge for all the theatres the corporation has closed . But the mastermind has another , more sinister reason behind his actions - the same corporation is behind ' Project Cupid ' - the name of the secret underground base which the British Government will occupy in the event of nuclear war . . . As previously mentioned , this story features John Cleese , some months ahead of ' Monty Python's Flying Circus ' . He does not get a big role , certainly nothing comparable with ' Frost Report ' co-star Ronnie Barker's contribution to ' The Hidden Tiger ' , but he represents the future of comedy in a story that virtually celebrates its past . The casting of Jimmy Jewel - one half of the double-act Jewel and Warriss - was indeed inspired , and Julian Chagrin's sad-face makes ' Jennings ' seem incredibly sinister . Bernard Cribbins has a nice cameo as a gag writer , forever scribbling down jokes , reading them back to himself , and then throwing them away . When Tracey Emin went on the B . B . C . ' s ' Room 101 ' , she chose clowns as one of the things she most wanted to rid the world of , and a clip of this episode was used to illustrate their potential creepiness . Wonderful Welsh actor Talfryn Thomas ( ' Pte . Cheeseman ' in ' Dad's Army ' ) is ' Fiery Frederick ' . His leering and grimacing as he plans to burn Tara in half is disturbing to behold . The climax is a fight between Steed , Tara , Martin and Jennings , with the clowns changing costumes at lightning speed to confuse their opponents . You have got to see it to believe it !
Cosgrove , an amateur astronomer , is observing the planet Venus . His glass of beer suddenly bubbles for no apparent reason . A strange whirring sound , a flash of light , and he is stone cold dead , his hair bleached pure white . Obviously a case for John Steed and Mrs . Emma Peel . As other astronomers - all members of the British Venusian Society - go the same way , it begins to look as though the killer is actually from Venus . Emma chases a ball of light along a country road in her Lotus Elan . When Channel 4 began broadcasting in 1982 , it revived a number of vintage television shows , both British and American . ' The Avengers ' was amongst them . Fans were disappointed to learn that the run was to commence with Season 5 , of which ' From Venus With Love ' was the first transmitted episode . Despite the shows going out at 12 . 55 in the early hours of Sunday ( we were more fortunate here in Wales . S4C showed it at 6 . 00 P . M . on Mondays ) , the reaction was strong enough to see the series ultimately promoted to a 7 . 25 slot on a Sunday evening ( mid-way through the ' Tara King ' era , they ran Season 4 - the black and white ' Emma Peel ' series ! ) . The prints used were hardly pristine ( as Patrick Macnee later remarked : " That wasn't ' The Avengers ' ! The episodes were cut , lacerated , destroyed ! " . He had a point . The ' Mrs . Peel We're Needed ' and ' tag ' scenes were deleted entirely . ' From Venus With Love ' is my all-time favourite ' Avengers ' episode . Continuing writer Philip Levene's fascination with science fiction ( he created ' The Cybernauts ' ) , it has what appears to be an alien invader on the loose . Laurie Johnson's music here recalls Ron Goodwin's ' Village Of The Damned ' score , and several other British sci-fi classics . Amongst a fine cast Jeremy Lloyd crops up as aristocratic chimney sweep ' Bert Smith ' , the late Philip Locke as ' Dr . Primble ' , and Jon Pertwee as the Blimpish ' Brigadier Whitehead ' , writing his memoirs through the reliving of battles . Sparkling script by Philip Levene and stylish direction by Robert Day make this a true ' Avengers ' classic . One to show to the uninitiated .
Naive , small-time thief Lennie Godber spends his first night in H . M . Slade Prison , in the company of Norman Stanley Fletcher . He is naturally nervous , but Fletcher gets him through it by telling him to pretend that he is having a ' quiet night in ' . As the doors are locked and the lights dim , the two men swap views on a variety of subjects . . . Its often been said that the simplest , most effective form of drama is the frank exchange between characters of widely differing viewpoints trapped in a lift or marooned on a desert island . That approach works well for comedy too . Here Dick Clement and Ian LaFrenais take a young , wet-behind-the-ears Brummie criminal and pair him off with an older , hardened Cockney lag . The script is , as one would reasonably expect , top notch and is performed to perfection by both Ronnie Barker and Richard Beckinsale . Apart from a brief appearance by Paul McDowell ( a regular on ' Dave Allen At Large ' ) as a prison guard , its virtually a two-handed piece , as good as anything you will find in the theatre . Poor Lennie badly misses his girlfriend Denise and reminisces at length about their sexual past . Fletcher urges him to forget her , then is fascinated by a topless Page 3 girl in ' The Sun ' . Godber is such a charming , intelligent young man its hard to see what drove him to crime in the first place . From his cell mate , though , he gets a masterclass in the fine art of prison survival . ' Porridge ' had only been on air for two weeks when this episode aired , but it had already achieved the status of ' comedy classic ' . Funniest moment - Fletcher repeatedly stepping on Godber's darning needle !
Terry's sister Audrey is dating a hairdresser named Mario , to whom her brother takes an instant dislike . Keen to break up the relationship before it has a chance to turn serious , Terry tells Bob to ask Audrey on a date , while he takes Mario off to the pub and gets him legless . Bob , who has always regarded Audrey as something of a sister figure , is reluctant to go along with his friend's wishes , but does so . Audrey , however , is wise to the deception and comes on strong with Bob . . . ' The Suitor ' was the last episode of the first season of ' The Likely Lads ' , and is one of the few ' 60's episodes to survive the mass junkings of the ' 70's . Looking back , it now seems incredible that anyone could have even considered wiping classic sitcoms such as this . Did no-one realise just how special it was ? ' Mario ' provided an early television role for George Layton , the future ' Dr . Paul Collier ' of ' Doctor In The House ' and its sequels . When he tells Terry that he isn't Italian ( his real name is Ernie ) , Terry warms to him and reacts angrily when Bob reveals that deep down he really does fancy Audrey ( as Sheila Fearn is drop dead gorgeous , who can blame him ? ) Funniest moment - a laughing Bob and Terry shaking Mario's car in an effort to stop the hairdresser kissing Audrey .
Alf's leg is broken as a result of him slipping on a freshly polished floor ( he thinks Else did it on purpose to try and claim insurance money ) and he is off work , confined to a wheelchair . She claims it was his own fault as he was drunk at the time . Left alone for hours in the dark , he is bored out of his mind and begs his family to bring him downstairs , which they do - with great difficulty . He is still miserable though , especially when Gran turns up , starts drinking whisky and talking about terminal illnesses . To get away from her , he goes to the pub . Else tries pushing both him and Rita's baby's pram simultaneously , but the effort proves too much and she walks off . Three youths push him the rest of the way . Leaving him outside , they take cigarettes off the landlord and tell him to put them on Alf's slate . He gives them crisps as a reward for their ' kindness ' . Mike finds the youths have drugged Alf's beer and painted a clown's face on him to use him for ' Penny For The Guy ' purposes . . . This was the last episode of Season 4 ( though a Christmas Special would follow shortly ) . Following a four year gap , ' Till Death Us Do Part ' had resumed production , and in glorious colour to boot . According to Mark Ward's new book ' A Family At War ' , the decision to revive Alf was partly motivated by the success of the American version ' All In The Family ' . The other reason was that I . T . V . had scored a batch of comedy hits such as ' On The Buses ' , ' Please Sir ! ' , and the ' Doctor ' series and the B . B . C . wished to compete , so they revived not only this but also ' Steptoe & Son ' , ' The Likely Lads ' and ' Sykes ' . Certainly the show benefited from the break . This being the ' 70's , there was a Tory Government in power and new targets for the humour . Joan Sims guested in most of the new shows as ' Gran ' , the gin-sodden geriatric . As was the case with Clive Dunn in ' Dad's Army ' , the actress - quite an attractive woman at that time - was able to portray old people convincingly . Else's indifference at her husband's discomfort is amusing , though it is sad to think that over a decade later she would be the one in the wheelchair . The ringleader of the tear-aways is Richard Speight , son of the show's creator / writer , who would reappear in ' In Sickness & In Health ' as Marigold's boyfriend ' Goldie ' . In an amusing in-joke , Alf refers to the boy's dad as someone who wears yellow trousers and stutters ! Both were characteristics of Johnny Speight . Alf would have his face repainted in an episode of the I . T . V . sequel ' Till Death ' , only then it was Rita's teenage son who did the deed . Funniest moment - Alf looking in a mirror and realising just why everyone is laughing at him !
Our hero has landed a cushy job writing copy for an advertising agency ( nice work if you can get it ! ) . He hates it but is looking forward to his first pay check . But when it arrives he is not happy - after tax deductions it is not much higher than the money he got on the Dole . Furious , Shelley goes to the Tax Office to demand to know what they are playing at , and is pushed from pillar to post by a series of faceless clerks . On being told he can qualify for Mortgage Tax Relief , he tries to get one , but of course for that you need a bank account . . . After the disappointing ' Gainfully Employed ' , its back to form with a cracking episode which sees Jim doing what he is best at - being rude to practitioners of bureaucracy . Shelley's dismay is perfectly understandable , encapsulating one of the reasons why some people prefer the Dole to work . You are no better off really . One of the clerks he encounters is played by the gorgeous Marsha Fitzalan , who went on to be the faithless ' Sarah B'Stard ' in ' The New Statesman ' . I once saw her do a commercial for chocolate , and she managed to make Munchies incredibly sexy . The rest of the episode is taken up with Shelley's phone call to his prospective father-in-law . We do not hear what Mr . Smith is saying , but from Shelley's responses it sounds profane . In the four weeks it had been on air , ' Shelley ' achieved excellent ratings and reviews . Margaret Forwood , television critic of ' The Sun ' , even started a campaign among readers to ' Keep ' Shelley ' At The Top Of The Ratings ' . Then , disaster struck . Following the transmission of this episode , I . T . V . was blacked out by a strike that lasted approximately ten weeks . Viewers had to wait eight months for the remaining three episodes of Season 1 , when they were appended to the beginning to Season 2 . Had ' Shelley ' not been a hit , its likely they would never have been shown . Funniest moment - Shelley teasing Mrs . Hawkins by telling her that he and Fran plan on a nude wedding . " What's the matter ? " , he asks the shocked landlady , " Worried at having nowhere to put your carnation ? "
Over the years , there have been numerous attempts to put Wales and its people on the television screen , ranging from the cringe making Ronnie Barker sitcom ' The Magnificent Evans ' to the touching period drama ' We Are Seven ' . ' Mine All Mine ' was a piece of whimsy from the pen of Russell T . Davies , starring Griff Rhys Jones as the head of a dysfunctional Mumbles-based family who discovers he is the rightful owner of the land on which Swansea is built . Of course his new-found status as ' King of Swansea ' creates untold problems for both himself and his family . As one would expect from a Russell T . Davies series , the writing is first-rate . The cast are wonderful , particularly Jones as the dreamer ' Max Vivaldi ' and Rhian Morgan as his long-suffering wife Val . Even the minor characters , such as Debbie Chazen's ' Big Claire ' , are beautifully put over . For me , though , the real showstopper was Ruth Madoc as Val's trouble-making mother Myrtle . Being Welsh , I could recognise those characters from everyday life . Seeing familiar locations such as Mumbles pier and Swansea Town Hall was also a joy . The only annoying thing about this show was that it ended on a cliffhanger . Despite having many excellent qualities , ' Mine All Mine ' failed to find an audience . Perhaps its very Welshness alienated English audiences . I don't know . Russell was bitterly disappointed by the cancellation , he had plans for two more series . Four months later , however , he had a ratings blockbuster in the shape of ' Dr . Who ' . To think I . T . V . - 1 let this go after one series , yet pumped out five seasons of the execrable ' Footballers ' Wives ' - it beggars belief !
Chosen ( rather oddly ) to represent ' The Prisoner ' as part of I . T . V . ' s ' Best Of British ' series in 1982 , ' Girl ' is one of the least representative episodes . Apart from the final scene , there's nothing to link it to the ongoing saga of ' Number 6 ' and his quest to escape The Village . It opens with an ' Avengers ' type teaser in which a British agent is blown up by a cricket ball . McGoohan's unnamed agent ( surely not John Drake ? ) replaces him , going off on a wild chase across Merrie England , avoiding death-traps , until he confronts the girl and her Napoleon-obsessed father , who is plotting the destruction of London . ' Girl ' is usually thought of as a send-up of ' Danger Man ' , but Drake never had an adventure as outrageous as this . Justine Lord's glamorous assassin and the late Kenneth Griffith's over-the-top megalomaniac are glorious , while Terence Feely's ingenious script ridicules the conventions of the spy genre more effectively than any of the bigger budgeted movies made at that time .
Stan and Jack get a new fiddle going - by waiting round a corner from a bus stop they can avoid picking up passengers and have a crafty smoke at the same time - but then disaster strikes ! Jack is unexpectedly promoted to the post of Inspector . Stan is chuffed at first , as he thinks his friend will give him more overtime and turn a blind eye to his numerous fiddles , but instead Jack undergoes a change of personality . He becomes another Blakey . Poor Stan suddenly finds his perks under the close scrutiny of the management . To make matters worse , he has arranged a date with the lovely Christine , a clippie who eats like there's no tomorrow . . . This is ' On The Buses ' answer to ' Animal Farm ' . Its also a reworking of a first season episode called ' The New Inspector ' , though Stan was the one promoted on that occasion . Bob Grant gives one of his best performances here ; as soon as he puts on the badge and peaked cap he turns thoroughly evil . That cheeky grin is suddenly gone . Surprisingly , Stan never tries to exact revenge when Jack becomes an ordinary Conductor again . Another man would have belted him one for betraying confidences . This is the lovely Madeleine Mills ' third appearance in the show ; previously , she had been ' Sally ' in ' Going Steady ' and ' The Inspector's Niece ' . Christine is not so stuck-up as Sally , though with her appetite for food she would have been a financial drain on any man who took her out . Funniest moment - Blakey getting drenched in batter !
1939 . Bill Oddie is born and , much to the consternation of his parents , has the body of a fully grown man , replete with beard . Sent to a special public school for precocious tots , he along with Graeme Garden and Tim Brooke-Taylor offer to do their bit for the war effort . After defusing a bomb dropped on the school , the trio parachute behind enemy lines to buy cigars for Winston Churchill . Their mission is successful , but on meeting Winnie they've a shock in store - he is a dead ringer for Adolf Hitler ! The final ' Goodies ' episode on the B . B . C . - although not the last recorded , that honour went to ' Animals ' - is a splendid swan-song , full of good visual gags and mischief . The next time they would be on television turned out to be the ill-fated L . W . T . series . Like ' Rome Antics ' five years earlier , it ignores the established format and presents our heroes in an entirely unrelated ( almost Goon Show-like ) adventure set in World War Two , in which a clockwork Tim impersonates Churchill so as to win a football match between Britain and Germany . ' The Six Million Dollar Man ' theme is heard as Tim goes into slow motion mode . The late Andrew Ray , who plays ' Churchill ' , was the youngest son of the much-loved comedian Ted Ray . The headmaster is played by Geoffrey Palmer of ' Reginald Perrin ' and ' Butterflies ' fame . Interesting to see the Goodies turning Churchill into a figure of fun , especially in the scene where British soldiers blow raspberries during one of his speeches . Recently , the film ' Churchill - The Hollywood Years ' tried the same trick , but with less successful results . Funniest moment - Tim as ' Churchill ' running bionic fashion through a minefield with a chamber pot on his head !
The Goodies go to Wales to perform at the Eisteddfod on Llan-dlubber Island . They find it a dreary , boring place ( the roadsigns read ' No Drinking ' , ' No Smoking ' and ' No Girls ' ) , peopled by women in national costume with smoke coming out of their hats and God-fearing types , such as ' The Reverend Llewellyn Llewellyn Llewellyn Llewellyn ' ( Jon Pertwee ) . Tim , Bill and Graeme try to liven up the event by introducing elements of heavy rock , magic and striptease , but the locals are furious . They enjoy being bored , which is why the Eisteddfod is so popular . The Goodies are sentenced to decapitation at the hands of the Druids . In desperation , they pretend to have Welsh heritage . The Reverend is persuaded , and the Goodies are allowed to participate in an ecclesiastical rugby match involving various religious groups , for which the coveted prize is a golden rugby ball . . . When Anne Robinson ranted about the Welsh on ' Room 101 ' a few years back , it caused a national scandal . Yet this show , an even bigger insult to my country , went out thirty-two years ago without causing a ripple of protest . How times have changed . Possibly the reason no-one was offended was because the parody was too over-the-top to be taken seriously . To give an example , during the Eisteddfod , a woman sells leeks to the audience , in addition to ices and soft drinks . It would not be the first time ' The Goodies ' had made fun of a different part of the U . K . - Season Two's ' Loch Ness Monster ' similarly poked fun at the Scots . Here the Welsh are depicted as so backward they decline to use lavatories on religious grounds . Jon Pertwee stepped into the role of ' Llewellyn ' after Windsor Davies had to back out due to other commitments , and as you'd expect from a man of his not inconsiderable comic talents , he is superb , totally unrecognisable as the man who'd been ' Dr . Who ' only the year before . The late Alun Williams , a familiar face on B . B . C . Wales in the ' 70's , plays a rugby commentator . Funniest moment - the rugby match in which both Long Longford and Mrs . Mary Whitehouse are players . After scoring a try , Mary gets a mouthful of abuse from a Druid . He is clearly seen mouthing the words : " You XXXXing old bitch ! " .
One of the few disadvantages the new ' Doctor Who ' has is its inability to gradually develop a feeling of menace . With only forty-five minutes to tell the story , it would be an expensive luxury . The setting and characters have to be established quickly , so we can get onto the monsters . The original ' Dr . Who ' had no such constraints , of course , and nowhere is this better illustrated than in the opening instalment of ' Inferno ' . It opens at a top secret complex somewhere in England , where a Government-funded plot is underway to seek a new source of energy by breaking through the Earth's crust . Sir Keith Gold is showing Greg Sutton around the control centre , while elsewhere a rigger named Slocum touches a green slime oozing from one of the outlet pipes . When we next see him he has transmogrified into a vicious , green-skinned monster . The pacing is slower than today's drama , the exposition more detailed , yet this is a good opener to what turned out to be one of the all-time great ' Dr . Who ' stories .
Following the end of ' Not The Nine O'Clock News ' in 1982 , the team went their separate ways . Pamela Stephenson pursued a ( short-lived ) movie career , Rowan Atkinson moved into sitcoms with the sublime ' The Black Adder ' , but what of Mel Smith and Griff Rhys Jones ? ' Alas Smith & Jones ' kept them in the sketch show format , but unlike its predecessor was not tied to topicality ( although some items referenced issues of the day ) . Each edition commenced with the pair cracking gags before a studio audience , rather like the Morecambe and Wise Show intros . Then the sketches would get under way , along with a funny song or two , and - my favourite - the head-to-head routines . Obviously inspired by ' Not Only But Also ' , these were often beautifully written ( sometimes by Clive Anderson ) and performed . Mel would be the idiot , Griff the even bigger idiot . For instance , when discussing clothes , Griff asked : " what sort of animal is a mo ? " . Flustered , Mel wanted to know what he meant . " I've got a mohair suit ! " , replied his friend , " So what's a mo then ? " . Then , there was another item in which Mel claimed to have won the pools , and indeed he had - 50p . " I think I'll put my 50p into something . " , he bragged . " What ? " , responded Griff , sarcastically , " A cigarette machine ? " . The best one of all was when Mel reminisced about the day he lost his virginity to the woman who ran the local sweet shop , Mrs . Wilberforce . " She took me round the back to search me for orange Jubblies , and that was when it happened . Wham bam thank you ma'am ! " . Griff said , " For me , it would have been ' wham bam NO thank you mam ! " . " Everybody remembers where they were when they lost their virginity . " , said Mel , with a nostalgic sigh . " In my case . . . " , said Griff , " It happened at the same time that President Kennedy was shot ! " . Amongst the other sketches was a parody of the American T . V . movie ' Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy ' entitled ' Margaret Roberts Thatcher ' , Mel as a recording artist who adds the word ' wank ' every time he sings , a gangster send-up called ' The St . Davids Day Massacre ' , Mel as Meatloaf , belting out ' I'm A Loving Machine ' , two men in a restaurant eating their meals in the manner of babies , an Iranian version of ' Terry & June ' entitled ' Achmed & June ' , Mel as a salesman attempting to extol the virtues of a new music system without having a clue as to how it actually works , and the adventures of an inept pair of detectives called ' Inspector Bribeasy ' and ' Sergeant Porno ' ! It was outrageous , cheeky , and wicked , but it was hard to be offended as it was done so well . Smith and Jones sparked off each other wonderfully , becoming the alternative ' Laurel & Hardy ' . They got into trouble with a couple of sketches , though ; one had Mel tossing a wreath onto the Senotaph on Remembrance Sunday , another had both men kissing each other with rather more enthusiasm than was necessary . ' Alas ' proved a worthy successor to ' Not The Nine O'Clock News ' and ran ( losing the first word of the title along the way ) well into the ' 90's . In case you are puzzling over that quote , it was a catchphrase used by Griff ( and other characters too ) in the first series . At the very end of the final episode , the real Joanna Lumley appeared , and announced that she intended to sue !
The nearest British television got to a ' Fonzie'-type character was ' Wolfie Smith ' who , in his ' Freedom For Tooting ! ' T-shirt , khaki jacket , braces , jeans and green beret , was an ineffectual rebel somehow left over from the ' 60's . He was marvellously played by the charismatic Robert Lindsay , in his first television role since ' Get Some In ! ' . Wolfie worshipped Che Guevara , and dreamt of ' the glorious day ' when the downtrodden working classes rose up as one and threw off the shackles imposed on them by their capitalist masters . Ah . If only . . . Backing him up were Buddhist Ken , sad cowboy Tucker , and psychotic Speed . Luckily , Wolfie had a most understanding girlfriend in the shape of Shirley . Unluckily , her Dad - a Tory voting security guard - didn't see Wolfie's appeal , constantly disparaging him as ' that long-haired Yeti in plimsolls ! " . It was all very funny , hardly surprising seeing as it was penned by the great John Sullivan ( his first series ) . One of the best episodes was when the T . P . F . kidnapped a man they thought to be their local M . P . , only to discover that he was the local ' Godfather ' - Harry Fenning . Cheryl Hall left after the second series , so Shirley was written out . Peter Vaughan ( who played her Dad ) left also , and the role went to Tony Steedman . Er , why ? With Shirley gone , there was no need for her Dad to be still around . Or for Wolfie to be still living in the Johnson's house that matter . Arguably the most famous episode was the final one of Season Three , in which the T . F . B . found an abandoned tank , and tried to take over the reins of power by storming Parliament . After a short prison sentence , they came back for one final series , which concluded with Wolfie and Ken going to Spain to find Shirley , only to discover that she was now happily married . ' Citizen Smith ' had a good run , and is fondly remembered . Lindsay may have done other things since , but to me he'll always be ' Wolfie ' . Sullivan's next series was ' Only Fools & Horses ' . Ever heard of it ? Remember , folks - Power To The People !
One of the great mysteries of all time is how ' Mission : Impossible ' ( a great show , yes , but well past its prime in 1971 ) managed to wipe the floor with this engaging comedy thriller from the I . T . C . stable . In all other countries it was a big hit and deservedly so . As well as the charming byplay of Mr . Curtis and Moore , it had exotic locations , intriguing scripts ( from the likes of Brian Clemens and Terry Nation ) , beautiful girls , wonderful guest-stars ( including Joan Collins , Ian Hendry , Nigel Green , Gladys Cooper , and a rare television appearance from Terry-Thomas ) , a sublime theme by John Barry and the delightful Lawrence Naismith as ' Judge Fulton ' . As Britain suffered crippling strikes , we could escape from our gloom ( when there was power ) by watching Tony and Roger each week . So massively popular was the show that as soon as it ended repeats started in peak-time , prefaced by the ' Man From U . N . C . L . E . ' movies . The one good thing to be said for its premature cancellation was it freed Moore up to play James Bond .
In the early ' 70's , the B . B . C . revived several hit sitcoms from the previous decade , including ' Steptoe & Son ' , ' The Likely Lads ' , ' Till Death Us Do Part ' , ' Whacko ! ' , and of course , ' Sykes ' . I . T . V . had been enjoying success with the likes of ' On The Buses ' , the ' Doctor ' series , and ' Please Sir ! ' and the B . B . C . wanted to compete . In the new medium of colour , the resurrected shows took on a new lease of life . Each week , the pounding of a drum would signal the start of a new ' Sykes ' episode . The new show was much the same as the earlier one ; he still lived in Sebastopol Terrace ( though at number 28 , not 24 ) with twin sister Hattie ( Hattie Jacques ) , and the next-door neighbour was the pompous Charles Fulbright Brown ( Richard Wattis ) . Added to the mix were Deryck Guyler ( fresh from ' Please Sir ! ' ) as a policeman with a fondness for food named ' P . C . Turnbull ' ( known to his friends as ' Korky ' ) , and Eric had an admirer in the shape of Madge from the bread shop ( Joan Sims ) who called him ' Ricky ' and kept him supplied with cakes . Korky's wife was never seen , but her reedy voice ( courtesy of Eric ) sounded not unlike that of ' Minnie Bannister ' from ' The Goon Show ' . Eric's character was that of an overgrown boy , constantly trying out new things ( such as building his own burglar alarm or redecorating ) but never quite getting the hang of them . Hat ( or ' Harriet ' as he often called her ) was like a mother figure , always telling him off but defending him when others did the same . She frequently talked to the cuckoo clock on the wall , which she called ' Peter ' . In one episode , Eric and Hattie returned from holiday only to find an old tramp ( Roy Dotrice ) had moved in and made himself at home ( Eric had left the front door open ! ) . In another , they went to a holiday camp where Eric caused chaos by refusing to get up early in the morning . Another memorable episode had him getting a job in a factory , and almost causing a strike by working too slow and then too fast ! When Eric , Hattie and Korky went caravanning , they fell out and hurled plates of porridge at one another ! Another time they bought a boat and almost got blown up by a mine left over from W . W . 2 . " Its alright ! " , said Hat : " I think its one of ours ! " . Some of the early episodes were remakes of the ' 60's shows , such as ' Sykes & A Stranger ' . The original featured Leo McKern as an ex-con who returns to honour a old childhood promise to marry Hattie . For the remake , Eric enlisted the services of his old friend from ' The Goon Show ' days Peter Sellers ( in a rare B . B . C . sitcom appearance ) . ' Sykes ' blend of visual and character driven comedy made it a big hit which ran for the remainder of the decade . Wattis sadly passed on in 1975 , and the show continued but was noticeably poorer for his absence . Joy Harington came aboard as another neighbour - Miss Rumbelow . It ended in 1979 with the appalling ' The B . B . C . Honours Sykes ' . I say appalling because it ruined the illusion that the show was not a sitcom ! In 1980 , Hattie died . The B . B . C . wanted Eric to continue alone , but he rightly declined . The chemistry between the leads had made ' Sykes ' special . Repeats have been few and far between . Network issued the 1972 series on D . V . D . in 2004 , but its ongoing dispute with the B . B . C . means we are unlikely to get more releases , and ' 2entertain ' do not seem keen to pick up the baton . A few years back , the now-defunct satellite channel ' U . K . Drama Daytime ' put on most - but not all - of the shows . They showed that ' Sykes ' still has the ability to delight and amuse in equal proportions .
After six excellent seasons , ' One Foot In The Grave ' finally came to an end . David Renwick could have kept it running , but decided to quit while he was ahead . Paul Merton and Hannah Gordon both guested on the final show . It opens with Margaret , now a widow , complaining that a portrait of her late husband Victor bears an uncomfortable resemblance to Alistair Sim . The story of Victor's death is told in flashback . Right the way through we see the aftermaths of various incidents , such as Victor stabbing a syringe into the naked bottom of a boy racer . Its only at the end do we get to see these incidents in all their glory , accompanied by an upbeat number from ' The Travelling Wilburys ' . It would have been easy for Renwick to have closed the show with Victor's death , and have the credits roll in silence . But even with a story as tragic as this , he finds humour . Its British comedy at its best . Such was the impact of ' Grave ' on the public that the spot where Victor was killed was strewn with floral tributes and messages of sympathy within hours . Not bad for a fictional comedy character . How mean-spirited then of I . T . V . to spoil this episode by deliberately trailing in advance the ghastly Judith Keppel's win on ' Who Wants To Be A Millionaire ' , ensuring a ratings advantage . No matter ; ' One Foot In The Grave ' will be remembered long after Chris Tarrant's shabby greedfest is forgotten .
A battered old van bearing the legend ' B . B . C . T . V . ' stops alongside the Thames Television studio at Teddington Lock , London . The rear doors open , and two figures in raincoats and flat caps are flung out . As it speeds off , they regain their composure , and are greeted by a camp-sounding producer . " Welcome to Thames ! " . The new arrivals - Eric Morecambe and Ernie Wise - look at one another . " This is just like the B . B . C . ! " , says Ernie , to which Eric responds : " Only quicker ! " . Yes , after ten years , the unthinkable had happened . Morecambe and Wise had jumped ship , leaving the B . B . C . to join Thames T . V . They would not be the first comedians to do this , of course , Benny Hill took the same route a decade before . But Eric and Ernie had seemed so at home on the B . B . C . , so much a part of it , that a move to the commercial channel looked as likely as Granada surrendering production of ' Coronation Street ' to B . B . C . Wales . Indeed Eric had decisively ruled out the possibility of such a move a year before it actually happened . " There's no way we're going over to I . T . V . ! " , he had stated . The first show they did for Thames went out on 24th October 1978 . As it was their first since their record breaking Christmas Show the year before - watched by a staggering 28 million people - a lot was expected of it . Eddie Braben , their regular writer ( and arguably the man behind their greatest television triumphs ) was still under contract to the B . B . C . , hence new writers needed to be found . Or rather a pair of old ones . John Junkin and Barry Cryer had written at least one of Eric and Ernie's B . B . C . Christmas shows , and seemed the right men for the job ( like their predecessors Dick Hills and Sid Green , they made brief appearances as themselves ) . That first show contained all the familiar ingredients - songs , sketches ( including one of Ernie's legendary dreadful plays ) , and guest stars . Continuing the tradition of great British actresses appearing alongside the lads ( such as Glenda Jackson and Diana Rigg ) , Judi Dench ( before she was made a Dame ) joined the club . Donald Sinden ( then appearing as stuffy ' Robert ' in the sitcom ' Two's Company ' ) did a sketch entitled ' Butler Of The Year ' , before singing ( if that's the right word ) ' You've Either Got Or You Haven't Got Style ' . Old favourites Ann Hamilton and Peter Cushing ( still after his money ) returned . Leonard Sachs , chairman of ' The Good Old Days ' , made a fun cameo in a spoof version of ' Dr . Jekyll & Mr . Hyde ' . Amongst the musical numbers was a fabulous recreation of ' I Want To Talk Like You ' from Disney's ' Jungle Book ' with Eric and Ernie miming to the soundtrack . In short , it was every bit as good as their earlier B . B . C . shows . So why hasn't history been kinder to their Thames work ? Possibly due to massive public affection for the former . When it went out originally , what do you think B . B . C . - 1 were showing at the same time ? It was ' Morecambe & Wise At The B . B . C . ' . Yes , you read it correctly . To act as a spoiler , Bill Cotton Junior scheduled a repeat to overlap with the start of their first Thames special . The continuity announcer was even instructed to describe it as ' the best years of Morecambe & Wise ' , cattily implying that the new show would in some way be inferior . Many agreed - the Thames shows never got the high ratings as those of the B . B . C . - but even so I do not think they were anywhere near as bad as chroniclers of Morecambe and Wise's history have liked to make out . The decline in their fortunes only came about when Eric suffered a second major attack , necessitating the need for a scaling down of their act , meaning that their later work came across as tired and flat . Even Braben's return did not help matters . They really should have called it a day . Instead they ploughed on , their shows continuing until the end of 1983 . Eric died a few months later . Now that the Thames shows are available on D . V . D . , we can see that they are a lot better than they have been given credit for . Morecambe and Wise continue to bring us sunshine after all these years .
