" R . P . M . " , a silly saga with David Arquette as an international car thief , can't manage to get itself out of park . From casting to acting to simple props and stunts and everything in between , " R . P . M . " is a loser . The only good thing in this film is Emmanuelle Seigner who seems awkwardly out of place and in need of a good script .
" Beyond the City Limits " is a good example of how not to make a movie . Director Gaston manages to lead her decent cast into a sort of mindless oblivion where nothing works . An uneven conglomerated mess of lousy acting , directing , editing , cinematography , music , etc . , this uninspired doggie can't seem to find a genre and stick with it . If this is the only movie on t . v . , just turn the box off and play solitaire . Yuck ! ( D )
Not to be confused with the Madonna film " The Next Best Thing " , " The Last Big Thing " is a silly , campy , off-the-wall comedy about a man who yearns to start a magazine called " The Next Big Thing " which reviews a variety of up and coming artists . This low budget indie makes " Chuck and Buck " look like a masterpiece . Fraught with lousy acting , poor sets and costuming , etc . , " . . . Thing " has earned some awful reviews and to date has only been nominated for one fringe award . Pass on this one .
( Spoilers ) " Cash Crop " goes something like this . Down-on-their-luck farmers grow pot to make ends meet . DEA agent blows into town . Farmers hide the pot . DEA agent leaves town . End of story . This flick features solid performances by some second tier actors , mediocre direction , and a so-so screenplay . . . but it ain't got no story . And since the story is the foundation of every drama , " Cash Crop " is an utter failure . Too boring to recommend .
" Falling Like This " is a jiggle-cam no-budget indie loser not worth the time . The flick has no story , no point , no purpose , no moral , no message , and comes off like a bad class project . What is supposed to be a slice of life flick about a couple of rebellious teens goes something like . . see the kids take a bath , see them drive a truck off a cliff , see them play darts and look at the sky and drink beer and get busted and hang out and pitch a fit and go to juvi and . . . yada , yada , yada . If you want to watch amateurish films , there are much better amateurish films than this on late night t . v .
" Best Men " can't seem to make up its mind if it wants to be a comedy or a drama and scrambles both while compromising each only to cap the confusion with some mediocre action . A technically okay production with a decent cast of 2nd tier talent , this film is a directorial disaster with a sloppy make-it-up-as-we-go-along storyline . Character development is not sufficient to allow the audience to summon the emotions the film seems to demand and comedic purpose is lost in quotes from Hamlet and a lot of sappy personal relationship issues .
In " Joe Dirt " , Spade appears to be trying to create a loveable loser folk hero while telling of the character's odyssey-like search for his parents in a radio interview conducted by Dennis Miller . An unfortunate make-it-up-as-you-go junk comedy , " Joe Dirt " is sorely bereft of creativity and humor and wears itself out early on with nary a LOL to be found . Recommended only for die-hard Spade fans . . . if there is such a thing .
" Kissed " takes on the daunting issue of necrophilia as it focuses on Sandra ( Parker ) , a necrophiliac who has sex with the dead people in the funeral home where she's employed . If whack job Sandra isn't enough on our plate , the neophytes behind this film serve up an even more whacked out head case in a med student love interest who has similar aberrant psychic proclivities . In an obvious effort to make the disgusting , illegal , and immoral practice of necrophilia ( which is never really shown ) palatable , the film goes off into a sort of transcendental lalaland where it's kinda / sorta okay to have sex with dead people as long as you respect them in the morning . The result is a bunch of hokum which is difficult to swallow and a cowardly , illusory attempt to illuminate a taboo subject . Combine that huge deficit with the film's obvious indieness and you have a movie which is probably not worth your while . (
The film " Simpatico " tells its marginally interesting story through a succession of annoying flashbacks and unlikely present-day events . Character development is sufficient to make us realize that we don't much care about what happens to the characters and the drama unfolds like so much chaff from the cutting room floor pieced together in a futile attempt to whet audience interest . " Simpatico " is a poor showcase for some fine actors .
" Blood and Concrete " is a lame little low budget comedy about a small time hoodlum ( Zane ) who hooks up with a neurotic babe ( Beals ) and then learns they have something more in common than mutual admiration . . . specifically a drug called " Libido " . Playing out like something contrived by a bunch of drunken college students , this flick invents wacky characters and then has them pop up as necessary to sustain it as it dogs its way through its meager plot . Although the film does have a few funny moments and a hint of a creative edge , it is a sub-B flick which wears out early on and most will not find it worth the time .
" Basic " tells a story about the investigation of murders during an Army jungle training exercise which uncovers layer upon layer of intrigue much of it via flashback . The film offers a good cast under the crop of a good director and manages to build some charisma in its cavalier DEA agent protag ( Travolta ) . That's the upside of this critically panned turkey which sinks into a mire of convoluted nonsense so messy you'll need Cliff notes to connect the dots . The downside is everything else from a story only a " grunt " could love to the absence of everything a " grunt " would like to see such as romance , fragfests , stunts galore , T & A / sex / nudity , and all those macho titillators which spackle the gaping plot holes in B-movie dramas . Passable and forgettable . (
" Acts of Betrayal " , a typical B action flick , tells of a macho FBI agent ( McColm ) who spends the entire film killing bad guys as he protects a federal witness ( Alonso ) from a small army of hitmen . The film has little going for it but does manage some par or better firefights and a kinda-sorta fun relationship between the stalwart and silent agent and the always jabbering , ever sassy Alonso character . For action junkies only .
" Not Just Another Teen Movie " is another in a string of slampoons which takes on the teen romantic comedy genre with a kaleidoscope of characters , situations , and scenes borrowed from a host of past teen flicks . A raunchy , vulgar , irreverent morass of exaggerations which tries to maintain story continuity , this flick has its moments but burns out prematurely lacking the creative fuel to keep the laughs coming . An okay watch for those into grosser than gross humor but a turn-off for all others .
Flawed on all levels , " One Way Out " plays out with the look and feel of a low budget t . v . drama . Belushi is at the center as a homicide detective with gambling debts who finds himself on the wrong end of a murder investigation . With pervasive mediocrity , the tortuous plot is the only reason to spend time with this flick and it is so full of plot holes as to require a sort of viewer numbness to be all it can be which little more than is a nice little time waster . For couch potatoes only .
Old premise , new film . A reasonable attempt at film making , " Bounce " is fraught with problems not the least of which is casting Affleck opposite a fine actress . This light drama starts okay but fizzles . The chemistry between Affleck and Paltrow is predictably nonexistent . Affleck and Bullock , maybe . Affleck and Paltrow , no way . The drama in all corners of the film , from alcoholism to the Kodak moments to the " can I love the guy who killed my husband " paradox doesn't work because the film builds a weak foundation , develops characters poorly , and just plain unravels in the denouement . Wait for broadcast on this one .
" Just a Kiss " sucks like a Hoover . I only made it about halfway before ejecting . I showed the DVD cover to my SO and she just stuck up her nose at it . Even my cat tried to cover it up . The film has a good cast ( why I rented it ) but no story , goes no place , and really needs to get over itself . It's salted with cute little effects . . . not cute cute , just dumb cute . One star from Ebert and 86 % rotten according to RottenTomatoes . com , I shoulda known better . (
" Fast Food , Fast Women " has little to do with either . A somewhat inept , light-hearted slice-of-life indie , this flick revolves around a single 30-something woman , Bella ( Anna whatever-her-name-is ) , who waitresses in a NYC diner , and her assorted friends / acquaintenances with loneliness and the need for relationships being the central theme . A very forgettable flick , " FF , FW " is not without its moments and manages some poignancy , quirkiness , and heart . However , in the grand scheme of all things cinema , this is just another marginally entertaining film with a bunch of where-have-I-seen-him / her-before character actors which will never be more than a so-so small screen watch . ( C )
" Mr . Death : The Rise and Fall of Fred A . Leuchter , Jr . " is a 1 . 5 hour biopic which tells the story of Fred Leuchter who was a self made engineer and a nobody until he naively took on the task of trying to prove or disprove the existence of gas chambers at Auschwicz . Not qualified as a forensic scientist , Leuchter testified in a Canadian court that there was no evidence of such gas chambers thereby throwing the matter of six million Jewish deaths during WWII into question resulting in his own persecution and the loss of everything from his wife to his career as an engineer who designed execution machines for prisons . The film is a solid documentary of Leuchter's life , nicely done with good music and cinematography . However , it trudges slowly through the biography with Leuchter doing most of the talking while mixing in bits of commentary from other people and never really getting into the meat of the Auschwicz death camp matter . Personally , I would have preferred less ambiance and more facts , background info , and testimony from friends , associates , and experts . When all is said and done you'll know nothing more about Auschwicz , a little bit about his controversial testimony in 1988 , a bit more about execution machinery , and a whole lot about a small man of little consequence . Recommended only for those interested in Fred A . Leuchter jr . (
" Daddy and Me " takes a look at a dysfunctional Arkansas family of ignorant hicks with Thornton and Dern out front as a couple with issues . A sort of slice - of - dysfunctional - family - life flick which pours over a good cast of oddball characters , this comedy doesn't manage to conjure up anything of significance except a whole lot of Thornton's trailer park trash home spun situational comedy / drama " home cookin ' " . " Daddy and Them " offers plenty of familiar faces cranking out solid performances , but everything else from concept to completion is about as dysfunctional as the characters . For Thornton fans only . ( C )
" Loving Jezebel " tells of the romantic misadventures of a young black New York man , Theo ( Harper ) , who falls in love too easily and too often . With the look of a color blind , low budget indie full of fresh faces , " LJ " is a sweetly sentimental musing on love by the principal and narrator . An okay watch with a plodding pace which will grow tedious for some , " LJ " will be most appreciated by young adult romantics .
McCann's " Revolution 9 " tells of a man's sanity slipping away as paranoia takes over his life . This inconsequential and somewhat heavy-handed indie takes on the serious matter of mental health earnestly but with only nominal dramatic success coming from players who seem obviously scripted , reacting to cues , and inclined to over state their roles . Furthermore the matter of paranoid psychosis and it effects on everyone involved is so substantial as to make this film's many artistic embellishments more of a camouflaging affectation than a catalyst . This film would have been better if McCann had backed off the Hollywood stylistics and let the stark reality of the subject speak for itself from a place of austerity , slowing down the process of mental erosion while draining some of the color from the work . Nonetheless , this well intentioned drama with an ambiguous and unsatisfying conclusion should have some entertainment value for those into mental health issues . ( C )
" Ripley's Game " tells a sloppy tale involving a bunch of people running around trying to kill each other . Beginning to end , this flick is a mess of plot holes , nonsequiturs , and goofs . EXAMPLE : The abysmal story has a fat guy trying to coerce an ordinary guy and family man into killing another guy by telling him that if he doesn't kill the guy , he'll have his family killed . Of course , that begs the questions , how is he going to get anyone to kill the family if he can't even get this guy to kill the other guy ? Duh ! EXAMPLE : Malcovich is preparing for an assault on his estate . He has a shot gun and then a pistol and by the time the bad guys break in he's down to a crescent wrench . Jeeez Louise ! EXAMPLE : A guy is shot point blank in the side of his head . . . and only loses part of an ear . Hello ! " Ripley's Game " has a good cast and good locations . But , what a stupid story . Believe it or not . (
Take a couple of huge names and a huge studio and add a huge amount of hype and you'll get a huge return on your Hollywood producers ' investment . Even with the internet , people still rely on advertising to tell them what movies to see . So , here we go again . . . another piece of crap flick with Pitt playing a cardboard cutout character , Roberts overacting , and Gandolfini playing a mobster with personal problems . . . right out of the Sopranos , duh ! Weak story , thin plot , poor drama / action , wandering , pointless , poorly directed , generally weak flick . Wait for broadcast on this turkey .
Sandra Oh is at the center of " Double Happiness " , a dramady about a Chinese twenty-something immigrant living with her family in Canada , struggling to find work as an actress , while being torn between the ways of the West and the traditional values of her dogmatic parents . An award winning film with nominally satisfactory reviews , this little budget-conscious effort is fraught with low end production value , scenes which simply don't work ( like the incredibly unprofessional casting call with a Hong Kong company rep ) , bad jokes ( like the peanut thing , the phone number thing , etc . ) , mediocre music , zero atmospherics ( meeting your boyfriend at a construction site ? ? ) , a poor ending , and a general absence of auterusmanship . Nonetheless , " Double Happiness " limps along with some poignant moments , a giggle here , some angst there , and maybe even a sentimental pang now and then . An okay cable watch for anyone with time to spare who's in the mood for a Chinese-Canadian generation gap flick . Note - I have always thought Oh was much more skilled than she was marketable . It's nice to see her in a leading role and though she doesn't nail all of her nuances in this flick , the responsibility for that probably belongs with the director . (
" The Pornographer " tells of a socially immature and sexually naive a young male paralegal who , frustrated with his misfires with women , dabbles in pornography and goes nowhere . This film had potential . It could have crawled into the mind of a pornographer and dealt more realistically with the sleaze industry . Instead it puts moral issues on the table and doesn't deal with them ; raises questions it can't answer ; and ends with a trite Hollywood cliche . An unsatisfying journeyman flick , " The Pornographer " is to be commended for taking on a difficult subject and not exploiting it though overall it is a generally mediocre watch which should have been better .
" Returner " tells of an assassin who encounters a teen female during a firefight and learns she has traveled back through time to prevent a sci-fi war between good and evil and save humanity from oblivion . A kind of second rate knock-off of everything from John Woo stylistics to Mad Max contraptions , this Japanese B-flick misses the opportunity to capitalize on the girl / guy team humanistics as it ventures into CGI man vs machine silliness . Dubbed in English and with subtitles , " Returner " makes for a campy action romp which will play best with tech-heads and gamer-types into anything action . ( C )
" Bright Angel " tells of a young Montana man ( Mulroney ) and a young Canadian woman ( Taylor ) who end up on a road trip together . A plodding , tedious film , " Bright Angel " is full of characters who range from a little weird to very weird and who seem to be necessary to maintain audience interest in the absence of a story . A plotless and disappointing film which manages to do very little with a whole lot of talent , this flick is not likely to receive good reviews from the board of tourism for big sky country and will be easily forgotten by the public in general .
" Levity " , a misnomer , slogs through a tedious tale of a guilt-ridden man ( Thornton ) , recently released from a 20 year stint in prison for murder , who goes in search of redemption . Panned by the critics , this film lays down a thick layer of haunting atmospherics , ghostly visions , etc . while Thornton moves zombie-like through its ever sinking story toward a wholly unsatisfying conclusion . From my perspective , nothing really worked in " Levity " from Dunst's bleak performance to Freeman's unexplained departure to Thornton's perpetual sedation to Hunter's unlikely attraction to a man with negative charm and zero personality , etc . During the run I was never engrossed and constantly seeing Thornton , Hunter , etc . rather than their characters . Recommended for fans and relatives of the principals only . ( SPOILERS - IMHO , " Levity " would have worked better in the end if Thornton stopped a bullet intended for the son thereby saving the kid's life , securing his own redemption , and transporting himself from the life he so lamented . Also , we wouldn't have to live in fear of a sequel .
" Sexual Life " takes a superficial look at the romantic inclinations or disinclinations of several disparate but loosely interconnected Los Angeles couples as it flows serially from one couple to the next , eventually coming full circle in the end . The common denominator is sex and other relationship salients though the film is quite tame and has a kind of mellow and understated feel to it . The couples range from a call girl and her client to a married couple to a betrothed couple , etc . all obviously carefully planned to provide a range of possibilities for both auteur and audience . Though there's little new to be found between the credits , this is a pleasant little dramedy which handles the subject matter delicately in deference to more edgy and sexually explicit genre motifs . " Sexual Life " , built from B listers and a step down for Heche , is a winsome little indie for those who want to glean it from broadcast . (
" The Whole Ten Yards " , the sequel to " The Whole Nine Yards " ( 2000 ) , pulls together the same cast and runs with the ball again thought it fumbles and fails to make a touch down . Trying to capitalize on what made " . . . Nine Yards " a commercial comedy success , " . . . Ten Yards " suffers from sequelitis , offers nothing new , works harder not smarter , and ultimately is a creative step down . You'll see the same schtick as before with the same constant pointing of guns , threats to kill people , hit-man gags , pratfalls , and blatant silliness which all come off more like a bad after taste than a new treat . Those who haven't seen " . . . Nine Yards " , should watch it before watching this sequel . Those who saw " . . . Nine Yards " might want to give " . . . Ten Yards " a try . Keep expectations low and so for a free VCR / DVR watch . (
Arnold's getting a little long in the tooth and spending more time with his shirt on while feebly trying to act like a real actor in more serious roles . In " Collateral Damage " the muscle man plays a fireman who goes to Colombia on a mission of vengeance and returns to the US to finish the job . " CD " is pretty much the usual Swarzenegger stuff and doesn't distinguish itself in any particular way . Just more Arnold with the same old thick Austrian accent and the usual Hollywood appurtenances . Keep expectations low , turn off your brain ( you won't be needing it ) , and enjoy . (
" Against the Wall " is a journeyman tv docudrama ( with the emphasis on " drama " ) which tells of the Attica prison riot of 1971 . Okay as a gritty and violent prison drama , " ATW " fails to crystalize prison issues or make significant social commentary . Pretty much your usual run-of-the-mill Hollywood exploitaition flick fraught with inconsistencies and a poor sense of direction though , perhaps , there's no more to be found in the Attica story .
" Head in the Clouds " , set in Paris ( circa 1920's-1940's ) , is all about a trio of three characters ; two women and one man . The centerpiece of the trio and the film is Theron as an independent , capricious , liberal and free spirited women who is in love with both her male and female part-time companions ( Townsend & Cruz ) who , in turn , both love her . The film follows the ebb and flow of the trio's relationships from their good times before the Spanish civil war through their bad times during WWII . An attempt at a sort of romantic epic , " Head in the Clouds " is wrought with staginess , corny dialogue , charming artificiality , and glorified melodrama . Not well received by the critics , this obvious film seems to be trying too hard while never quite ringing true . Should be an okay watch for romantics and sentimentalists . (
If you like Austin Powers , see this movie . If you don't like Austin Powers , don't see this movie . That's all you need to know as " Goldmember " is a simple albeit extravagant sequel and cash flow conduit from the < 30 crowd into Hollywood bank accounts . Just more of the same potty / crotch humor , sexual innuendos , genital joke retreads , and shagadelic nonsense . (
" Thirteen . . . " is a pieced together , planar , circumflex , Magnoliaesque bunch of interleaved stories about people with varying levels of happiness , fulfillment , experience , achievement , etc . : A kind of superficial overview of the human condition of some city dwellers which feebly deals with happiness . The film is a technically and artistically excellent production with a fine cast . However , it's preachy , stagey , chock full of trite little pearls of wisdom , and annoying little phrases to introduce each scene , something which serves only to yanks us back to reality after we've worked to make a difficult buy-in . . . etc . The story is mechanical and herky-jerky with too much busy-work and too little time for story dynamics and character depth . A quick look at the stats on this site would suggest this is a good watch for less mature audiences . . . young adults , perhaps . ( Note - I need at least 20 inches of personal space . Sounds pretty stupid , huh ?
" Chaos " begins as story of a handyman and a married woman who conspire to extort money from the woman's husband by faking her kidnapping . But when the woman is murdered , the story begins a series of twists and becomes a cinematic pretzel . What is a stylish shoot with competence on both sides of the lens eventually sinks into a quagmire of convolution full unnecessary complications such as the Memento-like show-the-past-first incremental flow with important bits of information kept from the audience as a cheap ploy to create intrigue and mystery . The result is a movie which is likely to lose those who are busily reading subtitles which has a scant human story as it is too busy trying to untwist itself . Finally , this is not a thriller but a mystery . And the biggest mystery seems to be , why should we care ? A B-flick for Japanese movie buffs only . (
" Under the Sand " follows a woman who is in denial over the disappearance of her husband . Rampling delivers a splendid performance ( no stretching ) as the film plods along slowly lingering over the smallest details of her life revealing her desperate grief one fragment at a time while even showing her in the company of her dead husband ; an apparent representation of delusion . For those interested in a microscopic examination of one woman's grief , this film may have merit . For just about everyone else , it will be too tedious and lacking in sheer entertainment value . ( B )
" Savage Nights " is a character driven film about an HIV + bisexual man and his love affairs , particularly with the female lead . As is often the case with Europics , especially French films , this movie is not so much a story as it is a study of behavior . In this case the behavior is of interest because the male lead , who really was HIV + and died from AIDS at age 35 , continues to lead a life of promiscuity in spite of his affliction , wrestling with his awareness of his disease , his inability to reconcile himself to his fate , and the temptations represented by his love interest and sexual partners . Unfortunately , " Savage Nights " is a journeyman film at best which grows tedious quickly as it gets wound up in its own confused emotions . However , it does have a sort of intriguing honesty about it and rejects the pity which is so often a part of films about people with HIV .
" Sweet Home Alabama " is all about Mel ( Witherspoon ) , a hot NYC fashion designer who's betrothed to the mayor's son but must return to her small town Alabama roots for some unfinished business before tying the knot . Most of the 100 + minute run is spent waiting for Mel to make up her mind and show us if you - can - take the country out of the girl while the audience is introduced to the eccentric , quirky , and cliche stereotypes who provide the comedic filler which constitutes much of the film . This clucking chick flick has a thin and unoriginal plot , carefully tiptoes around North vs South issues of political correctness , and tries to tug at your heartstrings with contrived good ol ' down home sentiment . In spite of its vacillation , sap , and disingenuous veneer , " SHA " does make for a fun watch which will play best with younger females . (
" Shot in the Heart " is an excellent HBO flick with one huge , glaring fault . It is , in a word , boring . Granted , many will be absorbed by the human drama . However , in the final analysis it's still 75 % conversation between a murderer on death row and his estranged brother in which they share perspectives on family matters , the Mormon church , personal perceptions , attitudes , etc . none of which are particularly interesting and much of which are yada-yada-yada about the turkey thing , the Mormon blood-letting thing , the book from Johnny Cash thing , the 1000 pushups thing , the 90 year old man thing , etc . Bravo for making an excellent film . Too bad the subject was Gary Gilmore . Recommended for the not so jaded who may find a rehash of a dysfunctional family's son-gone-wrong story of interest .
" Joe and Max " tells the true story of two champion boxers who fight each other in the ring while forming a bond of friendship and mutual respect outside the ring . Full of unrealized ironic potential with men of different color finding common ground in a world driven to war in part by racial division , " Joe and Max " has the usual short-comings of made-for-tv docudramas ; low budgetness , melodrama , stiff portrayals , poor character development , historical inaccuracies , etc . " Joe and Max " probably has minimal value beyond edification for boxing fans . (
Biopic drama " Veronica Guerin " represents the title character , an investigative journalist who is out of expose the drug bosses of Dublin , as a woman who has been beaten up and threatened with her life if she continues her work and who , in spite of all that , continues while taking no counter-measures ( no Kevlar® , no body guard , nada , zip ) . How smart is that ? In the end we are told her martyrdom resulted in all but ridding Ireland of drugs and everyone can remember what they were doing when she died neither of which ring true . Additionally , the film quite ordinary in spite of actor's actor Blanchett's best efforts . Pretty much the usual drug stuff only this time set in Ireland where we're used to seeing film's about people killing each other over politics and religion . This time it's drugs . Very ordinary stuff for Blanchett fans or those with a particular interest in Guerin . ( C )
" Passionada " is all about Milos as a beautiful Portuguese widow and cabaret singer who mourns the loss of her fisherman husband while her daughter and gambling prodigy Rossum consorts with professional card player Issacs to get good old mom out of her funk . The result is a beautifully shot film with marginally interesting characters and an uneventful story which spends most of its time with Issacs courting a reluctant Milos with his English accent and glib patter . The film wanders somewhere between romantic drama and romantic comedy not taking a firm position thereby diluting its ability to be engaging in either genre . Nonetheless , romantics and sentimentalists will appreciate this languorous but pretty film with a cosmopolitan flavor . (
" Red Rock West " is one of those drama-noir ensemble movies where the bad guys are really bad and the good guys . . . well , they're just kinda bad . It's a movie where the brooding , plodding , and unrelenting hero , hang-faced Cage , never smiles because there's never anything to smile about . It's a movie where all the characters are caricatures and there's never a dull moment no matter how improbable the convoluted plot may have become to achieve the desired result . It's a movie where no one trusts anyone and everyone is after the loot . Overall it's a good old fashioned Hollywood popcorn movie .
" A Simple Case of Murder " is a tight and clever little noirish caper comedy-drama made for commercial tv . William H . Macy , that " Fargo " guy , is at the center as a film critic who has an argument with a lady friend who slips , hits her head and dies . What follows is a slow , one step forward and two back unraveling of Macy's cover up scheme which leads to extortion , robbery , murder and lots of tongue-in-cheek humor while Macy narrates from both sides of the camera . A fun little " sleeper " on video .
" Mixing Nia " tells of a " color blind " half black , half white New York City career woman who wrestles with her identity in a race conscious world . A light drama with " low budget indie " written all over it , " Mixing Nia " is flawed but manages a nominally good story , screenplay , and script . A little flick whose heart is in the right place and a good stop for channel surfers .
" Bend it Like Beckham " received good marks from critics and public alike . So , color me stoopid but I just didn't get it . The film played out like a long string of sitcom quality scenes sprinkled with Kodak moments , trailer moments , and Rocky moments in a busy format of criss-crossing plots with obvious ploys at every turn . A Brit-Bollywood combo built around football with the usual generation gap , culture clashing , etc . was quite simply boring with nothing new , stiff performances by the young protags , and eminently predictable throughout . However , I'm almost certainly in the minority here , so take these comments for whatever they're worth which probably isn't much . Enjoy ! (
" Crush " is a comedy / light-drama which tells of three middle-aged single women best friends in England , one of which , a proper school headmistress ( MacDowell ) , falls in like / love with a young former student half her age . What begins as a straight forward sexually charged Spring-Autumn romance twists and turns unexpectedly and finally sorts itself out to feel good conclusion . " Crush " is an enjoyable , sometimes brash , sometime sentimental romp which will play best with more mature females . (
" Mumford " is an unpretentious little romantic comedy with a softspoken , creative way of whetting curiosity and maintaining interest as it wends it's way through it's quirky but charming storyline . Sans the usual commercial " chick flick " schmaltz and boasting an R-rating , " Mumford " appears to refuse to compromise its freshness . A pleasant way to wile away 110 minutes .
" The Hulk " is an obvious and simple minded effects-fest with a plot which is about as substantive as a Sunday morning cartoon . The film offers a good cast , excellent effects , and a whole bunch of surreal pseudoscientific nonsense built around a silly story line in which the good are nauseatingly good and the bad are not only bad but mean too . Lee screws around for 40 minute before we even get to see the hulk and then stretches his thin story to 2 . 3 hours in this protracted tale of the big green guy who I much preferred when " Big Louie " was playing him . Sucky but slick stuff which may appeal to infantile comic freaks . Ang Lee should go back to doing what he does best and make real people flicks again . ( C )
" Everyday People " is a lukewarm HBO product which takes us into a day in the life of a handful of mostly Afro-Am people who are interconnected by their relationship to a Brooklyn neighborhood restaurant which is about to be bought out by corporate interests in a block-wide urban development project . You'll get to see a waitress wannbe poet argue with her mom about her future and the eatery owner anguishing over his decision to sell out . You'll get to see a street bum lecturing local blacks about their roots and a yuppie corporate type trying to close the deal . While the film tries to conjure the ethnic personality of " Barbershop " with the heart of " Big Night " it manages little more than a monotonous drone of uninspired dialogue which finally tapers off into nothingness with an unsatisfying conclusion . Nothing new here . (
" Rare Birds " tells of a hapless Newfoundland restaurant owner / cook ( Hurt ) whose remote seaside restaurant is suffering from insufficient patronage due to a lack of advertising . A quirky friend ( Jones ) hatches a plot suggesting Hurt report the sighting of a nearly extinct duck to encourage bird watchers to flock to his eatery thereby stimulating his business while he's being stimulated by thoughts of his comely waitress ( Parker ) . . . etc . A fun and earnest flick which trudges through it's wry tale relying on understated tongue-in-cheek humor and quirkiness for entertainment , the film includes other salients such as a home made submarine , 22 pounds of cocaine , some much coveted sheet lights , and an RCMP SWAT team for additional substance . Overall , " RB " is a warm hearted little flick for those who don't mind off-kilteredness and the absence of the usual Hollyweird appurtenances . (
" Light Sleeper " tells of a burned out on-call Manhattan , NY drug dealer ( Dafoe ) with an upscale clientele who works for a woman ( Sarandon ) who dreams of going legit with a cosmetics business . This film is earnest in its attempt to tell a plaintive story about a man stuck between a junkie's history and a job with no future . However , " Light Sleeper " is also fitfully hokey in its presentation which is bland , stagey , contrived and doesn't provide a solid forum for its character-driven tale . Worth a look for fans of the players and those who haven't yet had their fill of flicks about the recreational nose candy business . (
" Cold Creek Manor " tells of a family of four who move from NYC to a run down rural estate with a tell-tale history . With no spooks or paranormal nonsense , no screaming nightmares , no black cats screeching as they leap from the shadows , this film avoids horror and sticks to the suspense / thriller drama genre as it follows Mom ( Stone ) , Dad ( Quaid ) , and the kids from edgy to creepy to scary to thrilling , gathering momentum as it works through a less than inspired story . With a good cast and solid production value , " Cold Creek Manor " plays well as a B-thriller but peaks and ends predictably . Burned at the stake by the critics and stoned by the public , this flick is by all rights a real turkey . So , for what it's worth ( and it ain't much ) , I enjoyed it as some mild no-brainer escapism . Recommended for drama junkies into thrillers but keep expectations low . (
" The Outsider " tells of a beautiful Quaker-type pacifist woman ( Watts ) who's sheep-ranching homsteading husband is murdered by a cattleman's henchmen and is then visited by a wounded gunslinger ( Daly ) who just happens to quote scripture , play the harmonica , and is , of course , reeking of testosterone . In this eminently predictable , hackneyed story , the woman must nurse the man back to health and then reject the temptation to have him turn his six-shooters on the men who killed her husband and some other temptations which go with a widow living with a virile man in the same house in the boonies . . . well , you get the picture . Nothing new in this no-brainer from Hallmark & Showtime . Good old fashioned PG13-type ( some sex , nudity , and violence ) entertainment worth a look for anyone up for a melodramatic Western . (
" School of Flesh " tells of the ebb and flow of a sex / love relationship between a well-to-do middle aged woman and a handsome young bisexual male hustler . In typical French fashion the pair of star-crossed protags are locked in constant maneuvering in order to better define the limits of their relationship and their influence over it . Though the film is very well acted and directed with Huppert exuding expressionless controlled intensity , the underlying story seems somehow worn , unoriginal , and lacking the psychodynamics required for audience satisfaction . Recommended only for Huppert fans and aficionados of French cinema . (
" Stella Does Tricks " tells of a Scottish teen female's struggle to escape a life of prostitution . Sans the glitzy appointments of the usual tinsel town fare and exploitive sex and nudity usually accompanying the subject matter , this austere film focuses on the real problems of the principle ; addictiveness of easy money , low self esteem from childhood abuse , etc . With excellent performances all around , especially by Mcdonald ( Stella ) , this film's only flaw is annoying dreamlike flashbacking which is too often ambiguous in an attempt to be poetic . Good stuff for those into sincere , earnest , hardworking reality pix about the socially disenfranchised .
" The Heartbreakers " tells of the misanthropic misadventures of a mom / daughter team ( Weaver / Hewitt ) of con artists who prey of the male libido and ego . The mom / daughter team offer eye candy and little else while the comic relief comes from " marks " Liotta and Hackman . A so-so romantic comedy with the emphasis on comedy , " Heartbreakers " is a moderately fun way to wile away 2 hours if not taken seriously and expectations are kept low .
" Miranda " , misbilled as a romance / thriller ( no thrills in this flick ) , is really a dark romantic comedy about an enigmatic woman , Miranda ( Ricci ) , who beguiles a male librarian ( Simm ) with her haunting beauty and mysterious ways . Long on style and short on story , this film spends most of its time with the title character , of course , which Ricci plays well . The film crashes , however , on story as Miranda is really a pain in the a and not something we , the audience , are inclined to wish on the more likeable Simm character . Meanwhile , bits and pieces of a story are doled out with the dots never really connected at the end making anything beyond the romantic quest little more than window dressing . Recommended for Ricci fans or dark comedy weirdos . (
" Between Strangers " tells of three women with something in common . They are all laconic , slothlike zombies moving from scene to scene as though they bear the weight of the world on their shoulders . Though this film offers a good cast and execution , it is little more than a trio of short subjects with an unfortunately bland and overly ponderous result lacking the only reason to make one film from three stories ; synergism . (
" Starsky & Hutch " is a lukewarm comedy knock-off of the 70's hit buddy cop TV series of the same name . Those who remember the original Soul / Glaser duo will likely enjoy this flick more than those who don't as the film relies heavily on nostalgic blast from the past music , disco dancing , period slang , 70's clothing and hair styles , S & H TV lampooning , etc . Regardless , " S & H 2004 " is watchable and even recommendable though off par for both Stiller and Wilson . Worth a look as no brainer small screen comedy entertainment about a couple of wacky plain clothes detectives who can't seem to do anything right but still manage to save the day in the end . (
" Titus " , a psychotic makeover of Shakespear's epic tragedy , is so surreal as to make it laughable . Hopkins gives a powerful performance but even his mesmerizing portrayal of the title character could not keep us from being distracted by the explosion in props and costumes , a creative staff on LSD , or whatever it was that turned a powerful drama into a joke . The ubiquitous and always vocal pious aficionados who think everything atypical is creative will applaud this flick as inspired genius . However , the purists will more likely loathe it . Some things don't need Hollywood glomming them up . Shakespeare is one of them .
" Mona Lisa Smile " is all about Roberts as a 1950's art professor at a prim and proper girl's college who struggles to breathe women's lib and independent thinking into a classroom full of snobbish boomer brats who want little more than an " Ozzie & Harriet " future . A sort of testament to the societal oppression of 50's women , this flick wanders drunkenly between storylines serving up plenty of squeaky clean drama , pathos , and Kodak moments in a contrived Hallmarkish presentation which never really makes up its mind about what it wants to be . With subpar critical reviews and a so-so reception by the public , " Mona Lisa Smile " will work best as a night-at-home small screen chick flick . (
" Confessions of a Dangerous Mind " - from the pen of Chuck Barris about the life of Chuck Barris , t . v . producer / personality and self-alleged hitman for the CIA - wanders haphazardly through a muddled mess of fact and fiction ; a sort of Jack of all genres and master of none . The film doesn't work as drama or comedy or action or mystery or romance or . . . well , it just doesn't work . In spite of the star power and talent along for this ride , " Confessions . . . " is not engaging , can't find its milieu , leaves us knowing less about the autobiographer than when it starts , and proves once again that actors , as a rule , should stick to acting and directors should stick to directing . I probably know a little more about Barris than the average Joe and watched with interest on the wane in spite of that . Maybe the film will play better for those who don't remember the man or his persona . Sorry , Chuckie . . GONG ! (
" Street Time " takes the viewer into the life of the federal parole officer and his / her parolees . Focusing on one of each , a P . O . ( Cohen ) and an excon ( Morrow ) , both family men with problems , this series is a very smart and powerful uncompromising drama . Unpredictable , realistic , and believable , " Street Time " skillfully delivers a linear story crisscrossed with side plots and every episode jam-packed with serious , gritty , hardcore drama . Lacking the mediocrity demanded by the viewing public at large , " Street Time " is too good to last . (
" Looking Through Lillian " tells of a young single woman who is mistress to a middle aged man into kinky sex . A narrow slice-of-life indie and a commendable first outing for the Torem / Henham team , though it suffers from the usual newbie claustrophobia , low budget leanness , mediocre jukebox score , etc . , " Looking . . . " starts off with promise which is unfulfilled in the playout . Henham ( Lillian ) makes a solid centerpiece showing some range and nailing her nuances as her character grapples with the issue of keeping the easy money which is fueling her low self esteem or ditching them for the straight and narrow . Unfortunately , the film fizzles with a much-ado-about-nothing sort of denouement which will likely leave the viewer feeling like they just ate Chinese . An okay chick flick for females into serious drama with shades of kinkiness . (
" The Panic Room " is a foible fraught suspense flick in which Foster's character and her daughter play cat and mouse with a trio of intruders in their Manhattan mansion for the full run . Lousy character development and a implausibilities up the wazoo , this film requires some serious dumbing down . However , it's busy enough with cheap thrills and a slick enough shoot to make it an reasonably entertaining couch potato watch . Turn off brain , go with the flow , and enjoy . (
Sometimes I think you could show two hours of a ploar bear sleeping in a snowstorm and film critics would find some kind of interesting if not apocalyptic story in it . Such is the ability of cinema buffs to project their beliefs , sentiments , and subjective interpretations into film . For this and only this reason can one explain the many awards and nominations of the bleak , tedious , and uneventful " Prisoner of the Mountains " . Adapted from a Tolstoy novel about the age old struggle between Russians and Moslems in Chechnya , this film follows the misadventures of two Russian soldiers who are captured and detained by agrarian , mountain dwelling locals . There a prisoner for prisoner swap goes sour . There's some brief violence and scurrying around which takes about 10 % of the movie run time . The rest of the time is spent watching the two captive soldiers getting drunk , whittling , chatting with passers-by , and making friends with their captors , etc . Were is not for the fact that the film gives a rare look ( for westerners ) into the beauty of the mountains and people of Dagestan , this film would be difficult to recommend .
In " House of Angels " , a staid , bucolic Swedish village is all abuzz when a lovely and vivacious young woman comes to town to claim the estate of her late grandfather . A charming , warmhearted , and fun little romp which is not so much a story as it is a study of human nature , the film seems to delight in evincing the community's eccentricities as it reverberates like jiggling Jello with the disruptive influence of its latest resident . " House . . . . " should be an enjoyable watch for more mature viewers , especially females , into foreign flicks and people watching . (
" The Last Good Time " tells of an elderly retired concert violinist ( Mueller-Stahl ) who lives on a meager pension alone in a modest flat and takes in a streetwise young woman ( d'Abo ) on the run from a scurrilous boyfriend . A bittersweet and poignant drama , " TLGT " shows the brief , tenuous , but beautiful coming together of two very opposite people with no more in common than their humanity . Well worth a look for the mature viewer .
" Foreign Body " is a cute Brit flick which tells of a lowly , humble , and naive Calcutta flop-house clerk who manages to make his way to the UK where , with the help of a distant relative , he manages to stumble and bumble his way into a position as a physician to the rich . A fun little " East Meets West " flick with a pleasing performance by Banerjee , a bit part by Trevor Howard , and plenty of nonsense , silliness , and corn , " FB " will be an enjoyable tier-two watch for many .
" The Return " a meager story about two Russian brothers ( ages about 12 and 15 ) who live with their mother in austerity and spend their time doing boy things . Suddenly Dad returns , from where we know not , and becomes a taciturn martinet to the boys carving out his place in the home from which he's been long estranged . He takes the boys on a fishing trip . . . yadayada . . . road trip , boat trip , island , fishing , camping . . . the suddenly something unexpected happens . This film lays it minimalistic ground work well but takes a full hour to do it . Then when it begins to get interesting it conjures up a single shocking scene and ka-put ! Much heralded by the critics with good marks from the public as well , " The Return " in not fodder for the average film goer . It's subtitled and bleak minimalism with redeeming qualities so esoteric as to be missed by most . It doesn't matter how well you cook a shoe , it's still going to be a shoe and " The Return " will be an unsatisfying meal for most . (
" The Leading Man " peers into the lives of thespians including a playwright who is having an affair with an actress much to the chagrin of his wife . Enter the leading man , Bon Jovi , who offers to seduce the playwright's wife to distract her from her constant ruminations about her husbands affair . What happens after that is probably not what you would expect which is what makes this movie a pleasant surprise . Well cast , acted , written , directed , and shot , " The Leading Man " is an enjoyable little sleeper for mature tv audiences .
For a Hollywood movie filmed in Hollywood about Hollywood , " Where the Day Takes You " is surprisingly lacking in authenticity . Those who believe this film about the street kids of Hollywood is the real deal haven't spent much time with such kids . On the upside the film sports a solid cast . On the downside , there's little story to be found between the scenes as we bear witness to a trite , cliched , and obviously fabricated Hollywood screenwriter's version of Hollywood street kids who in real life comprises a subculture which is far more hip , resourceful , structured , and networked than are the characters in this film . " Where the Day Takes You " is just another Hollywood concoction passing itself off as reality . (
" Waterland " puts Irons at the center as a disturbed history teacher who recounts his personal history to his class . Irons performance is excellent as always . However the story is a plaintive and peculiar reflection on what is a rather drab and uneventful life . Furthermore , the film tells the story of the teacher telling his story with constant flashbacks into which some of his student are magically transported serving more to confuse matters than to entertain . " Waterland " is an excellent shoot with quality in all aspects except the convoluted story which must have been a much better novel than film .
" Winter Sleepers " is a thin story about some ordinary people in some marginally interesting situations , beautifully filmed , hypnotically seductive , and cloaked in a plodding and laconically self-assured pretense . Those looking for a solid story or serious drama will be disappointed . Others may content themselves with the visual feast in spite of the absence of substance and a two hour run time .
" Hope and Glory " is a slice of life flick about a boy and others in an English neighborhood during WWII . A different kind of WWII flick , this naive dramedy takes a pollyannish look at English civilian life during the war and though it does have its moments they seem too few and too far between . In other words , this lovely film bored the socks off me . K ? Recommended for those into squeaky clean theatrical flicks . (
" Shaft 2000 " is a reasonable successor to the original Shaft of 29 years ago . The film shows restraint by keeping Shaft big , but not bigger than life , as it tries to be a human story first and an action flick second . Unfortunately , in spite of good performances ( especially by Wright ) and good production talent , the story fails on the human level and hedges on the obvious alternative of exaggerated good and bad guys and a profusion of gratuitous violence , sex , and action . Worth a watch but keep expectations low .
" Malena " is about many things . . . . the people of a small Sicilian town during WWII ; a woman scorned by the town's women and admired by the town's men for her sensual beauty ; and a pubescent boy's obsession with the woman as he comes of age . Obviously the product of a talented auteur because of its technical and artistic excellence and its many poignant moments , " Malena " fails to focus clearly on its story such that the end result is somewhat less than the sum of its parts . The director of " Cinema Paradiso " , Giuseppe Tornatore , doesn't deliver a cogent product in " Malena " though the film has its moments . Recommended for more mature males .
" Catch Me If You Can " tells the story of Frank Abagnale , con man . With Spielberg in the director's chair and A-listers leading the way , you'd expect something a little better than this story about a kid who conned his way into jobs as a Pan Am pilot , a lawyer , a doctor , and into some serious money . Reasonably entertaining and well crafted , this film runs a tad long and is smeared with comedic overtones making it difficult to take seriously . It might have worked better as a serious rather than playful drama . Nonetheless , worth a look by anyone interested in stories about scamming . ( B ) Note - If you like this flick , you might want to check out Tony Curtis in " The Great Imposter " ( 1961 )
" Himalaya " is about as exotic as films get . Using indigenous people in a remote and harsh corner of Nepal ( Dolpa ) , an adventurous French director ( Valli ) created a film about a superstitious and aging tribal chief who leads a caravan of Yaks through hazardous Himalayan reaches to trade salt for the grain required to sustain his people . The film is interesting inasmuch as it uses native nonactors in an extremely remote region of great beauty which is seldom seen up close and personal . The result , however , is not great drama and the scenics , though beautiful , are less breathtaking than I had expected . In fact , I found the " The Making Of . . . " featurette on board the DVD more interesting than the film itself . Considering the low entertainment yield of this ambitious project , it would probably have worked better as a documentary or travelogue . Nonetheless , this exotic - for - the - sake - of - exotica film should be much appreciated by those into films about foreign cultures or with a special interest in the Nepali . ( B )
" The Vanishing 1988 " tells of the dogged search of a man for his girlfriend who disappears while they're together on holiday . Not a " thriller " , this psychodrama spends most of its time dwelling on the criminal mind of the abductor , the anxiety and angst of the abductee's boyfriend , and flashbacking to show what transpired from the abductor's perspective after setting up the story with the boyfriend's perspective . The film is well crafted realism and a worthy watch for those who don't mind subtitles . From the same novel as the later American version ( circa 1993 ) , movie purist agree this Europic is superior to the Hollywood product but then , aren't they all ? There are sufficient differences , however , to make viewing both films worthwhile .
" The Whole Wide World " , an old school melodrama , tells of a simple school teacher in 1930's Texas ( Zellweger ) and her relationship with pulp fiction writer Bob Howard ( D'Onofrio ) who created such characters as Conan the barbarian and Kull the conqueror . A simple tale of two people , there's little meat on the bones of this flick though it is a sincere and earnest drama which tiptoes quietly through the relationship of the two protags in fine style . " The Whole Wide World " is a chick flick which will play best with more mature audiences . ( B )
" All or Nothing " is a slice-of-wretched-life flick about a miserable dysfunctional working class London family . There's little arc to the story of walrus Phil Bassett and family who move sloth-like from day to day unhappy and unfulfilled . Undoubtedly an excellent film by film making standards , Mike Leigh puts the audience in the position of having to accept his characters ' plaintive existence on faith by not showing the psychodynamics which perpetuate their misery and just giving us the result . In other words , we see sad people stewing in their own juices which makes the buy-in difficult and the protagonists more ignoble . Personally I was happy to see the foul mouthed fat kid keel over from heart attack though I don't think that was how Leigh intended the audience to react and I suspect many a weeping wallower was wringing tears from their hanky . Given a 2 hour run , misery throughout , and character we couldn't care less about without charity , most will find " All or Nothing " more nothing than all . ( B )
" Amores Perros " is a subtitled Mexican film which tells three stories , each on a collision course with the other . Although the film is well cast and artistically and technically excellent , it is somewhat overwrought and inclined to wear on the audience at it's dramatic tales are pounded into us as opposed to making us yearn for more . One question every auteur should be prepared to answer when asked by an audience is " why should we care ? " " Amores . . . " works well on most levels but it's not likely Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu is prepared to answer the question .
" CSI : Miami " follows the very successful formula of it's parent , " CSI " ( Las Vegas ) with Caruso heading a team of criminologists who spend most of their time connecting the forensic dots to solve murders . Those who can get past Caruso's incessant smug smirking , an ME who talks to her cadavers , some very undeveloped characters , far fetched stories , and fast and loose science / technology will find fast moving and solid no-brainer entertainment with color , educational value , a social conscience , and good IL ' family values subliminals . Season 1 develops a story thread involving the Caruso character's dead brother / narc and the cop / widow ( Milos ) which is carried over and pushed forward in season 2 making it of some import to watch the seasons in chronological order . As with the original " CSI " , this series sibling has high end production value , a beautiful Miami Beach venue , cool show & tell didactics , and a never-a-dull-moment flow . Newcomers to " CSI " should check out the top of the Nielsen's " CSI " ( Las Vegas ) first as it sports the most popular ensemble . Once into " CSI : Miami " you'll find the cross-over to " CSI : New York " in the next to the last season 2 episode which puts Caruso in NYC working with comrade in gloves , Gary Sinise . Good prime time TV entertainment not to be taken too seriously which makes for an enjoyable continuous DVD watch for the not too jaded palate . ( B )
A sort of contempo redux of Dickens Christmas Carol , Cage plays a wealthy and very eligible bachelor on Wall Street who suddenly finds himself married with children . Yeah , this is another romantic comedy in a very tired genre . However , it is a cut above the average sap dripping chick flick as it doesn't wade in goo , has a crisp script , keeps moving , is genuinely funny , and tries hard not to be predictable . Fresh stuff with good chemistry between Cage and Leoni .
" C & P in Suburbia " is a dark and somewhat staged psychodrama with misanthropic overtones which focuses on the teen daughter of a family in crisis and her search for self-actualization . This well cast , well acted , well shot , well directed flick's story is likely to be too black or severe for many . However , those who feel inclined to write this film off as " unrealistic junk " should remember one word . Columbine .
" The Man Without a Past " is a doggedly plodding , austere , wan , and uneventful exercise in minimalism about a man who is beaten by thugs , gets amnesia , and then , with nothing but sheer determination , reconstructs his life anew . In spite of its critical acclaim and Oscar nom , this laconic subtitled Finnish film has none of the things we ordinary folk go to movies to see and in retrospect I can't think of a single reason to recommend it . There are no beautiful vistas or great sets or costuming , no intrigue or mystery or romance ( 1 . 5 kisses ) , no bigger than life charismatic stars , no action or effects , no moral or message , no sex or nudity , and , as near as I can tell , no reason or purpose for existing . Having said all that , I did enjoy this flick for whatever that's worth . (
" Deep Crimson " , a subtitled Mexican film , tells of a man who uses his hair-piece , good looks , and charm to bilk mature women out of their money . When he woos a very large and homely woman longing to be loved , she divests herself of her children , insinuates herself into his life , and goes off scamming with him while pretending be his sister . The backbone of the story is the strange symbiosis which develops between the partner / lover duo as we watch their relationship grow deeper and their scheming more nefarious . A moderately entertaining though schizophrenic film , " Deep Crimson " is too much of a comedy to be taken seriously and too much of a drama to be funny . The result is a marginally engaging film which will play best to those with a taste for black comedies from south of the border . ( B )
" The Girl From Paris " tiptoes liltingly though a slice of life of a young French city woman who buys a farm and finds herself wrestling with the rigors of farm life and the stoic , laconic , and crusty old previous owner . The odd couple put of with each other at the outset but as time passes they find something of value in one another and a tender , sensitive but mostly unspoken relationship emerges . A light drama about mutual needs in a bucolic milieu which explores a different kind of relationship , " The Girl From Paris " is a lovely little film with minimal dialogue worth a look for anyone into people flicks of the French persuasion . ( B )
" Jane Eyre ( 1996 ) " does a good job of telling Bronte's oft told tale . The film's two central characters avoid the usual inclinations toward schmaltz and melodrama which romantic films often use to capitalize on the market potential of the mindless masses . Instead , Eyre is rigid and unemotional while Rochester is anything but urbane and most of the romance is understood as opposed to demonstrated . Those who appreciate such fidelity to the period will likely appreciate this version of " Jane Eyre " . The film is well shot , costumed , cast , scripted , and acted thought it does lurch through time periodically . Not a chick flick but an earnest retelling of a wonderful old gothic tale .
" Intermission " is a mediocre but well managed dark comedy which takes the slices of life of a bunch of Dubliners ( mostly bad people with bad attitudes ) and shuffles them like a deck of cards while keeping sufficient interconnectedness to hold the film together ala " Magnolia " . A high energy misanthro-pic built on a good cast in Dublin , " Intermission " has very little heart and an abundance of aholes which will make it a less than enjoyable watch for all but those who can appreciate annoyingly bellicose films such as ' Lock Stock . . . " , " Pulp Fiction " , etc . Long on talent and short on story with only modest critical and public praise , " Intermission " is difficult to recommend . Personally I was bored numb by the film's end . ( B )
Juliet Stevenson proves her mettle in " Truly , Madly , Deeply " with a superb performance as a woman struck with grief who overcomes same in spite of her friends and with a little help from " the other side " . A definite chick flick according to the IMDB . com stats , this plaintive but hopeful drama with a dash of comedy about personal reconciliation is a worthy effort for those who can get their head around the whole " ghost " thing . For more mature audiences and , of course , chicks . ( NOTE : Write / director Anthony Minghella introduces himself and his film at the beginning of the DVD which I viewed ; a smart move and a nice touch which will engender good will much more than huge imposing in-your-face letters like " DIRECTED BY STEVEN SPIELBERG " .
" Heart " , a lean and taught psychodrama , peers into the life of a heart transplant patient as a strange and aberrant relationship develops between him and the heart donor's mother . An excellent film for those into razor sharp , no frills drama , " Heart " qualifies as an under-rated " sleeper " . The film's only deficits are ( on the DVD version I watched ) , mediocre video quality and poor sound with no English subtitles or CC . I listened to it via headphones so as to not miss a syllable . (
This miniseries rendering of pulp novelist Dumas ' 18th century " The Count of Monte Cristo " runs about 6 . 6 hours in length , all of it subtitled for non-French speakers . That's a whole lot of reading . However , the length allows this version of the oft filmed story to bring the characters to life in truer fashion and with greater depth than the many abbreviated knock-offs . The result is an expansive , in-depth telling the young French sailor , Edmond Dantès , who is wrongfully imprisoned for 14 years , discovers a treasure which makes him filthy rich , then uses the wealth to sustain his own cunning schemes as he seeks vengeance under an assumed identity as The Count of Monte Cristo . This film offers a fine cast with Depardieu providing a commanding presence as the charismatic Count and no one does French period films better than the French . Deficits are small , easily overlooked non sequiturs such as having to swallow the robust form of Depardieu as a man who lived for years on the meager sustenance of the dungeons of D'If . . . etc . An excellent but long presentation which trades the usual swashbuckling and action of the more abbreviated knock-offs for a more faithful presentation of the sagacious Count who seeks to understand who he's become and reconcile that with the man who lusts for vengeance . (
" The Truce " chronicles the homeward bound odyssey of an Auschwicz survivor - Primo played by Turturro - in the chaos immediately following the fall of the Third Reich . Although Primo , an Italian Jew , is the central character , the camera spends more time on the people , places , and vicissitudes which he encounters on his journey from Krakow to Turin . This beautifully shot , somber film with an abundance of extras and a minimal core cast has no specific focus . The interest in this film is in the story and the story is in the telling . A very worthy cinematic endeavor .
" The Man From Elysian Fields " tells of a struggling writer ( Garcia ) who pens his soul into the pages of a novel in a last ditch bid for success . A solid three star romanticized drama with a beautiful cast , " . . . Elysian Fields " delivers its " deal with the devil " story with seductive style and an engrossing ebb and flow which will entrance those who can overlook the subtle contrivances required to make the puzzle pieces fit . Good stuff for all but the most cynical drama junkies . (
" Erin Brockovich " , with Julia Roberts in the title role , is a not-too-serious and entertaining film based on a true story . The film wisely spends much of it's time developing the Brockovich character ; a very human but savvy divorcee with three kids , more brass than brains , more brains than education , and more education than taste in clothing . Laced with humor and avoiding melodrama , " . . . Brockovich " delivers laughs and tears , runs a tad long , and doesn't take itself too seriously . This film does what Hollywood does best . It entertains .
" Lovely & Amazing " is a slice-of-life dialogue-intensive comedy / drama-lite examination of a mother and her two adult daughters stumbling through life one day at a time . Holofcener paints an insightful portrait of the three women with delicate brushstrokes , sufficiently colorful to be interesting and sufficiently real to engender empathy , as the they face their daily vicissitudes with a the usual mix of insecurity , courage , self-doubt , and certainty . A critically lauded , delightful , easy to watch , and entertaining little chick flick for today's woman . (
